Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Copper Mobile - Dallas, TX February 2016 to September 2018 • Worked with customer for different RAC related issue: [hangcheck timer, split brain, hugepages setup etc]; Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances (GC events)  • Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and also defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Development of policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security and archiving.  • Monitoring and maintaining 2/3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Generated and automated Statspack/AWR reports from Oracle database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, table space growth, and database growth.  • Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to ERP jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of testing using RMAN.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer, Foglight.  • Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  • Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Performing database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments.  • Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and active Data Guard for faster Disaster Recovery.  • Installed and Configured OEM grid control for maintenance administering the databases.  • Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  • UsedDatabase Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading Oracle10gR2 to the latest Oracle 11gR2 and applied patches as required.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN for development and production databases.  • Database cloning from Production to Test and Development environments.  • Extensively worked on applying patches (CPU&PSU) whenever required.  • Schema Refreshing of databases using normal copy method and exp/imp utility.  • Cloning database and schemas using Data pump for 10g and 11g versions.  • Cloning 10g and 11g databases using RMAN duplication (with and without backup).  • ASM Disk storage and user Management  • Monitoring the Hit Ratios and tuning the System Global Area (SGA) accordingly.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, and operating system.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator Walgreen Company - Deerfield, IL March 2014 to January 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Enterprise Manager Cloud Control to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases  • Configuring Data Guard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.  • Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB and automated the process through crontab.  • Ran Scripts for Health Check on Exadata Storage Servers.  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes. Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    • I am a seasoned IT professional with 6 years of experience in the field of Database Technology. I have supported production, Test and Development environments. Supported 10g, 11g, and 12c versions.  • Shell scripting  • Implemented various backup strategies for Large / Medium sized databases using RMAN  • SDLC experience  • Knowledge of MySQL maintenance best practices  • Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Production experience with Oracle Exadata.  • Experience in tuning data structures, indexing and queries.  • Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  • Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and Materialized view for Oracle database.  • Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN) Recovery Manager, SQL-Backtrack, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  • Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • RDS - AWS experience  • Skilled in query development and tuning  • Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  • Experience in conversion of SingleNodeInstance to multimode RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Experience in Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 4 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Experience with network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secue the connection  • Implemented oracle TDE to provide transparent enecryption of data to support submission efforts with of oracle 11g R2.  • Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle Data Guard to perform quick disaster recovery.  • Experience in maintaining Data Guard to provide high availability by implementing physical standby database and snapshot standby and worked with Oracle 11g features, 11g Grid Control.  • Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, Oradebug and also identifying the poor SQL's,histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  • MySQL experience  • Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  • Troubleshoot Database performance issues with use of PROCWATCHER, ORACHK, Cluster health monitor and Other Oracle support suggested utilities and alos used OS related utilities like NMON,SAR, OSWATCHER, pstack, pmap ,top, topas ,vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace etc  • Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of large tables and indexes  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump as well as conventional Hot/Cold Backups.  • Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.  • Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic Workload  • Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).  • Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.  • Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning,  • Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and  • documentation Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pools like Recycle pool, Keep pool.  • Experience supporting large, highly available, distributed, enterprise production database systems.  • Experienced with Shell Scripting and Linux Architecture  • Setup Monitoring scripts which helped prevent financial loss for client  • Created Scripts to log failed transactions and find their root cause.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace  • management, maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.  • Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Scripting.  • Hands on experience in tuning mappings, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings, and sessions.  • Strong problem-solving skills  • Willingness to work with new technologies  • Ability to work in fast paced environment  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import