Oracle Database Administrator/Applications DBA/Scrum Master Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Applications DBA/Scrum Master Oracle Database Administrator/Applications DBA/Scrum Master - Hyundai Information Service Springfield, OH Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator/Applications DBA/Scrum Master Hyundai Information Service - Springfield, OH April 2018 to Present • Primary DBA for 100+ databases of Oracle 10g/11g/12c on Linux REHL, HP-UX. Worked as per ITSM/Remedy Incident ticket/Critical Response Time (CRT) call.  • RAC- Administration/Trouble-shooting of 3 Node cluster on Oracle 11G R2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Migrate OCR files to ASM. Trouble-shoot Resource related issues. Cluster-wide Resource management such as create resource plan, Service configuration, parallel instance group, Application Isolation. Stress testing, benchmarking of clustered database.  • Managed ASM storage. ASM cloning. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  • Data guard - configure primary -standby using duplicate from active database command of 11g. Apply SCN-based Incremental backup to sync standby after loss of Archivelogs on primary. Measure data loss based on latency/lag. Cross-platform migration using Data guard.  • Performed incremental backups using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Created recovery catalog, performed complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN.  • Installation of 3 nodes 10g RAC on Linux & Solaris with veritas cluster. Configured ASM, OCFS and RAW devices. Troubleshooting & tracing of RAC processes & CRS components. Relocate service. Tuning of RAC environment. Managing fail-over of instances. Resource utilization on each node. Monitor top objects in cache fusion and traffic.  • Backup by RMAN and data pump. Consistent backup using datapump. Diagnose and repair block level corruption using RMAN. Script and test RMAN backup/restore. Optimizing backup by compressing. Troubleshooting RMAN restore. Used RMAN convert command to transfer datafile from ASM. Duplicate database on remote host using 11g active database command. Hands on Veritas Netbackup.  • Audit database performance using ADDM reports, AWR snapshot and diagnostic SQL scripts. Identify and tuning of ad-hoc queries, PL/SQL code which are high intensive resources. Tuning instance by init parameter. Used explain plan and stats pack/TKPROF utility to Improve response time of query. Create/manage local partitioned and bit-map indexes.  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval using Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning techniques.  • Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, sar, glance, vmstat etc.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Migrated VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 10TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Scheduled scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, backup logs, cleaning the old archive logs, old log files, tablespace monitoring to send notification emails.  • Tuning performance using Advisors, AWR, ADDM, SQL tuning etc.  • Performed Online and Offline backups with RMAN, export/import and expdp/impdp.  • Implemented Point in time recovery using RMAN.  • Experience using like - Real Application Testing, Table and partition recovery using RMAN, Invisible columns, DDL Logging  • Extensively used Oracle 11gR2 features - Real Application Testing, automatic SGA tuning, enhanced RMAN with Flash Recovery Area, Block Change Tracking, Merge backup, Oracle Data Pump, big file tablespaces, new EM Grid Control, Database Control, Studio Control, AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning/Access Advisors, SQL Performance Analyzer, Database Replay, SQL Plan Management, SQL Tuning Automation, Flashback Database, compression techniques and several others.  • Performance Tuning of Oracle Database Objects using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK for optimized results.  • Configuration and implementation of Oracle) for high availability.  • Performed Schema as well as Table level Replication using Oracle Streams.  • Implemented downstream capture at the destination database using Oracle Streams.  • Installed and Configured Oracle OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Grid Control.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Database migration from Oracle to SQL Server, Oracle to AWS, SQL Server to AWS.  • Database replication in SQL Server.  • Performed ETL with SSIS, database analysis with SSAS and created bi-weekly reports using SSRS.  • Performed SQL Server database upgrade from 2008 to 2012 using SSMS.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O.  • Experienced in configuration of ASM for RAC and NON- RAC environments.  • Configured Repository and clients for GRID Control and also implemented DB Control for some databases.  • Supported & maintained the Production/ Development databases on various servers.  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported..  • Managed Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control.  • Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA)  • Experience in installation, upgrade and maintenance of RAC (Real Application Cluster) 10g and 11g databases to support online applications.  • Configuring Automatic Storage Management (ASM) which includes creating disks and disk groups for oracle 10g and 11gR2 RAC databases.  • Experience in monitoring oracle instances and maintaining databases, performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Oracle GRID-control and database monitoring using 11g Grid monitoring tool.  • Experience with Shareplex for database replication in both Oracle and SQL Server databases.  • Experience with Oracle ERP: Oracle Apps with Oracle Financials, Manufacturing, HRMS modules.  • Experienced in Oracle Internet Directory Administration /SSO Oracle Identity Management and integration with Ebusiness suite R12.  • Patching, troubleshooting, maintaining ERP application and Oracle Database  • Experience in AR/AP in Oracle E-Business Suite R12 Finance module.  • Experience in Oracle Forms and Reports, using Oracle Application Express  • Responsible for RMAN backups, and improvement to backup with incremental back by adding block change tracking feature of Oracle 11gR2.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data Pump and SQL* Loader.  • Performing complete and incomplete recovery during disasters, failures and user errors.  • Configuring user creation, their roles and privileges profiles to control access over database objects.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch as well as database upgrades.  • Installed and maintained Real Application Clusters (RAC)  • Extensive experience in database production support.  • Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental and cumulative backup. Implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Deployed Standby databases using Data Guard 11G (Maximum Performance).  • Experience with Oracle Middleware Fusion 11g and 12c for identity management and application development.  • Resolved daily tickets using ServiceNow.  • Provided high performance on business intelligence and data warehouse style queries using Informix Warehouse Accelerator in conjunction with newer technologies like deep compression and columnar database.  • Experience in performance tuning with STATSPACK/AWR, TKPROF, 10046 TRACE EXECUTION PLANS, SQL PROFILES, SQL PLAN BASELINES, using OEM.  • Proficient in EC2 instance deployment, Lambda, S3 EFS, Glacier, Storage Gateway, RDS, DynamoDB, AWS Migration Hub, Database and Server Migration Service, VPC, Route53, CloudFront, IAM, and API Gateway alongside database migration to the AWS servers.  • Experience creating, managing, creating dashboards, reports and analyses on Logi Analytics using Logi Adhoc.  • Experience in shaping, analyzing, and visualizing data using Logi Datahub.  • Decision-making through a recommendations approach that delivers best practices in data profiling and data visualization to make analysis easier for non-technical users and collaborating using social techniques such as tagging, following, notifying, pinning, and ranking for workgroups to share and discuss insights.  • Efficiently carried out DBA responsibilities in planning DB2 version migration activities, in migration phases and in performing post migration tasks  • Monitored and managed DB2 thread and locking issues  • Produced and analyzed DB2 performance reports.  • Experience in Erwin Data Modeling by using CA Erwin Modeler R9.8  • Experience in migrating and modeling data from different databases and datawarehouses to Erwin.  • Experience with IBM Utilities and JCL, Omegamon, Mainframe DB2 DBA experience Version 11.  • Experience in managing the database for Accounts Payable/Accounts Receivable in Oracle E-Business Suites R12 Finance module.  • Experience supporting PeopleSoft and HRM applications which are also in the finance module.  • Database refresh on the live environment of the AR/AP module, I have done patching and upgrades from UAT, TEST and DEV environments then finally the LIVE environment.  • Installing and configuring nagios check postgresql.pl plugins for Monitoring PostgreSQL instances effectively.  • Proactive in updating the latest security patches to database, which are provided by PostgreSQL open source community.  • Studied and stayed current on features and functionality of PostgreSQL.  • Install, configure, test, monitor, upgrade, and tune new and existing PostgreSQL databases.  • Plans and coordinates the administration of PostgreSQL databases to ensure accurate, appropriate, and effective use of data, including database definition, structure, documentation, long - range requirements, and operational guidelines.    Environment: RHEL 5.X, 6.X; Windows NT 2000/2003; Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL Server 2008, 2012, PostGreSQL, MariaDB, AWS, Oracle ERP, DB2, Oracle E-Business Suite R12, Logi Vision 2.1. Database Administrator Acceptance Insurance - Springfield, OH April 2013 to March 2018 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10gGrid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Have set up the cronjobs for runalert, spacewatch monitoring, RMAN backup (level_0 and level_1) and recovery, archive log purge, deletion of archive logs and AWR reports on AIX-5.3.  • Golden Gate Heterogenous replication using Log miner utility.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting of Database Replication issues using Golden Gate dealt with conflict resolution and performance issues.  • Monitor and maintain security by managing roles/privileges for users of the databases.  • Apply the PSU patches and RMAN patches to the binaries as well as to the databases.  • Cloned/Refreshed Oracle Databases and Oracle Applications for development and testing.  • Conduct Pre-patch analysis for different types of patches as requested by customer.  • Set up boxes and install required software and prepare operation guides for the same.  • Work closely with application teams in troubleshooting issues, support root cause analysis and resolve issues.  • Frequently tested and updated development databases to production as well as used database cloning.  • Applying Patches 11.2.0.3 and applying Oracle DST Patches on Oracle database.  • Actively involved in security administration adopting the principle of least privilege, managing default user accounts, implemented standard password security features, auditing database activity, and registering & applying security updates and Advanced Oracle security.  • Experience in Clockware and Grid Control  • Experience in Oracle Advanced Security - Transparent Data Encryption, Oracle Wallet, PKI and Kerberos.  • Used normal import and export and also datapump import and export for exporting and importing schemas, tables etc from one database to another.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK Reports and AWR Reports.  • Extensively worked with dba_jobs, dba_scheduler_jobs, functions, procedures and packages.  • Responsible for tuning the database performance issues like query tuning and memory tuning (SGA tuning) and also partitioned the tables and indexes for better performance.  • Have used different tools like TOAD (10.1), EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM Oracle enterprise manager (GRID CONTROL).  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD, OEM, TKProf, StatsPack, SQL Trace for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • AWS Training on Certified Solutions Architect.  • Database migration from Oracle to AWS, SQL Server to AWS.  • Experience in performing database database migration from SQL Server 2012 to 2016.  • Performed SQL Server database upgrade from 2008 to 2012, and from 2012 to 2016.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM), configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database for high availability.  • Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Have Hands on experience in Oracle 10g, 11g 3-Node RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Cluster ware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Configuration and Patching, RAC Backup and Recovery).  • Management of database security with managing users, grant user privileges on data dictionaries, schemas, tables and table spaces, creating roles and profiles, password authentication, table partitioning, indexes, grant quotas for users.  • Writing scripts in the UNIX based environments for managing the users roles and privileges, scheduled backups (using data-pump /cold backups), manage statistics, Disk space management.  • Experience on Oracle monitoring tools including Oracle Application Server monitoring and Oracle Linux monitoring using TOP commands.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Expertise in using EXPLAIN PLAN for query optimization and Performance diagnostic tools like SQL Trace and TKPROF.  • Experience in application and memory tuning with explain plan, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL trace, SQL optimization utilities, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor and SQL planned management.  • Experience in installing, upgrading, configuring E-Business Suite application across multiple environments.  • Experienced in upgrading cycles for Oracle Applications EBS  • Patching, troubleshooting, maintaining ERP application and Oracle Database  • Experience in AR/AP in Oracle E-Business Suite R12 Finance module.  • Experienced in Oracle Internet Directory Administration /SSO Oracle Identity Management and integration with E-business suite R12.  • Experience in using tools like AWR (automatic workload repository), ADDM (automatic database diagnostic monitor) and ASH (active session history) for database performance reports.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route 53.  • Implemented Amazon RDS multi-AZ for automatic failover and high availability at the database tier.  • Worked on the databases of the Amazon RDS and carried out functionalities for creating instances as per the requirements.  • Used IBM Informix for Big Data, Analysis and ETL capabilities.  • Database security for Informix Database Servers and Oracle database  • Performed schema migration from Oracle database to Informix as well as datawarehousing.  • Experience in Erwin Data Modeling by using CA Erwin Modeler R9.8  • Designed, tested and debugged external and DB2 native stored procedures. Worked with remote stored procedure calls.  • Extensive experience in utilities and tools used for database monitoring (DB2 traces, online performance monitors, reports, EXPLAIN, DB2 catalog queries) , data movement and organization (LOAD,UNLOAD,REORG) ,data consistency utilities and catalog manipulation utilities (RUNSTATS,MODIFY,STOSPACE),etc  • Competent and experienced in using IBM utilities, Omegamon and other third party tools like CA/DB2 tools (platinum products) and BMC tools.  • Administered DB2 subsystems in Prod, Qual, Test and Development regions.  • Experience in migrating and modeling data from different databases and datawarehouses to Erwin.  • Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization.  • Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading of all of the PostgreSQL databases.  • Installing and monitoring PostgreSQL database using the standard monitoring tools like Nagios etc.  • Monitoring the DB growth for every month in DWH databases and planning to implement the table partitioning for better performance in PostGreSQL.  • Working as Principle Consultant mentoring junior dba's, took initiatives on new projects writing scripts, APEX and reviewing changes, Cloud Infrastructure, Cloud PaaS and SaaS Support.  • Supporting different Oracle different databases and als using Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c running on top of WLS.  • Wrote Applications which sits on oracle cloud using APEX involving, PLSQL, and TRIGGERS etc  • Create and manage service instance in Oracle IaaS/DBaaS Cloud Service  • Migrate on premise Oracle database to Oracle Exadata Cloud Service  • Configure shared file system for EBS 12.1.3 on Oracle Cloud    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, SQL Server 2012, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, DB2, TOAD 10.0, PostGreSQL, AWS. Database Manager YAI V - New York, NY May 2010 to March 2013 • Reports and Dashboards  • Develop reports and dashboards in native Salesforce and using Apsona for complex reporting  • needs  Guide staff through Salesforce and Nonprofit Success Pack, (NPSP) data model  Train staff on data entry, notes and action items  • Data prep and importProvide support with cleaning and prep for larger volume data imports  • Data Governance  • Ensure data integrity both in terms of de-duplication of records and accuracy of data.  • Deploy data validation rules to ensure data entry standards.  • Ensure conformity to NPSP data model, including the use of NPSP objects, (Relationships, Affiliations, GAUs)  • Manage constituent data for all communications  • Establish Moves Management using engagement plans and levels  • Implement and manage de-duplication strategy for manually entered and API captured data in Salesforce.  • Documentation and support  • Assist with documentation of system changes  • Help manage incoming system requests  • Support change management process for system improvements and upgrades  • Support technical onboarding and troubleshooting for new staff  • Work with external consultants for larger projects and system enhancements  • Work with Communications, Advancement and Program teams to ensure consistent integration of Salesforce with proposed or current web interface  • Manage the integration of third-party applications including Apsona, Classy and MailChimp    • 2 years of applicable CRM work experience, required. Salesforce Administrator Certification preferred.  • At minimum, 3 years of professional experience.  • Demonstrated knowledge of the Salesforce.com platform, required.  • Familiarity with the Nonprofit Success Pack (NPSP).  • Knowledge of donor databases and database integration for websites preferred.  • Experience with Visual Flow, Visualforce and Apex Triggers a plus.  • Excellent project management skills. Proven track record of achieving results.  • Proficient in data manipulation and basic ETL processes.  • Strong technical skills.  • Prior experience with technology support preferred, or an aptitude for learning technology quickly.  • Demonstrated experience working closely and building relationships with diverse groups of people.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills in English.  • Sound judgment, sensitivity to diverse constituencies, excellent interpersonal skills, proven ability to demonstrate initiative and motivation.  • Prior experience in a fast-paced, growth-oriented organization.  • Ability to take initiative and manage multiple priorities simultaneously.  • Desire to work in a mission-driven, non-profit organization Education Bachelors' of Science in Public Health in Public Health University of Maryland College Park - College Park, MD May 2018 Associates of Arts in General Studies in General Studies Community College of Baltimore County December 2014 Skills Aws (6 years), Database (9 years), databases (9 years), Hp ux (Less than 1 year), Hp-ux. (1 year), Loader. (6 years), Microsoft windows (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (6 years), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Nosql (Less than 1 year), Oem (6 years), Oracle (6 years), Oracle 10g (6 years), Solaris (1 year), Sparc (Less than 1 year), Sql (6 years), Sql server (6 years), Sun (Less than 1 year), Unix (6 years), Ux. (1 year) Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Databases  Oracle 12c, Oracle 12.2R, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, PostGreSQL, AWS.    Oracle Database Tools  SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Toad, OEM, Toad, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN,STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL, Developer, Grid Control    Operating Systems  Solaris 10/9/8, Sun Sparc, RHEL 5.X/4.X, OEL, HP UX 11i, Windows 2000/2003 server