IT Security Analyst IT Security Analyst IT Security Analyst - Top Group Technologies, Inc Hanover, MD Work Experience IT Security Analyst Top Group Technologies, Inc - Waldorf, MD April 2017 to Present Federal Contractor  • Conduct kick off meetings to collect systems information (information type, boundary, inventory, etc.) and categorize systems based on NIST SP 800-60.  • Conduct IT controls risk assessments including reviewing organizational polices standards and procedures and providing advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with industry  standards.  • Assist with the development of system Security Plan (SSP) to provide an overview of federal  information system security requirements and described the controls in place to meet those  requirements.  • Conduct document reviews of NIST, OMB, FISMA and other policy documents and vendor  publications related to enterprise technologies and recognize, modify and update procedures  resulting from the new guidance.  • Develop Security Assessment Reports (SAR) detailing the results of the assessment along with Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M).  • Provide Continuous Monitoring support through POA&M's, system and user audits, analyze and report scanning results, and update all corresponding security documents as needed.  • Provide senior level security consulting to Federal customers in addition to guidance and support  to Department ISSOs/System Owners on the FISMA and NIST Security Assessment and Authorization process.  • Prepare Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&S) packages to ensure management, operational and technical security controls adhere to NIST SP 800-53 standards.  • Assist System Owners and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for company's IT systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls  adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53 R4.  • Provide ISSO and CISO support by assisting in reviewing risk waivers and ISA, MOU review  before authorization.  • Create and update the following Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) artifacts: FIPS  199, System Security Plan (SSP), Risk Assessment (RA), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA), E-Authentication, System Security test and Evaluation (ST&E),  Contingency Plan, Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M). IT Security Analyst Dynamics Technologies Solutions - Largo, MD July 2014 to March 2017 Developed security control test plans and conducted in-depth security assessments of information  systems that evaluate compliance of administrative, physical, technical, organizational and polices  safeguards to maintain NIST compliance.  • Updated System Security Plan, Risk Assessment, Privacy Impact Analysis, ST&E and POA&M.  • Conducted Information systems security risk assessments including reviewing organizational  polices standards and procedures and providing advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with industry standards.  • Conducted comprehensive assessment of the management, operational, technical security control  employed within or inherited by an Information System to determine the overall effectiveness of the control.  • Created standard templates for required security assessment and authorization documents, including risk assessments, security plans, security assessment plans and reports, contingency  plans and security authorization packages.  • Reviewed security policy documents and make recommendations on documentation compliant.  • Created and updated the following Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) artifacts:  FIPS 199, SSP, RA, E-Authentication, ST&E, Contingency Plan, and (POA&M).  • Assisted System Owner and ISSO in preparing certification and Accreditation package for major  systems, making sure that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to a formal and well-established security requirement authorized by NIST SP 800-53 R4.  • Performed vulnerability assessment, making sure risks are assessed and proper actions taken to mitigate them. Database Administrator Pyramid Solutions - Vienna, VA February 2013 to June 2014 • Implemented and maintained database systems.  • Performed routine backups, including use of Oracles datapump export and RMAN utilities.  • Applied security patches and bug fixes.  • Assisted developers in performance and tuning queries and SQL.  • Monitored database performance and recommended and implemented changes to achieve higher  performance.  • Performed daily checks on database servers, confirming status of backups, file compression, and exports; troubleshoot any errors. Education MBA University of Maryland - Adelphi, MD July 2019 Bachelors in Business Administration University of Lagos - Lagos, NG October 2000 compliance NIST Skills Security, Share point, Nessus, Remedy, Peoplesoft