Sr. SQL Database Administrator Sr. SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Database Administrator - Pentagon Federal Credit Union Bank Alexandria, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Database Administrator Pentagon Federal Credit Union Bank - Chantilly, VA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities and Accomplishment:  • Currently working IT Infrastructure Architecture Solution team with Pentagon Federal Credit Union Bank. architect design, Capacity Planning, Build new server for Dev, Test/UAT and Production.  • Leadership experience of Data-center migration project & successfully accomplished 4 to 6 migration project, sql server 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 to sql 2016 & sql 2017.  • Hands-on strong working experience and managing Always-On, clustering configuration & manages databases, troubleshooting, hands-On critical Databases Migration more than 2.5 TB+ database to higher version.  • MS Azure SQL Database & managing Azure networking, Azure Resource Groups, Azure Storage and Azure group role-based access control policy to users.  • Server Post configuration and setup automation job for each server with stored procedure, maintenance Jobs, full back up, differential backup, transaction log backup, DB indexes maintenance, index rebuild and reorganize job, maintains schedule based on RPO & RTO and SLA, database mail setup, server & database level auditing, trigger, login trigger, operator, alert for each database size.  • Hands-On experience with performance tuning and optimization (PTO), using native monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Working with Server team/Network/ firewall team to open port to communicate new build SQL server & Application server, working also with compliance team.  • Planning Capacity management, Disk space, I/O, CPU, Memory, license usage, server and Database post configuration setting and HA Solution.  • Active Directory Group planning and implementation in Database and Server, raise ticket to active directory team to add group and users.  • Hands-on experience SSRS to generate report and migrate and deploy .rdl file in report Manager, Dev, UAT, Prod Environment & managing users and groups Policy login.  • In SSIS to archive historical data, using Partitioning and slowly changing Dimension in data warehouse, project deploy in SSISDB Catalog, job create and schedule bases on SLA.  • Managing database and server level security, Encrypted PII information in critical databases, apply TDE, Dynamic Data Masking, Always Encrypted in SQL 2016/2017.  • Managed Security and User Privileges granting/deny/revoke access Server and Database level.  • Escalated bridge call with other team regarding any complex issue in production.  • Joining CAB Meeting and also 24x7 "on-call" Production support, handle technical and non-technical people.  Environment: SQL server 2005, 2008/R2, 2012, 2014, 20016, 2017, Postgree SQL, IBMDB2, Sybase, Windows server 2008/R2, 2012, 2016, Suse linux, IIS, Tableau, Service Desk, Jira, VDI, KeePass, Logic Monitor, XO-Soft, DynaTrace, EverBridge, File server, Asset Portfolio Management, Inventory management. Sr. SQL Database Administrator Charter Communication - St. Louis, MO August 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities and Accomplishment:  • Database operational supports in production environment like Locks, Blocks, and Dead locks, CPU, Memory, Disk space analysis and utilization, managing Log file growth, Tempdb, Job fail, backup fail, deploy SSIS package, migrate and deploy .RDL file in Report server, troubleshooting different Linked server like Oracle, MS SQL, IBMDB2, Teradata, ensure Server & Database Security.  • Planning Capacity management, DB indexes maintenance, DB security, license usage, DB consistency, DB integrity checks and DB Backup and Recovery.  • All day-to- day activities to keep the service up and running to agreed SLAs ad to be compliance with JPMC IT control policy such as health checks, monitoring ticket queues, Change Ticket, C-Task, Incident ticket, Technical Request Ticket, End user requests and automation of processes.  • Leadership working experience Data Migration projects from lower version to higher version of different SQL Products, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, change SQL version enterprise to standard and vice versa to minimize company cost, Always on High availability groups, database mirroring, Clustering, Replication, Server & Database credential, Backup and recovery, managing Storage and assigning Tickets, weekly team meeting, project update and deal with clients.  • Decommission Instance and Databases then update server & Database inventory portal, and raise different Tickets like as Technical request ticket, Task ticket, incident ticket, change ticket, CTask, DR ticket, Firewall ticket then Assign task to Group-wise using ServiceNow Ticketing System.  • Implement storage/Disk management strategies, Table Partition in order to archive data in database Warehouse, SAN, NAS and RAID Technology.  • Designing and hardening SQL Server Security (Server hardening, Auditing, SOX compliance and user/group access monitoring).  • Working with Application development team and QA to refresh their development and UAT databases.  • Effectively interface between the business and technology teams in order to ensure business objectives are met and communicated to senior management.  • 24x7 "on-call" Production support rotations.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2017,2016,2014, 2012/2008 R2, Windows Server2016, 2012, 2008 R2, 2003 Enterprise Edition, SolarWinds, NetBackup, ServiceNow, ERWin, Splunk, SSIS, SSRS, BIDS, IIS 7.5, 8.5, Oracle SQL, Teradata, Big Data. SQL Server DBA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Suitland, MD February 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities and Accomplishment  • Worked for the NOAA's SQL Team where my primary focus on performance tuning, troubleshooting and in-depth root cause analysis (RCA) for database related issues.  • Supports day to day operational activities for the production database platform like service requests and tickets, monitoring Server Activity, database health, troubleshooting long running queries, locks, deadlocks, CPU, I/O, Memory bottlenecks, Disk space usage, Backup verification and Restore, jobs, shrinking database, cleaning history and solving the problem as needed.  • Supports Database Developers to optimize and troubleshoot SQL Server slow running queries /Stored Procedures/index/Function/Views  • Worked on Database refresh in Dev/Test servers with PROD data and synchronize SID login and Users, DB consistency, DB integrity checks.  • Designed and Implemented RPO, RTO and SLA, Setup Retention Policy, Backup Verification. Point-in-Time Recovery, jobs, Alerts, Notification with Maintenance plan in SQL Server.  • Provide project support of engineering-based decisions and scope to assist the customer with over all layouts, design and installation of DB system, Configuration, Migration, Upgrades and Patching.  • Designing and hardening SQL Server (Server hardening, TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), Row Level Security, Dynamic Data Masking Encryption, Role based Security Policy, Security Auditing.  • Configured and Maintained AlwaysOn Availability Group using SQL Server 2016/2014/2012 with Synchronous Asynchronous automatic-failover mode. And push traffic to DR server using AG Listener (ApplicationIntent=ReadOnly)  • Setup, Configure, & Manage Azure SQL Database Instances on Azure VM Machine  • Have created Azure SQL Database in Microsoft Azure Cloud (PAAS) and Migrated On-Premise SQL Server Database into Azure SQL Database.  • Effectively interface between the business and technology teams in order to ensure business objectives are met and communicated to senior management.  • Provided 7 x 24 Production support for the database and application issues  Work Environment: SQL Server, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008r2, 2008, 2005, MS Azure Environment, AD (Active Directory), Windows Server 2012r2, 2008, IIS 8.5. JavaScript, ASP.net, In-house Application, SQL Fog-light, TFS, SharePoint, Oracle and DB2. SQL Server Database Administrator/SQL Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Washington, DC July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities and Accomplishment:  • Database Migration projects, Upgraded/Migrated SQL Server 2005/2008 to SQL Server 2012/2014, Installation, Upgrades SQL Server versions, Patching/Applied SP/Hot Fixes on SQL server Instances to address Security and upgraded related issues.  • Worked on Database refresh in Dev/Test servers with PROD data  • Install, configure and Administering SSRS Report server, SSIS/DTS Package and SSAS.  • Developed and deployed SSIS Packages from different sources like SQL Server Database, Flat file, CSV, Excel and Export & Import data from the Flat file (CSV, Excel) to SQL Server Database  • Have hands-On experience IASS, PASS, SASS in RDS and EC2 Environment.  • Migrating cloud AWS in Different method in RDS and EC2 Instances.  • Setup HA Solution Log shipping Automated Migration from On-premises to EC2 Instances.  • Monitor RDS performance and EC2 and look for any potential performance problems/bottlenecks.  • Recommend and Review Backup and Recovery Strategies and test plan for failure scenario.  • Designing SQL Server Security (Server hardening, Auditing, DISA, STIG, SOX compliance).  • Implementing high Availability Features (Failover Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication.)  • Advance Database Performance tuning (Perfmon, SQL Profiler, Database Engine Tuning adviser etc.)  • Perform root cause analysis and troubleshooting technical issues.  • Implement storage management strategies.  • Improves and maintains customer and employee satisfaction.  • 24x7 "on-call" Production support rotations.  Work Environment: Windows Server 2012, 2008, IIS 7.5, SQL Server, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008r2, 2008, 2005, AWS-RDS, EC2 instances, AD, JavaScript, ASP.net. Service-Now, BMC Control-M, TFS, SQL SentryOne, RedGate, Oracle, and DB2. SQL Database Administrator/ Systems Administrator Unicon Inc March 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities and Accomplishment:  • Installed, Configured and maintain SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 (Clustered/Standalone and VM )in Development, Test, and Production environment  • Applied SP/Hot Fixes on SQL server Instances to address Security and upgraded related issues  • Upgraded/Migrated SQL Server 2005/2008 to SQL Server /2012/2014 and Transferred Logins, Data and Log files, backup files, and Jobs for side-by-side Upgrade/Migrate  • Data Encryption and Data Decryption for data security in Database & Column level  • Managed Backup/Restore, Point-in-Time Recovery including backup verification, security  • Configured, Monitored and troubleshoot Log Shipping/ Replication (Transactional, Merge)  • Configured and Maintained SQL Server 2012 Fail-Over Clustering and Always-On Availability group  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space and backup verification  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage and the solving problem as needed  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures, function and indexes  • Developed and deployed SSIS Packages from different sources like SQL Server Database, Flat file, CSV, Excel and many other data sources supports ODBC, OLE DB Data Sources  • Installed, configured and deployed SSRS reports from BIDs/SSDT. Provided access to SSRS reports.  • 24x7 "on-call" Production support rotations.  Work Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, IIS 7.5 Windows Server, 2003R2, 2008, 2012, ASP, ASP.net, Java, AD, PeopleSoft Application, Oracle, My SQL, Service-Now, OpNet, and SQL SentryOne. Education Bachelor's Skills ADO, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, DDL, MS ACCESS