AWS Architect AWS Architect AWS Architect - Deloitte New York, NY • Over 8+ years of professional experience as software professional industry comprising of delivery management, design, development, deployment and cloud implementation with thorough knowledge in AWS (Amazon Web Services), Hybrid Cloud, VMware virtualization/ Windows, and related technologies.  • Extensive experience in Implementing Organization Cloud Engineer strategy based on Amazon Web Services.  • AWS (Amazon Web Services): EC2, VPC, IAM, IAM, S3, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, Glacier, RDS Config, Route 53, SNS, SQS, Elastic Cache,  • Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB Services, EBS volumes; to set alarm for Notification or Automated actions, and to monitor logs for better understanding and operation of the system.  • Ability to Maintain High availability infrastructure in AWS, and to process Requests like Creation of Servers.  • Experienced with installation of AWS CLI to control various AWS services through SHELL/BASH scripting.  • Possess working knowledge with Python to automate software configuration.  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Used IAM for creating roles, users, and groups to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Created snapshots and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances. Good knowledge in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment(CD) methodologies  • Provided support for java applications by collaborating with java development team using the agile methodology  • Managed and automated all aspects of our AWS infrastructure (compute, storage, network, permissions, cost) using configuration management tools like Ansible, Cloud Formation and shell scripts  • Wrote Ansible playbooks for automating the process of provisioning custom Docker containers using AWS EC2 machines as hosts  • Assist in designing, automating, implementing and sustainment of Amazon machine images (AMI) across the AWS Cloud environment  • Experience with AWS API Gateway and Rest APIs.  • Experience with NoSQL data-stores like HBase, Cassandra  • Created and modified Cloud Formation templates to create/upgrade EC2 instances to support specific needs  • Used Vagrant to create compute layer which in turn creates Virtual Machines depending on scalability  • Used Dockerfiles to create Docker images that will contain preinstalled software and micro-services  • Experience in working on several Docker components like Docker engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker registry  • Configured Jenkins to automate the build deployments based on the changes captured in Version Control,  • Expertise in Ansible Playbook, YAML for Maintaining Roles, Inventory Files and Groups Variables  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT, SVN (subversion) on Linux.  • Extensive expertise working on Oracle products and services including Oracle database administration 10g/11g, production support, installation, configuration, backup and recovery, space management and security.  • Hot and cold Backup and recovery of oracle 10/11g database using RMAN.  • Scheduling of oracle database backup using RMAN.  • Managed database using command line as well as 11g OEM.  • Excellent working knowledge with database monitoring tools such as TOAD, OEM, etc.,  • Experience monitoring and troubleshooting with Oracle GRID,  • Analytical skills with ability to capture minute details and an effective team player, my strength lies in ability to interact with developers, coordinate and manage the tasks assigned, backed by strong technical knowledge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Architect Deloitte - New York, NY January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Built and release EC2 instance Amazon Linux for production and Development environment,  • Worked as a part of AWS built team,  • Experienced with installation of AWS CLI to control various AWS services through SHELL/BASH scripting.  • Possess working knowledge with Python to automate software configuration.  • Setup and attached EBS volumes to EC2 instances,  • Ability to Maintain High availability infrastructure in AWS and processing Requests like Creation of Servers,  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Created snapshots and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances.  • Setup and managed Security Groups, VPC'S specific to environment,  • Monitored and worked on alerts and issues related to server availability, disk issues, CPU, memory, processes etc.,  • Managed and created User accounts, Shared Folders, provided day to day User support, Log management, Reporting, applying Group Policy restrictions etc.,  • Troubleshooting Network problems.  • Infrastructure development on AWS using various services like EC2, S3, RDS,ROUTE 53, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, IAM, VPC etc,  • Hands on experience on VPC, Subnets, and Route tables, etc.,  • Good knowledge in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment(CD) methodologies  • Provided support for java applications by collaborating with java development team using the agile methodology  • Managed and automated all aspects of our AWS infrastructure (compute, storage, network, permissions, cost) using configuration management tools like Ansible, Cloud Formation and shell scripts  • Wrote Ansible playbooks for automating the process of provisioning custom Docker containers using AWS EC2 machines as hosts  • Assist in designing, automating, implementing and sustainment of Amazon machine images (AMI) across the AWS Cloud environment  • Experience with AWS API Gateway and Rest APIs.  • Experience with NoSQL data-stores like HBase, Cassandra  • Created and modified Cloud Formation templates to create/upgrade EC2 instances to support specific needs  • Used Vagrant to create compute layer which in turn creates Virtual Machines depending on scalability  • Used Dockerfiles to create Docker images that will contain preinstalled software and micro-services  • Experience in working on several Docker components like Docker engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker registry  • Configured Jenkins to automate the build deployments based on the changes captured in Version Control,  • Expertise in Ansible Playbook, YAML for Maintaining Roles, Inventory Files and Groups Variables  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT, SVN (subversion) on Linux. AWS Cloud Engineer MetLife Insurance - Charlotte, NC January 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Setup of Virtual Private Cloud(VPC), Network ACLs, Security Groups and route tables  across Amazon Web Services.  • Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resources using it  • Creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and  • Designed policies to move the content to Glacier's.  • Configuration and administration of Load Balancers, Route53, Network and Auto scaling  • for high availability  • Supported 500+ AWS Cloud instance's and familiar with Amazon CLI management  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline as code using Jenkins 20 & kubernetes, and Developed build  • and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins 2.0  • Integrated Github web hooks into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Implemented Disaster recovery solutions for components/services in AWS - RDS (mySql),  • S3, route53 records.  • Trouble-shoot Continuous integration and automated deployment and management using  • Jenkins, Chef, Maven, Kubernetes, Docker.  • Initiated Microservices application through Docker and Kubernetes cluster formation for  • scalability of the application, and creation of Docker images, upload/download in and out  • from the DockerHub.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud watch  • Worked with development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure and project teams to  • ensure continuous operation of build and test systems  • Implementing automated tasks through crontab, resolving tickets according to the priority  basis.  Environment: Virtual Private Cloud(VPC), Jenkins, MAVEN, Github, Apache, Cloud watch,  Kubernetes, Docker, Cloud, S3, Load Balancers, Route53 Database Administrator PBGC - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation April 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Solaris 10  • As part of team, collectively monitor and administer 50+ Oracle production and test databases and perform daily management activities of assigned databases Migrating Oracle database PL/SQL code from Development to QA and production environments.  • Hot and cold Backup and recovery of oracle 10/11g database using RMAN.  • Writing documentation and deployment guides for the client.  • Provided technical assistance for preparation of shell scripts for task automation.  • Establishing and maintaining multiple Oracle database environments for test, development, UAT, and production run.  • Performing daily/weekly monitoring of database that includes: space usage, Database performance, alert/system logs, and tables/indexes growth.  • Experience monitoring and troubleshooting with Oracle GRID,  • Evaluating the future growth of the database and estimating disk storage capacity requirements accordingly.  • Monitor database health and alert management to potential database problems and performance slowdowns.  • Developing hot/cold backup scripts to automate the backup procedures.  • Monitoring database performance by running statspack at set intervals and identify possible I/O bottlenecks  • accordingly and tuning the instance and managing the SGA to improve application CACHE hit ratio.  • Data loading using SQL*Loader, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP  • Worked as a team member to provide 24x7 on-call production database support  • Creating primary database storage structures (table spaces, rollback segments, etc).  • Migrating data from Development to Production environment using Import/Export utility and SQL Loader.  • Creating additional Listeners and configuring new Database Services on the network using the listener.ora, tnsnames.ora, sqlnet.ora.  • Additional duties as required.  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g/12c RDBMS, TOAD, Linux 5/6, SOLARIS 9/10, Pro * C, and Oracle 10gAS. Linux Administrator Viitorcloud Technologies Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2009 to March 2011 ViitorCloud Technologies is devoted to provide futuristic business solutions. We deliver innovative IT solutions by channelizing our best resources to engineer quality services. We follow a proactive and customized approach throughout the process levels to help grow our clients business more strategically.    Responsibilities:  • A Hands on experience in installing and administrating CI tools like Jenkins, GIT and Nexus.  • Managed and coordinated the SCM requirements planning through development of multi-tier applications and their build/deployment throughout BB&T distributed Windows development environment.  • Expertise in build tools like Apache MAVEN (using POM.xml) for the building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code.  • Worked with all areas of Development teams to ensure the build and deployment process serves better quality for the business.  • Worked with Source Control Tools such as GIT Stash.  • Experience in partially administering Jira for issue management.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using Git.  • Used CHEF to automate the node configuration setup and maintenance  • Responsible for installing SSL certificates on Apache and Sun One Web Servers.  • Coordinate build schedules between development teams, Database Administrators and Network Operations while developing and improving build communication channels.  • Experienced in taking high quality measures for build/deployment/source control tools processes, SOD for right access levels for source control for better Auditing/Controlling.  • Attended sprint planning sessions and daily sprint stand-up meetings.  • Improved overall build and deployment execution and delivery turnaround times extensively.  Environment: Docker, LINUX/SOLARIS/AIX, WebSphere, Chef, Jenkins, GIT, Perl, Shell, Python, ANT, Oracle 11g Education Bachelor's Skills DOCKER (6 years), JENKINS (6 years), MAVEN (4 years), LINUX (5 years), ORACLE (4 years), HTML, Javascript, XML, Jquery, SQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Cloud Platform Aws and open stack  Operating Systems Red Hat, Ubuntu, Linux, Windows  Configuration management Ansible, Maven, Docker, Jenkins  Version Control Tools GIT, GIT Hub, Code Commit, Subversion(SVN)  SDLC Agile  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i SQL Server 2003/2005.2008/2010.  Languages C, HTML, LINUX, UNIX, Shell, SQL, Python  DB Management TOAD, OEM, Grid Control, Oracle SQL Developer  Tools/Utilities OEM Grid Control, Export/Import, RMAN, TOAD, Patch Management, Data pump, Data Guard, VERITAS Net Backup, IBM TSM & DATA DAOMAIN  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM