Database Administrator I <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Panama City, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator I CACI - Panama City, FL April 2015 to Present • Assists in the design and definition of basic databases, access methods, access times, etc.   • Create SQL & PL/SQL scripts to meet new development needs.   • Perform all managements tasks in relation to a database environment. Cloning, Importing, Deleting, Upgrading, etc. Database Administrator TEKSystems - Panama City, FL October 2014 to April 2015 Working with CACI as a Database Administrator on a 6 month contract-to-hire position. Customer Service Representative Don Hood Insurance - Panama City, FL February 2013 to October 2014 • Assist customer base with policy endorsements, new business quotes, and account maintenance.  • Monitor website analytics and perform maintenance as needed. Statistical Quality and Unified Analytics Sprint - Panama City, FL 2010 to 2012 • Monitor and grade calls from multiple lines of business and provide feedback to be used for coaching/training opportunities.  • Root Cause Analyst – Use Data Analysis and reporting to identify business trends. Document business issues and financial implications to improve work-flow processes. Premier Care Management Sprint - Panama City, FL October 2007 to 2010 • Resolve customer concerns regarding billing, account maintenance and technical support.  • Provide additional floor support handling specialist questions and high level customer escalations when needed.  • Member of the call center Spirit Team working to increase center morale and community involvement.  • Frontline Senior – Assist team Supervisor with reporting, team communications, trending, facilitation of meetings, training and incentives. Assist team members with questions and escalations to achieve issue resolution targets.  Helpdesk – Assist specialists with questions, escalations and repeat callers to achieve site issue resolution targets. Monitor and respond to customer inquiries and provide team reporting on a daily basis. Education BS in Information Technology Management Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2014 to 2017 AS in Software and Database Development Gulf Coast State College - Panama City, FL 2010 to 2014 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Oracle SQL (2 years), Oracle PL/SQL (2 years), MySQL (1 year), PHP, PHP (1 year), Toad (2 years), Linux (1 year) Awards Student of the Year 2014 Student of the Year: Software and Database Development 2013-2014