SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - Industrial bank Silver Spring, MD • 6+ years of experience in Database Administration and Developer for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2014/12/2008R2/2008.  • Installation, Upgrade, Configuration and Administration of MS SQLServers 2014/12/2008R2/2008 in Standalone and Clustered environments.  • Expertise in database Maintenance Plans, Scheduled and Automated SQL Server Jobs, Configured Database Mail, Created Alerts, Operators and Notifications.  • Experience in SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions including Mirroring, Log shipping, Replication, Clustering and Always On Availability Group.  • Expertise in troubleshoot and Resolved SQL Server and Database related problems including but not limited to CPU, Memory, I/O and Disk space contention.  • Experience in implementing TDE(Transparent Data Encryption)  • Implemented the features like Backup compression, online indexing, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), and security principals.  • Expertise in MS SQL Server Performance Tuning and Monitoring tools like Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Profiler, Activity Monitor, DBCC, Store Procedures and DMV's.  • Extensive experience with SQL Server and T-SQL in constructing database objects: tables, triggers, user functions, views, indexes, user profiles, relational database model.  • Expertise in Administering SQL Server security by Creating Logins and users with appropriate permissions, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Experience in implementation of change data capture (CDC)Installing and  Configuring virtual machine  • Experienced with Database Backup, Restore and Disaster recovery procedures.  • Experience in Data migration between SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014 and implement ETL from Excel, Flat file using BCP and SSIS utility.  • Extensive knowledge in Data Warehouse, Data Marts and OLTP/OLAP technologies  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specification.  • Experience in creating, deploying, and administering SSIS packages. Experience in installing, configuring, administering SSRS, and designing, creating, and modifying SSRS Reports. Working knowledge in SSAS.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills, adaptability and a team player, positive and sincere; ability to work independently or part of a team to accomplish critical business objectives; worked on storage, with system administrators, to allocate and configure Instances.  • Highly dedicated to continuous learning and improvement.  • 24 x 7 Production Database on Call Support. Work Experience SQL Server DBA Industrial bank - Oxon Hill, MD November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • MS SQL Server configuration, performance tuning, client/server connectivity, query optimization, back-up/recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC and troubleshooting on large databases.  • Experience working with large databases, experience in troubleshooting techniques at SQL Server level.  • Partitioned lot of tables, which have frequent inserts, deletes and updates to reduce the contention and to improve the performance.  • Written stored procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and performed MS SQL Database modeling.  • Re indexed, defragged, dropped and recreated the indexes on tables for performance improvements.  • Developed security policy and enforced it by adding users, logins, and groups to the databases and granting/revoking permissions on Database objects.  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Running Database Consistency Checks (DBCC), scheduling the DBCC to run daily and weekly basis.  • Worked on reports using Data Warehouse projects.  • Created SSIS packages for data migration, & Schedule Database Maintenance job.  • Experienced in implementing SQL server high availability tools like Log shipping and used Failover clustering as well carefully scheduled maintenance to minimize downtime.  • Installed the SQL Server at the beginning of the project.  • Administering the MS SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, clusters, indexes, procedures, triggers.  • Managing the use of disk space, memory and connections.  • Monitoring MS SQL Server performance and network issues.  • Managing the use of disk space, memory and connections. Running DBCC consistency checks and analyzing stack traces, if generated  • Assigning the database users to particular groups.  • Database and log backups & restoration, backup strategies, scheduling backups.  • Implemented SQL server high availability tools like Log shipping and used Failover clustering as well carefully scheduled maintenance to minimize downtime.  • Solved Concurrency problems of blocks, locks, deadlocks, by viewing and tracking them using Activity Monitor and Management Studio summery page and Profiler.    Environment: SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, Windows 2008 R2, and 2012 R2, Service Now, SSIS, SSRS, Management Studio, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning advisor SQL Server Database Administrator ATG Trust company - Chicago, IL April 2014 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and upgraded installations of SQL server 2008/2012.  • Involved in planning and administration of Failover clustered environment.  • Involved in the implementation of databases mirroring and log shipping.  • Involved in performance tuning for the optimization of slow running queries and index maintenance.  • Automated SQL Server Agent jobs for Periodic Backups with Backup Devices and Database Maintenance Plan.  • Report on daily basis of server backup status.  • Implement maintenance plan for MS SQL Server(DB, updating index statistics, monitoring database and disk space).  • Monitoring the use of disk space, memory, connections, and trending.  • Developed various T-SQL stored procedures, triggers, views, and adding/changing tables for data extraction, data load and transformations.  • Administering database privileges and security within corporate standard operating procedures  • Optimizing & maintaining database performance through active monitoring, scheduled upgrades, service pack installations, and performance tuning using DBCC.  • Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery and Restored Database from backup.  • Used DBCC to check database conditions, created maintenance plan to Reorganize and Rebuilding indexes.  • Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Maintaining documentation and standards for DBA tasks, providing input on improving departmental processes.  • Designing corporate databases by analyzing data storage and reporting requirements while enforcing all database standards.  • Participation in corporate database architecture, development, deployment and capacity planning.  • Working closely with Network and application team to ensure no downtime. SQL Server DBA Glenworth Financial - Chicago, IL February 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, upgraded and monitored SQL Server 2008 and 2012.  • Configured performance tuning and optimization in SQL Server 2008 and 2012.  • Implemented and configured Backup and recovery process using maintenance plans/and or TSQL for database servers.  • Involved in SQL server upgrade from 2008 to SQL server 2012.  • Involved in Day-to-Day activities such as monitoring SQL Agent Jobs, trending database growth, monitoring health and consistency of databases, ensuring database maintenance jobs etc.  • Involved in designing, configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting Failover clustering and log shipping technologies, on critical databases, as HA and DR solutions respectively.  • Performed data migration using Bulk Insert, Bulk Copy Program (BCP) and SSIS from Flat files to SQL Server 2008/12.  • Run Database Consistency Checks (DBCC), scheduling the DBCC to run on a daily and weekly ba Education Bachelor of Science Addis Ababa University Skills MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, SSRS, T-SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, VB.NET, XML, R2, MS-DOS, ANALYZER, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS SERVER 2012, WINDOWS SERVER 2012 R2 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  RDBM: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2008R2/2008, MS Access.  Languages: T-SQL, SQL, HTML, Power Shell, VB.NET, MDX.  Web Technologies: HTML, XML, JavaScript.  Tools: SSMS, BIDS, SSDT, SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, Profiler, Extended Events, Query Analyzer,  SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, SSMA, Red Gate tool belt, Upgrade Advisor  Operating System: MS-DOS, Windows 7, 8, XP; Windows Server 2012 R2, 2012, 2008