Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Server DBA - West Advanced Technologies Bethesda, MD ? Over six years of professional experience in Database Administration, Database Design, Development and Support of MS SQL Servers 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2/2008 in Production, Test, Development, Replication and Cluster Server environments  ? Experience in database administration on production servers including Installation, Configuration, Managing, Performance Tuning and Maintenance with Troubleshooting capabilities  ? Extensive experience with SSMS and T-SQL in creating and managing database objects like Tables, Views, Indexes, User Functions, Triggers and Stored Procedures  ? Experience in Upgrade/Migration of MS SQL Server 2008/2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016  ? Experience in upgrading SQL Servers with latest service packs  ? Experience in MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Data Transformation Services and running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC commands  ? Experience in monitoring the health and performance of SQL Servers using SQL Server native tools and other third party solutions  ? Experience in using DTA/Extended Events/Perf Mon/SQL Profiler/Scripts and other third party tools to resolve bottlenecks, dead locks and slow running queries  ? Experience in administering SQL Server Security by creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitoring user accounts, creating roles, granting permissions to users and roles  ? Experience in Database Backup, Restore and Disaster Recovery procedures  ? Solid experience and knowledge on High Availability/Disaster Recovery (HADR) solutions; Failover Clusters, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring  ? Experience with partially contained databases  ? Experience in creating DTS packages to utilize SSIS functionalities and DB dependency resolutions  ? Experience in creating various SSIS and SSRS packages to serve company needs  ? Experience in using SQL Server Agent Services to create and schedule jobs  ? Experience in exporting and importing data to and from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export through DTS, SSIS  ? Experience in creating technical documentations and process archiving and change management  ? Experience in working independently as well as in team-oriented environments  ? Experience in supporting and maintaining large databases and troubleshooting their problems Work Experience Sr. SQL Server DBA West Advanced Technologies - Leesburg, VA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for administering MS SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 databases  ? Responsible for installing and configuring SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 with backup jobs, database mail and configuration options  ? Responsible for upgrading SQL Servers with latest service packs  ? Responsible for migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Server 2016  ? Responsible for creating, administering and maintaining SQL Server databases on Production, Test and Staging for various groups and ensuring the availability of the database servers  ? Responsible for configuring and maintaining transactional replication for flow of data from QA and Development servers to the replica servers  ? Responsible for monitoring data activities like database status, logs, space utilization, locks and long transactions  ? Responsible for implementing SQL standards in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views and Functions  ? Responsible for resolving deadlock and blocking issues for concurrent users. Work with developers in optimizing the code to minimize the duration of the lock  ? Provide appropriate access to users except system databases owners. Refresh databases for pre or post data loads activities  ? Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, and taking care of permissions and roles  ? Responsible for managing High Availability/Disaster Recovery (HADR) solutions; Failover Clusters, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring  ? Support SQL Server developers working on different projects with various requests  ? Responsible for converting and redesigning existing DTS packages to SSIS packages  ? Responsible for developing SSIS packages to import and export data from existing systems to upgraded systems  ? Responsible for exporting and importing data to and from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export through DTS and SSIS  ? Responsible for monitoring database performance such as blocking, expensive query and memory utilization using database utility programs and 3rd party utilities Sr. SQL Server DBA RIGHTPOINT - Los Angeles, CA October 2014 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Administered MS SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 databases. Worked on change requests, permission requests and refresh requests  ? Installed and configured SQL Server 2014 and SQL Server 2016 with backup jobs, database mail and configuration options  ? Migrated SQL Server databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2014  ? Upgraded SQL Servers with latest service packs  ? Monitored the health and performance of SQL Servers using SQL Server native tools and third party solutions  ? Worked in MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Data Transformation Services and running Database Consistency checks using DBCC commands  ? Created database maintenance plans for SQL backups, optimization, integrity check and transaction log backups  ? Created checklists for proper/unattended install of SQL Server, applied service packs and security fix  ? Administered SQL Server Security by creating user logins with appropriate roles; monitored user accounts; created roles, granted permissions to users and roles  ? Configured and maintained transactional and snapshot replication for three environments  ? Worked on High Availability/Disaster Recovery (HADR) solutions; Failover Clusters, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring  ? Responsible for regular monitoring of SQL Server, analyzing logs, Troubleshooting SQL Server problems such as SQL Server Service, Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Server Agent job execution problems  ? Worked with SQL Disaster Recovery processes and documented/revised the processes  ? Worked with capacity planning, database sizing and monitoring  ? Created and administered databases and database objects like Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures and Triggers, Alerts and maintained user permissions  ? Applied monthly patches and hot fixes. Worked with application team to test the successful upgrades  ? Maintained Operators, Categories, Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job Steps and Schedules  ? Converted and redesigned existing DTS packages to SSIS packages  ? Developed SSIS packages to import and export data from existing systems to upgraded systems  ? Exported and Imported data to and from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export through DTS, SSIS Database Administrator IceAddis - Addis Ababa, ET February 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for administering MS SQL Server 2008 and 2008 R2 databases. Worked on change requests, permission requests and refresh requests  ? Installed and configured SQL Server 2008 R2 database server instances  ? Migrated SQL Server databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2012  ? Created and administered databases and database objects like Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures and Triggers, Alerts and maintained user permissions  ? Implemented SQL logins, roles and authentication modes as part of security policies for various categories of users  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive backup plan and disaster recovery  ? Responsible for regular monitoring of SQL Server, analyzing logs, Troubleshooting SQL Server problems such as SQL Server Service, Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Server Agent job execution problems  ? Rebuilt indexes at regular intervals for better performance  ? Involved in installation, configuration, maintenance and optimization of SQL Server HADR solutions  ? Performed SQL Server and windows service pack upgrades Education B.Sc. in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Addis Ababa University Skills Ms sql server (6 years), Sql (6 years), Sql server (6 years), Sql server 2008 (5 years), Ssis, ETL, Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional Certificate: Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases Present