SQL Database Administrator - DBA SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - DBA SQL Database Administrator - DBA - MIMAKI USA INC Suwanee, GA Work Experience SQL Database Administrator - DBA MIMAKI USA INC - Suwanee, GA 2008 to Present SQL Database Administrator – DBA (4 years)    Microsoft Dynamic AX Administrator/Functional Analyst (3 Years)    Email: sam2walt@gmail.com     • Installed, configured and maintained databases in the production, development, and quality  assurance environments.  • Effectively monitored Databases for performance and Tuning.  • Developed and implemented properly the backup and disaster recovery procedures.  • Assessed the effectiveness of new technologies in relation to the consistency and reliability of the databases.  • Assisted in partitioning schemas, tables and indexes, creating File/File groups.  • Scheduled Full/Differential and Transactional log backups for user and system databases in the production environment using the Database Maintenance Plan Wizard and T-SQL.  • Periodically monitored and Administered Clustering.    SUMMARY  • Experience with implementing DR solutions, High Availability of database servers using  Database Mirroring, Replications (Snapshot, Transactional, and Merge), Log Shipping and  Clustering.  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining  Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning  roles to users.  • Experience in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and scheduling DTS, ETL and other SSIS  Packages.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models like Snapshot, Merge and  Transactional on basis of business specification.  • Great knowledge with parameterized Reports. Education B.Sc in Mathematics KNUST GHANA - Kumasi Additional Information SQL Database Administrator: - With over 4 years of Database encounter. Areas of  knowledge incorporate Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008, 2008R2 & 2012.    Career/Skills  • Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication Configurations  • Backup strategies  • Restore and Recovery Options  • Performance Monitoring, Query Troubleshooting & Tuning  • DB Engine Tuning Advisor, DMV's and SQL Profiler  • Knowledge in Monitoring Cluster (Active/Active and Active/Passive)  • T-SQL, Database Design Techniques and Partitioning Strategy  • SSRS and SSIS (ETL) Packages, Import - Export, Data migration    • SQL Code and design (stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers,  indexes, constraints).  • ERP Systems (Microsoft Dynamic AX 4.0, 2009 & 2012)  • Excellent Team Building  • Excellent Communication Skills