Jr. Database Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Database Administrator - NEW DIRECTIONS BEHAVIORAL HEALTH Edison, NJ Highly motivated Software Professional with 2 years of experience as an Oracle DBA and have been involved in Installation, Configuration, Upgradation, Patching, Backup and Recovery, Migration, Memory and Space Management, Cloning, Replication, Reporting, Performance Tuning, RMAN, RAC, Data Guard, OEM Grid Control.  • Extensive Knowledge on Oracle Architecture.  • Familiar with Table space level issues and User level issues.  • Activities of Archive logs and Trace files.  • User management and providing security to the databases.  • Experience in handling production database support and maintenance as well.  • Excellent Team player with good communication.  • Good Experience in Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN  • Installed Oracle Database software (Release 10.2.0, 11.2.0, 12.2.4) in various operating systems.  • Maintained databases Under Linux, & Windows Platform.  • Involved in Migration of Database 10g to 11g.  • Monitoring performance using OEM, AWR Reports and ADDM Reports.  • Involved in Database Cloning.  • Experience in performance tuning and application tuning.  • Experience in Developing Recovery Manager (RMAN) scripts for database backup and disaster Recovery including HOT and COLD backup options.  • Experience in Performing Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Experience in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Scripting.  • Knowledge in User Management by Granting, Revoking Privileges according to requirement.  • Knowledge in Space Management by Monitoring and Managing Tablespaces.  • Keeping the database up to date by applying the latest CPU and PSU using the OPATCH utility.  • Have good knowledge of Oracle Apps Architecture 12c.  • Have working knowledge of Installation, Patching, Cloning of Oracle Apps.  • Knowledge of using oracle application utilities like adpatch, adctrl, admrgpch, adsplice, adadmin.  • Excellent Experience as Production DBA with 24X7 supports.  • Have impeccable communication and interpersonal skills and an exceptional team player.  • Proven abilities in establishing effective task priorities, working independently, and participating as an integral part of a team in fast-paced and multitasking environment. Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator NEW DIRECTIONS BEHAVIORAL HEALTH March 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked on this project as Oracle Core DBA.  • Configured and installed Oracle databases on UNIX environment.  • Actively participated in team meetings with Business team for changes in design of the database.  • Involved in the logical and physical design of the database tables.  • Monitored the month end activities and accordingly managed the database capacity and space.  • Wrote shell scripts for hot backup for all servers and PL/SQL for code extractions from DBA source and DBA views.  • Created audit table to record the UPDATEs and INSERTs on the tables by creating database triggers (value based auditing).  • Database maintenance, upgrades, and patches release.  • Worked on database setup and monitored the database growth on daily basis.  • Modified and established backup and recovery strategies and procedures.  • Worked on database performance monitoring using OEM.  • Created users and roles, and maintained system security.  • Created tables, views and other schema objects with appropriate table space sizes.  • Performed Backup and Recovery using RMAN and user managed techniques.  • Creation of database objects, writing PL/ SQL blocks like stored procedures, packages, triggers for occasional system requirements.  • Assist Sr. Oracle DBA in day-to-day Administration.  • Involve in Data Maintenance, using Explain plan, SQL Hints, Table and Index Partitioning to improve the Performance.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, recovering tables dropped accidentally, recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption). Jr. Database Administrator SOFT PLANET TECHNOLOGIES June 2014 to July 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold).  • Worked on Instance Tuning, Memory Tuning and SQL Tuning.  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Successfully implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Created new Table Spaces, added Data Files and resolved Disk Contention Issues.  • Monitored, Allocated Share memory, Table space as needed and managed Replicated servers.  • Monitoring Alert log file and Trace file.  • Responsible for granting required privileges and roles to users.  • Creation and maintenance of database objects.  • Managing table spaces, User Profiles, Indexes and Storage parameters.  • Scripting languages mainly HTML, XML and JSP.  • Working as a Database developer, writing SQL Queries.  • Involved in developing and implementing PL/SQL functions, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Sciences in Computer and Information Sciences Kent State University December 2016 Skills ORACLE (2 years), PL/SQL (2 years), SQL (2 years), UNIX (2 years), RMAN (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Programing SQL Server, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Perl, C, C++, CSS, HTML, XML, Java script, MATLAB, Embedded C.  Databases/DBMS Oracle 10g/11g/12c, Oracle Apps R12c, MS SQL Server 2008/2012/2014  Platforms Linux (Red Hat & Oracle), Windows 7/8/10/xp/98  Tools & Utilities  Export/Import, expdp/impdp (data pump), RMAN, Oracle Enterprise manager, Real Applications Cluster (RAC), ASM, Clusters, TKPROF, DBCA, Tableau.