BI/ SSRS Developer BI/ SSRS Developer BI/ SSRS Developer - EXAMWORKs Ellenwood, GA Diligent SQL Server Reporting develeper, Business analyst, website developer, database administrator, with more than seven years of experience in these related fields.    Proficient in developing SQL Server Reports. Also specialize in website design templates and code implementation for database connection. Also proficient in database administration and website development.    I'm hoping to bring my experience in development and database management to a company where I will also be able to learn much more due to my ever burning desire to acquire more knowledge.    Core Qualifications  • Outstanding knowledge of industry standard quality assurance procedures  • Adept at analyzing business requirements and software requirement specifications  • Strong ability to implement all established quality assurance methods  • Solid understanding of quality assurance and software development life cycles  • Willing to explore new tools  • Exceptional communications and organizational abilities Work Experience BI/ SSRS Developer EXAMWORKs Present Project Description:  Developing report using SQL reporting services and troubleshooting of existing report.    Responsibilities:  • Hold meetings with clients to determine requirements for report development.  • On daily basis writing complex queries based on clients requirements.  • Developing complex reports and making them user friendly for client  • Communicate reporting changes, enhancements, and modifications verbally or through written documentation to management and other team members  • Uses drill down, drill through, parameterized functionality in the reports.  • Writes complex SSRS Expressions when building reports.  • Works on the enhancements of existing reports and fixed bugs in the PROD Environment.  • Utilizes derived tables, temporary tables and Common table Expressions in SQL.  • Improving performance of queries used as data sets for SSRS reports.  • Creating new report subscriptions and updating existing once.  • Exported business data to Excel for further analysis utilizing SSRS    INDEPENDENT CONSULTANCY PRESENT  Website Developing/ Web Application  Project Description:  Database driven website and applications development for clients and development of concepts graphically.    Responsibilities:  • Developing of websites and working on graphic designing project  • Hold meetings with clients to determine requirements of the client.  • Responsible to install & Configuring SQL Server software.  • Restored database in case of failure or whenever required by applying full database backup and transactional log backups.  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges  • Give users the least amount of permissions they need to perform their job.  • Creating of relational database in PHP mysql and MSSQL.  • PHP mysql database management Database Administrator EDITEC LOTTERIES UK August 2007 to September 2010 Project Description:  Over 5000 GPRS lottery point of sales systems which are operated from remote locations connect to the servers in the office with the aid of GPRS devices. These devices have network data chips in them which connects to the servers through the particular mobile company chip inserted in them. The sales made on the point of sales machine are automatically uploaded to the servers in the form of text files then processed with a software to extract the sales details for the lotto draw processing. The information extracted are loaded into MSSQL database for reporting and winnings verification.  Responsibilities:  • Ensure measures are put in place towards solving IT related problems in the company as well as documenting records for future reference.  • Troubleshooting of system network related problems.  • Managing system database.  • Writing SQL queries to generate report for management each morning  • Creation of user logins and assigning permissions to users in MSSQL    Head Of IT Department / Systems And Database Administration, Responsibilities:  • Management system database and write queries to generate reports from the database.  • Troubleshooting of system network related problems.  • Organizing and training lotto agents on new GPRS software for the lotto point of sale machines.  • Repairing of faulty GRPS point of sales machines.  • Preparing of a monthly status report for the regional main office  • Creation of user logins and assigning permissions to users in MSSQL    Systems and Database Administrator / IT Consultancy, Responsibilities:  • Assisted the project manager in the IT consultancy duties  • Troubleshooting of system network related problems and documentation.  • Organizing and training lotto agents on new GPRS software for the lotto point of sale machines.  • Repairing of faulty GRPS point of sales machines.  • Management system database and write queries to generate reports from the database.  • Creation of user logins and assigning permissions to users in MSSQL    Systems and Database Administrator / IT Consultancy, Responsibilities:  • Assisted the project manager in the IT consultancy duties  • Troubleshooting of system network related problems and documentation.  • Organizing and training lotto agents on new GPRS software for the lotto point of sale machines.  • Repairing of faulty GRPS point of sales machines.  • Management system database and write queries to generate reports from the database.  • Creation of user logins and assigning permissions to users in MSSQL Website developer PERSOL SYSTEMS LIMITED June 2003 to May 2005 Website Developing Department Database  Project Description:  Development clients website and web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developing of websites and web application project assigned by the project managers  • Testing of website projects and desktop applications to ensure they meets the business requirements (BRD) and technical specification documents prepared by the business analyst  • Meeting with clients to understand their requirement for website developing projects when even the need arise. Education Associate Skills Database, Ms access, Mysql, Sql, Analysis services, Html, Php, Reporting tools, Microstrategy, Tableau, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Flash, Ms office, Soap, Ui, Jira, Java, Excel, SSRS, Data Warehouse, Sql Server