Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator East Windsor, CT ? Over 7 years of experience in Oracle Databases as Administrator in Enterprise level Database Administration, Management and Operations.  ? Extensive experience in Installing, Designing and Managing Oracle 12c, ExaData, 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i/8i Databases on Windows, UNIX (HP-UX, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris),  ? Installed/configured Oracle 11g/10g Real Application Clusters (RAC)  ? Upgraded databases from Oracle 8i, 9i to 10g and Oracle 10g to 11g,  ? Experience in a 24*7 Production Database support role.  ? Extensive experience in Backup & Recovery (Hot, Cold, Logical and RMAN Incremental Backups)  ? Expert in Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM.  ? Experience in Table, Index Partitions for increased performance and for better storage management. Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Partitioned large objects to improve the query performance and manageability.  ? Identifying bottlenecks and wait based analysis using Oracle Wait Interface.  ? Excellent experience in database cross-platform migration  ? Expert in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle Standby (Active Data Guard)  ? Monitoring databases and setting alerts using Oracle Enterprise Manager/Grid Control  ? Experience in database cloning/refresh, tuning, patch  ? Good experience in Database Design (Conceptual Design, Logical Database Design, Physical Database Design), setting up the complete Database with Security Implementation, troubleshooting Oracle issues.  ? Experience in Writing Shell scripts.  ? Experience in Capacity Planning & Benchmarking  ? Excellent SQL and PL/SQL programming and debugging skills - Cursors, Functions, Stored Procedures, Packages and Triggers etc.  ? Experience with Data Modeling, Logical and Physical database design.  ? Excellent experience in managing Very Large Databases (VLDB)  ? Experience in replication using Materialized Views, Oracle Streams and Golden Gate.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  ? Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*Loader.  ? Proven ability to adapt to demanding schedules and changing priorities.  ? Excellent analytical, interpersonal and communication skills.  ? Able to work independently and collaboratively in Team environment. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator McGraw Hill - East Windsor, NJ February 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues  ? Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 12c, 11g RAC/10g RAC, Standby database (Service Guard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery  ? Database upgrades from Oracle 11g to 12c, 10g to 11g.  ? Database migrations from windows to linux  ? Worked with EMC on migrating SAN/NAS storage.  ? Set up, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  ? Worked on migrating VLDB, over 20TB of size.  ? Manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  ? Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure related projects.  ? Conducted analysis and feasibility studies for development of Oracle Exadata solutions.  ? Setup Grid Control for Monitoring Exadata X2  ? Installed Oracle 11g on Exadata X2 -- provided performance tuning and optimization  ? Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN.  ? Set up backup and recovery procedure using RMAN and setup Autosys jobs.  ? Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures.  ? Implemented Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans.  ? Created duplicate databases using RMAN duplicate.  ? Worked on TSPITR using RMAN.  ? Installed and configured bi-directional Golden Gate for High data availability and Operational reporting.  ? Created and Configured Data Servers, Physical Schemas, Logical Schemas, Models, Interfaces and Packages.  ? Troubleshooting the issues on Oracle Data Integrator establishment and replication setup.  ? Applied CPU/PSU patches for oracle database version 11.2.0.3.  ? Utilized SQL*loader and data pump import to load data into tables.  ? Refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, tablespaces, tables, indexes, settings privileges and user logins.  ? Performance Tuning i.e. Tuning RAC, tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms  ? Performance Tuning use of SQL diagnostic (ADDM, SQL Adviser) and Oracle utilities like AWR.  ? Table Partitioning, creating Index Organized tables, Creating Locally managed Tablespaces.  ? Worked with Oracle support on different types of ORA-600 errors.  ? 24x7 production database support during and after migration, till handoff to the BAU team.  ? A self-motivated, responsible and reliable team player with a set of strong technical skills.  ? Excellent analytical, interpersonal and communication skills.  ? Enthusiasm in learning new technologies.    Environnent: Oracle 12c, ExaData, 11g RAC/10g RAC, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Windows, OEM (Grid Control), RMAN, ASM, Golden Gate, SQL*Loader, Oracle Data guard, Streams, TOAD Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Johnson Controls - Holland, MI May 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  ? 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues  ? Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 10g RAC/11g RAC, Standby database (Service Guard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery  ? Upgraded databases from Oracle 8i, 9i to 10g and Oracle 10g to 11g  ? Migrated Databases from Linux to HP-UX, Windows to LINUX  ? Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database  ? Oracle Grid control installation and configuration for database monitoring  ? Oracle RMAN configuration for backups to disk and tape. Implemented Backup & Recovery strategies and performed Disaster & Recovery drills  ? Backup & Recovery (Hot, Cold, Logical and RMAN Incremental Backups)  ? Planning and implementing Backup and Recovery procedures, scheduling daily backups and performed periodic recovery tests  ? Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM  ? Partioned large tables for better performance and manageability  ? Installed, Configures and Monitored OEM 12c  ? Database Design (Conceptual Design, Logical Database Design, Physical Database Design)  ? Capacity Planning & Benchmarking  ? Data Loading using SQL*Loader, External Tables. Writing PL/SQL procedures for Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) data  ? User roles and profile management for enforcing password complexity and securing databases  ? Database security and auditing  ? Applied CPU patches  ? Creating Database objects like (Tables, Indexes, Views, Synonyms, Database Links, Materialized Views, PL/SQL Functions, Procedures, Packages, Triggers etc)  ? Refreshing of database from production to development & test environments  ? Optimizing the SQL's for maximum performance EXPLAIN PLAN  ? Daily databases Health check monitoring and troubleshooting if required  ? Creating SR (Oracle Support request), follow up with Oracle support, running diagnostic scripts and upload output files to oracle support    Environment: Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, Red Hat Linux, Windows, OEM 12c, RMAN, ASM, SQL*Loader, Oracle Data guard, Streams, Golden Gate, TOAD Oracle DBA Best Buy - Minneapolis, MN August 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  ? 24x7 Production database and applications support  ? Managing multiple production, development, test databases  ? Administering Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases  ? Setup Oracle10g RAC, 11g RAC  ? Setup Standby databases for disaster recovery and reporting  ? Upgrade database from 9i to 10g, 9i & 10g databases to 11g  ? Cloned/Refreshed databases from production database to test and development  ? Creating database objects like Tables, Indexes, views, Materialized Views and synonyms  ? Adding tablespaces, data files to the databases  ? Performing Hot Backup, Cold Backup, RMAN Incremental Backups, Maintaining High database availability for supporting non-stop Business Operations  ? Implement and Maintain Database Security. Creating / Altering / Dropping Users as and when required and administer their respective quotas  ? Monitoring the status of databases, logs, archived redo logs etc  ? Object maintenance e.g. Storage Parameters and rebuilding indexes  ? UNIX Shell scripting for the automation of backups, cloning/refresh, monitoring file system utilizations, status of various oracle and UNIX processes etc  ? Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM  ? Partioned large tables for better performance and manageability  ? Writing PL/SQL procedures for Extraction Transformation and Loading of data  ? Setup monitoring OEM/Grid Control  ? Worked on the tickets assigned to perform certain tasks such as taking export and Import, adding and dropping database users, granting and revoking the roles and privileges, database structure modifications etc  ? Applied CPU patches  ? Creating Database objects like (Tables, Indexes, Views, Synonyms, Database Links, Materialized Views, PL/SQL Functions, Procedures, Packages, Triggers etc)    Environment: Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i/8i, HP-UX, IBM AIX, RedHat Linux, Windows, OEM (Grid Control), RMAN, ASM, SQL*Loader, Oracle Data guard, Streams, TOAD Oracle DBA Hawaii Medical Service Association - Honolulu, HI November 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  ? 24x7 Production database and applications support  ? Managing multiple production, development, test databases  ? Administering Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases  ? Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database  ? Oracle Data Guard (physical/logical) configuration for data replication and disaster recovery  ? Oracle RMAN configuration for backups to disk and tape. Implemented Backup & Recovery strategies and Understanding of Disaster & Recovery Scenarios. Performed complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN  ? Worked on database migrations, upgradations and applying CPU/PSU and interim patches  ? Performance improvements by SGA tuning and SQL query tuning  ? User roles and profile management for enforcing password complexity and securing databases  ? Database auditing configuration for create session and failed login attempts  ? Creating Database objects like (Tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, triggers etc)  ? Refreshing of database from production to development & test environments  ? Optimizing the SQL's for maximum performance by using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM  ? Daily databases Health check monitoring and troubleshooting if required  ? Raising SR (Oracle Support request) and follow up with Oracle support and running diagnostic scripts and upload output files to SR support  ? Creating Database Links  ? Installed and configured OEM Agents on multiple servers and implemented standard monitoring and alerting procedures  ? Worked with the development team for deploying application code patches and builds during implementation work    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g RAC/9i/8i, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Windows, OEM (Grid Control), RMAN, ASM, SQL*Loader, Oracle Data guard Oracle DBA/Developer ICICI Bank - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2007 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Oracle Databases  ? Having extensive experience with Unix Shell Scripting for application development. Done application functionality automation using Shell Scripts  ? Responsible for all production user management issues and Network configuration issues  ? Converting flat files, non-Oracle files which come from Mainframes systems into Oracle database by using SQL*Loader  ? Managing table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments  ? Writing SQL, PL/SQL Coding database triggers, packages, stored procedures & functions  ? Managing Users, Privileges and Roles and taking hot backup of the databases  ? Monitoring and Reorganizing Table spaces/Tables/Indexes  ? Taking care of performance related issues by tuning memory as well as application tuning  ? Create and Maintain Roles and assign necessary privileges to users according to business rules in development environments  ? Optimization & Analyzing SQL queries for better Performance  ? Load data using SQL*Loader  ? Coordination with developers in designing complex queries  ? Help users in creating database objects, and enrolling users    Environment: Oracle 10g/9i/8i/7.3, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Windows, OEM (Grid Control), RMAN Education B.Tech in Information Technology Vellore Institute Of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu Additional Information Technical Skills:    Database: Oracle 12c, ExaData, 11g RAC, Oracle 10g RAC, Oracle 9i, Oracle 8i, Oracle 7.3, MySQL, SQL Server 2008  Operating System Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10, HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RedHat Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, Windows 95/98/ME/NT/2003/XP  Languages/Tools  Unix Shell Script, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, C, C++, OEM/Grid Control/Cloud, Golden Gate, dbconsole, RMAN, AWR, ASM, ADDM, STATSPACK, SQLTRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, Data Guard, SQL*Loader, OUI, dbca, Logical/ Cold/ Hot backup, Data Pump, SQL*Net, Toad