Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - TATA Consultancy Services Atlanta, GA Work Experience Database Administrator TATA Consultancy Services - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Install configure, tune, and maintain oracle databases.  • Monitor and optimize database performance/Refresh and restore tables and schemas.  • Perform daily checks on databases servers, confirming status backups, and file compression.  • Create database constrains, tables, clusters, maintained integrity, indexes, and sequences.  • Create and maintain PL/SQL scripts and stored procedures  • Developed, tested, debugged and documented Oracle PL/SQL packages.  • Assisted in conversion of exiting PowerBuilder code to PL/SQL and Java to support a new Flex application.  • Design, developed, and maintained data extraction and transformation processes.  • Investigated data quality issues and implemented appropriate solutions  • Provided primary SQL Server support and monitored performance of all database instances.  • Rewrote queries, stored procedures, and created missing indexes used in company's ASP-based reporting portal.  • Monitored and fixed nightly maintenance. Optimized and improved DTS and SSIS packages.  • Performed ad-hoc complex queries for the sales, accounting and customer service departments.  • Supported and maintained Oracle/MS SQL databases on Windows NT platforms in development, testing and production environments.  • Maintained Microsoft SQL Server (2005 and 2008) including user account management, and database backup.  • Hands on experience on database migration across platforms and/or from other RDMS technologies.  • Applying deep, low-level DBMS capabilities in combination with native coding/scripting skills to deliver operational efficiencies of the support team.  • Designed and developed multiple RDMS platforms migrations, and developed programs and scripts.  • Performed extensive coding using SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL on RDBMS.  • Automating tasks using cron for GG restart  • Replicated to a disaster recovery site for increased server manageability and availability.  • Executed processes for evaluation of system space, database allocation and storage metrics.  • Configured Confidential for active-active configuration in a multi master replication environment  • Tuned GG to handle large volumes of data for high transaction tables  • Installation, setup, and creation of four node cluster RAC Oracle 12c database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems.  • Involved in the project of implementing and configuring Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Oracle10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Upgrading Oracle databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0 in an Exadata Production and Test environment. Oracle/SQL DBA Govt - Marietta, GA January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:    • Creating automate scripts to take backup of database by RMAN, imp/exp at data file and user level.  • Frequently monitored database level parameters for performance issues and tuned SGA, Optimizing SQL Queries.  • Maintained cluster servers to provide high availability.  • Responsible for data integrity and concurrent data, locks and deadlocks.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle Databases on Linux, UNIX and Windows Platforms.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High availability configuration.  • Installation and Configuration of 11g Grid Control.  • Installed OEM Grid Agents on UNIX, LINUX and Windows for monitoring of production databases.  • Managed user accounts and assigned appropriate privileges  • Performed Database duplication with RMAN  • Installed, configured Oracle Database Software using Oracle Universal Installer  • Performed Database Backup, restore and recovery using RMAN  • Carried out bulk inserts using SQL*Loader  • Upgraded database using patchset  • Applying Oracle Exadata Full Quarterly Stack Patches (patching the storage servers, compute nodes, grid, databases and infiniband switches)  • Active Data Guard configuration and implementation on Exadata servers ( production and standby )  • Configuration of Exadata Snapshot Databases in dev/test for use with sparse disk group  • Installing Oracle Goldengate and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication.  • Performed Golden Gate upgrades from Version 12.1.2.1.0 to 12.1.2.1.10.  • Performed Golden Gate configuration changes to Manager / EXTRACT and REPLICAT  • Trouble shoot Oracle Goldengate replication performance.  • Database refreshes using export/import and datapump.  • Migrate Oracle databases with datapump or transportable tablespace  • Perform schema REMAP using exp/imp data pump utility  • Perform partition maintenance like truncating partitions and adding new partitions.  • Perform database level 0 or level 1 backup with RMAN backup  • Restore and recovery database from disaster from RMAN backup  • Perform cloned, migrated databases using RMAN Oracle DBA NCR - Duluth, GA April 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:    • Tuning database for optimal performance using AWR, ADDR and Advisors.  • Diagnosing and resolving issues associated with the Database  • Setup and configured database network connectivity  • Resolved issues related to database connectivity, user quota and storage issues  • Effectively applied knowledge of database architecture, logical and physical database structures for design, planning and problem solving  • Schedules backups with Enterprise Manager.  • Monitored alert log and trace log files daily for potential problem identification and resolution  • Documented all important database related topics, issues, resolution and changes  • Creation, management and modification of database objects - Tables, indexes and synonyms  • Delivering accurate and timely logging of issues and resolution in ticketing system  • Participated in seminars, workshops and continuous learning events  • Implemented Oracle Database 11g, 2 node Real Application Cluster(RAC) using Oracle Clusterware for achieving high Availability on ASM.  • Setup and maintain RMAN backup and recovery strategy for RAC and Single instance Databases.  • Worked on Oracle 9i to 10g/11g migration projects with low maintenance window and applied patches to various databases.  • Disaster recovery implementation using physical standby databases for high availability.  • Worked for Incident & Problem Management and Change Release Management to meet business SLAs (Service Level Agreement).  • Successfully Migrated Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Performance tuning i.e. Tuning RAC, tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  • Troubleshoot system issues, monitored scheduled jobs and set up maintenance plans for proactively monitoring the performance of SQL Server databases. Oracle DBA Wipro - Charlotte, NC July 2012 to March 2017 Responsibilities:    • Cloned, migrated databases using RMAN and traditional datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11g/12c.  • Actively participated analysis, database design, coding, and implementing.  • Using SQL Loader, loaded into multiple tables.  • Developed packages, stored procedure, functions and database triggers using PL/SQL to improve performance tuned SQL queries.  • Involved I developing procedures, functions and different forms.  • Used PL/SQL to report and perform calculations and get desired outputs.  • Provide necessary technical support for fixing the bugs in interacting with end users.  • Involved in testing, integration system test, implement and document the entire project.  • Created physical standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed failover and switchover using Data Guard broker and manually as when required.  • Worked on disaster recovery of physical standby failover/switchover/loss of service rebuild/corruption/loss of datafile testing.  • Automated monitoring the database, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running CRON jobs and customized various Unix shell scripts in sending email for ORA-errors, reports for quick morning check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, moved archive logs to different mount point when archive destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with team for installation and maintenance of Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c RAC ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team; analyzed objects, created and rebuilt indexes, tune queries using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in Client-Server environment using TNSnames, LISTENER.net Configuration Assistance and other configuration files.  • Created and restored database using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guarantee Restore Point.  • Managing network, storage and Ravello in Oracle Cloud.  • Experience in administration and 24x7 support of ExaData, multi node RAC cluster database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (patch set, critical patch updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes at database, schema and table level using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c.  • Experience in Netezza, created complex data queries and designed tables, views in IBM Netezza database environment.  • Write complex SQL statements to perform high level and detailed validation tasks for new data and/or architecture changes within the model comparing Oracle against Netezza data.  • Perform SQL queries in Netezza and Oracle to validate data.  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different redundancy levels using fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount diskgroups as SYSASM.  • Constantly monitor the performance (v$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the databases and viewing alert log files and trace files.  • Ran scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Abia State University January 2004 to December 2008 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, LINUX, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server