Cloud Architect Cloud Architect Cloud Architect - Evalueserve Chicago, IL * Experienced Cloud Architect with a focus on technical leadership, architecting, developing, and managing highly available and highly resilient big data environments in AWS and Google Cloud platforms.  * Designed, implemented, and led the Google Cloud environment from scratch for one of the biggest food industries and provided technical oversite and subject matter experts on all the Google Cloud-based solutions.  * Lead the architecture and strategy process for implementing the data lake, migration of the existing system, and build new solutions for new applications with CICD capability on Google Cloud/ AWS.  * Experienced in designing and implementing APIs to transfer/consume large data sets utilizing cloud services.  * Managed multiple projects from initial client contact through the planning process to the final deliverables. Handled implementation of sprint plans, Agile methodologies, scheduling and delegation of the tasks to the project teams to ensure timely execution of projects.  * Managed and supported large-scale in-house environments consisting of thousands of servers, petabytes of data, and multiple application hosted in house as well as in AWS. Work Experience Cloud Architect Evalueserve - Chicago, IL March 2019 to Present * Design and implement the google cloud environment from scratch for one of the biggest food industries and lead the Cloud infrastructure and data engineering team responsible for overseeing the client's Cloud environment, including architecting, deploying, and migrating existing and new enterprise applications.  * Migrate existing Email Marketing System in Google Cloud and redesigned the infrastructure by utilizing Data Proc as a processing system, APP Engine to host APIs and Cloud SQL to store transactional data.  * Lead the architecture and strategy process for implementing data lake in Google Cloud by managing the sourcing of the data from various vendors into the Big Query and developing detailed project plans that map to client's strategic cloud-based business initiatives.  * Design and implement API in Python Flask to transfer/consume large data sets  * Provide technical oversite and subject matter experts on all the Google Cloud-based solutions. Engage with the business/client and stakeholders to define and review functional & non-functional requirements regularly. Lead Systems Engineer Deloitte LLP - Hermitage, TN January 2014 to March 2019 * Supported large-scale environments consisting of thousands of servers, petabytes of data, and multiple application hosted in-house as well as in AWS.  * Designed high availability and cost-effective solutions for new applications in AWS by assessing the requirements and developing best practices to ensure software functionality, reliability, usability and availability.  * Responsible for scaling and optimizing existing applications, including machine learning and AI tools hosted in house and AWS.  * Identified opportunities for automation/optimization while analyzing and supporting the current infrastructure and lead the development of proposed solutions by coordinating with stakeholders and providing technical expertise to other teams such as Data, Operations, Analytics, and DevOps.  * Optimized grid operations with high-quality predictive analytics based on state-of-the-art machine and deep learning.  * Responsible for applying best practice for tuning SQL databases to improve overall system performance and optimize long running SQL queries. Maintain systems integrity through change control and problem management procedures and communicate with stakeholders.  * Architect and developed an application to report on various data/system related issues across multiple platforms in a big data environment. In addition, the application provides statistics on the issues encountered, resolved and escalated.  * Developed visualization of data using SSRS and TSQL to effectively communicate findings and insights to primary and secondary key stakeholders. Created Overturn KPI and accuracy reports to report on data reviewed by multiple users; Transformed clients data to report on reviewer statistics to predict and anticipate the data review forecast. Project Manager/ DBA Barrister Digital Solutions LLC - Washington, DC April 2013 to October 2013 * Assisted clients to establish best practices which meet their needs and addressed any prioritization issues.  * Provided substantive oversight to client-specific projects on a day-to-day basis.  * Effectively executed project forecasts and work schedules, provided application end user training to clients.  * Consistently delivered proactive communication with clients and served as point of escalation during issues.  * Upgraded the core Data Hosting Platform (Relativity) from version 7.5 to 8.  * Installed, configured, and managed Network Load Balancing for scalability and availability of web servers.  * Installed NAS storage; Maintained servers, databases, and performed database optimization and tuning.  * Setup Database Maintenance Plans to optimize, re-index, and updated statistics.  * Planned and scheduled backups and developed recovery procedures.  * Monitored SQL event logs, job logs, and backup/restore databases as required.  * Performed SQL Server Installation, migration of data across different databases and different servers. IT Database Administrator CSX Transportation - Jacksonville, FL November 2012 to February 2013 * Managed Data Hosting and Processing platforms, including databases.  * Assisted in upgrading Data Hosting Platform (Relativity) from version 7.3 to 7.4, tested 7.4 environment, and configured error notification.  * Provided end user training on how to efficiently use Data Hosting Platform (Relativity) to paralegals and outside councils. IT Database Consultant Evidence Exchange - New York, NY May 2011 to October 2012 * Assisted in upgrading Data Hosting Platform (Relativity) from version 6.10 to 7.4; Upgraded agent server.  * Created custom functions in SQL to parse alphabets and special character to create client reports.  * Maintained existing reports and custom reports, analyzed data, and designed new reports to meet client requirements.  * Developed and deployed Event Handlers to apply business rules on the application objects.  * Installed and maintained SQL Server 2008, created users, assigned permissions, created links to front end application.  * Created and migrated Databases, Tables, Views, Indexes, Keys, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, functions.  * Configured report server and SSRS, deployed reports on reporting server and SharePoint.  * Designed and developed an application in VB.net integrating with SQL database to remove unnecessary documents. Data Analyst RVM Inc - New York, NY July 2010 to April 2011 * Defined protocols and best practices in the areas of processing, filtering, and culling the electronically stored information within firm and by the client.  * Analyzed data by writing SQL queries to identify exclusionary items to meet case requirements.  * Provided data validation and quality assurance of load data, extract data and image files from vendors into litigation support software applications and SQL database.  * Created tables, indexes, views and stored procedures; data migration, data mapping, data restoration.  * Developed SQL queries to retrieve, update, delete, and insert data into tables to analyze and generate reports. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Pace University - White Plains, NY May 2010 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2007 E. Gorton High School - Yonkers, NY June 2001 Skills Ms access, Sql server, Sql, Sharepoint, Ssrs, HTML, Linux, XML, Cloud Computing, Python, Hive, Hadoop, Pig, NoSQL, Kubernetes, Docker, Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Certifications/Licenses AWS Solution Architect - Associate August 2018 to August 2020