SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - California State-Parks and Recreation-dept Irving, TX • Over 5+ years of experience in Administration and Development on Database Design using SQL server 2012, 2014, 2016 servers.  • Strong understanding of RDBMS concepts as well as Data Modeling Concepts.  • Excellent SQL Server administration skills including Database Creation, Tables, Indexes and Clusters Creation.  • Knowledge in writing T-SQL (DDL, DML, and DCL) statements.  • Experienced in DBA activities include Installing & maintaining SQL Server database system, Logical/Physical database design and administration, Backup & Recovery, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring and Performance Tuning.  • Experience in BI Development and Deployment of SSIS packages from MS Access, Excel.  • Experience in implementing Full, Transaction Log and Differential backups.  • Extensively used native tools like index tuning wizard, database tuning advisor, profiler, performance monitor, activity monitor, event viewer for performance analysis.  • Experience in Client/Server Connectivity, Database health Check, Indexing and Updating Statistics.  • Configured SMTP SERVER for Database Mail setup and received Alerts for the Threshold values  • Extensive use of DTS in SQL Server, Performance Tuning & Application Design, Disaster Recovery Planning, Security Management, Managing server and clients.  • Worked on SQL Server Database in the development, testing and production environments.  • Supported teams in resolving SQL Server Reporting services and T-SQL related issues.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities.  • Experience in SQL Server concepts SSIS (Integration Services), SSAS (Analysis Services) and SSRS (Reporting Services).  • Experience in usage of DBCC commands and DMV's for Performance Tuning.  • Good knowledge of database performance tuning using Profiler, Query Execution Plan and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Experienced in developing and managing stored procedures, Triggers, Indexes, views, Data Transformation services and Locking.  • Implementing CR (Change Request) and CA (Change Amendments) requested by users  • Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources  • Expertise Security, Auditing and Compliance for the production and non-production databases.  • Proficient with SQL server Management Studio, Scheduling jobs with SQL server Agent and SQL Profiler.  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks and planning and Recovery procedures.  • Experience in Creating and scheduling the jobs and troubleshooting the failed jobs.  • Experience in Bug/Issue tracking tool like Bugzilla, JIRA, BMC Remedy.  • Strong problem solving and analytical skills.  • Good communication and interpersonal skills, accustomed to work in a team environment with tight schedules, capable of working efficiently under pressure.  • Quick learner and good performer; work well independently and on a team.  • Experience is providing 24X7 support and on call rotation schedule.  • Willing to relocate: Anywhere Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator California State-Parks and Recreation-dept - Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Installed stand-alone SQL Server 2016 on 64 bit systems.  • Implemented and maintained Always on Availability Group as Disaster Recovery solution on SQL Server 2016  • Migrated 2005 SQL Databases in to 2014 SQL databases using Side-by-side Migration process.  • Implemented and maintained Log shipping as Disaster Recovery solution.  • Creation and management of Database maintenance plans for various database consistency checks.  • Created ASMX SOAP Web Service protocol to access stored procedures and provide information to C# developer for data access  • Installed, configured and administered Windows Server 2012 R2, Active Directory, and VMware.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Checking Database health by using DBCC commands and DMV's.  • Prepared the documentation for migrations and disaster recovery plans.  • Worked on configuring Linked Servers to execute commands against OLE DB data sources on different servers.  • Configuration and Maintenance of SSRS. Generated reports using SSRS  • Extensively worked on Developing SSAS Cubes, Aggregation, KPIs, Measures, Partitioning Cube, Data Mining Models and Deploying and Processing SSAS objects.  • Extensively worked on Developing SSAS Cubes, Aggregation, KPIs, Measures, Partitioning Cube, Data Mining Models and Deploying and Processing SSAS objects.  • Created jobs for rebuilding of indexes and updating statistics.  • Installed and configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Auditing of database for Worked on logins, user permissions and security in SQL server level and fixing orphaned users and worked on logins, user permissions and security in SQL server level.  • Monitoring SQL server LOGS, Application logs (Event Viewer), Tuning SQL server databases using SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, database tuning advisor.  • Created and managed databases across Development and Production instances using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Plan capacity specification requirements for new database servers.    Environment: Microsoft Windows 2008 Server, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016, Windows 2003 Server. SQL Server Database Administrator Gentiva Health Services - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Expertise and Interest include Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production.  • Involved in Migration of the Server SQL Server 2012 to 2014.  • Fixing data issues and writing various SQL scripts and procedures for migration process.  • Worked on High availability environment like Replication, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Extensively worked on Snapshot and Transactional Replication.  • Responsible for transferring packages using SSIS.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures and Functions to generate reports.  • Day-to-day activities such as backups to the disk and restore the databases and transaction.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Monitored SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and deadlocks.  • Developed all the required stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers using T-SQL.  • Involved in Migration of the data to MSSQL Server 2012 & 2014 engines from Microsoft Access using Import & Export Wizards.  • Responsible for creating Constraints and Indexes.  • Created views to restrict access for the security of data in a table.  • Monitored performance of the scheduled jobs and alerts.  • Used SSRS to create drill-down and drill-through reports.  • Migrated data from different sources including flat files, MS Access, to SQL Server 2012 by using SSIS and Involved in SSIS Package, for Import/Export data.  • Supported the release management by promoting new database objects like Tables, Procedures, Functions, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2012/2014.  • Analyzing query performance using SQL Profiler and tuning queries which are running slow by using different methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications.  • Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Configured and maintained DR environments for various databases using Log Shipping and Mirroring SQL Developer/SQL DBA GP InfoTech Pvt Ltd March 2013 to December 2015 Multi-vendor solution that provides network caching for both Web Acceleration and Flash Streaming. It is a web-based Management System that administers and manages a large scale multi-platform infrastructure with multiple vendor devices. Additionally, it provides a variety of supportive functionalities.    Responsibilities:  • Expertise and Interest include Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production.  • Involved in Migration of the Server SQL Server 2012 to 2014.  • Fixing data issues and writing various SQL scripts and procedures for migration process.  • Worked on High availability environment like Replication, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Extensively worked on Snapshot and Transactional Replication.  • Responsible for transferring packages using SSIS.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures and Functions to generate reports.  • Day-to-day activities such as backups to the disk and restore the databases and transaction.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Monitored SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and deadlocks.  • Developed all the required stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers using T-SQL.  • Involved in Migration of the data to MSSQL Server 2012 & 2014 engines from Microsoft Access using Import & Export Wizards.  • Responsible for creating Constraints and Indexes.  • Created views to restrict access for the security of data in a table.  • Monitored performance of the scheduled jobs and alerts.  • Used SSRS to create drill-down and drill-through reports.  • Migrated data from different sources including flat files, MS Access, to SQL Server 2012 by using SSIS and Involved in SSIS Package, for Import/Export data.  • Supported the release management by promoting new database objects like Tables, Procedures, Functions, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2012/2014.  • Analyzing query performance using SQL Profiler and tuning queries which are running slow by using different methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications.  • Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Configured and maintained DR environments for various databases using Log Shipping and Mirroring    Samyak Techno Solutions pvt Ltd, May2012 toMarch2013  SQL Server Developer    SamyakTechno Solutions Pvt Ltd are engaged in the manufacture of high quality glass containers to meet the stringent and demanding quality standards for the packaging needs of Food, Pharmaceuticals, Soft Drinks, Spirits and other industries.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and development and participated in all phases of SDLC.  • Created new database logically and physically designed to fit new business requirements.  • Created Database Objects - Tables, Indexes, Views, Triggers and Constraints.  • Wrote various stored procedures for the purpose of application development.  • Implemented Functions, views, triggers, stored procedures and enforced business rules via checks and constraints.  • Wrote different complex SQL queries including inner, outer join and update queries.  • Modified current database by adding tables, indexes and constraints.  • Rebuilt indexes on tables using various SQL Server commands to reduce fragmentation.  • Develop views using base tables and customized them to use it in the reports.  • Wrote triggers to insert and update the captured data.  • Extensively used T-SQL in constructing Stored Procedures, Common Table Expressions (CTEs), User Functions, Relational Database Models, and Data Integrity.  • Performance tuning of the SQL 2012 servers in order to reduce I/O and Memory contentions.  • Optimized SQL queries for efficiency and provided procedures for the front-end application.  • Wrote larger and complex T-SQL procedures and functions to efficiently perform complex business logic to summarize data.  • Performed operations like validation and error handling after Extracting data into SQL Server.  • Prepared various project related documents and gave presentations to the team. Education Master's Skills Data transformation, Database, Ddl, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, SSRS, Ssis, Sql Server, T-SQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows Server 2012/2008, Windows 7/Vista/XP, Linux, UNIX  Databases MS SQL Server 2012/2014, 2016 MS Office Access  Languages SQL,HTML,NOSQL, T-SQL, C#, JavaScript, CSS, Postgre SQL,C#, TFS, CSS, IIS, Java Script, Jquery/Bootstrap  Applications  Microsoft Office, Excel, Setting up Log Shipping & using DTS (Data Transformation Service), Administration and Installing of MS SQL Server 2012,2014    SQL Server  Management Studio, Business Intelligence Development Studio, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Profiler, Performance Monitor, SQL, T-SQL, DDL, DML, Stored Procedures, UDF, Triggers, DTS/SSIS, Log Shipping, Server Network Utility, Database Tuning Wizard, Index Tuning Wizard, SSIS, Microsoft Clustering Services (MSCS),    ETL& Reporting Tools SSIS, SSRS, SSAS  Others  Diagnostic Manager, Quest Spotlight, SQL Light speed, Agile, Jira, Bugzilla, BMC Remedy, Sharepoint.Visual studio, ASMX SOAP Webservice.