Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Experienced Oracle DBA with 8+ years of experience in Oracle Database Administration in large-scale production, development and test environments across multiple platforms.In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity,vast knowledge in RAC infrastructure, performance tuning,dataguard. Background in developing backup and disaster recovery plans for nationwide offices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA August 2017 to Present • Supporting multiple databases backup and recovery with RMAN Utility for production, development, test and staging purposes on linux, Solaris and Windows environments.  • Implemented a solid SDLC Methodology  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Rebuilding Indexes and gather statistics on tables on different databases on a regular basis to gain database performance using DBMS_STATS package  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Successfully setup 4 node Primary RAC with 3 node physical standby for new application in 11GR2. Tuning the Databases for optimization using AWR, ASH, ADDM, STATSPACK, Explain Plans and TKPROF, Estimating Table & Index Size.  • Utilizing Enterprise manager to monitor alerts, schedule jobs, monitor SQL loads, generate AWR reports  • Configured Oracle Data Guard to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM GC, AWR and ADDM, ASH, SQLT, TRCA, SQL Access Advisor, SPM,  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Environment: Oracle 11g/12cRAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Sr. Oracle Database Engineer Thomson Rueters - Dallas, TX November 2014 to August 2017 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Experience Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for the purposes of DATA REPLICATION that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Also involved in the configuration of Golden Gate Technology.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Jr. Oracle Database Administrator Anthelio Healthcare Inc - Dallas, TX January 2011 to November 2014 • Worked with Oracle Diagnostics tools such as Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF Used to analyze timing and execution plan for SQL query to tune the SQL statements  • Reorganized data files, identified and eliminated contention factors like I/O, buffers and locks  • Allocated the separate rollback segments for the Batch processing jobs in order to speed up processing  • Reorganized data files, identification and elimination of contention factors like I/O, buffers and locks  • Controlled and monitored user access to the database. Optimized the performance of the database. Tuned SGA data dictionary and set database parameters  • Installation and configuration of Oracle database 9i (9.2.0.4), 10g (10.2.0.1) on various OS platforms like HP-UX, Linux, and Windows NT, 2000  • Performance tuning of application and database, identification and resolution of contention, defining and implementing Backup Recovery policy, and day-to-day monitoring of the Production database  • Worked on the physical and logical designing of the database, which includes the distribution of data- files on different disks.  • Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Monitored Customer Databases, physically located in U.S and Remote administration of fifteen Production Databases in UNIX environment    Environment: HP-UX, Windows, Oracle 8i, 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL plus, TOAD Education Bachelor's Skills Oracle Database, Linux, Data Guard, Sql Server, Rman, Performance Tuning, DBA, Sql Dba, patches and upgrade (8 years), migration (8 years), Postgresql, Oracle Dba, MYSQL Certifications/Licenses bls computer science July 2007 to November 2010