Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst Carrollton, TX Work Experience Data Analyst LINBECK GROUP - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to June 2019 • Analyzed raw data draw conclusions & develop recommendations writing SQL scripts to manipulate data for data loads and extracts.  • Participated in defect review meetings with the team members. Work closely with the project manager to record, track, prioritize and close bugs.  • Created all data issue design documents thoroughly and with sufficient logic update;  • Involved with Business Unit SME's, Process Owners, and other groups to get related business rules and information on data in the development of specifications for data cleanup.  • Involved in formulating strategies to manage the data part of the project. Beginning with data checking, data cleaning and working with developers and the business users efficiently to provide quality deliverables.  • Executed Data quality checks in the form of SQL queries to ensure data integrity and enforce business rules.  • Extensively involve with Data cleansing, formatting of the data to correct the mismatch in Staging area.  • Performed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) or both Data and Functionality Issues.  • Identified and address recurring/ root cause issues that can affect Data Integrity.  • Analyzed the huge data from legacy system to new system (SQL) for migration and identified the gaps.  • Designed and implemented complex SQL queries for QA testing and report/ data validation. Detected defects, reported issues and results to dev and PP team using Issue Tracking tool ITS.  • Involved in scrum process like Grooming, Meeting and reviews for sprint estimates.  • Coordinated with the BA and DEV teams to fix the gaps between businesses, development and implementation phases of the project.  • Performed requirement analysis and document deliverables based on the version control within internal storage.  • Data Migration testing using SQL and checking source and target data integrity.  • Worked on issues with migration of data from development to QA environment. Arranged and attended team meetings with off shore team to meet the project deadlines.  • Performed Data Profiling and extensive data validation.  • Create technical design documentation for the data models, data flow control process, metadata management.  • Created tables, views, database links to see the information extracted from SQL files.  • Worked on tables (Like Set, Multiset, Derived, Volatile, Global Temporary), views, using SQL scripts  • Built a Financial Analysis Business Intelligence Solution for a public sector client using Hyperion Essbase, Hyperion EIS, Hyperion Studio, Informatica, Oracle DB, and OBIEE.  • Involved in requirement gathering and database design and implementation of star schema, dimensional data warehouse using Erwin.  • Wrote and executed unit, system, integration and UAT scripts in a Data Warehouse projects.  • Created Logical/Physical Data models in 3NF in the Warehouse area of Enterprise Data Warehouse.  • Created 3NF business area data modeling with de-normalized physical implementation data and information requirements analysis using Erwin tool.  • Worked on dashboard development using Excel to visualize big data sets and assist in the analysis of complex, high-volume, high-dimensionality data from varying sources.  • Worked directly with Managers and Team Leads to create reports used for financial, expansion, hiring, and other purposes.  • Performed statistical analysis and provided detailed reports to the admissions committee for decision-making.  • Performed Data Mapping between source systems to Target systems, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data  • Identified/documented data sources and transformation rules required to populate and maintain data warehouse content.  • Expertise in generating graphs using MS Excel Pivot tables.  • Applied data cleansing/ data scrubbing techniques to ensure consistency amongst data sets. Independently perform complex troubleshooting, root-cause analysis and solution development.  • Worked with Data Warehouse developers to evaluate impact on current implementation, redesign of all ETL logic.  • Created Source to target Data mapping document of input /output attributes with the proper transformations which would help for the easy development of ETL bridge.  • Environment: SQL, PL/SQL, ETL Informatica, Oracle, SQL server, MS Excel, Erwin, UAT, HP ALM/Quality Center, UNIX, Teradata, Erwin and MS Access, Data management Data Analyst/ Sql developer TechDigital Corporation - San Antonio, TX December 2016 to February 2018 • Collaborated with Staff, and cross functional teams, and designed and developed high quality customer interface re- ports (Customer Invoice, customer Acknowledgement reports) using BI tool Tableau and XML publisher.  • Design, develop, deploy and support Tableau dashboards 9x/10.1 on Tableau server as well as Microsoft Business  • Intelligence Tools (SSAS, SSRS) deployed enterprise-wide.  • Write Queries/Code/programs using SQL Programming in Microsoft SQL Server, SAS Visual Analytics, SAS Enterprise  • Guide and Oracle to pull complex data.  • Worked on "Point of Interest". Researched and marked places on Google maps with a tool which can identify Chain of Eatery places, Universities, monuments etc.  • Experienced in high volume data conversion, analysis, reporting and migration of different domain specific data.  • Expertise in data exploration, cleaning, clustering, segmentation, building models like decision trees, regression, and time series analysis.  • Independently handled the conversions of 7 million data records of Inventory data to staff production environment.  • Documented the complete process flow to describe system architecture, program development, logic, testing, implementation, and application integration which reduced training time required for application support team by ~200 hours. System Analyst/ Technical Support Central Business Solutions Inc - Houston, TX December 2014 to November 2016 • Monitor and maintain the computer systems and networks of an organization  • Install and configure computer systems  • Diagnose hardware and software faults and solve technical and applications problems.  • Deliver service and support to end-users using and operating automated call distribution phone software, via remote connection or over the Internet  • Interact with customers to provide and process information in response to inquiries, concerns, and requests about products and services  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues involving internet connectivity, email clients, IPTV, VOIP and more  • Follow standard processes and procedures  • Identify and escalate priority issues per Client specifications  • Follow up and make scheduled call backs to customers where necessary SQL Server Database Administrator Kuba Global Solutions Limited - Lagos, NG June 2012 to December 2014 • Maintained and monitored database backup and restore process  • Used different replication methodologies to select and configure the settings while maintaining the stability of data stream  • Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved  • Effected database performance tuning, analysis and optimization  • Established and enforced all database standards  • Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications  • Reviewed the designed and deployment of data objects from development/staging to production  • Building database schemas, tables, procedures and managing permissions, implementing policy based management, Installing and deploying databases  • Monitoring, Automating tasks, Setting up high availability (log shipping, database mirroring etc.), Executing change control. Operations Database Analyst May and Baker Nigeria Plc - Lagos, NG June 2010 to April 2012 • Used SQL profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL code  • Performed DBA duties including Database Backups, Restores, Performance Tuning and Capacity Analysis.  • Performed other duties assigned by management. Education MSc. in Information Systems Strayer University B.Tech. in Management Technology and Business Admin Lagos State University Ojo Skills SQL, Powerpoint, MS Office, Business Intelligence, Microsoft Office, testing, access, Excel, ETL, DBA, Tableau, PL SQL, XML