LEGAL ADMINISTRATOR ASSISTANT LEGAL <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT Garden Grove, CA Seeking a position in a growth-oriented company to utilize my administrative and analytical skills and acquire new abilities while furthering my education. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LEGAL ADMINISTRATOR ASSISTANT HUNT & HENRIQUES August 2018 to July 2019 • Provide administrative support and complete tasks across all departments of the law firm, including data entry, creating settlement agreements, and preparing outgoing documents to mail out.  • Filing documents by e-filing or sending them to court.  • Handling Dismissals, Notice of Settlements, Power of Attorney, Amortization, correspondence as well as incoming faxes.  • Scan, index and audit documents while maintaining confidentiality  • Receive and distribute various documents to teams  • Mail or receive documents to and back from courts DISBURSEMENT/FUNDING, UNISOURCE ESCROW September 2017 to June 2018 • Approve about 200 wires a day in CashPro as well disburse files with specific rules to states using ResWare  • Use Ryhno Live to do banking each day for specific bank accounts  • Deposit checks into ledger accounts using a digital check scanner  • Cut creditor and borrowers funds checks,  • Make and answer calls to and from borrowers and different banks  • Mail and Fedex out proceeds as well stop payment and void checks ESCROW CLOSING SPECIALIST LOAN DEPOT March 2015 to September 2017 • Receive and distribute up to 400 new escrow orders to multiple escrow teams a day.  • Cut, scan and disburse up to 200 creditor and borrower's funds checks.  • Maintain and manage team inbox, servicing all escrow closing request  • Actively assist and resolve any issues received via phone or via email  • Works directly with closing and escrow teams to ensure all task are satisfied and resolved.  • Receive, scan and distribute all incoming signed loan documents and subsequently distribute to correct title company. MAIL DISTRIBUTOR, PAYCHEX May 2014 to March 2016 • Mail and distribute at least a 1000 payroll to companies in the business  • Prepare mail, sort, and file for shipment to FedEx or UPS throughout the business day  • Work in a fast paced environment to meet the criteria of the work day  • Maintain cleanliness in the office for safety purposes and to make sure the entire payroll is in their right place. DATABASE CLERK MAARKA DATABASE SOLUTIONS March 2012 to April 2014 • Work with several clients in escrow to achieve company goals as well as providing satisfactory customer service through the process  • Maintain quality control /satisfaction; constantly seeking new ways to improve customer service.  • Answered inquiries of escrow process to customers in detail and directed them as needed  • Support sales representatives in opening new accounts, closing accounts, and upgrading existing accounts.  • Clerical work: answer and direct calls, filing, archiving, and record keeping  • Handled sensitive and confidential information with discretion FILE CLERK HEALTH ASSOCIATES FCU July 2009 to June 2011 • Worked with customers by greeting them and answered any inquiries before their appointments.  • Filed accounts and loan documents that were open or closed, maintained cleanliness in the office and assisted to employees with daily task.  • Received mail, sorted, filled and distribute it as well as mailed out request as needed Education AA in Pre-Pharmacy studies COASTLINE COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Fountain Valley, CA Skills Filing, Outlook, Receptionist, Microsoft Outlook Assessments Receptionist — Expert August 2019 Using basic scheduling, attention to detail, and organizational skills in an office setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cr7m6rtx4pjt-gy9 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Capable of handling complex task and multitasking  • Detail oriented and delegates responsibility  • Extremely knowledgeable with general office duties, clerical task and time management  • Takes care of customer inquiries  • Oral and written communication skills  • Working well within a team