Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - AT&T Landover Hills, MD Work Experience Scrum Master AT&T - Cincinnati, OH June 2016 to Present Introduced Scrum and Agile practices as first ever Scrum Master for consumer infrastructure team by facilitating education and change management to new systems and workflows. Reinvented professional environment to create positive and engaging atmosphere with dedication to performance and efficiency in cross-functional environment.  Selected Accomplishments:  ? Increased development team participation in daily scrums from 70% to 100% within 1 month while also boosting team morale and collaboration through education, resulting in 10% increase in efficiency and velocity.  ? Defined all-new internal practices and procedures to streamline workflows and increase productivity while improving job satisfaction of employees. Communicated with team to tailor Scrum approach effectively.  ? Worked with Product Owner and project team to clearly define product roadmaps, review changes and updates to roadmap as well as ensuring top 5 Epics are identified in readiness for PI Planning.    Key Responsibilities:  * Dynamically adapted and enforced Scrum practices to manage change to new norms throughout team. Identified and resolved impediments to success by working collaboratively with team and driving intelligent solutions.  * Evaluated sprint retrospectives to identify actionable insights to be used in further refining future sprints. Continuously explored new methods for improving team performance and efficiency.  * Effectively communicated client IT needs to facilitate rapid and effective delivery of infrastructure-based projects of varying scopes and scales. Collected user stories to create detailed schedules and priorities.  * Coordinated in multidisciplinary environment to align priorities and productivity of team, developers, and product owners. Strategized approach to projects and sprints in order to eliminate obstructions proactively.  * Worked closely with senior management to advocate for team and developers while providing insights and training on Scrum principles in order to facilitate top-to-bottom comprehension of practices and methods. Scrum Master Zenith Insurance Inc January 2015 to April 2016 Provided remote and onsite governance of Scrum processes as first Scum Master in company. Spearheaded introduction of Scrum to company by educating key internal stakeholders on importance of Scrum in accordance with company's overarching business objectives. Adapted Scrum practices to improve outcomes in diverse, client-centric projects.  Selected Accomplishments, Zenith Insurance Inc.:  ? Significantly increased performance and efficacy of team in addressing client needs regarding risk management for insurance organization. Reduced time requirements through tailored application of Agile practices.    Key Responsibilities:  * Organized and successfully executed all sprint ceremonies within a 6-month period by bringing teams and stakeholders together through professional and engaging interpersonal relationship management abilities.  * Increased development team morale significantly through expert training and management abilities, thereby creating notable increases in metrics-based performance.  * Continuously adapted Scrum and Agile methods to internal needs and uses in order to optimize company practices and ensure optimal outcomes for clients when providing multifaceted analysis and recommendations on risk.  * Worked collaboratively with development team to understand impediments and provide constructive guidance on resolution. Mentored team in order to provide training in problem areas, creating critical new competencies.  * Adapted to needs of individual projects in diverse environments in order to tailor and streamline processes and ensure timely completion of projects. Oracle database administrator International Finance Corporation - Washington, DC November 2012 to November 2014 Support databases ranging from 300 gigabytes to 27 terabytes. Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries. Focus on databases security through Transparent Data Encryption. Perform frequent backups and implements recovery protocols as needed.  • Handle back end database configuration and provide the full database tier support.  • Assist with managing database size and scalability.  • Provide information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing database performance and trends.  • Assist in the testing of database hardware and software upgrades.  • Import/export of database, schema, objects, DDL.  • Apply Oracle Advanced Security using Oracle Wallet for data encryption.  • Oracle patch management install and upgrade.  • Physical backup using RMAN, logical backup using Data Pump.  • Use OEM to manage multiple instances.  • Database migration of schemas, data, and structure from one platform to another.  • Daily and weekly system and database server maintenance such as cleaning old archives, monitoring alert logs, trace file and application logs.  • Granting privileges to users to access systems and databases.  • Project management Junior Oracle Database Administrator Fresenius Medical Care - Washington, DC March 2011 to October 2012 Managed Oracle database administration assignments for diverse clients, enhanced database performance, performed database tuning and frequent system backups, implemented and updated recovery procedures as needed.  • Monitored and tuned databases to provide optimal performance and recovery.  • Performed identity and access management functions such as setup users, roles, and privileges.  • Performed databases migration/upgrades and patch management.  • Created architecture documents for accreditation, defined hardware, software and storage requirements, and provide input for project plans.  • Evaluated, configured DBMS products to match user requirements with system capabilities.  • Deployed database objects/changes to different environments. Education LLM in International Business Howard University - Washington, DC 2011 Bachelor of Science in Private International Law in Private International Law University of Yaounde II Soa 2002 Skills Jira, Rally, Training, Offshore, Problem-solving, Kanban, Agile Scrum, CSM, Certified Scrum Master, Scrum Master, Scrum Additional Information Areas of Expertise  * Proactive Problem-Solving Skills  * Scrum, Kanban, XP, SAFe  * Co-located, Distributed & Offshore Environments.    * Team Leadership  * Training & Education  * Project Management    * Agile Transformation  * Business Objectives  * JIRA, RTC & Rally