Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Adilas Tech Dallas, TX ? Over five (5) years of extensive IT experience in Database Administration and Development.  ? Experience in working with Windows operating systems.  ? Extensive experience in installing, configuring, maintaining and of administering SQL Server 2008r2, 2014 and 2017 databases.  ? Excellent knowledge of relational database management.  ? Exceptional ability in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, execution tuning and support with exceptional investigating capacities.  ? Ability to install and configured SSIS and SSRS.  ? Superb technical background alongside the capacity to perform business analysis and compose effective documentation and details.  ? Solid knowledge on stored procedures, Indexed views, User Defined Functions (UDL), Triggers Distributed Queries and Common Table Expressions.  ? Remarkable capacity to execute SQL Server security and article consent, such as maintaining creation of users, configuring permissions database authentication modes and assigning roles of users.  ? Ability to install, configure and maintain personal computers, networks and related hardware and software.  ? Aptitude to quickly learn and master new technologies; successful working in both team and self-directed settings.  ? Innovative, detail-oriented, critical thinker, self-starter and initiative-driven individual who possesses strong work ethic.  ? Ability of applying root-cause analysis. Problem-solving capability paired with strong communication skills.  ? Bilingual: Fluent in English, Arabic and Amharic. Work Experience Database Administrator Adilas Tech - Alexandria, VA January 2019 to Present Manage and maintain SQL Server 2008r2,2012, 2014 and 2016 database servers.  ? Migrate SQL server 2008 to 2014 by using Microsoft Windows Server 2014 Enterprise Edition.  ? Migrate data from Excel, to Microsoft SQL, extract, transform and load data using Microsoft SQL Server SSIS.  ? Create, review and implement maintenance plans on production servers.  ? Recover databases from backup in disasters by implemented Point-In-Time Recovery Solutions.  ? Troubleshoot and fine-tune databases to check performance and concurrency.  ? Create and maintain documentation for Data Base Administration (DBA) standard operating procedures (SOPs).  ? Test programs or databases, correct errors, and make necessary modifications.  ? Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  ? Review procedures in database management system manuals for making changes to database.  ? Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  ? Use SQL Server Profiler, Perfmon, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  ? Create reports in SQL server using Simple Sequence Repeats (SSR) per front end user requirements. Database Administrator Citigroup - Irving, TX January 2018 to December 2018 Gathering the requirements, Creation/review of Business, Functional requirement Documents for business systems, experience in database design process and data modeling process.  ? Developed and created new database objects including tables, views, indexes, triggers, stored procedures and functions.  ? Implemented backup and recovery strategies based on RPO and RTO  ? Configured Job, maintenance plans, database Mail and operators Create and modify of the database objects according to the requirement. Database migrations from SQL 2005, 2008 R2 to 2012  ? Evaluated data storage considerations to store databases and transaction logs. Created databases using SQL Server Management Studio, Database Wizard and Transact SQL Statements.  ? Implemented table and index partitioning. Maintained user Permissions and login, assigned the least required Permission Monitoring Event Viewers, SQL Error logs Monitoring servers through spotlight alerts.  ? Installed and configured different versions of SQL Server in clustered and standalone servers.  ? Optimized SQL queries for improved Performance and availability  ? Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL server Performance using SQL Server Profiler, system Monitor, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, Dynamic Management Views and Functions and Resolving Blocking and Deadlocking Issues.  ? Created Databases, tables and provide constraints and user defined rules and defaults.  ? Performed operations like Data reconciliation, validation and error handling after Extracting data into SQL Server  ? Configured monitored and troubleshoot HA/DR Log Shipping, Clustering, AlwaysOn Availablity Group and Replication (Transactional and Merge.  ? Working on production Break fix issue which include performance, blocking and space related issues.  ? Scheduling and implementing patching activities i.e .Service packs and cumulative upgrades as per baseline standards. Database Administrator Saint Mary University January 2015 to November 2017 Install, upgrade and configure SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2 for several applications with latest service packs.  ? Installed, upgraded and configured SQL Server 2012/2008R2 for several applications with latest service packs.  ? Migrated SQL server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise  ? Migrated data from Excel, to Microsoft SQL, extracted, transformed and loaded data using Microsoft SQL Server SSIS.  ? Recovered databases from backup in disasters by implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  ? Troubleshoot and fine-tuned databases for its performance and concurrency.  ? Operated on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  ? Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in host databases which involves in index creation, removal, modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  ? Created, reviewed and implemented maintenance plans on production servers.  ? Created and maintained documentation for Data Base Administration (DBA) standard operating procedures (SOPs).  ? Tested programs or databases, corrected errors, and made necessary modifications.  ? Used SQL Server Profiler, Perfmon, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  ? Created reports in SQL server using Simple Sequence Repeats (SSR) per front end user requirements.  ? Developed and documented backups, recovery strategies, disaster recovery mechanism and participated in disaster discovery drills for various environments to implement Log shipping Disaster Recovery (DR) solutions.  ? Implemented SQL standards in writing stored procedures, Triggers, Views and SQL functions.  ? Installed and configured new SQL Servers.  ? Performed daily routine DBA tasks such as handing security and space issues on production and semi production servers. Junior Database Administrator MIDROC November 2013 to December 2014 Supported and maintained SQL database applications.  ? Conducted system tuning, performance monitoring and database maintenance.  ? Developed reports and custom requests for users.  ? Documented all transactions and support interactions in system for future reference and addition to knowledge base.  ? Monitored performance of database systems resources and query throughput.  ? Optimized SQL Code as necessary.  ? Monitored and maintained database storage resources.  ? Monitored and maintained database maintenance plans for backups and index rebuild/defragment.  ? Responsible for SQL Server Installation, Upgrades, Migrations and Configuration.  ? Installed database software service packs and cumulative updates as necessary.  ? Maintained and administered database security access  ? Troubleshoot and resolved database connectivity issues.  ? Proactively monitored and responded to MSSQL database Alerts.  ? Assisted with application and user support when needed. Education Bachelor in Business Management in Business Management Bahir Dar University 2013 Diploma In Information Technology in Information Technology St Mary's University 2007 Skills Audit (Less than 1 year), BI (Less than 1 year), BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (Less than 1 year), Database (7 years), Database Administration (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), ETL (Less than 1 year), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (Less than 1 year), FTP (Less than 1 year), Hyper-V. (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SSRS (2 years), MS-SQL Server (7 years), MS SQL Server 2012 (Less than 1 year), SMTP. (Less than 1 year), SNMP (Less than 1 year), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), SQL Server 2012 (2 years), SSRS (2 years), Sql Dba, DBA