Derivatives (HFT) Sales Broker Derivatives (HFT) Sales Broker UCLA Extension - Accounting Certificate (Jun.19') Los Angeles, CA Expert sales broker and business developer with both front (client facing) and back (support & development) office experience. Led corporate-level projects as Project Manager and coordinated multiple IT developments to assure system compliance with  federal regulations. Comes from a strong technical background as a programmer, attained realistic knowledge in business with specialties in finance and have strong understanding of accounting regulations from completing the accounting certificate at UCLA Extension. Actively preparing for the CPA examination. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Derivatives (HFT) Sales Broker NH Investment & Securities - Seoul, KR November 2011 to June 2017 Consulted with corporate clients on new investment opportunity and on building highly competitive trading system.   • Created detail-oriented documentation for both internal and external use by analyzing real-time market data for trading strategies. Achieved over 40% market-share in Options traded on the KRX exchange.  • Built new sales plan and trading idea to improve client relationship, resulting in on-boarding 2-3 new institutional (hedge-fund) clients on a yearly base.  • Coordinated all IT related operations to improve the main trading system, building a reputation in the market for the fastest and most stabilized trading system to maintain top ranking in the High-Frequency-Trading (HFT) business Business Developer Daishin Securities - Seoul, KR August 2010 to November 2011 Start-up member of the High Frequency Trading (Brokerage) team, actively interacted with market participants and successfully  onboarded two corporate clients successfully.  • Coordinated IT, Risk Management and Compliance team to negotiate company policies of the new business and created operational guideline for algorithmic (system) trading.  • Cultivated client relationship to uncover client needs and introduce various trading options including complex derivatives and treasury bonds. Database Administrator E-BEST Securities - Seoul, KR December 2008 to August 2010 In addition to my main responsibility as database administrator, worked on many projects as a Project Manager (PM); eventually coordinating 3 major corporate projects for new business.  • Managed the Oracle database and applications  • Cooperated with various vendors and internal departments to connect applications and to confirm the end-products address all Federal / Exchange regulations. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Hongik University - Seoul, KR February 2009 Skills Sales, Business Development, Outlook, Data Entry, Excel, accounting Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lyanbaek