Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst IT ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - ProTech Inc Beltsville, MD I have 7 years of experience as an Information Security Analyst; I am knowledgeable in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Security Life Cycle, Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and vulnerabilities management using FISMA, and applicable NIST standards.    Tools/Skills    Nessus, Wire shark, Nmap, Web Inspect, App Scan, Metasploit Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst ProTech Inc - Beltsville, MD January 2013 to Present Senior Cyber security Analyst Top Group Technologies May 2012 to Present • Perform vulnerability assessment, ensuring risks are assessed and appropriate actions are taken to mitigate or resolve each.  • Conduct IT controls risk assessments including reviewing organizational policies, standards and procedures, as well as providing advice on their adequacy, accuracy and compliance with industry standards.  • Ensure all Security Authorization documentation for assigned systems remains accurate and up to date on a continuous basis, including, but not limited to, accurate and valid lists of assets (hardware/software), accurate boundary diagrams, accurate ports and protocols, etc.  • Compile, write, update, finalize, produce, and support activities for IT Security Common Control Catalogs and related documentation including, but not limited to, Security Plans or other documents required.  • Compile, write, update, finalize, and produce all FISMA documentation and associated artifacts as required by Client in a manner compliant with all Federal security requirements and policies.  • Ascertain all FISMA documents are updated within 6 months of a new policy release.  • Manage the Interconnection Security Agreements for all systems, including creation, tracking, and vetting.  • Conduct internal, external and 3rd party IT audits, risk assessments, and vulnerability scans.  • Ability to work with governance functions such as physical Security/Facilities, Audit and Accountability, IT, HR, Legal ( NIST AND FISMA ) Compliances.  • Respond to computer security incidents, in-depth computer and network investigations. Assist in or lead incident response to a successful completion.  • Oversee installation, upgrades, and configuration of Information Security software. Make sure issues are properly coordinated, tracked, monitored and resolved globally.  • Be an Information Security subject matter expert (SME) that's part of an information security center of excellence; offering internal management consultancy advice and practical assistance on information security risk and control matters.  • Drive for consistent deployment of information security policies, standards, procedures, guidelines and training.  • Assess Information Technology technical controls, policies and procedures for control gaps. Recommend and support deployment of mitigations design on business need and risk.  • Develop new and improve existing technical documentation.  • Work as a team player.  • Perform Security Risk Assessments, identifying gaps and recommending mitigating controls.  • Develop and present project related material (e.g. to key stakeholders, peers, etc.).  • Support an Application Security program working closely with the developer's application development and QA teams with questions and answers.  • Maintain documentation related to the Application Security program including the development of secure coding policies, procedures and standards, modification of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to include necessary security checkpoints, code review methodologies, etc.  • Pursue understanding of application security requirements early-on and incorporate into secure code development practices.  • Maintain knowledge of new security trends and technologies.  • Support the assessment and acquisition of application security tools and technologies.    • Review all ISSO provided documentation for accuracy and relevancy, provide follow-up to ISSOs to ensure documents are properly completed.  • Prepare Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A) packages to ascertain that management, operational and technical security controls adhere to NIST SP 800-53 standards. MySQL Database Administrator ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATION 2013 to 2019 Installing oracle software, creating oracle database, performing upgrades and software to new ones, managing database storage structure, patches sets updates, backup recovery, transportable _tablespaces and highly knowledgeable in SQL (Structured Query Language).    MySQL Database Administrator 2013- 2019  Advanced level knowledge of SQL, 15 years' experience in managing large enterprise level MySQL database  MySQL Security Administration  Disaster Recovery (backup recovery management of database)  Administration and maintenance of enterprise database systems  Ability to manage a high-availability database solutions and architectures  Ability to implement a variety of data models, data access, and table maintenance commands  Ability to resolve moderate to complex DB performance and capacity issues, replications  Ability to ensure configuration, upgrade and maintenance  Ability to execute MySQL database backups and restores  Competent working within structured change management processes  Ability to plan and execute database migrations across multiple and divers DB platforms  Aptitude in administration maintenance of enterprise database system  MySQL Enterprise Monitor, MySQL Enterprise Backup, MySQL Replication    Economics and Entrepreneurship Development.  Macro and Micro Economics theory, Econometrics statistical theory, Cost accounting, Management accounting, financial accounting.  Managing people in organizations by organizing awareness and training  Medical Technician licensed with American Board of Nursing.    IT  Excellence in all Microsoft office suites, CAP CYBER SECURITY, SQL 12C certified, Oracle Database Administration Education Bachelor Degree in Economics and Entrepreneurship Development in Economics and Entrepreneurship Development University for Developments Studies