Database Consultant/ Business Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant/ Business Analyst Chicago, IL • Highly Skilled Professional with experience in Software Design, Development, Analysis,Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence tools.  • Extensive experience in Information Technology with special emphasis on design & development of Database/Data Warehousing/Client-Server/.  • Exceptional background in analysis, design, development, customization, and implementation and testing of software applications and products.  • Excellent technical and analytical skills with clear understanding of design goals of ER modeling for OLTP and dimension modeling for OLAP.  • Experience in Performance tuning of Queries and indexing to improve Performance.  • Ability to code and implement complex business rules in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Team player and self-starter with excellent communication and documentation skills, ability to work independently or as part of a team and capable of picking up new skills quickly.  • Expertise in gathering requirements and end user training.  • Experience as an Oracle Database administrator, PL/SQL Developer in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).  • Oracle Certified Associate(OCA).  • Involved in all phases of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and maintenance with timely delivery against aggressive deadlines.  • Experience with Data flow diagrams, Data dictionary, Database normalization theory techniques, Entity relation modeling and design techniques.  • Knowledge bout Client-Server application development using Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, PL/SQL, SQL *PLUS.  • Effectively made use of Table Functions, Indexes, Analytical functions, Materialized Views.  • Ability to work with minimum supervision. Work Experience Database Consultant/ Business Analyst 2015 to Present Responsibilites:  • Key responsibility inlcues of Application Maintaience Support for REPLY's product Click. Click software is a warehouse management product.  • Provided assistance and coaching during ServiceNow roll-over and served as ServiceNow SME.  • Manage tickets and create, update and manage knowledge base using ServiceNow and Jira.  • Managed tickets in EZ-Service before roll-over.  • Manages and tracks known application problems through Redmine.  • Troubleshoot application, relational databases, web based application and industrial processes (Oracle DB, PL/SQL).  • Troubleshoot software issues and analyze data to help clients  • Support end users via phone or in person.  • Create system health reports and tracks daily ticket flow.  • Involved in production support for the warehouse which involves acknowledging the issue raised in ServiceNow and tracking its progress.  • Issue fixing involves root cause analysis, fixing of the PL-SQL script, testing and deployment of the fix in the Production environment.  • Tracking the whole progress of the fix and updating the same in ServiceNow.  • Involved in developing detailed test plan, test cases and test scripts using PL/SQL for the proposed fix.  • Involved in understanding of Data models and SRS/mappings documents.  • Involved in creation/review of functional and technical requirement specifications and supporting documents for business systems.  • Strong ability in developing advanced SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted for database testing.  • Created database objects like tables, procedures, sequences using Oracle tools like SQL* Plus, TOAD and PL/SQL.  • Handling structured and unstructured data.  • Performed data validation to check all business rules and requirements are met.  • Defining the scope of projects and feasibility study.  • Requirement understanding from customer and delegating the requirement with the team mates.  • Effort estimation, preparing status reports and attending the client status meetings via call.  • Reviewing the issue fixes of the project and testing the developed modules with the Onsite coordinator  • Performed debugging of the PL/SQL codes using the DBMS_OUTPUT.  • Involved in developing detailed test plan, test cases and test scripts using PL/SQL.  • Worked closely with the technical teams and DBAs for issues related to code changes, data fixes, and testing.  • Documented business rules, functional and technical designs, test cases, and user guides.  • Coordinate with DBA and developer team to analyze the performance issue of data servers and try to resolve it up to the business needs.  • Participate in creation and review of system technical design specs for projects/releases.  • Perform DDL/DML changes in DEV, UAT & Production environments.  • Involved in conducting meetings with the business for discussing open Change Requests/Problem issues/Tickets.  • Writing Root Cause Analysis(RCA) for issue with high severity Data Analyst US bank, Naperville March 2014 to 2015 Responsibilities:  • Perform analysis of the given data and draw accurate inferences, in accord with the objectives of the analysis.  • Gather data required to conduct analysis from several sources, compile it together in prescribed format and enter the data in several data analysis softwares.  • Evaluate the given problem, situation and crisis; investigate for solutions using data analysis practices and prepare analysis reports.  • Determine the methodologies and procedures for carrying out effective data analysis. Provide training to the staff members on the new systems implemented.  • Assist the organization in performing data compiling and analysis required to evaluate the given data  • Help the organization take sound decision.  • Prepare analysis reports and be responsible to answer any queries, complaints or suggestion in this regard. Oracle Database Jr. administrator May 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities-  • Coordinated with the front end design team to provide them with the necessary stored procedures and packages and the necessary insight into the data.  • Involved in the continuous enhancements and fixing of production problems.  • Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD.  • Created indexes on the tables for faster retrieval of the data to enhance database performance.  • Extensively involved in using hints to direct the optimizer to choose an optimum query execution plan.  • Used Bulk Collections for better performance and easy retrieval of data, by reducing context switching between SQL and PL/SQL engines.  • Creation of database objects like tables, views, materialized views, procedures and packages using oracle tools like PL/SQL Developer and SQL* plus.  • Partitioned the fact tables and materialized views to enhance the performance.  • Created records, tables, collections (nested tables and arrays) for improving Query performance by reducing context switching.  • Handled errors using Exception Handling extensively for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application  • Created Tables, Views, Constraints, Index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based).  • Developed materialized views for data replication in distributed environments.  • Excellent technical and analytical skills with clear understanding of design goals of ER modeling for OLTP and dimension modeling for OLAP.  • Loaded Data into Oracle Tables using SQL Loader.  • Created Packages and Procedures to automatically drop table indexes and create indexes for the tables.  • Good knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes.  • Experience with Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS.  • Database administration, installation and upgrading the database.  • Creating database as per business requirement using DBCA and command line.  • Optimizing the performance of the database.  • Maintaining Achieved logs.  • Troubleshooting oracle database using SQL traces utilities.  • Administer all database object including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequence, packages and procedures.  • Creating new database user.  • Creating profiles and attaching them with users and monitoring users.  • Worked with development team for code development.  • Granting specific privileges and roles to the users.  • Revoking privileges from users as per business requirement  • SQL Tuning in an Oracle Environment (Data retrieval, Data definition language, Data manipulation language, Data control language). Education Bachelors of Engineering in COMPUTER SCIENCE Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra 2012