Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - LUXOTTICA Hyattsville, MD Certified Oracle Database Administrator, with 6 years of experience designing, installing, upgrading, and maintaining 10g, 11g and 12c databases in different OS platforms. Professional skills include Backup and Recovery methodologies (RMAN), Performance Tuning, Production Support, Upgrades & Patches, Migration, Security and User Management. Implemented and administered 2/3 Node RAC, configured physical and logical standby databases for disaster recover. Configured and administered Golden gates for real time replication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator LUXOTTICA - Mason, OH April 2016 to Present • Created and monitored Physical and Active standby databases, running on maximum protection, or performance modes for Disaster Recovery and High Availability on 11g and 12c Oracle databases.  • Responsible for implementation and administration of disaster recovery strategies for 24/7 operations and deployment of high availability systems on Oracle 11g, using Oracle RAC, Data-Guard, ASM, RMAN.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Installed, Configured, Setup, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11g, 12c Standalones and 3 nodes RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database for Test, Development and Production, and staging on Linux, AIX and Windows environments for various home-developed applications like Portfolio Management Systems, vendor applications such SAP Business solutions and so on.  • Upgraded Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11g to 12c manually or using DBUA. Involved in applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases for security and bug fixes.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts to provide reports.  • Experience using the Unix command to exit out or login to the operating system  • Experience in system Monitoring, Database Tuning, Memory and SQL Tuning using OEM 12c, Top command, VMSTATS, IOSTATS, Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC). And Assisted in providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible.  • Done resetting of storage parameters by series of exports and imports of tables, used conventional as well as direct path loads to upload the data into the server using SQL loader.  • Scheduled and monitored on Crontab repetitive activities such gathering schema statistics, table space usage report, Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production using Datapump and to monitor blocking sessions.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP. Oracle Database Administrator CUMMINS - Columbus, IN April 2013 to March 2016 • Automated and monitored databases heath, backup and recovery activities through Cron jobs and also customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g and 11g RAC, ASM databases for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed database, schema & table level Refresh from production to test/development environment Using RMAN and Data pump utilities. Also Implemented Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature (Oracle 11g, 12c) to quickly move Tablespaces across Oracle databases servers.  • Involved in a Client-Server environment using tnsnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Used Oracle Flashback Technology for logical recovery purpose with sometimes the need to create a Guaranteed restore point right after a recovery or during switchover operations.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created, monitored and troubleshoot Physical Standby databases using RMAN and scripts with zero downtime. Performed Failover and Switchover Operations using Data Guard Broker and manually during DR testing and whenever required.  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 6,7. Windows 95/98/NT/2000, UNIX  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, VNC, Team Viewer, Cisco VPN  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Data Pump Export, Import, OEM Grid Control    • Handled daily production problems/change requests with Oracle.  • Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import Education Bachelor's degree in Information Technology University of Dschang 2012 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, OLTP, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba