Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - PBGC Kansas City, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator PBGC - Washington, DC January 2015 to Present UCSF Medical center has licensed EPIC software developed by EPIC Systems, located in Verona, Wisconsin. The software will be customized to meet the needs of UCSF Medical Center. EPIC software is an end to end solution for Healthcare organizations, enabling them to seamlessly integrate all modules starting from patient registration, all the way to billing.    ? SQL SERVER 2005/2000 Production Environment.    ? Fixed the failed PRINCIPALS (logins), user permissions and security in ACTIVE DIRECTORY and at the    ? SQL SERVER LEVEL.    ? Implemented SIDE BY SIDE Migration of databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005    ? Involved in Normalization, Database design, Performance Analysis and Production Support for very large (VLDB) and Complex Databases.  ? Used native tools like DATA BASE TUNING ADVISOR, PROFILER and ACTIVITY MONITOR for performance analysis.  ? Worked with SQL Server 2008 new MERGE statement.    ? Handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2005/2008 on Windows 2003    ? Implemented the new SQL Server 2005 concepts like Data partitioning ,Snap shot isolation, database mirroring, database snapshot, DDL triggers, try-cache blocks, online indexing, DMV's, DMF's, Mail Setup, Jobs, and Alerts, DTA,SQLCMD and dedicated admin connection and Compressed Backups.    ? Created Documentation for steps need to be taken while upgrading the SQL server 2000 to SQL server 2005.    ? Work based on Business Intelligence (BI) and Data Warehousing in SQL Server 2005    ? Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 that are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE).  ? Configured more than 2 GB ram on 32 bit Environment    ? Migrated DTS packages to SSIS packages and maintained the archival data    ? Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS    ? Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning    ? Recovered the System and User databases from suspect mode, Expert in sizing Temp database.    ? Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan ,Worked in Active passive cluster environment    ? Implemented new topics like CLR integration on Development Server    ? Wrote and debugged Stored Procedures and (DDL /DML)Triggers , Functions as per client requirements    ? Extensively worked on trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance , Rebuilding indexes with different fill factors and update statistics manually  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery    ? Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  ? Daily routine Developer/DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and handling maintenance Jobs including backups and restores.  ? Did Performance Tuning of the Stored Procedures.    ? Hands on experience in trouble shooting database issues. Update statistics, database integrity check and Backup operations  ? Extensively used lite speed backup with MS SQL SERVER 2005/2008.    ? Expertise in SQL server Reporting Services(SSRS) and SharePoint    ? Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find the performance and dead locks.    ? Worked on call 24/7 Support on weekly basis    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 with clustering, Replication, T-SQL, Windows 2003 64-bit, DTS,    SQL Server DB DBA/Developer CVS - Florham Park, NJ November 2010 to February 2012 Contracting Position for SQL Development and some minor Development DBA support.  ? SQL Development to modify specific portions of the Medicare Part D processing to address specific issues with a set of queries.  ? Rewrite portions of a very large DB2 Stored procedure which had performance issues during periods of high volume.  ? Coded a SQL driven script to mask PII data in the various development systems that was modular to allow it to be run in multiple schemas. Ran some backups to allow them to undo the update. DBA CVS - Southbury, CT November 2010 to February 2011 Coordinated DBA support for highly utilized primarily mainframe reporting platform. Supported management reports for hundreds of IBM corporate customers. Responsible for DBA support of DB2 z/OS and DB2 LUW.  ? Architected and production deployed server-based copy of GSMRT, reporting database model in cost-optimized manner (ported from Z/os to LUW).  ? Defined and deploy efficiencies each year providing significant and real savings in Storage and CPU costs, driving efficiency by optimization of repeated queries using explain, indexes, and modification of SQL statements, and saving storage costs by expanding use of archiving and compression, where possible.  ? Defined and deployed processes to extract, transform, and load data, including Unix scripting, REXX code, and defining FTP processes. SQL Developer (Consultant) Global Services - Southbury, CT October 2009 to January 2011 Serving as SQL Developer in the Development Group. Designing and developing solutions utilizing MS SQL Server 2008 R2, Team Foundation Server (TFS 2013), UC4 (Automic).  ? Examine all Corporate SSRS reports for processing inefficiencies.    ? Create design documentation for system enhancements.    ? Modify business processes using Business Requirements Documents.    ? Create ad-hoc reports.    ? Assist other developers in SQL development efforts. Identify areas in code for improvement. Help to determine long running or poorly performing queries.  ? Modify ETL processes. Modify SSIS Packages.    ? Enhance / Debug large stored procedures for large insurance application. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science State University of New York at Stony Brook - Stony Brook, NY Skills databases (5 years), ETL (4 years), extract, transform, and load (4 years), SQL (8 years), Stored Procedures (7 years), Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Database Additional Information SKILLS    Technical Competencies Databases: DB2 LUW 9.7, DB2 z/OS Version 9, AIX (7.1), Linux (2.6.32), z/ OS V1.7 Languages: SQL, Python, Unix Shell Scripting(Perl, Korn), SQL PL for DB2 user functions, DB2 stored procedures, Datastage Transformation Language, 370 Assembler, Cobol, REXX, JCL Tools: DB2 Control Center, DB2 Data Studio, DB2 Visualizer, Ultraedit, BMC Change Manager for DB2, DB2 Tools, VSAMASSIST, Tivoli Decision Support Applied Skills: DB2 Architect Support - Planning, Provisioning;  Mapping, DB organization details - partitioning, SQL Data Analysis, SQL Unix Shell Scripting for remediation of data related issues, SQL coding - Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, SQL Query optimization - Explain, Index Definition and Utilization, SQL coding optimization, Forensic Problem resolution, Datastage ETL Support - Transformations, Jobs, Sequences, Agile Development Methodology, InfoSphere Datastage 8.1 Program product support (install, apply fixes, debug, run traces)