Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Work Experience Database Administrator Prasa Cres May 2012 to August 2012 2011 May to 2012 April - Prasa Cres(Southern Region) - Procurement Administrator/ Buyer  ? 2010 Oct to 2011 April - Prasa Cres(Head Office) - Procurement Administrator  ? 2009 Sep to 2010 Sep - Intersite Property Management - Procurement Administrator  ? 2008 Nov to March 2009 - Prasa Corporate - Procurement Administrator  ? 2007 to 2008 - Intersite Property Management - Ad hoc receptionist/ Administrator  ? 2005 to Oct 2007 - Zishap Disability Centre - Receptionist    QUALIFICATION SUMMARY    EMPLOYMENT DETAILS Supplier Database Management/Buyer Prasa Cres May 2012 to August 2012 Duties  ? Cleaning of existing database and getting it ready for mass upload on SAP  ? Liaising with TransUnion for credit and validity check on suppliers  ? Supplier Database management on SAP  ? Creating files for all suppliers with all necessary documents for loading on the database  ? Assisting in Regional Buying  ? Assisting in Tender Process Procurement Specialist Prasa Cres - Johannesburg, Gauteng May 2012 to August 2012 Duties  ? Receiving daily requirements from business(procurement and maintenance) by PR, email and phone  ? Sending out RFQ, s  ? Evaluation of quotes  ? Oversee all system based PO's  ? Meeting and evaluating of potential service providers  ? Provide daily feedback to the Procurement and Facilities managers in regards to status of PO's  ? Organising and attending site briefings  ? Supplier Database Management and Maintenance(MANHATTAN)  ? Assisting with the Tender Process: Requesting quotations from newspapers for adverts  : Preparation of tender documents  : Selling of tender documents  : Facilitating site briefings  : Closing of tender and Opening of tender documents  : Preparation of documents to hand over to the evaluation  team  : Drafting of Notice to Proceed and forwarding it to the relevant tenderer Buyer PRASA - Johannesburg, Gauteng October 2010 to April 2012 Duties  ? Receiving daily requirements from business ( procurement & maintenance) by PR, emails  and phone  ? Sending out RFQ's  ? Evaluation of quotes  ? Oversee all system based PO's   ? Meeting and evaluating of potential service providers  ? Organising and attending site briefing  ? Supplier Database Management & Maintenance (Manhattan)  ? Assisting with Tender Process Procurement Administrator Prasa Cres October 2010 to April 2011 Duties  ? Overall administration for the department  ? Liaising with suppliers regarding updated information  ? Supplier Database Management and Maintenance (SAP and MANHATTAN)  ? Processing of PR's on SAP  ? Forwarding RFQ's and PO's to suppliers  ? Archiving of all relevant documentation  ? BBBEE payment reports on SAP and MANHATTAN  ? Handling of accounts Procurement Administrator Intersite Property Management - Johannesburg, Gauteng April 2009 to September 2010 Duties:  ? Overall administration for the department  ? Liaising with suppliers regarding updated information  ? Supplier Database Maintenance and Management (SAP & Manhattan)  ? Contacting and obtaining updated supplier information  ? Processing of PR's on SAP  ? Forwarding RFQ's and PO's to supplier  ? Archiving of all relevant documents  ? Contracts Management  ? BEE Spent Report   ? Handling accounts Procurement Administrator SARCC - Johannesburg, Gauteng October 2007 to March 2009 Duties  ? Overall administration for the department  ? Liasing with suppliers regarding updated information  ? Contracts Management  ? Supplier Database Maintenance  ? Forwarding RFQ's and PO's to suppliers  ? Archiving of all relevant documentation  ? Handling of accounts Receptionist Zishap Disability Centre January 2005 to October 2007 Duties    ? Responsible for the front desk of the Centre.  ? Siemens switchboard (25 x 36 ext).  ? Answer telephone and transfer to the relevant people.  ? Diarise meetings for senior persons and organize refreshments.  ? Receiving guests and call relevant people.  ? Responsible for Courier Services.  ? Daily receipts, sorting and distribution of all incoming and outgoing mail.  ? Filing of correspondence and other records.  ? Daily receipts, sorting and distribution of all incoming facsimiles.  Assist with administration, including photocopying, faxing, and related tasks for the smooth running of the centre    Reasons for Leaving: Contract Ended Education N Dip in Journalism Tshwane University of Technology 2005 Nigel High School