Cherwell Administrator Cherwell <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cherwell Administrator - Dell Technologies Inc Round Rock, TX Work Experience Cherwell Administrator Dell Technologies Inc - Round Rock, TX April 2017 to Present Serve as the Cherwell Administrator providing Tier II support for Dell Federal IT Sales, in addition to supervising  operations, managing cross-functional teams, facilitating server management processes, implementing data analytics on technical issues, and understanding processes that are necessary for efficient results.  ? Direct issues to appropriate escalation levels, while handling technical issues and correspondences via phone, email  or Cherwell management system.  ? Produce daily and monthly performance reports, to ensure best practices are followed and future progress and statuses are forecasted accurately.  ? Develop Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates for multifaceted servers, to streamline an encrypted link between a web server and a browser.  ? Maintain updates and upgrades to the Cherwell application and Web portal, in addition to integrating suggestions  that boost performance and support project goals.  ? Develop status reports through analyzing Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Cherwell service desk metrics.  ? Design various forms and database objects within Configuration Management Database (CMDB), to aid in creating  critical incidents that are integrated by SQL views and System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  ? Create simplistic and effective database architecture diagrams for Disaster Recovery (DR), to streamline  implementations within the networking and database team.    ? Identify diverse trends through reporting issues and disseminating recommendations to continually improve the Cherwell application processes.  ? Resolved and escalated incoming service requests of end users, while preventing high priority issues by adhering to the Service Level Agreements (SLAs).  ? Create high availability for Cherwell Web/App Servers, to insure Cherwell application does not fail.  ? Built Pre-Production, Test and Production environments of Cherwell Application. Database Administrator Dell Technologies Inc - Round Rock, TX January 2016 to March 2017 Proficient at delivering database support to vital systems, examining processes and procedures, assessing change  requests on technical issues, developing resolutions and preparing essential reports.  ? Assisted the Service Desk team in handling daily operations encompassing monitoring team performance, facilitating  incoming service requests, and resolving user requests in a timely manner.  ? Administered weekly term reports within SQL Server, to gauge personnel turnover and inventory of company  equipment.  ? Executed vital reports on TRAQ mobile load exports bi-weekly, to generate data analytics on mobile data usage across the Dell Information Technology department.  ? Utilized WinSCP to retrieve essential data from third party vendors, while tracking mobile spending thorugh  developoing queries within SQL Server. Web Developer Dell Technologies Inc - Round Rock, TX June 2015 to January 2016 Redesigned the "Savings Tracker" webpage to ensure a more attractive, sleek and user friendly experience within the Visual Studio environment, which was utilized by the Telecom Expense Management Team.  ? Developed dynamic and eye-popping webpages for diverse customers, through coding in HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Deployed and supported the application code across various system servers.  ? Managed and simplified the application build and release process by using object-oriented programming technology, which drastically reduced build errors and miminized code review time.  ? Composed queries within the SQL Server, to retrieve vital information from the "Savings Tracker", which improved  website traffic and increased page hits. Lead PC Technician, Office of Information Technology Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA September 2013 to June 2015 Installed personal computers (PCs), peripherals, desktops, and programs requiring administrative rights for faculty  and staff.  ? Troubleshoot problems for both faculty and staff, while helping students with networking issues pertaining to Wi-Fi  and Local Area Networks (LANs).  ? Communicated with students and other end users, to acknowledge that the incidents requested were resolved.  ? Ensured the stability and security of network infrastructures, while establishing procedures for diverse projects.  ? Identified key security issues and developed an action plan to resolve them. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA May 2015 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2012, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012