AWS Solution Architect/DevOps Engineer AWS Solution Architect/DevOps Engineer AWS Solution Architect/DevOps Engineer - UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES To work in a setting where I can transfer my knowledge of 4years experience as AWS Solutions Architect and DevOps Engineer in building, planning, implementing and maintaining system applications in AWS Cloud environments and overall 6years IT related experience. Work Experience AWS Solution Architect/DevOps Engineer UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES - Philadelphia, PA October 2017 to Present * Design and architect self-healing, secured, highly available and fault tolerant infrastructure in AWS.  * Implemented maintenance and configuration of user account for Dev, QA and production servers and created roles for EC2, RDS, S3, Cloud Watch resources to communicate with each other using IAM.  * Experience in migrating and implementing of multiple applications from on premise to cloud using AWS services, SMS, DBMS, Cloud Formation, S3, Route 53, Glacier, EC2, RDS, SNS, Lambda, VPC, Cloud Trail, API gateway.  * Build and configure a virtual data center in the AWS Cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups (SG), Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancers ELB), Route 53.  * Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating SG, auto-scaling, ELBs in the defined VPC.  * Designed AWS Cloud Formation Templates to create multi region web applications and databases.  * Configuration of Continuous Integration(CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) using Code Pipeline and Code Deployments for automation. Good experience in creating and editing shell, bash and python scripts for automation.  * Prolific working with configuration management tools like Ansible and Puppet. Source Code Management tool GitHub and Jenkins for Continuous Build Management.  * Using CloudWatch, VPC Flow Logs to monitor and retain account activity related to actions across AWS infrastructure.  * Leverage AWS System Manager to automate communication between S3 and other AWS services.  * Solution VPCs for various environments including NAT Gateway, VPC Peering and Transit Gateways.  * Installation, configuration and administration of Enterprise Linux and Unix Systems. AWS Infrastructure Engineer BANK OF AMERICA - Dallas, TX August 2015 to September 2017 Responsible for launching Amazon EC2 instances using AWS (Linux) and configuring launch instances with respect to specific applications and regions.  * Responsible for S3 buckets creation, policies and IAM role based policies.  * Build servers using AWS importing volumes, lunching EC2 instances, RDS, creating S Gs and NACL, auto-scaling, ELB in the defined VPCs.  * Responsible for creating monitors, alarms, and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch, SNS, SMTP.  * Migration and implementation of multiple applications from on premise to cloud using AWS services like, CloudFormation, S3, Route 53, EC2, RDS, SNS, Lambda, Kinesis and VPC.  * Build and configure virtual data centers in the AWS Cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hustings.  * Using Command Line toll to deploy and managing AWS resources.  * Work with internal teams to create the migration process of legacy systems to the AWS cloud.  * Work with business unit managers to understand project scope, suggest possible alternatives and document each step of the design  * Work with Security division to design and manage IAM roles for users, vendors and other third party vendors, Encrypting data.  * Work with several third party vendors in big data and other areas to support our overall cloud initiative.  * Partner with the sales team, formulate and execute a sales strategy to exceed revenue objectives through the adoption of AWS. Oracle Database Administrator BEREANS TECHNOLOGY Inc - Silver Spring, MD May 2013 to August 2015 * Create and configure Oracle Databases using both the DBCA and manually using database creation scripts.  * Create primary database storage structures (tablespaces) and objects (tables, views, indexes).  * Schedule and perform various modes of backups using RMAN  * Enhanced existing database designs for improved longevity, reduced maintenance, and improved performance.  * Database design, Maintenance, Configuration, Installation, Deployment and Administration using file system and ASM cluster file storage system.  * Assist with the development and implementation of database architectures for new projects.  * Perform database migrations, conversions and upgrades  * Design, build, test, and deploy new/changed databases  * Maintain and administer databases and supporting automation (e.g. database objects, security roles, capacity, performance tuning, import/export, alert rules)  * Resolve database issues (incident and problem management)  * Establish database standards and best practices  * Work on High Availability, Backup and Recovery options and help to implement solutions  * Design, implement and maintain database security procedures  * Automate routine database support tasks  * Monitor and optimize the performance of the database, also advise development staff of opportunities to improve  * Familiar working with Shell Scripting, Oracle 12c, NoSQL and MySQL.  * Strong understanding of Oracle Security and Audit, storage technologies and networking. Education Masters in International Trade in International Trade Ajou University 2011 Bachelors of Science in Management in Management University of Buea 2007 Skills Security, Ec2, Amazon rds, Acls, Encryption, Configuration management, Git, Jenkins, Fault tolerant, Provisioning, Infrastructure design, Mfa, Ddos, Jira, Optimization, Architecture, Best practices, Bash, AWS, Devops, Puppet, Linux, Devops, AWS, Linux, Puppet, Ansible, Bash, Openstack, Azure Additional Information Key Skills  * Building AWS environment which is Highly Available. Systems that are durable and are likely to operate continuously without failure.  * Managed AWS infrastructure provisioning using CloudFormation.  * Design and deploy scalable, highly available, fault tolerant and reliable applications in AWS.  * Hands-on experience with AWS CLI including deploying CFTs, managing S3, EC2, IAM on CLI.  * Monitor infrastructure and applications using CloudWatch, VPC Flow Logs, CloudTrail.  * Implement cost optimization strategies in the AWS infrastructure.  * Build highly available content distribution sites by using CI/CD tools like Ansible, Jenkins, Jira Git and Github.  * Architect Amazon RDS with Multi-AZ for automatic failover.  * Design EC2 and related architecture to meet HA while incorporating security best practices.  * Provide technical perspective on infrastructure design options and configurations.  * Implement security best practices in AWS including MFA, access key rotation, encryption using KMS, Security Groups and NACLs, S3 bucket policies and ACLs, mitigating DDOS attacks etc.  * Manage Ansible, Jenkins, Github and SSM for configuration management.  * Use AWS System Manager and Run Command to automate operational tasks across AWS resources.  * Use Jira to plan, track, support and close requests, tickets and incidents  * Delegate access across AWS accounts using IAM cross account roles.