Job Seeker Talented with more than 2 years' experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with expertise in Grid Control, ASM, Oracle Data guard, RMAN, Export/Import, Data Pump and OEM. Has good exposure of experience using RAC. Candidate is a great team player with excellent abilities for unsupervised individual responsibilities. Has experience in SQL Tuning, Optimization, rule based optimization, cost based optimization and Hints. Possesses technical ability and initiative to learn and implement new technologies.    • Cloned databases and Refreshed pre-production/development databases with prod/pre-prod systems  • Exposure in working with RAC, WebLogic, CC&B and MDM  • Daily maintenance of databases  • Set up and managed Automated Storage Management (ASM) for 10g and 11g  databases.  • Monitoring of database and statistics  • Ensuring that users access is granted  • Configured oracle database for OLTP processing.  • Migrated and Upgraded 20+ databases to 10g and 11g databases  • Performed database patch sets and done critical patch updates  • Installed and configured Oracle RAC with ASM on 2 node systems.  • Validation of Database functionalities  • Participating and upgrading databases from 10g to 11g  • Configured and Upgraded to Oracle 11gR2 from 10g and from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3  • Experienced in GUARANTEE FLASHBACK RESTORE POINT  • Alert monitoring and Ticketing.  • Configuring database entries and monitoring all of the databases using Oracle  Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binary structure, Listener,  TNS Names, SQL Net, Logical and Physical databases  • Knowledge of Cloud - AWS  • Oracle Database capacity planning, space management, storage allocation and  different type of storage structure (SAN/NAS).  • Experienced in installing OEM agent and hooking up to the grid  • Extensively worked under UNIX environment to provide DBA support.  • Proactively monitored the database and database access, and maintained the  database security.  • Has Knowledge of Oracle golden gate Homogeneous/ Heterogeneous environments and implemented (uni) directional replication.  • Working concept of both Agile and SDLC methodology.  • Proven ability of providing production support for 24X7 on multiple databases  • Database Restore using RMAN, Cold Backup, Export and Flash Recovery.  • Data Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using Data pump  • knowledge of Oracle Functions, Packages and Procedure Work Experience KCP&L - Kansas City, MO May 2017 to Present • Working on Oracle database in related areas to CC&B, MDM and OUA project eg, setting up environment to start implementing CC&B in addition to current MDM that is in operation  • Performing Export and Import using Oracle Data pump utilities to refresh pre-production, development and Sit etc. - upon short request for database as well as schema levels  • Consistently executing and deploying scripts from developers to required databases  • Working to ensure database related defects are fixed  • Database backup using Recovery RMAN and Export/ Import.  • Creation of database objects like Tables, Views, Users, etc.  • Knowledge in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalog databases and DR databases  • Knowledge in RAC administration, production support, configuration,  upgrades, patches, space management, database security, performance tuning,  troubleshooting database design, UNIX shell scripting and documentation.  • Creating roles and profiles as per system study and assign to users.  • Perform duties as ensuring that users access is granted to get into assign database environ.,  unlocking access when being locked, granting permission for read only or read and write for tables and views, Functions, Packages etc. to users  • Performed daily maintenance of databases and monitored database statistics  • Ensure GUARANTEE FLASHBACK RESTORE POINT is performed before working on schema, full database on special refresh using data pump  • Performed Day to Day Administration of Tablespace Management  • Upgrade the databases from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g using DBUA and Manual  Upgrade methods using OFM.  • Extensively working in setting up Oracle physical standby database using Data guard  • Participate in database administration for monitoring and tuning of production  database.  • Maintained backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring, scheduling and rescheduling of backup jobs to ensure for daily backups using crontab.  • Having good exposure in user management, Table space Management, Session  Management, undo Management issues  • Generated AWR reports for performance analysis and tuning opportunities.  • Effectively using OEM for monitoring and performing maintenance to databases  SQL, PL/SQL Tuning and Monitoring. Oracle Database Administrator Dell - Plano, TX April 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  Performed daily maintenance of databases and monitored database statistics;  • Validated database backups are taken to recover from any situation.  • Decommissioned standalone and RAC databases.  • Maintained database by applying CPU and PSU patches on 10g and 11g.  • Used RMAN duplicate database feature to move/clone databases on Linux, AIX and Solaris.  • Troubleshooted Database issues  • Provided on-call support.  • Configured listener for external procedure calls.  • Performing upgrades, patches for standalone and ASM databases  • Installation and configuration OEM for monitoring and performance tuning.  • Performed Import and Export using Oracle Data pump utilities  • Performed Day to Day Administration of Tablespace Management  • Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinating with Oracle support through metal ink to resolve them in timely manner.  • Experienced in managing space issues in the Database Level for table space and  Regular file system cleanup at UNIX level  • Extensively working in setting up Oracle physical standby database using Data guard  • Experienced in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalog databases and DR databases  • Served as part of a 7-member DBA team which was involved in the maintenance of various DBs  • Well experienced in taking Cold, Hot & Logical RMAN backup for very huge  Databases Oracle10g/11g database for the Production as well as the development environ.  • Trace the SQL that have poor performance and identify the ways of improving the performance by working the application team.  Refreshed multiple databases for Development and Testing upon short request.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump  export/import utilities and performing database refresh activities for business  requirement and tuning purposes  • Validation of Database functionalities with regards to ASM, Data Guard  • Knowledge in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalog databases and DR databases  • Able to work effectively with multiple teams at once.  • Supported different Oracle 11g and Oracle 12c Databases of Production, Testing, Dev,  Staging and Training. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA April 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Configured ASM Disk groups and migrated non-ASM databases to ASM.  • Troubleshooted Database issues  • Created and maintained both DDL and DML databases as required.  • Worked with team to set up RAC and I maintained a healthy RAC database.  • Configured Oracle Data Guard  • Performed daily maintenance of databases and monitored database statistics;  • Validated database backups are taken to recover from any situation.  • Decommissioned standalone and RAC databases.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to supported new business applications and requirements  • Maintained database by applying CPU and PSU patches on 10g and 11g.  • Consistently conducted capacity planning. Storage Management and monitoring for the databases to ensure that disk space is adequate for new database creation and upgrades.  • Worked with the infrastructure team responsible for proof of concept for creating new database.  • Provide ON-Call 24*7 Production Database Support having 4-6 TB in size.  • Performing upgrades, patches for standalone and RAC databases etc., before GO LIVE on production support.  • Used RMAN duplicate database feature to move/clone databases on Linux, AIX and Solaris.  • Designed and construct physical standby for Disaster recovery site.  • Defined the standards, to maintain the health of the server. RAC to RAC physical standby configuration of data guard for Disaster recovery requirement.  • Ensured and maintained the security and integrity of databases  • Supported the databases and ensuring their performance, availability and security.  • Involved in managing very large database with 20TB in size on a 6 node RAC cluster ensuring the fail over, load balancing and scalability  • Worked with team to set up Golden Gate to help in propagating information between databases  • Attended compliance meetings, by coming up with test cases that ensures we are meeting with company's compliance policy, resolved compliance failures based on the company policy.  • Generated AWR reports for performance analysis and tuning opportunities.  • Experienced in installing OEM agent and hooking up to the grid  • Developed appropriate polices and plans relating to database backup, recovery, and disaster  • Provided on-call support.  • Configured listener for external procedure calls.  • Knowledge of the Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG  issues.  • Coordinated tasks with offshore DBAs  • Performed Day to Day Administration of Tablespace Management, Undo Management and Users. Skills DATABASES (3 years), OEM (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), RMAN (3 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: Oracle 10g 11g, 12c, SQL Server 2000  Oracle Products: DATA PUMP, Oracle (Grid Control) ASM, OEM, RAC, RMAN, Golden gate  Programming Languages: PL/SQL, SQL, C, C++  Operating systems: Linux, Unix, AIX, Solaris, Windows  Other Tools: Putty, TOAD, SecureCRT