Medical Leave of Absence Medical Leave of Absence Nashville, TN Expert database administration, data analysis, and dashboard reporting experience  Lean Six Sigma Green Belt certification  MBA, University of Kentucky  Non-Profit Experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Medical Leave of Absence September 2016 to Present Used leave time to volunteer weekly with Second Harvest Food Bank and Youth Villages Self Employed Sweet Valley Data Consulting - Nashville, TN January 2016 to September 2016 • Tableau data analysis and reporting  • Microsoft SQL Server T-SQL programming  • Microsoft Access VBA / SQL programming  • Financial ERP system reporting (Intacct)  • Advanced Excel experience: VBA programming, Pivot Tables, VLOOKUP and other advanced formulas Financial Business Analyst / Database Administrator Qualifacts Systems - Nashville, TN March 2014 to January 2016 • Salesforce.com administrator  • Tableau data analysis and reporting  • Healthcare data analysis: analyzed $1.3 billion of healthcare claims data to develop marketing segmentation strategies  • Email list management: quarterly customer satisfaction survey email list (approx. 500 email addresses)  • Oracle PL/SQL querying and reporting experience  • Financial ERP reporting (Intacct)  • Finance reporting database  ? VBA and SQL programming to perform daily ETL from Intacct (financial database)  ? Developed Microsoft SQL Server 2014 database to serve as local data reporting warehouse  ? Used Tableau to build data visualization dashboards  • Administrator of sales, finance, and support databases: Salesforce, Intacct, and Soffront  • Lean process improvement of Customer Support department: $200,000 annual cost savings  • Advanced Excel experience: VBA programming, Pivot Tables, VLOOKUP and other advanced formulas Supply Chain Analyst / Database Administrator Nissan North America - Smyrna, TN January 2012 to March 2014 ? Inventory analysis:  ? Analyzed high-risk supplier production to prevent and predict production shutdowns  ? Traveled to high-risk suppliers to monitor hourly production to manage inventory levels  ? Developed Microsoft Access database with SQL / VBA to analyze supplier production capacity  ? Operations management:  ? Production scheduling of 30 workers over two shifts  ? Directly managed 5 employees  ? Analyzed raw materials inventory to manage reorders and demand forecasts  ? Monitored finished goods to set production targets  ? Managed transportation and logistics for daily round-trip deliveries between TN and AL  ? Production resulted in over $900m shutdown cost avoidance  ? Advanced Excel data analysis: graphs, line charts, Pareto analysis, Pivot Tables  ? SAP Business Objects reporting experience  ? AS/400 command line experience  ? Awards  ? Grand Champion Monozukuri, Nissan's highest manufacturing operations award  ? Certificate of Appreciation from Nissan Senior Vice President    Nissan: Logistics Purchasing Analyst  ? Developed Microsoft Access database with SQL / VBA to automate historical reporting and trending  ? Advanced Excel data analysis: graphs, line charts, Pareto analysis, Pivot Tables, large scale data analysis  ? Analysis of truckload lane bid data to choose lowest cost provider  ? Conducted RFQ for yard switching operations Program Manger United States Air Force - Dayton, OH August 2010 to March 2011 Worked with F-16 fighter jet and ISR reconnaissance Foreign Military Sales programs  ? Administrated contracts for FMS operations to reflect updates in production timeline  ? Created financial model to calculate manpower requirements and costs over project lifetime Education MBA in Business Administration University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY Bachelor of Science Middle Tennessee State University - Murfreesboro, TN Skills Excel, database Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Present