CLUB COORDINATOR/EVENT COORDINATOR CLUB COORDINATOR/EVENT COORDINATOR CLUB COORDINATOR/EVENT COORDINATOR - CMC MANAGEMENT CORP Haymarket, VA Work Experience CLUB COORDINATOR/EVENT COORDINATOR CMC MANAGEMENT CORP June 2016 to Present • Manages the Waverly Club building and confers with GM concerning objectives, new or revised policies, daily operations matters affecting the building and residents who use the facility.  • Manages 3 outdoor pool facilities, one indoor pool facility, facilitates pass registration along with managing the pool contractor and lifeguard staff.  • Plan, coordinate and implement resident programs, classes and special community wide events. In planning, solicits input and involvement from residents and/or prospects to stimulate participation and awareness of the robust and facilitated lifestyle opportunities.  • Create and manages contracts for the residential programs.  • Liaison to the Events Committee. Plan, arrange and organize multiple events yearly that range from 300 to 1200 people in attendance within Dominion Valley community.  • Develops and monitors the Event budget.  • Submits invoices for payment and ensures timely payments  • Consults legal counsel for guidance on contracts, waivers, etc.  • Assist residents on day-to-day basis by fielding questions and providing information and responds to incoming phone call and emails from clients and vendors.  • Attend Board meetings (as requested).  • Assist Event Committee Chair as needed.  • Familiar with all governing documents and Board policies and procedures.  • Writes appropriate pieces for the quarterly newsletter. SUBSTITUTE TEACHER PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY SCHOOLS September 2015 to June 2016 • Instruct core subjects to all grade levels in various schools within Prince William County.  • Adhere to school standards and teachers' guidelines and expectations.  • Follows lesson plans and utilize relevant activities and manipulates to supplement the lessons.  • Communicates with teachers regarding student progress and disciplinary transgressions and employ a proactive approach to classroom management to curb negative behavior. ACQUISTION DATABASE SPECIALIST NCI INFORMATION SYSTEMS June 2010 to June 2012 • Analyze procurement requests  • Management of acquisition database  • Provide financial analysis to customers  • Project Management  • Coordinated with Quality Assurance to create a standard operating procedure for all returned suspected or unserviceable equipment for the PEO Soldier Equipment program.  • Created a detailed weekly report.  As part of the Acquisition Database team I would review and analyze all procurement requests while tracking all acquisition documentation that was received. Modification and quality assurance checks were performed on all documentation to ensure all products were delivered accurately and within the time allotted based on the contract.  • Instruct core subjects to all grade levels in various schools within Prince William County.  • Adhere to school standards and teachers' guidelines and expectations.  • Follows lesson plans and utilize relevant activities and manipulates to supplement the lessons.  • Communicates with teachers regarding student progress and disciplinary transgressions and employ a proactive approach to classroom management to curb negative behavior. FLEET MANAGER/ ADMINISTRATOR Covad Communications September 2005 to June 2009 • Managed fleet utilization for 250 vehicles.  • Monitored and developed operational budgets.  • Monthly vehicle operation reports.  • Managed billing reconciliation for contracted work force.  • Managed uniform website.  • Performed analysis and developed solutions to reduce fleet expenses.  • Obtain core data on fleet accidents and root cause analysis.  • Redesigned fleet vehicles for improved productivity.    In addition to fleet management, Informed insurance carrier of vehicle accidents and drivers were counseled as needed. Effectively managed leasing company, and fleet transfers. Education B.A. WESTERN ILLIONIS UNIVERSITY May 2000 Skills Event planning Additional Information SKILLS  • Project Management  • Event Planning    • Communication  • Alliance Building