Case Manager Case Manager Case Manager/Legal Assistant Ocala, FL Competent and efficient Legal Assistant providing excellent administrative support to multiple attorneys. Work Experience Case Manager Allen Law Firm January 2019 to Present Case management of clients files. Prepare demands, mediations and maintain client contact. Case Manager/Legal Assistant - Personal Injury Bogin, Munns & Munns, P.A - Ocala, FL September 2017 to January 2019 Assist PI Attorney with client files. Open new files using Client Profiles. Answer multi line phone, fax, email and basic office duties. Request medical and billing records. Handle administrative duties. Incharge of handling client files and maintain up to date with treatment status and get them ready to move on to demand process. Office Administrator Alico Citrus Nursery, LLC - Gainesville, FL September 2014 to December 2016 Handle all office duties. Do new hire orientations and safety training. Do monthly expense reports and inventory. Assist Nursery management team and HR and AP dept. Work out in the greenhouses as needed. Maintained all license and permits up to date with state regulations. Claims Represenative Geico - Lakeland, FL August 2013 to October 2013 Responsibilities  Handle auto accident claims. Determine liability, provide customer service.     Accomplishments  maintained necessary call numbers at great rating.    Skills Used  Dependability, flexibility and hard worker. Information and Database Specialist Redlands Christian Migrant Association - Ocala, FL April 2008 to June 2013 Responsibilities  Assist the Center Director with administrative duties. Obtain personal and financial information from families applying to program, and determine legibility. Maintain files up to date, submit monthly reports to state office. Provide assistance with translation and transportation to families being served in program. Coordinate monthly meetings and attend training seminars.     Accomplishments  Helped families achieve their goals .    Skills Used  My personal life skills. And previous experiences as a migrant farm worker. Education GED in General Studies GED course - Auburndale, FL 2000 to 2001 Skills Bilingual (10+ years), Case Management, Personal Injury, Microsoft Office, Documentation, Microsoft Office, problem solving Certifications/Licenses Notary Public January 2018 to January 2022 Driver's License