Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - RMA Bowie, MD Talented Oracle DBA with around 3+ years of IT experience seeking a position as an Oracle DBA with an established, technology-driven organization that allows for the utilization of my acquired skills set to contribute to the success of the business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle DBA RMA - Washington, DC May 2016 to Present • Configure Oracle network files LISTENER.ORA and TNSNAMES.ORA to facilitate Application as well as developer connections.  • Create various database objects, i.e. tables, views, indexes, segments, and tablespaces to assist development team in Code deployment.  • Responsible for Appling quarterly CPUs/PSU via Opatch utilities.  • Enforce and maintain integrity constraints to ensure database integrity and enforce business rules.  • Perform nightly logical backup via EXPDP to supplemental physical RMAN backups.  • Use SQL*LOADER as an ETL tool to load external files to the database.  • Use CRONTAB on OS level and DBMS_SCHEDULER in database to schedule monitoring jobs as well as other database related tasks.  • Perform SQL tuning by utilizing EXPLAIN PLAN, AUTOTRACE and SQL Tuning advisor to reduce overall cost to CPU to avoid wait or lock contentions.  • Develop backup strategy employing RMAN Incremental Level 0 and Level 1 concepts to optimize and efficiently perform nightly HOT backups  • Analyze AWR and ADDM reports to troubleshoot overall workload issues degrading database performance.  • Responsible for capacity planning: OS storage allocation for future prospects.  • In charge of allocating ASM storage by adding and removing disk on a need basis and setting appropriate Power for Rebalancing Database Administrator Favorite Healthcare Staffing - Washington, DC November 2015 to March 2016 • Responded quickly and effectively to production & development issues and taking responsibility for seeing those issues through resolution.  • Monitored the performance and tuning of the database servers.  • Supported management and maintenance of back-ups & recovery procedures.  • Resolved RAC related issues by means of SRVCTL and CRSCTL utilities to fully identify problems with cluster resources.  • Coordinated with cross-functional teams completing several database projects within tight timelines.  • Monitored, troubleshoot and optimized database performance, SQL tuning, and responsible for logical/physical design of database.  • Responsible for day-to-day Operational support and maintenance of mission critical OLTP databases.  • Documentation of activities, environments, results and client interaction to improve future replication process. Database Administrator Washington Adventist Hospital - Takoma Park, MD January 2013 to October 2015 • Developed shell scripts to automate nightly logical backup of production database for routine refresh of application schema using Oracle DataPump utility.    • Provide support to development team in resolving access issues as well as understanding Oracle database concepts.    • Carry out database performance tuning by employing Oracle tools such as AWR, SQL Tuning advisor, and collecting database metrics.    • Schedule weekly and nightly RMAN Incremental backups through CRON.    • Assisted in resolving issues with backend database stored procedures needed by end-user facing applications.    • Resolved performance issue on STANDARD EDITION of database using traditional utilities.    • Work in a 24x7 Production environment and provide on-call and day-day support.    • Research and analyze new technologies and providing input to improve efficiency of the organization.    REFERENECES:  Available upon Request Education Howard University - Washington, DC January 2010 to May 2012 Bowie State University - Bowie, MD August 2008 to December 2009 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate July 2016 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • RDBMS: Oracle and MySQL  • SQL*Loader, SQL Developer and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM  • RMAN, EXPDP/IMPDP  • ASM, SRVCTL, CRSCTL  • Oracle Flashback Technology  • Languages: PLSQL/SQL, SHELL, BATCH  • Microsoft Office Suite, LibreOffice Suite  • OS Utilities: TOP, VMSTAT, CRON, IOSTAT, TASK SCHEDULER, TOAD  • OS: Windows Server, Linux(RHEL)/UNIX (Solaris)