Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - TeyeMatics Inc Rosedale, MD Accomplished Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with expertise in data security, performance tuning, crisis management, and high availability. Use latest Oracle database technologies to increase reliability, maximize productivity in a fast-paced environment, and introduce system efficiencies supporting next-generation database solutions in oracle database enterprise. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator TeyeMatics Inc - Baltimore, MD September 2017 to Present Support a larger production database; play a supporting-lead role in enterprise-wide database optimization and instance and resource monitoring. Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries. Work actively on 11g and 12c features such as AWR, ADDM, and ASH for performance statistics collection, and fine tuning database wait events. Provide on-call support for enterprise databases. Migrate an eleven-terabyte production database from 11gR2 stand-alone to a 2 node RAC on 12c.  Key Responsibilities:  • Started and managed biweekly optimization meetings with enterprise user groups to address and resolve performance-related issues with a high degree of success.  • Installed 11.2.0.4 and upgraded databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  • Performed Schema, Table, Database refresh using DataPump utility.  • Improved performance in daily transactions by identifying and reorganizing index on major tables.  • Performed migration from 11gR2 to 12c.  • Creating & managing database structures, Storage Allocations, and database access for added security.  • Responsible for the design, development, implementation and maintenance of enterprise database management systems.  • Developed and tested DBMS disaster recovery concepts for large operational database, delivering solution that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability  • Proactively work on capacity planning in terms of memory and disk usage, establishing benchmarks for business and technical performance.  • Performed SQL tuning with reports generated from SQL Trace, ASH, Explain Plan.  • Installed, configured and managed multiple 11GR2 2/4 node RAC for maximum availability.  • Configure Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) on Oracle 12c (Data level encryption).  • Apply quarterly Oracle PSU patch to both CDB and PDB databases using data patch.  • Planned and implemented Oracle 11g, 12c Standby Databases (Data Guard) for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR). Oracle Database Administrator Fanakel Business Solutions August 2015 to June 2016 June 2016 - August 2015  Oracle Database Administrator  Set up new databases and provided all database-related support for the production as well as test databases for different markets. Performed space estimation and calculation, application installation, performance/memory tuning, server/ database monitoring, configuration, and troubleshooting. Provided design input and interacted with the design team on the best database practices. Evaluated server/instance architecture, hardware, system specifications, and capacity planning. Managed, trained, and mentored staffs.  Key Responsibilities:  • Provide Oracle database administrative support to various user groups (application developers, data managers etc.); create and maintain Oracle database objects (schemas, tables, indexes etc.).  • Identified and recovered corrupted Database blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility.  • Tuned database objects to run smoothly by analyzing query paths (creating explain path tables) and using efficient indexing.  • Perform capacity planning in terms of memory and disk usage, establishing benchmarks for business and technical performance.  • Created and rebuilt indexes when necessary; created and tuned various materialized views  • Used explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database  • Resolved various complex issues within the database. Corrupted datafiles, tns and listener connection issues.  • Worked closely with developers and the DBA team to create Tablespace, Tables, indexes and other database Objects.  • Administered database user accounts. Created, modified and deactivated user accounts; assigned and monitored user access rights.  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Unix, Linux and Windows Education Bachelor of Technology in Applied Geophysics in Applied Geophysics Federal University of Technology October 2010 Skills Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Shell scripting, Scripting Additional Information Technical Skills    Tools: SQL*Plus, EM, Grid Control, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Tracing, StatsPack, Explain-Plan, ASM Grid Control, AWR, Scheduler, PL/SQL, Crontab, Data Pump, Shell Scripting, ASH, TOAD, SQL Developer, IBM Clear Case/Quest.