Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Apex Group Over 8+ years of professional experience in Oracle Database Administration. Reliable, Result Oriented, Dedicated to Problem Solving, Responsible, Trusted & Proactive Oracle Database Administrator with expertise in crisis management, performance tuning, and high availability to increase reliability, maximize productivity and ensure system efficiencies. Adept at all stages of project lifecycle, from business requirements and technical definitions to testing, documentation, production support, training and completion. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Apex Group June 2016 to Present Environment: - Oracle 10g, 11g RAC/12C Rac, 18c SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, EXPDP/IMPDP, OEM, RMAN, HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Sun Solaris, RedHat Linux, Windows, Data guard, ERWIN  Responsibilities:    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Successful implementation of Transparent Data Encryption  • Refresh/Cloning of Database and applications for development and testing purpose.  • Create Data Redaction Policy  • Setup Oracle Real Application Cluster for High Availability and Scalability  • 24 X 7 Production database administration, support  • Installation of Grid Infrastructure Installation RAC in Both GUI and NON GUI mode((RAC Silent Mode Installation), Troubleshoot failed root.sh and rerun of it,  • Data Migration  • Installation, Configuration and monitoring of Oracle Goldengate replication  • Database upgrade and data archiving  • Setup Oracle Active DataGuard  • Installation, configuration and monitoring of Oracle Goldengate replication.  • Promote script to purge audit trail files on all databases.  • Provide Oracle Application Server and Oracle APEX implementation and support.  • Provide 3rd level support for Oracle RAC, including applying patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery issues with RMAN/Data Protector, trace analysis, service creation, cluster and system management.  • Migration of large data from Exadata to RAC clustered environment.  • Migration of standalone databases to RAC and ASM.  • Hands on experience in creating application contest packages for VPD configuration  • Created login triggers to monitor users access in the database using VPD technology  • Created synonyms, objects and grants on security packages to users  • Created and applied security policies to VPD tables  • Creating duplicate databases for RAT Testing, and moving databases from EXADATA to RAC  environment.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High availability configuration.  • Installed OEM Grid Agents on UNIX, LINUX and Windows for monitoring of production databases.  • Implemented Oracle Database 11g, 2 node Real Application Cluster (RAC) using Oracle Cluster ware for achieving high Availability on ASM.  • Setup and maintain RMAN backup and recovery strategy for RAC and Single instance Databases.  • Worked on Oracle 9i to 10g/11g migration projects with low maintenance window and applied patches to various databases.  • Worked on OEM Grid Control 11g, scheduling and troubleshooting OEM jobs and deploying OEM agents. Scheduling Backup Jobs and troubleshooting failed jobs through OEM GC.  • Disaster recovery implementation using physical standby databases for high availability.  • Worked for Incident & Problem Management and Change Release Management to meet business SLAs (Service Level Agreement).  • Monitored the Performance of the migrated databases using grid Control and features AWR, ADDM, ASH and generated the reports for metric collection and health check of the databases. Oracle Database Administrator General Motors March 2014 to May 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Installation and management of 2-node RAC cluster on Linux.  • Implementation of physical database and database changes per logical design  • Performed upgrades and migrated several oracle 9i databases to 10G  • Oracle GoldenGate 11gR2/12c  • Created procedures, functions, packages, triggers, views, tables, indexes, table partitions, Partitioned indexes; synonyms and db links.  • Configured and maintained replication using Oracle Golden Gate  • Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 10g RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database (Data Guard), Materialized views, VCS, Streams Replication, Golden Gate.  • Interface with vendors, project implementation groups & end users for efficient service delivery.  • Performed data loading using SQL Loader, Export/Import, Data Pump.  • Managed database security - created users, roles, grating and revoking of privileges as required.  • Managing database storage and database space utilizations  • Interface with vendors, project implementation groups & end users.  • Attend DBA group in weekly change management meeting, where all planned production changes is approved prior to deployment.  • Installing new versions of the Oracle RDBMS and its tools and any other tools that access the Oracle database. Plans and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database. Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects. Troubleshoots with problems regarding the databases, applications and development tools.  • Setup and maintain RMAN backup and recovery strategy for RAC and Single instance Databases.  • Worked on Oracle 9i to 10g migration projects with low maintenance window and applied patches to various databases.  • Design, deployment, and management of enterprise Backup and Recovery strategies, using RMAN, Import/Export, Data Pump.  • Proactively monitoring and tuning of database performance using AWR and ADDM. Tune the various components of the database - Memory, CPU, I/O, and SQL statements.  • Creation and management of database objects - tables, Indexes, views, synonyms, snapshots, materialized views, stored procedures, triggers, table partitions and partitioned indexes.  • Develop and implement an Incident Reporting and Response System to address security incidents (breaches), respond to alleged policy violations, or complaints from external parties. IT Professional/Junior Oracle DBA BoxyPay January 2010 to August 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Automated DBA task utilizing SQL and UNIX shell  • Participated and supported Oracle server installations and standalone installations  • Worked on various types of system units monitoring and fixing technical problems that might possibly prevent the database instances from their daily run.  • Gather data/reporting and assists with the production and maintenance of operational database documentation, such as SQL Disaster Recovery Presentation, Naming Standards, Performance and Tuning.  • Monitor alert logs for database errors.  • Created tickets, prioritized and escalated issues using Remedy Connector based on SLAs.  • Extensive understanding of shell scripting to set Environments and shell Variables on Linux.  • Provide first and second level software and hardware support to end-users, technical users and at client sites.  • Skilled in handling distressed calls from different types of users.  • Application of quarterly CPU and PSU patches for Oracle Server.  • Responsible for maintaining and supporting an Oracle Database on windows and Unix.  • Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle ensuring fast access to business application.  • Managed project metrics and enhanced project development.  • Participated in a team that managed and administered multiple Oracle server instances installed on a windows server 2003 operating system consisted of multiple databases basically on tasks such as consistency checks, undertaking all sorts of backups on separate storage devices.  • Installed/re-installed Windows and Linux server.  • Resolved, traced and escalated critical issues to minimize project risk factors.  • Developing and performing unit and integration tests.  • Client demonstrations and user training. Education MSc in Business Administration University Phoenix BSc in Computer Science University of Ibadan Skills Data migration, Database, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql Dba, DBA, MYSQL, Oracle Dba, Sql Server Additional Information SKILLS  • Data Guard  • RMAN  • Real Application cluster (RAC), ASM  • DB Upgrade, Patching, Performance Tuning  • SQL Installation and Implementation  • Disaster Recovery, Backup and Recovery  • Golden Gate  • PLSQL  • Analytical and Leadership Skills  • Database Security  • Replication, log Shipping and Mirroring  • Integration and reporting Services  • Installing and Managing Clustered Nodes  • Strategic Planner  • DataPump, SQL*Loader, Transportable Tablespaces  • OEM (Cloud Control)    Operating Systems: Win. 95, 98 NT 4.0, 2000, 2003 Servers and XP and 7, Red Linux 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, IBM AIX Unix 5.x, 6.x 7.x and Oracle Solaris Unix 2.x; 8.x , 9.x, 10.x; HP.Unix 10.2 and 11.x    Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g Release 1 & 2; 11g Release 1 & 2; 12c Release 1 & 18c;    Applications: MS Word, Excel, Power point, Cyclone, Vertex, Master Tax, Extensity, EMC Documentum, Content Management and Filenet.    Tools: Erwin, MsTFS, OEM, Sqlplus, Server Manager, Toad, Quest Central for Oracle & SQL Loader, Datapump, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, Scheduler  Backup & amp; Recovery and High Availability Solutions: Automated shell scripts, Oracle DataGuard & RMAN, Veritas Clustering Services HA Solution  Technical Skills    • Over 8+ years of Oracle DBA experience in Production, Development and Test environments in various industries.  • Replication and Extracting data and applying on production using GoldenGate.    • Involved in Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patching, Backup and Recovery, Migration, Memory and Space Management, Cloning, Replication, Reporting, Performance Tuning, RMAN, RAC, Data Guard, OEM Grid Control.  • Hands on experience in configuration of VM machines for multi-tenant databases.  • Experience in creation/configuration and maintenance of Container Databases (CDBs) and Pluggable Databases (PDBs).  • Experience in a variety of hardware platforms including; MS-Windows 2008, 2012, Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX & AIX.  • Worked as a team member to provide 24x7 on-call production database support.  • Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN), Import/Export & Data pump, Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Data guard, database cloning, refresh and patch management.  • Good understanding knowledge in RAC and Oracle Streams.  • Disaster Recovery & Security Management and Documentation.  • Experience working with data warehousing (OLAP) applications, transactional database (OLTP) development, installing, configuring, administering, managing oracle databases, implementing solutions like High Availability (HA), Disaster Recovery, Cloning, and Database Security.  • Hands on experience in creating application contest packages for Virtual Private Database (VPD) configuration.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 10g/11g and 12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration, RAC Installation using ASM, Grid Installation.), Patching, RAC Backup, adding a node to existing cluster database for High Availability and Recovery.  • Experience in Implementing, configuring, trouble shooting, switchover, failover of Physical Standby Data Guard on 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Experience in Oracle 18c  • Configured and maintained replication using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Experience in Cumulative and Differential Incremental backups using RMAN.  • Having good knowledge on EXADATA and Involved in moving databases from EXADATA to RAC environment.  • Used ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor), AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), and ASH (Active Session History) for analyzing the database performance and tuning.  • Experience in Database Upgrades in 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Experience in Data Migration using Data pump utility, Non RAC to RAC and Non ASM to ASM.  • Database Refresh from Production to Development and from Development to Test environments.  • Replication of tables to cross platform and Creating Materialized Views  • Managing Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  • Planning and scheduling Physical Backups (offline/online) and Logical Backups.  • Experience in implementing Flash Back Pointing Time Recovery.  • Experience in Space Management by Monitoring and Managing Tablespaces.  • Experience in UNIX shell programming.  • Expertise in Oracle 11g, 12C, 18C, ASM, RAC, OEM, Data Guard, RMAN and Shell Script  • Knowledge of data flow diagrams, data dictionary techniques, CASE tools, Entity-relation modeling and design techniques.