Database Administrator and Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Developer Database Administrator and Developer - BCBS of North Dakota Fargo, ND ? Over 6 years of experience in Microsoft SQL Server Database Developer and Database Administration (2005, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017) in Data Warehouse Environment (OLTP and OLAP), Production, Development and Staging.  ? Worked and gained experience with RedGate development tool.  ? Experience in regression test upgrade from different SQL Server versions.  ? Experience in implementing Data warehouse solutions in Confidential Redshift; Worked on various projects to migrate data from on premise databases to Confidential Redshift.  ? Experience on Cloud Databases and Data warehouses (SQL Azure and Confidential Redshift/RDS).  ? Adaptive to Cloud Strategies based on AWS  ? Experience in installing and configuring SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016.  ? Gained experience in installing and configuring the development versions of SQL Server 2014.  ? Gained experience in migrating servers from SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  ? Excellence in Data Migration by using tools like Migration Wizard, Import Export Data, Bulk Insert, BCP, SSIS, and SQL Server Upgrade Advisor.  ? Qualified in Staging, Production, Testing, UAT and Development server's maintenance related financial, manufacturing and health care domain.  ? Possess theoretical knowledge on AlwaysON.  ? Adequate knowledge of SDLC and ITILMethodologies in regards to IT Infrastructure Management.  ? Exceptional skills in Agile Development and Test Driven Development  ? Extensive knowledge in writing Store procedures, try-catch blocks, analyzing query plans, using extended managing indexes and locks, troubleshooting deadlocks and blocking, monitoring baselines and threshold values.  ? Experience in configure/monitor/support of Transactional Replication, Merge Replication, Snapshot, Log shipping and Database Mirroring for various databases on Geo-graphically separated cluster environments that provides Disaster Recovery and High Availability.  ? Experience in Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, Query Optimization to analyze the execution plans and performance of SQL Servers.  ? Expertise in Performance tuning, DMV'S, DMF'S, analyzing Locks, Dead Locks and Handling the Isolation Level and Concurrency Effects.  ? Possess hands on experience in administrative activities comprising Database Health Check, Index Optimization, Updating Statistics, and Client/Server Connectivity.  ? Experience in verifying and tuning stored procedures created by developers using Execution plans, SQL Server Profiler, Data Tuning Advisor and maintenance tasks.  ? Worked on Erwin modeling tool to design database objects and Architecture.  ? Expert in developing automated notification with SQL Server Backups, Restores, scheduling and maintaining jobs (Jobs, Alerts, Emails, Notification).  ? Expertise in Deploying and consolidating Remote Sequel Server instances.  ? Experience in PowerShell script for SQL Server Maintenance activities.  ? Expertise in Maintaining and Configuring the Database Snapshots.  ? Experience in scheduling Jobs on Log Shipping and Maintenanceplans using Native & Third-party tools (LiteSpeed, RedGate and Native SQL Backup).  ? Gained experience in Monitoring, Tuning SQL Server and database performance using Index Tuning Wizard, Windows Performance Monitor.  ? Experience in managing database systems using Query Governor and Activity Monitor.  ? Experts in PostgreSQL Database Performance and Statement Tuning  ? Knowledgeable in All Major Releases of PostgreSQL Running on All Supported Operating System Versions  ? Maintenance of PostgreSQL RFID tracking databases.  ? Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems  ? Skillful in designing and deploying the reports for End-User requests using Web Interface and SSRS (Ad-hoc Reporting).  ? Worked on testing methodologies and tools like Rally- Automation and Performance testing.  ? Experience in using SQL Object Level Audits using Change Data Capture (CDC), Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  ? Expert in implementing efficient Database Design principles including Partitions and Backup Compression Techniques.  ? Participated in SQL Server Storage Structures and Security Architecture for databases residing on SAN storage on distributed systems.  ? Expert in automating process by creating maintenance jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent.  ? Experience in providing off hours production support for 24x7 over weekends on rotation basis.  ? Skilled at meeting deadlines, easily adaptive to various project environments, flexible to work with different teams across geographical locations.  ? Good at time management, have good interpersonal skills and being an outstanding team player. Work Experience Database Administrator and Developer BCBS of North Dakota - Fargo, ND October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install and upgrade SQL servers from 2005 to 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016.  • Implement, maintain and document the Backup and Recovery plans of all databases.  • Responsible for Scheduling Tasks, Setting Alerts, Managing Task Scheduling, setting up SQL Mail, Managing Alerts, Monitoring and Tuning SQL Server, and to suggest the scheduling strategies to overcome Blocking and Dead Locks in jobs.  • Responsible for executing Data Migrations from multiple database structures using SSIS Review and Migrated Stored Procedure.  • Install, create and configure Reporting Services, and Monitored Reports.  • Worked more on Data Maintenance like Re-indexing, Integrity Checking and Database Shrinking.  • Responsible in preparing documentation on Disaster Recovery plan.  • Monitor and tune SQL scripts, create and upgrade scripts for production database.  • Responsible for Maintaining Production Servers, Monitoring Performance issues, Troubleshooting and solving production issues.  • Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Created and maintain the Users Security Permissions and Migration of entire database objects between multiple servers and multiple databases.  • Responsible in handling tasks like assigning user's permissions and space issues on production and production servers.  • Responsible for performance, security and availability of databases.  • Develop database objects like Tables, Indexes, Store procedures, Triggers, Views etc.  • Responsible to write and optimize SQL statements.  • Responsible to prepare documentation and specification.  • Responsible to modify store procedures and views according to the business requirement.  • Responsible to design, code, and implement software solutions using multiple techniques.  • Provide database development assistance in creating specific applications for businesses. Microsoft SQL Server Programmer Carestream Health Inc - Rochester, NY November 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to write and optimize SQL statements.  • Responsible for performance, security and availability of databases.  • Responsible to prepare documentation and specification.  • Responsible to modify store procedures and views according to the business requirement.  • Responsible to design, code, and implement software solutions using multiple techniques.  • Expertise in Transact-SQL (DDL, DML, DCL) and in Design and Normalization of the database tables.  • Experience in implementing business logic using Triggers, Indexes, Views and Stored procedures.  • Developed User Defined Functions and created Views.  • Extensive Knowledge of advance query concepts.  • Experience with tools like SQL Server management studio and SQL Server 2005/2008 integration (SSIS) and reporting services (SSRS).  • Proficient in Tuning T-SQL queries to improve the database performance and availability.  • Experienced hands in Query tuning and performance tuning.  • Experience in monitoring SQL Server Performance using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Windows Performance Monitor.  • Provide database development assistance in creating specific applications for businesses.  • Provide general support on IT to design, develop, execute, and maintain the database application systems.  • Responsible to understand the code written in store procedures and views  • Responsible to understand the methodology for code design.  • Responsible to write or modify store procedures and views as per business requirement.  • Responsible to develop data for testing.  • Get familiarity with RedGate tool and learn to work on it.  • Monitor and tune SQL scripts, create and upgrade scripts for production database.  • Work on every database administration environment including backups and recovery.  • Develop documentation for technical deliverables according to the internal controls to satisfy the maintenance responsibilities and to forward on to the production support team.  • Develop database objects like Tables, Indexes, Store procedures, Triggers, Views etc.  • Identify columns for Primary Keys in all the tables at the design time and create them.  • Responsible to understand Agile development methodology and contribute to the team.  • Responsible to get involved in Sprint Plan meetings.  • Participate in discussions in understand the requirements and provide the back-end functionality for the applications.    Environment: SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS Windows Server 2008/2008R2/2012, RedGate, Rally, SQL Azure. SQL Server Database Administrator Credit Suisse Bank - New York, NY April 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed and upgraded SQL servers from 2005 to 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and 2014.  • Created and maintained Database mirroring keeping Replication and automatic failover.  • Worked more on Data Maintenance like Re-indexing, Integrity Checking and Database Shrinking.  • Responsible in preparing documentation on Disaster Recovery plan.  • Implemented, maintained and documented the Backup and Recovery plans of all databases.  • Responsible for Scheduling Tasks, Setting Alerts, Managing Task Scheduling, setting up SQL Mail, Managing Alerts, Monitoring and Tuning SQL Server, and also to suggest the scheduling strategies to overcome Blocking and Dead Locks in jobs.  • Responsible for executing Data Migrations from multiple database structures using SSIS Review and Migrated Stored Procedure.  • Installed, created and configured Reporting Services, and Monitored Reports.  • Responsible to work on package migration wizard in SQL Server 2005 to migrate to SSIS, SSIS Package Configuration and passing variables dynamically and using SSIS Logging.  • Implemented Disaster Recovery for SQL Server DBA Production Database as Fail-Over or Standby Servers.  • Responsible for Maintaining Production Servers, Monitoring Performance issues, Trouble shooting and solving production issues.  • Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages and notified process results to various user communications.  • Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Created and maintain the Users Security Permissions and Migration of entire database objects between multiple servers and multiple databases.  • Involve in partitioning of databases to improve query performance and reduce the server load.  • Responsible in handling DBA tasks like assigning user's permissions and space issues on production and production servers.  • Worked on improving the performance of a Stored Procedures and other database related objects.  • Acquired experience on SQL PowerShell provider on Central Management Server (CMS).  • Developed PowerShell modules in C# and PowerShell featuring command lets to interface with Secret Server and SQL.  • Automated in-house hedging system utilizing PowerShell and BMC's Control-M scheduler.  • Implemented PowerShell remoting and script execution.  • Enhanced team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch files, PowerShell, VBScript  • Enhanced team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch files, PowerShell, VBScript  • Installed SQL 2012/2014 with AlwaysON.  • Created AlwaysON with two and three replica.  • Implemented transactional replication and mirroring on part of AlwaysON availability Group.  • Enabled and created AlwaysON Availability Groups, AlwaysON Availability with Transactional Replication and Distributed AlwaysON Availability Groups on the SQL Server instances to host databases for Data Warehouse applications.  • Optimizing and tuning the Redshift environment, enabling queries to perform faster for Tableau and SAS Visual Analytics.  • Wrote various data normalization jobs for new data ingested into Redshift.  • Experienced on performing in-depth Root Cause Analysis(RCA) on variety of SQL Server related issues.  • Resolved blocking and long running queries issues and performing a Root Cause Analysis (RCA).  • Defined and deployed monitoring, metrics, and logging systems on AWS.    Environment: SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS Windows Server 2008/2008R2/2012, PostgreSQL, Solar winds, SQL Sentry,SCOM, Confidential Redshift, AWS Data Pipeline SQL Server Database Administrator HDS- Hitachi Data Systems - Denver, CO May 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Administrated and managed SQL server 2008 highly transitive in both Production and Active passive clustered environments.  • Worked on database up to the size of 2TB.  • Migrated the databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2008 and documented the process from Pre-Migration and Post-Migration steps.  • Handled Memory configurations for SQL Server 2000 and 2008 on Windows 2008.  • As a part of Security policies, implemented SQL Principle, Securable, Permissions, Roles and Authentication Modes for users.  • Worked with the RedGate tools to some extent, like for Database comparison and creation of the test data.  • Migrated DTS packets to SSIS packages designed and developed SSIS packages using Control Flow Tasks, Transformations and Dataflow Tasks.  • Monitored and modified the performance using Execution plans and Index Tuning.  • Worked on Recovering techniques on Systems and user databases from suspect mode.  • Worked in Sizing and utilizing the Temp database in efficient way.  • Utilized Log shipping for synchronization of database.  • Worked on documentation of Disaster Recovery plan.  • Worked on implementing topics like CLR integration on Development server.  • Wrote and debugged Stored Procedures and (DDL/DML) Triggers, Functions according to the clients' requirements.  • Worked on Troubleshooting and Fine-tuning of database for its performance.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery.  • Worked on Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  • Familiar and experienced with ITIL and change control methodologies.  • Performed changes in accordance with ITIL standards.  • Handled Database Refresh in QA-Test environment for testing deployments and Build.  • Worked on jobs like Backups and Restores.  • Gained hands on experience in data modeling, metadata services and troubleshooting database issues.  • Responsible for updating statistics, database integrity check and Backup operations.  • Expertise in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Monitored SQL server performance using profiler to check the performance and Dead locks.  • Worked on call 24/7 support on weekly basis.  • Worked on Repositories like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual source safe and Clear Case for Data Archival.  • Planning and gathering the requirements for setting up TFS environments for environment based migration and up gradation.  Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012 with clustering, Replication, T-SQL, Windows 2003/2008/2008R2/2012 64-bit, PostgreSQL,BugZilla, DTS, SSIS, RedGate, Profiler, MOM, SQL Sentry, Share point, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, TFS, VSTS, LiteSpeed. Database Administrator/Developer - SQL Sunera Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured SQL Server 2005, and on migrating from SQL server 2000 to 2005.  • Worked on backups, DBCC utilities, updated index statistics, monitored database and disk space.  • Worked on implementing Database Mirroring on MS SQL Server 2005 and database security.  • Responsible for installing and maintained 2-Node (Active-Passive), Clustering as a High availability solution.  • Worked with Transactional Replication to achieve Load balancing.  • Worked on migration and maintenance of data with various tools like DTS.  • Created and maintained databases, logins, users, indexes that help in improve the speed of execution of data retrieve quires and storing procedures, tables, roles, stored procedures, permissions and many other schema objects.  • Monitoring the SQL server performance using profiler to check the performance, deadlocks, blockings and capturing long running SQL queries for fine-tuning SQL statements for accurate results in SQL statement processing.  • Worked in applying Service packs at database and OS level.  • Co-ordinated with the development team for optimizing SQL quires and stored procedures.  • Worked on scheduling the backups for Databases and Transaction logs, and performing restoration operations.  • Worked to setup SQL Server configuration settings.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plans and disaster recovery strategies.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning and index tuning.  • Worked on Fail over Clustering for SQL Server databases for mission critical applications.  • Worked on providing necessary data validation checks against the data entry.  • Worked on performance monitor and SQL Profiler to minimize queries and improve the performance of database servers.  • Worked on Spot Light from quest to perform data base health checks.  • Worked on Lite speed backup with MS SQL SERVER 2005and gained extensive knowledge.  • Installed, configured, administered and helped in securing the production and non-production servers.  • Involved in capacity planning and sizing for new database servers.  • Worked on Snapshot Replication. Worked on Client/Server tools like SQL Server Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer to administer SQL Server.  • Responsible to minimize and troubleshoot the production down issues.  • Worked on creating T-SQL, T-SQL scripts, PL/SQL packages, procedures, functions, triggers and alerts, scripts for automation and DTS packages for ETL.  • Responsible to maintain the user account administration for Different domains.    Environment: SQL Server 2005,2008,2008R2, Transact-SQL, Share point, IIS 6.0, SCOM, OEM and VERITAS Net Backup, SQL Profiler, SSIS, SSRS. VB 6, MS Excel Windows 2008/2003, Microsoft Visio 2000. Education Master's Skills Data modeling, Database, Microsoft access, Sql server, Sql server 2005 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C, BS, SQL, TSQL  RDBMS MS-SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017, Microsoft Access, PostgreSQL.  ETL Tools SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) 2005/2008/2008R2/2012, DTS, AWS Data pipeline  OLAP Tools SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) 2005/2008/2008R2/2012.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2005/2008, Crystal Reports.  Database Tools  SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio (BIDS), Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Redshift, SQL Azure.    Operating Systems Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012, Linux, Unix.  Data Modeling Tools Erwin, Agile  Performance Tools Spotlight, Foglight, Idera, Tivoli, SCOM.  Backup tools Idera, Litespeed, Native Backup, RedGate.  Testing Tool Rallyx'