Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Delta Air Lines Eagan, MN Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Delta Air Lines - Minneapolis, MN July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administer and created production, development, and test Oracle 12c,11g databases hosted on AIX, Linux, Sun-Solaris and Windows Server.  • Support Incident tickets, 24/7, on-callforproduction database for developers and end-users.  • Trained in Exadata for setting/implementing Exadata for New datacenter migrations.  • Monitoring Exadata systems using OEM 13c, Sundiag and Exachk utility.  • Experienced in creation of 12c databases on Exadata Full-rack/Half rack/Quarter rack.  • Software and firmware maintenance of the Exadata storage servers in the Database machine including routine health check, patch plan and upgrades according to the suggestions from Oracle support department.  • Experience in migration of databases to Exadata using EXPDP/IMPDP and GoldenGate.  • Database migration strategy to relocate databases to new Linux, AIX and windows servers.  • Performed Migration and Upgradation of databases to 12c and 11gR2.  • Successfully created and setup Oracle databases 12c on Linux 6.7.  • Knowledge of new features in 12c including creation ofContainer and Pluggable databases.  • Installed and configured GoldenGate for replication.  • Upgrading Goldengate versions from 11g to 12c and converting Extracts/Replicats from classic to integrated mode.  • GoldenGate setup at both object level and schema level in uni and bi-directional.  • Configured Manager Process to automate purging of the old trail files.  • Created and monitored Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies for securing sensitive data in PI tables.  • Performing the Yearly Standby- Dataguard Tests (Fail-over/Switch over) using DG Broker.  • Implemented Oracle Active-Data Guard for maintained Oracle disaster recovery.  • Configuration, maintenance and tuning of 11g R2 on Two-node RAC Cluster  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using AWR/ADDM/OEM 13c.  • Creating and rebuilding indexes and optimizing the code to improve the performance.  • Troubleshooting on bad query performance by generating, analyzing AWR& ADDM report.  • Recommending application for any SQL_ID changes for any query.  • Installation of 11g, 12c oracle client on the Application servers.  • Worked closely with developers for DDL deployments in various environments.  • Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Securing stored data for PCI application (Payment card information) using oracle transparent data encryption by installing TDE wallet and creating encrypted tablespaces and storing sensitive data in encrypted tablespaces.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, monitoring alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs.  • Worked on Schema and Table Refresh Requests using import/export.  • Setup backup, recovery procedures and Point in time recovery using RMAN.  • Restore the database by creating a restore point using flashback.  • Applying Patches on 10g/11g database, Quarterly released PSUs by Oracle.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g,RAC, ASM, Data Guard, GoldenGate,Exadata, Rman, Data Pump, Cassandra 2.x/3.x , AIX 5.3, Red Hat Linux 6/7, Grid Control (OEM) 12c and 13c. Oracle DBA Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL February 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Install, upgrade and maintain Oracle 12c/11gR2/10g on Linux, Sun Solaris and Windows.  • Installed GoldenGate on 11gR2 and configured unidirectional and Bi-directional replication.  • Worked on Golden Gate upgrades from Version 12.1.2.1.0 to 12.1.2.1.10.  • Performed Golden Gate configuration changes to Manager / Extract and Replicat.  • Created multiple standby databases and changed to Snap shot standby database using data guard broker for Application testing.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle Audit Vault and Database Firewall for collecting audit data from multiple databases.  • Installation, setup and configuration of Data Guard for mission critical databases.  • Supported disaster recovery by opening the standby databases in read write mode.  • Set up scripts to monitor log apply on Standby Database.  • Checking for performance impact on the database during load test by application.  • Tuning SQL Query, suggesting application to change code for better performance.  • Experience in active duplication, restoration of databases using RMAN.  • Implementing Database Security, Management of role-based security.  • Applying patches and Oracle DST Patches to 10g/11g databases.  • Manage Oracle RAC database configurations using GoldenGate and Data Guard to ensure maximum availability and data protection.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Daily DBA activities like Tuning of SQL/PLSQL, Performance Tuning, Database auditing and managing user groups, Database security, OS space monitoring etc.  • Analysing the top long running and most resource consuming SQL statements, finding root cause of slowness, generating the best solution based on available situation.  • Created and monitored Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies for securing sensitive data in PI tables.  • Analyze the database performance and performed database performance tuning.  • Write and modify Unix shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Experience in Database design on OLTP and OLAP databases and maintained database security create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges.  • Logical and physical data modeling using Erwin, Dimensional/OLAP Data Modeling, Relational/OLTP modeling.  • Analyze the database performance and performed database performance tuning.  • Used PL/SQL, SQL Loader as part of ETL process to populate the operational data store.  • Performed scheduling Control-M for scheduling jobs.  • Using Expdp and Impdp utility, upgraded the database from 10g to 11gR2.  • Addition of ASM disks to a database disk group.    Environment:Oracle 12c/11g, Data Guard, Golden Gate,RAC, ASM,PL/SQL, SQL plus, Toad, 12c Grid control Enterprise Manager, Rman, Data Pump, Oracle Virtual Private Database(VPD), Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux (RHEL). Oracle DBA State of Connecticut - Hartford, CT August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Coordinate in meetings and providing solutions to mission critical relational databases.  • Installation and setting up of 10g and 11g RAC with ASM on AIX 5.3/6 and Red Hat 5.  • Implemented Oracle Data guard for maintained oracle disaster recovery.  • Configuration, maintenance and tuning of 11gR2 Two node RAC Cluster.  • Worked closely with application teams in the migration process of the 9i and 10g databases doing performance testing and designing optimal migration process.  • Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Involved in the process of tuning and refining queries of various applications.  • Perform the Yearly Standby- Data guard Tests (Fail-over/Switch over) using DG Broker.  • Co-ordinate with Unix Administrators for space management on various servers and help in Oracle installation, upgrading according to the standards & Quality assurance.  • Supported in Oracle 10g/9i OLTP/OLAP Over TB on 24*7 Production Environment.  • Experience in using the 11gR2's new features Database and Sql Performance Analyzer.  • Manage data architects, data administrators and client requests.  • Creating and rebuilding indexes and optimizing the code to improve the performance.  • Have done database backup and recovery using (Cold backup/ Hot backup/ Logical).  • Setup backup and recovery procedures using Rman/Snapshot backup Mirroring for high volume DBs.  • Upgrade and Migration of Database from 9.2 to 10g/11g.  • Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Profiling, OS Authentication.    Environment:SUN Solaris 9.0,RHEL 5.2, PL/SQL Developer,Toad, ASM, Data Guard, Oracle 11g/10g, RAC, Oracle 11g, Oracle Streams, Auto-Sys, SQL*Plus, OEM, Grid Control. Oracle DBA TCF Bank - Milwaukee, WI January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed Oracle Database 11g with Real Application Cluster (RAC) with CRS and ASM in SOLARIS environment.  • Configured RAC Physical standby database for RAC primary using ASM filesystem.  • Worked on creation and deletion of RAC resources like listener/instance and database.  • Tuned databases for memory tuning by adjusting Buffer cache size, log switches and reducing check pointing, increasing sort area sizes, shared pool area, prioritizing oracle processes and increasing SGA overall  • Securing stored data using oracle transparent data encryption by installing TDE wallet and creating encrypted tablespaces and storing sensitive data in encrypted tablespaces.  • Capacity Planning and Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle instances using Oracle Enterprise Manager, monitor users, table spaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs and alerts.  • Data migration between environments using Export/Import, expdp/impdp, Transportable Tablespace and Oracle Streams.  • Implemented GoldenGate on Oracle 10g for replication.  • Worked on development of PL/SQL stored procedures and Triggers.  • Applying upgrade patches, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases.  • Performance monitoring and tuning the database using OEM, AWR and ADDM analysis.  • Written Shell scripting which monitors the server's performance and logs output on periodic basis to database.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, RAC, Rman, PL/SQL,Stored Procedures, SQL*Loader, Toad for Oracle, OEM, SQL Loader, Unix, Solaris, Linux, AIX 5.x, Windows. Oracle DBA AIG, Fortworth, TX July 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Installation and Maintenance of Oracle 10g, 11gR2 RAC on IBM-AIX, LINUX platforms.  • Involved in upgrading and migrating the databases from 10g to 11gR2.  • Implemented the Oracle 11g, Physical Data Guard in Maximum performance mode for production system in case of disaster recovery, maintained primary and standby databases.  • Applied Patches on RAC, Standalone, Standby databases based on the requirements.  • Evaluated mix of backup and recovery methods based on organizational needs. Implemented, tested and documented backup/recovery scenarios for knowledge base.  • Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment & Load balancing of RAC instances.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Performed Table Partitioning, created Index Organized tables and locally managed Tablespaces.  • Monitored and provided weekly reports on the server's memory, disk and CPU I/O using HP tools and UNIX command-line utilities.  • Planned and configured disk layout, mount points and capacity requirements for servers.  • Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and generated AWR, ADDM reports to get RCA on contention issues.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Administered (10g/11gR2 RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR, SQL Profiles and SQL Tuning Advisor.    Environment:IBM-AIX, Oracle10g/11gR2, RAC, Toad, OEM, Data Guard, Rman, Data Pump,Diagnostic and Tuning Advisors. Education Bachelor's Skills Cache, Data manipulation, Database administration, Database, Ddl, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oltp, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Sql queries, Aix, Apache, Hp ux, Linux, Red hat Additional Information Summary of Skills:  ? Around 10 years experience in Oracle Database Administration 12c/11g/10g/9i on mission critical Tier-1 large OLTP and OLAP systems in AIX, Sun Solaris, Linux, HP UX and Windows  ? Experience in Installation, configuration and 24/7 database support onOracle 12c, 11g, 10g.  ? Experienced in Upgradation and Migration of Oracle Database across various platforms.  ? Worked on Oracle RAC, GoldenGate and Exadata X7, X5machines.  ? Hands On experience in implementing Data masking policies for protecting the sensitive data in the database.  ? Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, and Flash Cache.  ? Worked closely with Oracle support for Exadata firmware patching to latest release.  ? Configured GoldenGate for extraction and replication of transactional Data Manipulation Language (DML) operations and Data Definition Language (DDL) changes.  ? Knowledge on implementing the cloud services with SAAS/PAAS/IAAS.  ? Knowledge on implementing the cloud services with AWS and using RDS migrating on-premises relational databases like Oracle, SQL Server.  ? Have good knowledge on support Oracle on AWS and supporting other AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, etc.  ? Experience in NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB and CouchDB.  ? Installed, Configured and supported multiple Cassandra clusters.  ? Worked on Apache Cassandra database 2.x/3.x and DataStaxEnterprise 5.0/6.0.  ? Experience in verifying, managing and reviewing Cassandra database logs, re-writing SQL queries using CQL.  ? Planned and implemented Disaster Recovery and high availability solutions on Oracle 11g standby database.  ? Experience with Installation, configuration Oracle 11g R1/R2 RAC Two/four node server.  ? Worked on 11g RAC utilities like SRVCTL, CRSCTL, OCRDUMP, OCRCHECK and OCRCONFIG.  ? Implemented automated backup using the Unix Shell script and Cron utility.  ? Expertise in Oracle Enterprise Manager, Grid Control and configuring metrics and alerts.  ? Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as user management (synonyms/privileges, roles, quotas, table partitioning, index, sequence, space management table spaces, rollback segment), monitoring (alert log, memory, disk I/O, CPU, network activity).  ? Implemented enterprise databases for enterprise storage solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS).  ? Designed, implemented Backup, Recovery and Cloned active databases using Rman.  ? Performance Tuning, Application, System Global Area, I/O, Rollback segments using tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad, Explain Plan, Tkprof, Grid control and Awr reports.  ? Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binaries, Listener, TNS Names, SQL Net, Rman, Data Guard, Capacity planning, Patch Management V$ and DBA views.    Technical Skills:    Database: Oracle 12c/11g, Exadata, MS SQL Server 2008/2005,  Cassandra 3.x/2.x, MongoDB, CouchDB  Languages: SQL, CQL,PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripting, C#, C, C++, XML.  Application/Tools: Oracle12c/11g/9i,GoldenGate, Data Guard, OEM 12c/13cRecovery Manager(Rman), Datastax Opscenter, Devcenter Statspack, Erwin, Veritasnet Backup, SQL Loader, Toad 12.x/13.x, PL/SQL Developer 12.x/13.x,ServiceNow  Operating System: Red Hat Linux 6.x/7.x, HP-UX 10.x/11.x, Sun Solaris 10/9, AIX 6.x/7.x, and Windows 10/9/8  Network Protocol: NFS, SFTP, FTP,DNS, DHCP  Cloud Platform: Amazon AWS, OpenStack