SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - Wells Fargo Experienced SQL Database Administrator worked on different projects and supported Production and Development environments. Experienced in MS SQL from 2008 - 2016 versions. Self -motivated, well organized a conscientious and dedicated team player with passion. Work Experience SQL Server DBA Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2018 to Present • Migrate databases from 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 SQL servers to 2017 SQL shared environment (DAN - Database Area Neighborhood environment)  • Prepare Estate Analysis and documents for pre-migration tasks for 2008, 2008R, 2012 and 2014 server environments  • Work on Agile environment for delivering the project  • Create DB shells, users, map login permission and service accounts with the AD group on the targeted server  • Back-up databases from the source server and restore on the target server  • Create, modify and test various SQL queries, stored procedures and views to obtain data from diverse source systems and platforms on test server  • Test databases on the new targeted servers and troubleshoot issues if there is any in collaboration with the application team and the database owners  • Communicate with Application teams to identify and standardize databases according to DAN requirements  • Identify and prepare DAN ineligible databases for remediation with collaboration of App teams  • Identify retired databases and process decommissioning  • Identify and process the transfer of out of scope databases to the company's current standard platforms  • Analyze problems as assigned and provide solutions to address business needs.  • Research for new technologies for opportunities to consolidate and automate tasks.    SQL Server DBA Bridge IT Support Alexandria, VA May 2016 to July 2018 * Administered and managed 2012 and 2014 Development and Production SQL Servers.  * Upgraded servers from 2008 to 2014 for both in place and parallel servers.  * Migrated databases, logins, users, alerts, operators, scheduled maintenance jobs, mail profilers, linked servers using SSIS and SSMS tools.  * Used ETL tools to extract, transform and load data from different sources such as Linked Severs, MS Excel, MS Access, CSV and Oracle to SQL Server.  * Administered database security: creating and auditing logins, users, assigning permission roles and encrypting on column level.  * Designed automated schedule maintenances: database backups, maintenance cleanup, index reorganize and rebuild, Index statistics and database integrity check.  * Configured and implemented high availability and disaster recovery solutions using database technologies: Log Shipping, Mirroring, Always on and Replication.  * Troubleshoot Server performance issues using SQL Tools: execution plans, DBCC Traces-ons, statistics, indexing, tuning wizard, SQL profiler and third party tool: Idera.  * Involved in designing a multitude application utilizing AWS tools (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, IAM) focusing on high-availability and auto-scaling.  * Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions and configured Security group for EC2 Window  * Managed and generated reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  * Installed, configured and worked on VM platforms: HyperV  * Created various scripts using T-SQL: familiarize with the main data manipulation and data definition languages and the principles of database design.  * Created, managed and maintained Data Flow Diagrams using third party tools: Visual Paradigm and MS Visio.  * Reviewed and optimized store procedures, indexes and table trending data flows.  * Managed and deployed different packages on SQL VM and Production Server environment.  * Deployed database change scripts on Development and Production servers.  * Provide 24/7 technical database support for SQL Database servers. SQL Server Database Administrator Ethiopian Airlines - Addis Ababa, ET October 2013 to April 2016 * Worked on SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012 for database schema design, table structures, SQL queries and integration of data sources.  * Installed, upgrade and configured SQL Server on Production and Development servers.  * Performed all day-to-day aspects of SQL database administration: responsibilities include database design, security, performance monitoring and tuning, database availability, backup and recovery and troubleshooting  * Handled and understood client requirements, building new territories and expanding opportunities towards the achievement of stated objectives.  * Created database schema: Tables, Views, writing Stored Procedures, Functions using T-SQL.  * Created and maintained documentation for DBA standard operating procedures.  * Supported clustered and non-clustered environments as well as log shipping for disaster recovery.  * Created and maintained different Maintenance Plans: jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, index reorganization and rebuild.  * Worked closely with Project Manager, Programmers, Application Team and Testers to ensure the application meets the business requirements. Junior Data Base Administrator Commercial Nominees - Addis Ababa, ET July 2012 to September 2013 • Worked on SQL Server 2008 environment  • Strongly Proficiency in relational database management  • Experienced in database architecture and program design  • Worked and experienced in database backup, Restore and Point-in-Time Recovery  • Provide customer assistance and support pertaining to database system queries and complains    ENVIROMENT  • SQL Server Administation - 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 • Performance Tuning: SQL Server Profiler, ADERA  • Integration Tools: SQL Server Intergration Services (SSIS) • Cloud: AWS  • Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) • Vmware: Hyper-V  • Others: MS Office, MS Visio, Visual Paradigm Education Bachelor's Degree in Marketing Management in Marketing Management Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET September 2004 to July 2008 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mahlet-fekade