Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - DXC New Orleans, LA I have 4+ years of hands-on experience of Agile Methodology and Waterfall framework and have worked on Agile frameworks such as Scrum and Kanban as a Certified Scrum Master. My 7+ overall years in an IT environment, dealing with multiple software life cycles from concept, design, development, testing and delivery have given me seasoned experience as a Scrum Master. I am a goal-oriented, result-driven individual with outstanding professional capabilities which cuts across all levels of an organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master DXC - New Orleans, LA March 2019 to Present • Act as a leader to our software development team  • Facilitate daily scrums, stand-ups, and meetings to monitor project progress and resolve any issues the team may be experiencing  • Shape team behavior through excellent management via the agile method  • Perform reviews on software development team members  • Remove project obstacles, develop solutions with team  • Ensure milestones are reached and deadlines are met throughout project lifecycle  • Build strong relationships with stakeholders, application users, and product owners  • Document progress and communicate to upper management and stakeholders  • Use Jira and confluence for project tracking Scrum Master Technica LLC - Albany, GA November 2015 to 2019 • Upgrade to 12c Weblogic Application DISA STIG, With collaboration from out team and business partners, a backlog was developed.  • I used my IT knowledge to interpret business requirements into system specifications, write stories for development deliverables and assigned tasks.  • I used the agile manner to manage large and complex projects by scheduling and facilitating daily scrum meetings, retrospects, sprint planning and backlog grooming.  • Analyze development and document all plans and procedures.  • Schedule and facilitate scrum ceremonies; daily scrum, sprint planning, sprint reviews/ demo and retrospective.  • Followed with good interpersonal relationship and communication skills, both with technical and non-technical audience.  • Experienced with tool; Jira.  • By understanding and tracking the values and commitments of the development team based on their capacity and velocity.  • Helped balance prioritization of technical features and software delivery by creating a positive and easy communication channel (team, product owner, stakeholders).  • Strongly knowledgeable with the Agile methodologies; Scrum, Kanban, Lean SAFe, etc.  • Properly manage the backlog and aid team in determining suitable commitments for product backlog items and sprints.  • Understanding the incremental delivery, backlog tracking and the value metrics (burn down chart metrics, average velocity and the tasked definition).  • Facilitated discussion and facilitate consist Transparency, Inspection and Adaption throughout the process in ways that will promote value to the organization.  • Ensured extrinsic transparency is baked into the culture of the team to facilitate real-time knowledge sharing with the business.  • Build a trusting environment where the team is comfortable raising issues without fear of blame, retribution, or being judged, with an emphasis on problem solving.  • Facilitated evolution of trust and foster collaboration amongst the larger team inclusive of goals, plans, and obstacles thereby growing trust amongst the team, with the business and all other stakeholders.  • As a database administration for over 7years, I used skills to worked on most versions of Oracle databases ignorer to achieve our goal as a team. DBA/ Automation Engineer IPsoft Inc - New York, NY July 2013 to October 2015 • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment.  • Load balancing of RAC instances.  • Monitoring space, wait events, locks and long operations running on the database.  • Monitoring the session waits for the database performance and resolving the performance issues.  • Monitoring the database for growth and added space to the table spaces as per demand.  • Generating AWR/statspack reports on regular basis to identify the database performance at peak load.  • Taking care of database by checking the size the database and addition of table spaces, data files.  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Creating and scheduling Oracle backend process jobs in Crontab.  • Handled all standard database administrative tasks, such as proactive performance tuning and monitoring, troubleshooting on an as needed basis.  • Implement and troubleshoot Oracle Grid Control and multiple Grid Agents.  • Monitored daily backups using RMAN and Export/Import.  • Establish refresh jobs for test databases using Export-Import and RMAN DUPLICATE option.  • Regularly applying Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches to DEV, TEST and Production databases to mitigate security risks and fix bugs.  • Moving large amount of data Administered (12c RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Evaluated mix of backup and recovery methods based on organizational needs.  • Implemented, tested and documented various backup/recovery scenarios for knowledge base.  • Experience on working with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Used Data Pump for export and import.  • Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases.  • Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Together with my team, Configure RAC for High Availability and database Upgrade to 12c.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C, Unix shell script, Grid Control, Data Guard, RAC, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, Oracle Linux, SQL.  • Plus, Toad, Various 10g and 11g Advisories, AWR and Statspack Reports, EXPDP/IMPDP, EXP/IMP, PL/SQL, RMAN, Crontab, IPcenter V3 for monitoring, Downtime Monitoring. Oracle Database Administrator Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS January 2011 to June 2013 • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle Applications.  • Data Movement using RMAN, DATA Pump, External Tablespace.  • Data Security, granting and revoking roles and privileges.  • Data encryption and data redaction.  • Worked on Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases).  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  • Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import.  • Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Creating physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration.  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Experience in handling Multi-Terabyte Database migrations/Consolidations with minimum/ no downtime.  • Environment: Oracle 10g/11g RAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Education BS University Of Yaounde Skills Database, Oracle, Jira, Forecasting, Capacity planning, Agile Scrum, Scrum, Scrum Master, CSM, Confluence (1 year), SAFe (1 year)