System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Cedars-Sinai Hospital Los Angeles, CA Work Experience System Administrator Cedars-Sinai Hospital February 2019 to Present * Address user tickets regarding hardware, software and networking; walk users through installing applications and computer peripherals.  * Network and connect computers within organization to achieve better communication.  * Ask targeted questions to diagnose problems.  * Develop and manage effective professional working relationships with contractor personnel, co-workers and clients.  * Install and configure software and hardware  * Patching applications  * Manage network servers and technology tools  * Set up accounts and workstations  * Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  * Troubleshoot issues and outages  * Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  * Upgrade systems with new releases and models  * Order or buy computer systems and coordinate with purchase and supplies department.  * Infor M3 ERP Establish, execute and monitor implementation plan within Infor M3 suite or technology  * Use Microsoft SAM for asset management along with SCCM and Active Directory.  * System Administrator working with EIS with Windows 10 for windows 10 deployment and service.  * Imaging computers and laptop to Windows 10 and Windows 7 using tools like SCCM, USMT, SCCM Client Tool, deployment along with Client Management System to upgrade or update computers. Part of the Windows 10 team responding to incidents and requests ticket regarding windows 10.  * Using tools like Client MGT and SCCM, SCCM Client Tool, USMT Client Center push the image into the software center and upgrade the laptop with zero data lost.  * Using the SLA program to meet the deadline and unsure the deployment efficiency and accuracy.  * MAC troubleshooting, responding to MAC open ticket regarding some application or network and connectivity issues.  * Perform Desktop Support Service.  * Using Tanium to provide an endpoint agent for laptops, workstations, and servers running Windows, macOS, Linux.  * Infor M3 ERP Analysis - Investigating processes to understand operations. Researching, analyzing, and understanding workflows of end users.  Building & Testing - Developing, testing, deploying, and evaluating appropriate interface solutions and ongoing maintenance needs for sustainable processes. Appropriately configuring systems to improve processes, add efficiencies, and promote patient safety.  Troubleshooting - Resolving integration/mapping issues. Methodically approaching problems or processes to troubleshoot and resolve. Developing application and integrated test scripts. Participating in thoroughly testing builds. Providing on-call support based on upon application needs. Technology Specialist Foley & Lardner Law Firm - Los Angeles, CA November 2018 to January 2019 * Installs, modifies and makes minor repairs to personal computer hardware and software systems, and provides technical advice and support to system users. Migration from Windows 7 to Windows 10.  * Identifies and procures the hardware and software needed to satisfy user requirements.  * Installs hardware and peripheral components such as monitors, keyboards, printers and disk drives on users' premises.  * Loads appropriate software packages such as operating systems, networking components and office applications.  * Assists in the customization and adaptation of existing programs to meet users' requirements.  * Provides telephone, in-person and online support to end-users.  * Coordinates activities with network services and information systems groups.  * Provides updates, status and completion information to manager and/or users, via voicemail, e-mail or in-person communication.  * Infor M3 ERP Develop functional/technical solution & configuration that matches client requirements and design specifications  * Refers major hardware problems to service personnel for correction.  * Set up the video conference room with the Cisco AV system for either phone conference, video conference via telephone line or internet. Also, we used the Zoom video conferencing when the meeting involves parties from different countries and when it's more internet based connection. We also have Google Hangouts as a backup plan, in case anything goes wrong we can used it or when the line phone has an outage, and the internet connection is slow, and we need the meeting to be cellphone base.  * Using ServiceNow Asset Management, track the devices inventory along with shipping and receiving. Tier 3 Service Desk Technician United States Department of Veteran Affairs - Long Beach, CA April 2017 to November 2018 * Provided technical and security support services including Help Desk and Desktop Technical Support using the SLA program. Ticket received and closed timely.  * Maintained, analyzed, and troubleshoot hardware, software and computer peripherals. Sets up and configures all hardware.  * Ensured all tickets requiring follow-up work and calls are resolved. Tests, images, and cleans PCs, laptops, and other related hardware.  * Remediated software version vulnerabilities and keep on top of changes to the environment  * Installed and uninstalled equipment when required and fulfill virtual team member requirements, as needed  * Continuously identifies and remediate security deficiencies on VA's network infrastructure, database platforms, and Web application servers  * Implemented VA's configuration management controls to ensure VA systems have appropriate security baselines and up-to-date vulnerability patches  * Installed patches to address security deficiencies  * Adhered to standardized system development and change management controls for mission-critical systems  * Troubleshoot user PC (Windows 7 and 10) computers and MAC (Sierra) computers. Addressed user tickets regarding hardware, software and networking.  * Check SolarWinds concerning network and systems status on a recurring basis and take action to address problems/issues.  * Performed troubleshooting, including server resets (Citrix). Assisted remote user using Citrix platform, pinging servers, DNS, DHPC, TCP/IP protocol, Active Directory AD Supporter user accounts management, etc.  * With Netflow provide statistical reporting data on post communications links as required.  * Tanium as security tool is used to have a complete visibility to find threats or indicators of malicious activity, and then responding and remediating.  * Maintaining a log and track metrics on network outages. Used remote tools like Skype for business troubleshoot remote user computers, printers' desktops and laptops, also troubleshooting on site computers with setting static IP addresses for PC and MAC, FAX machines and printers.  * MAC troubleshooting like clearing the PRAM related to boot issues or halted startup, Recovery partition, Password reset Citrix receiver for VPN access, Endpoint encryption.  * SolarWinds, Network Management and Performance, Server Application Monitor, Database Performance Analyzer, Virtualization Manager, Storage Resource Monitor.  * Using ServiceNow Asset Management, track the devices inventory along with shipping and receiving.  * Infor M3 ERP comfortably presenting information to colleagues and end users and tailoring communication to the audience. Communicating, collaborating, and sharing knowledge with team.  * Developing Knowledge/Skills - Obtaining an in-depth knowledge of application and a general knowledge of other applications supported.  * Qualifications    * SCOM data monitoring system, track performance information of computer system.  * Mapping End user Archives and setting they printer.  * Used Service Now ticketing system open ticket for user, follow-up with the user, close or escalate tickets. IT Support Analyst Children's Hospital Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA September 2016 to March 2017 • Addressed user tickets (itrack ticketing system) regarding hardware, software and networking.  • Installation, Deployment and Refresh Services.  • Imaging VDI computer and deploy them.  • Backup and restore user profile and data.  • Imaged windows 10 computer install all required user software and deploy and set up the new windows 10 device.  • Walked customers through installing applications and computer peripherals  • Designed and deployed new applications and enhancements to existing applications, software, and operating systems  • Conducted research on software and systems products to justify recommendations and to support purchasing efforts  • Responsible for imaging, deploying more than 1,600 PC computer systems.  • Assembled the medical wow (workstation on wheels), programmed and deployed, installed and configured the VDI virtual machines.  • Used SCCM and USMT for migration PC'S and Laptop from Windows 7 to Windows 10. System Administrator Securistar - Los Angeles, CA February 2014 to September 2016 • Desktop support in charge of providing excellent end user experience, which includes resolving potential or actual technical issues.  • Troubleshoot different software packages, hardware devices, and other peripherals.  • Managed domain controllers and services, monitoring replication and AD health, ensuring proper configuration, configuring LDAP integration.  • Supported DNS and DHCP operations, managing sites and services, managing domain and domain controller security policies, hardening Domain Controllers, managing member server and workstation policies, organizational structures and application-specific attributes for Active Directory-enabled and integrated applications.  • Provided Active Directory service support to IT projects and teams such as networking, applications, infrastructure and desktop support.  • Supported a Microsoft AD environment in order to meet and maintain uninterrupted operations  • Performed general system administration duties in a Windows Active Directory environment, including setting and maintaining policies and user rights  • Maintained appropriate documentation on the Microsoft Active Directory  • Monitored Windows servers systems and application logs and troubleshoot problems  • Implemented and maintained LANs and WANs, including VLAN.  • Set up the video conference meeting using Webex and Sisco video conference equipment.  • Implemented network controls, including policies and rights, with the aim of ensuring information security  • Monitored network traffic and network logs for the purpose of detecting abnormalities and implementing corrective and preventive measures, including network monitoring tools  • Configured and maintained HP/Cisco Managed Switches, Cisco Routers and FortiGate UTMs Database Assistant Administrator and Desktop Support CNDJ Ivory Coast Law and Documentation Institution September 2005 to February 2007 • Database maintenance update, and development  • Resolved memory corruption and other technical issues by leveraging strengths in coding, debugging and integration testing.  • Provide networking and desktop support, account maintenance and printing assistance.  • Installation and configuration of software applications on users' desktops  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of hardware peripherals such as bar code scanners, POS devices, and other hardware devices that support the various business units, Education MSCIS Master's Degree in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems California University of Management and Sciences - Anaheim, CA April 2013 to September 2015 MBA in Business Administration Bangalore University, Indo Asian Academy - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to October 2012 BCA Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Bangalore University Garden City College - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2007 to June 2010 Skills Active directory, Encryption, Erp, Deployment, Backups, Data backup, Imaging, Mac, Shipping, Shipping and receiving, Inventory, Liaison, Integration, Asset management Additional Information SKILLS    * Planning the appropriate system needs of a company  * Installing the appropriate systems  * Providing support for the systems throughout the working day  * Solving problems connected to the network and the systems  * Monitoring the network efficiency  * PowerShell for encryption.  * Active Directory  * Performing regular backups and restoring information if necessary  * Patching applications.  * Liaison with the website hosting provider if necessary  * Applying patches and updates  * Identifying the needs of the company and assessing whether they are being met by the current system  * Planning security measures  * Using ServiceNow Asset Management, track the devices inventory along with shipping and receiving  * MSP (Managed Service Provider) IT project work, such as computer systems installation and integration.  * SCCM and USMT for software deployment, migration and Data backup and restoration.  * MAC troubleshooting configuration and imaging.  * Infor M3 ERP