SQL DBA SQL DBA Atlanta, GA Work Experience SQL DBA Cigna April 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Managed entire project to which were assigned in accordance with the Service Level Agreement (SLA) and Statement of Work (SOW) to ensure all departmental related cost and expenses are keep on track with the project schedule.  • Have good understanding of Disk and Server configuration for SQL Server.  • Managed the entire database environment visibility and accountable for every database decision made to upper level management. Experience in implementing and configured AlwaysOn High Availability Group for High Availability and Disaster Recovery on SQL server.  • Performed various data migration tasks for mission critical databases.  • Worked with a team of 8 to manage over 2000 databases ranging from 350GB to 2.3TB.  • Migrated SQL Server instances between various geographically separated datacenters.  • Was responsible for planning, implementing and documenting database structures and contents for SQL Server databases.  • Experience in in Administrating SQL server Security by Creating Users Login with appropriating the user's  • Set up policies to guide database usage in SQL server 2012, 2014 and 2016  • Performed DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis.  • Managed the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity  • Designed, implemented and upgraded SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 databases for mission-critical business.  • Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues.  • Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements.  • Implemented change management controls, processes and practices to deliver quality services that increase client bottom line results.  • Worked with teams with developers and 6 application vendor consultants to ensure quality deliverables to our clients.  • I have successfully engaged in various DR (Disaster Recover) efforts for my customers.  • Made recommendation on systems hardware and software implementation for management approval and took responsibility for complete and timely implementation.  • Organized and co-ordinates daily operations and project delivery meeting to identified all possible problems and ensure they are rectified to keep project on schedule and report any project variance to the appropriate upper management personnel.  • Developed a problem tracking applications that assigned all related systems errors/problems to appropriate database and / or application personnel using remedy.  • Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL SERVER databases to meet our customer SLA requirements. SQL DBA General Motors August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administrating more than 156 (Production and Non-production servers) both physical and virtual machines which runs SQL server 2016/2014/ 2012 and 2008 R2.  • Planning, Installing Microsoft SQL Server 2016, 2014 and 2012 on New Production and Test servers with latest Security updates involving Service Packs and Security patches as they are released.  • Involved in the SQL Migration Process (both in-place and side-by-side) with System Eng, Networking and Application departments for upgrading SQL servers.  • Configure and Monitor Always on (AOG) Groups, Add databases to the group and check the synchronization.  • Implemented and maintained Failover clustering (Active/Passive node) and Replication (Transactional, snapshot and merge) as databases high availability solution.  • Schedule Backup and optimization plans i.e., check database consistency, Index rebuild, Update statistics and history cleanup.  • Troubleshoot memory, CPU and performance issues using some DMV'S Resource, local and 3rd party tools.  • Managing our DR environment with comprehensive restore plan meeting to our SLA.  • Documenting the procedure (SOP) to create and manage these Encryption keys for future deployment  • Monitoring the unused indexes in the databases using Catalog Views and DMV's and dropping them.  • Reviewing cluster event logs using Failover cluster Manager in case of failover following with verifying SQL health and submitting RCA to Operations team.  • Worked in Active Active, Active Passive Cluster environment as a High availability solution.  • Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics Io by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modification.  • Review of physical and logical database design; Promote the reliability of database design by ensuring appropriate referential data integrity is implemented and appropriate data types are used.  • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan  • Daily routine DBA tasks like addressing tickets and work on Change tickets ,handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Handled monthly Database Refresh in QA-Test environment for testing of new Deployments and Build.  • Monitoring Double-take console to check the status of mirroring/replication of backup files cross the network  • Reviewing DBA Daily status report to troubleshoot the low disk space, consistency checks, server configuration and DB growth in proactive and submitting to Manager.  • Participated in Primary On-Call rotation, responsible for the prod releases, supporting app teams in case of assistance, applying patches, server verification and monitoring maintenance jobs.  • Responded to issues that have been escalated with Change Control Processes and adherence to standards and documentation.  • Experience in managing Alerts, Operators and Jobs through SQL Server Agent.  • 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support.  • Strong Technical background with excellent problem solving and communication skills. Strong time management skills and excellent team player with reputation of integrity and an ability to work on multiple technologies SQL DBA Murphyusa September 2018 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  • Provided a 24/7 dedicated support for users in Production, Development and Testing servers and responded on Tickets based on Requirements.  • Ability to ensure the technical integrity of corporate databases by protecting against the loss or misuse of information and designing backup/recovery strategies.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL Server  • Saves business over $400,000 in license costs by pushing the use of SQL Server 2016 Std Edition based on the application requirements and the improved HADR capabilities in the SQL release.  • Have good understanding of Disk and Server configuration for SQL Server.  • Experience with implementing Database Disaster Recovery and Planning.  • Proficient in logical and physical database modeling.  • Determine and document stabilization roadmap for the next 5 years based on trends in technology for the company.  • Participating in on-call rotation with the team.  • Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Environment using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.  • Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include release rollout and upgrades.  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 and applied Service Pack.  • Experience in implementing and configured AlwaysOn High Availability Group for High Availability and Disaster Recovery on SQL server.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing High Availability/ Disaster Recovery solution like Log shipping, Replication and Mirroring.  • Experience in in Administrating SQL server Security by Creating Users Log in with appropriating the user's accounts, creating of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Experience in implementing Backup and Recovery Strategies based on Service Level Agreement.  • Experience in SQL server migration from lower version to upper version.  • Experience in Creating, Rebuilding and Reorganizing Indexes on various Tables.  • Experience in MS SQL server Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Ability to check logical and physical integrity of all objects in databases by using DBCC CHECKDB.  • Ability to Troubleshoot, Analyze and Provide Solutions to complex issues.  • Excellent knowledge in using Native tools like database Tuning Advisor, SQL server profiler, Active Monitor, Performance Monitor, DMV, DMF, Event viewer for Performance Analysis. Lead the Migration of productions clusters Incomm May 2015 to August 2017 May 2015-August 2017  • Configured ALWAYS ON setup between different Datacenters and on Multi Subnet Cluster.  • Provides timely and direct communication while identifying complex problems and implementing innovative.  • Supporting 12 servers and 40-50 databases ranging from 10Gb to 1TB  • Revise current DR and HA strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure.  • Determine and document stabilization roadmap for the next 5 years based on trends in technology for the company.  • Participating in on-call rotation with the team  • Lead the Migration of productions clusters to accommodate more hardware resources and improve performance of SQL Server databases.  • Lead efforts of DBA team in stopping spiral of production environment and stabilize the database environment; leading to business continuity.  • Revise and improve current monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise (Introduced and setup SQL Sentry).  • Standardize processes for the Infra DB team by creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, index maintenance, etc.  • Lead the efforts of the database team in improving CPU consumption for all critical production database servers by tuning queries, databases, instances, etc. Thereby reducing the CPU workload from a steady 90% to 10% and resulting in a 300% increase in transaction processing.  • Maintaining all environments (prod, test, training and dev).  • Creating and analyzing daily reports for mission-critical databases.  • Establish escalation policies for the database team.  • Built window 2012 FAIL OVER CLUSTER from scratch  • Setting up and managing replication, mirroring and log shipping. SQL Database Administrator HSBC Bank London January 2013 to May 2015 • Configured ALWAYS ON setup between different Datacenters and on Multi Subnet Cluster.  • Evaluating the current infrastructure and proposing revisions.  • Revise and improve current monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise.  • Standardize processes within the data ops department including creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, index maintenance, etc.  • Revise current DR and HA strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure.  • Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.  • Troubleshooting issues and carrying out root cause analysis on the issues as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  • Participating in on-call rotation with the team.  • Maintaining all environments (prod, test, training and dev).  • Analyzing daily reports for mission-critical databases.  • Setting up and managing replication, mirroring and log shipping. Jr SQL Database Administrator NHS ENGLAND February 2012 to January 2013 • Set up EHER system for client's medical records  • Installed SQL server 20012/200R2 on 2008 window environment  • Involved in managed SQL SERVER SECURITY by granting permissions securable to the principals.  • Created, scheduled and monitored SQL SERVER JOBS, making sure jobs run successfully every time  • Revise and improve current monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise.  • Creating documentations for installations, MIGRATION, upgrades, BACKUP, RESTORES, index maintenance.  • Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.  • Involved in TROUBLESHOOTING as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  • Participating in ON-CALL ROTATION with the team.  • Maintaining all environments (prod, test, training and dev).  • Involved in REBUILDING OR REORGANIZING INDEX through maintenance plan  • Ensure that all database related trouble tickets are delivered Education Computer Science University of Nigeria Nsukka Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE MODELING, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER 2005, SQL SERVER 2008, SQL SERVER 2012, REPLICATION, SQL, CLUSTERING, DISASTER RECOVERY, SECURITY, WEB-BASED, ROLLOUT, T-SQL, RDBMS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cletus-ochu Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY:    • Configured ALWAYS ON setup between different Datacenters and on Multi Subnet Cluster.  • Performed various data migration tasks for mission critical databases.  • Accountable for troubleshooting and problem solving of SQL database Servers.  • Experience writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL.  • Capacity to ensure the technical integrity of corporate databases by protecting against the loss or misuse of information and designing backup/recovery strategies.  • Knowledgeable in configuring HADR using SQL server 2012 & 2014  • Experienced in setting up partially contained databases using SQL server 2012 &. 2014  • Experienced in deploying SQL server 2012 cluster solutions.  • Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include release rollout and upgrades.  • SQL Server Replication (Native and GG). Maintenance and tuning of the databases and replication  • Experience managing multiple MS SQL 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 RDBMS on web-based, transactions.  • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, back-up and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers.  • Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiler, database Privileges and Roles.  • Deliver SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, and table design).  • Experience working with merge and transactional replication.  • Management of multi-terabyte production clustered systems using ACTIVE-PASSIVE Clustering.  • Experience with SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008r2 and 2012 on Windows NT, Server 2003, 2008 and 2008r2.  • Expert in performance of SQL Server software new installation and upgrades.  • Proficient in Backup/recovery strategies implementation.  • Expert in reviewing overall physical database structure for overall stability  • Proficient in use of tools like SQL Server profiler and Windows performance monitor.  • Experience with implementing Database Disaster Recovery and Planning  • Proficient in logical and physical database modeling.  • Experienced with the design, implementation, and administration of SQL Server database solutions.  • Have good understanding of Disk and Server configuration for SQL Server.  • Experience with network connection tuning using SQL Server 2008.  • Development database support (SQL, T-SQL tuning, Application tuning etc.).  • Proficient in SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2 and 2012 database cloning.  • Extensive knowledge in Microsoft SQL Server databases, performance tuning, database design.  • Experience with cross-platform database migration and database instance consolidation.