SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - NYC Dept. of Information Technology and Telecommunication Queens, NY Client-focused Database Administrator with more than 5+ years proactively working toward achieving high client satisfaction. As an IT professional I'm very much committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge. Deadline-focused with broad skill range including, Database Design Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2005/2000 in Production, UAT, Test, Development and Cluster Server Environments. Strong Skill set in Database Administration using Windows platform. Always eager to acquire knowledge and share with colleagues. I am part of multiple IT Professional groups and participate in blogging like PASS, SQLSaturday, SQLServerCentral and etc. Work Experience SQL Server DBA NYC Dept. of Information Technology and Telecommunication - New York, NY March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    * Provide day to day support to 80+ city agencies with 500+ SQL server with over 3500 databases  * Manage SQL instances of SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014 and 2016 hosting VLDB while ensuring compliance with departmental policies, change management, IT security standards.  * Manage SQL servers Databases on both Azure Cloud (IaaS and PaaS) and On-premise environment.  * Migrate databases from On-premise to Cloud.  * Interact with various internal IT support functions, Development, Quality Assurance, Operations, and external 3rd party vendors to troubleshoot and resolve problems  * Implemented and administered SQL Server High Availability (Failover Clustering, DB Mirroring, Replication, Log Shipping, and Always On)  * Installation, configuration and maintenance of different SQL Server versions as standalone and multi-node SQL Server cluster on up to 4 nodes.  * Analyze current database performance and making projections for future growth (CPU usage as well as storage growth).  * Upgraded SQL server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2 in Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition and Strong experience on handling VLDB such as 2.0 TB.  * Experienced in rewriting and restructuring store procedures and views with T-SQL.  * Create and manage SQL packages, triggers and stored procedures, views, SQL transactions. Proven ability writing SQL statements.  * Created and executed SQL statements in both SQL production and development environments.  * Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases.  * Perform QA task and strong experience in decommissioning SQL Server 2005.  * Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery.  * Updated database systems by reviewing, managing database administration projects including patching, hot fixes and service pack upgrades.  * Designed and implemented multiple SSIS packages and providing technical support for SSRS business application.  * Create standard procedure and technical reports for the management for internal usages for other team members.  * Experience in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Providing production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/2012/2008R2/2005 , T-SQL, SSIS, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Always on, Mirroring, Clustering Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2008R2, PowerShell, MS DOS, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g. DBA Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP - New York, NY March 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  * Administrated SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014 with databases size ranging from <1GB to over 2 TB.  * Preformed installation and configuration of new instances of SQL Server 2012 and 2014 on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 following best practices.  * Strong experience in Database Normalization, Optimization and Tuning, Backup/Restore, Troubleshooting, and Data Import/Export.  * Designed and managed High Availability solutions such as Always On, Cluster, Mirroring and Log Shipping.  * Designed and implemented processes and standards for database systems back-up and recovery.  * Updated SQL Server by reviewing, planning, testing and installing security patches and service packs.  * Create and manage SQL packages, triggers and stored procedures, views, SQL transactions. Proven ability writing SQL statements.  * Setup automated jobs for different purposes including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification, moving databases from environment to environment including creating test environment  * Troubleshoot SQL Server Agent jobs, Error Logs, Windows Logs to resolve failure job component.  * Regularly monitor databases health and performance using DMVs, DBCCs and SPs from SQL Server 2008R2 to 2014. Additionally, monitoring performance using SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, Perfmon in order to find locking, blocking and deadlock issues.  * Make recommendations and implemented performance improvements in hosted databases, this involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics.  * Manage database administration projects including data archiving, patching, hot fixes and service pack upgrades.  * Automated daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012 native SSMS tools.  * Expertise in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 , T-SQL,SSIS, Asana, Red-gate, LiteSpeed, , SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, BCP, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows Server 2012R2, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, IIS 6.5,7.5, 8.0, SolarWinds, and PAL tool. SQL Server DBA FCMC (Financial) - Jersey City, NJ March 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  * Installed new instances of SQL Server 2012 on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 and following best practices.  * Upgraded multiple SQL server 2008 databases to SQL Server.  * 24 x 7 Production Database on Call Support  * Setup automated jobs for different purposes including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification, and moving databases from environment to environment including creating test environment.  * Designed and implemented Point-In-Time Recovery solution according to business requirements.  * Automated rebuild/reorganize indexes and monitor proactively at regular intervals for performance enhancement.  * Analyzed long running queries and tuned the same to optimize application and system performance.  * Designed and implemented multiple SSIS packages for ETL projects.  * Provide technical support for SSRS business applications and Identifies critical integration issues and develop corrective solutions.  * Expertise in troubleshooting SQL Server Agent jobs, Error Logs, Windows Logs to resolve failure job component.  * Work closely with development team to implement new features added in new edition of SQL Server such as Data partitioning, Error handling using TRY-CATCH, THROW, RaiseError and CTE.  * Experienced in rewriting and restructuring store procedures and views with T-SQL.  * Expertised on creating and managing triggers and stored procedures, views, functions. Proven ability writing SQL statements.  * Strong experience using DMVs, DBCCs and SPs from SQL Server 2000 to 2012 for checking database health and performance.  * Experience in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, database snapshots and tracking Performance Counters.  * Monitored and modified Performance by observing execution plans and index tuning.  * Automated daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012 native SSMS tools  * Worked with SharePoint 2010, creating users, adding links, removing links, assigning users to a group and supporting database in SQL Server.  * Prepared the project management and technical documentation as well as, writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Expertise in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Prepared the project management and technical documentation.  * Involved in designing disaster recovery architecture.  * Prepared Data Flow Diagram (DFD's) & Entity Relationship(ER) diagrams.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2005/2000,T-SQL,SSIS, Red-gate, LiteSpeed, BCP, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Clustering Windows Server 2008R2 and Windows Server 2003, .Net Framework, C#.Net, SQLDelta, ApexSQL, SolarWinds, and PAL tool. SQL Database Administrator International SOS, at Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA April 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  * Installed SQL Server 2008R2 on Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2.  * Installed, configured SQL Server 2005 Clustering on Microsoft Clustering services (MSCS) from Hardware inventory to test environment.  * Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.  * Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2005 servers to SQL Server 2008 R2.  * Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using SQL LiteSpeed.  * Worked with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations.  * Troubleshot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases concurrency  * Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  * Reviewed physical and logical database design; promoted the reliability of database design by ensuring appropriate referential data integrity was implemented and appropriate data types were used.  * Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  * Transferred the data (ETL) to Data warehouse by SQL Server 2005 Integration Services.  * Experience in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2005/2000, T-SQL, SSIS, Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2003, LiteSpeed 4.5, Red-Gate, MSE, JavaScript, .Net Framework, C#, MS Visual Studio 2008/2005, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, Backup Utility, Mirroring, Oracle 8g, MS-Access, BCP, JAMS7.4 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Engineering & Technology Rajshahi University September 2012