Certified Scrum Master/Business Analyst Certified Scrum Master/Business Analyst Certified Scrum Master/Business Analyst - United Health Group Lisle, IL Johnson Ayuk is a Certified Scrum Master with 5yrs + of hands on experience in a hybrid, fast-paced Business Analyst/Scrum Master role. Throughout his role as a Business Analyst, Ayuk became well-versed in gathering business requirements and creating business requirement documents while also gaining a strong understanding of the fundamentals of software development processes/procedures. Ayuk is experience in all phases of SDLC utilizing both waterfall and agile methodologies: SCRUM. In May 2016, Ayuk was hired on Full-Time and continued his employment with united healthcare group as a Scrum Master/BA. Since then, he has acted as Scrum Master/BA for two different projects/teams, one of which was a newly formed team. He has been responsible for holding daily standup meetings, backlog grooming and retrospective meetings, as well as creating business requirement documents and acting as the liaison between the business and software development teams. Ayuk clearly understands Agile development methodologies/processes and is diligent in holding his teams accountable to following those procedures. Work Experience Certified Scrum Master/Business Analyst United Health Group May 2016 to Present As Scrum Master, led team of 5 developers and worked with team to develop, customize and troubleshoot responsive website using daily standups, Sprint Planning and Retrospection  ? Managed the integration of large scale projects, including website, windows application, proprietary technology and databases  ? Protected and served team members resulting in an increase of 50% more productivity  ? Created a Selenium WebDriver program to test and display 100% functionality of website which was additionally used to present Product Increment during Sprint Review and Final Presentation  ? Create comprehensive technical documentation, including requirements and burn down charts, to communicate with various stakeholders and team players.    ? Created a detailed website with the specific requirement of having an application forms page which did not use a database. I resolved this by using PHP to gather the information into an email.  ? Acted as one-on-one consultant and mentor to students resulting in students becoming more effective, confident college-level writers and successful students    ? Created and conducted battery consumption usability test; then collected, analyzed and collated that data before translating it into a clear, understandable document with charts and other visual documentation which the company used for selecting the enterprise application  ? Performed end-to-end testing of production updates resulting in the successful launch of an enterprise application for Android and iOS  ? Facilitating release/sprint planning, grooming, daily stand-ups, retrospectives and demos.  ? Tracking and communicating team capacity/velocity  ? Ensure the development teams are practicing within the Agile framework  ? Provide internal and external communications to improve transparency and accountability  ? Participate proactively in developing and maintaining team standards, tools, and best practices  ? Identify and remove impediments and prevent distractions to the teams  ? Empower the team to self-organize and self-manage  ? Participate in weekly meetings to report project status/risks Database Administrator / Scrum Master XEROX September 2013 to May 2016 Led, as Scrum Master, and worked with team of 3 developers to create a fun and responsive, mobile-first, Full-Stack website entertaining and informing users while waiting in line at Walt Disney World  ? Managed geographically-dispersed team as Scrum Master resulting in 100% team member support and increased process development  ? Managed digital Kanban board and product backlog through User Story creation and story assignment    ? Created a Full-Stack website, with an administrative GUI to allow the client the ability to post, update and delete, which has had over 640 postings for available jobs and internships for their students  ? Acted as Scrum Master for the project to comprehend client design requirements and translated them into layman's terms for both business and project personnel and junior level development staff  ? Created and conducted usability tests to ensure 100% functionality and enhanced User Experience  ? Spearheaded Agile/ Scrum implementation plan to move Xerox from Waterfall to Scrum to further the organization's streamlined approach to software development  ? Contributed to the authorship of PMO artifacts such as the Xerox Project Charter that redefined the organization's role within the Agile Framework going forward  ? Coordinated Scrum ceremonies: Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review (Demo), Retrospectives, Backlog Refinement to ensure continuous inspection and adaptation of software development life cycle  ? Identified impediments and dysfunctions to the teams and the Agile/ Scrum process within organization to limit transitional setbacks and maximize team output  ? Negotiated feature and deliverable scope and schedule through excellent client (Product Owner) management to ensure a quality finished product  ? Engaged clients, stakeholders and end users to incorporate usability and interface needs in the design Education Education LSU Skills Jira, Rally, Oracle, Sql, Sdlc, Hyperion, Sharepoint, Ms office, Documentation, Technical documentation, Problem solving, Time management, Business intelligence, Excellent writing, Presentation skills, Problem solver, Coaching, Kanban, Excel, Word Additional Information SKILLS    ? Leadership - Servant Leader Certified Scrum Master Coaching Team-Building Conflict Resolution Led Multi-National Teams Technical & Analytical Problem Solving  ? Functional Expertise: SDLC, Oracle Hyperion and Oracle Business Intelligence  ? Technologies: MS Office tools (Word, Excel, Power Point, SharePoint), JIRA, SQL, Visual Studios, Trello, TFS, Rally, Kanban, TDD, Pair- Programming, XP  ? Communication - Excellent Writing, Verbal & Presentation Skills Technical Documentation APA & MLA Formatting  ? Soft Skills - Customer Oriented Problem Solver Critical Thinking Time Management Professional Demeanor Analytical Skills