Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - PEPCO HOLDINGS Hyattsville, MD A fulfilled Oracle database Administrator with a track record of implementing database services geared at optimizing RDBMS functionality and productivity in heterogeneous environments. Hold over four years in improving and optimizing the performances of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases. And cumulatively, hold over 6 progressive years of Information Technology and related experiences. Have demonstrated a high skill in accomplishing various oracle environment expectations; database installations and upgrades, troubleshooting, backup and recovery operations, performance tuning, enforcing database security, and performing other related database services which are not limited to:    • Experience in database administration on Oracle databases 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Extensive working experience on RMAN backup and recovery operations  • Also experience in Data Pump expdp projects; schema, database migration  • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.  • Experience in database tuning and optimization  • High Abilities in troubleshooting and resolving the oracle environment issues and providing timely interventions: slow running queries.  • Skilled in installing oracle software 10g, 11g and 12c and creating, configuring, and managing oracle databases  • Skillful in forming patching projects using the Opatch utility  • Experienced in automatic storage management environment (ASM) on single instance and on RAC configurations  • Experience in managing Data guard and RAC instances  • Skilled in implementing disaster recovery: - standby databases ( physical and logical) on unix, linux, and window platforms  • Motivated self-driven technical troubleshooter - independently digs into technical issues.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A Strong team player with perfect collaborative skills  • Possess a Strong active communication and documentation skills.  • Always ready to learn and embark on challenging tasks Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator PEPCO HOLDINGS - Washington, DC November 2014 to Present • A member of a ten- man team that supports several(?205) production and development databases on different platforms(unix, windows )  • Actively perform different forms of RMAN recovery activities; point in time, recovery, and other flashback Import activities.  • Perform performance tuning tasks using all known performance tuning methods; sql tracing, tkprof, tuning advisors, AWR and ADDM  • Do schema refreshes and other forms of data movement(expdp, impdp)  • Create objects as needed conforming to best practices recommended by oracle  • Schedule and perform various forms of rman backups on CRON or via the OEM Grid control.  • Automate DATAGUARD log archive apply monitoring via the OEM Grid control  • Install binaries: 11G and 12C and create database instances for testing, development or other operations as out of place restore  • Collaborated with developers, application experts, and other on or offside team members to investigate and solve performance problems  • Monitor and proactively tuned Oracle databases via the OEM grid control (12C) and RAC platforms (11g) and 12c or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts.  • Apply various patches( interim patches, patch sets- CPU and PSU)  • Work on ASM Instances: managing diskgroups, and investigating performance issues Oracle Database Administrator BEREANS TECHNOLOGY INC - Potomac, MD November 2013 to November 2014 • A member of the DBA team that manages several production and development databases in diverse environments for a multitude of clients, managing about 200 databases Oracle UNIX, Linux Red hat platforms, with sizes ranging from 20GB to about 20 terabytes.  • Create and configure Oracle Databases using both the DBCA and manually using database creation scripts.  • Create primary database storage structures (tablespaces) and objects (tables, views, indexes etc.).  • Schedule and perform various modes of backups using RMAN.  • Monitor and proactively tuned Oracle databases via the OEM grid control (10g) and RAC platforms (11g) or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts.  • Enhanced existing database designs for improved longevity, reduced maintenance, and improved performance.  • Assist with the development and implementation of database architectures for new projects.  • Perform database migrations, conversions and upgrades  • Configure, deploy and test new databases  • Maintain and administer databases and supporting automation (e.g. database objects, security roles, capacity, performance tuning, import/export, alerts)  • Resolve database issues.  • Establish database standards and best practices  • Work on High Availability, Backup and Recovery options and help to implement solutions  • Implement and maintain database security procedures  • Automate routine database support tasks  • Apply various patches( interim patches, patch sets; CPU, and PSU)  • Monitor and optimize the performance of the database Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: LINUX, UNIX, Windows, and linux, UNIX on OVM  Databases: OLTP, OLAP and DSS databases  Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)/Grid Control, Oracle Export RMAN), SQL Loader SQL*Plus  3rd Party Tools: SQL Developer