Diplomatic Security Officer/Console Operator Diplomatic Security Officer/Console Operator Active DOS TS/SCI Clearance Fort Washington, MD Motivated, cleared professional with over 6 years of diverse experience in fast-paced, team-based environments. Driven to exceed company goals and build long term relationships while delivering positive experiences through high-quality customer care. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Diplomatic Security Officer/Console Operator United States Department of State April 2017 to Present Answer telephone inquiries from facilities in the National Capital Region and Passport agencies nationwide.  ? Receive calls from officers regarding post procedures and event arrivals, and from DOS employees unable to operate office alarms.  ? Receive outgoing 911 calls made from within our facility, ensuring personnel were dispatched immediately to the emergency as well as the appropriate emergency units. Handle an average of 80+ calls a day.  ? Assisted Captains with daily activities within the head Diplomatic Security Command Center at the Department of State utilizing surveillance systems and alarm monitoring  ? Monitor C-Cure 800/8000 and 9000 general activity monitor and CCTV for continuous surveillance of the DOS facilities, as well as the 25 passport agencies in the United States.  ? Provide a variety of IT support services essential to the effective operation and performance of the DOS security console  ? Provide hands-on system help desk support, system maintenance and operations support for all Console related issues.  ? Perform incident analysis to determine possible causes and potential fixes to various console IT challenges  ? Perform access control and visual checks of persons, conduct vehicle inspections at traffic control points, escorts, patrols, screening, crowd control, civil disturbances, employee assistance, emergency first response and personal security details for important political and international figures.  ? Prevent unauthorized access to domestic DOS controlled facilities  ? Handle and protect classified material on a daily basis  ? Using Microsoft Office, generate daily reports of noteworthy events occurring on DOS property Marketing and Operations Manager Southern Maryland Paintball May 2013 to October 2018 Developed and monitored content for the company website and social media  ? Designed and produced print content for in-store promotions  ? Tracked social media and website metrics (Google Analytics and Facebook Insights)  ? Managed social media platforms - responded to customer inquiries and booking reservations  ? Maintained field and store inventory  ? Managed multiple accounts with an array of suppliers  ? Acted as a liaison between customers and inventory supplier  ? Collaborated with team members to plan, promote, and host large-scale events Jr. Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting, LLC July 2016 to March 2017 Performed daily incremental backups and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN  ? Performed regular database management on 10g and 11g OEM  ? Performed day-to-day activities such as creating users, roles, schemas, tables, views, indexes, and running scripts given by the clients  ? Responsible for the administration of a highly available web logics database solution supporting over 150 concurrent users in a VERITAS Cluster  ? Executed and provided ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance  ? Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG)  ? Restore and recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup  ? Performed Table space monitoring, performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement  ? Performed Day-to-Day DBA tasks - performance tuning, database design, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24/7 environments, to ensure system performance and stability  ? Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and application issues Education Film/Video Stevenson University - Owings Mills, MD Bishop McNamara High School - Forestville, MD Skills Aws (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Microsoft windows (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Oem (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Pl/sql (Less than 1 year), Rdbms (Less than 1 year), Red hat (Less than 1 year), Rman (Less than 1 year), Scripting (Less than 1 year), Shell scripting (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), Unix shell (Less than 1 year), Windows 2000 (Less than 1 year), Network Security, Information Security, Cyber Security Awards Certificate of Appreciation - Bureau of Diplomatic Security 2019-06 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate - Database Administration