Sr. Database Administrator/Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer Sr. Database Administrator/Developer Reston, VA Microsoft Certified Professional (MS Certified Technology Specialist and Microsoft Certified IT professional), Oracle Database 12c Certified Associate. Hands on experience with installation, managing and configuring MSSQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2019. Well versed on supporting Disaster Recovery (DR) and High Availability (HA) techniques including Backups, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, building, configuring and managing SQL Server Always on Availability and windows Failover Clustering. Excellent T-SQL and PLSQL development skills including Stored Procedures, Indexes, Views, User Defined Functions (UDL), Triggers and Cursors. Excellent experience in Query Optimization, analyzing the execution plan and index management. Well-developed experience on troubleshooting, identifying performance issue using DMV’s, Trace and Extended events. Well-developed skill on database upgrading and migrating from one version to another on-premises SQL Server and to cloud. I have a good skill working on SharePoint 2010 – 2019 and office 365.   Experienced on data and server-side encryption and security techniques. Good general web development skill (PHP, dotnet). I do have an excellent skill on the overall system development cycle, system and database design, data analysis and development. Experienced on Oracle, MSSQL Server and MySQL development skills using TSQL and PL/SQL. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator/Developer US Geological Survey (USGS)/ ANJV - Reston, VA November 2017 to Present Key Responsibilities  • Review all the database environments, infrastructure, Jobs, maintenance tasks, Security and access levels, backup and disaster recovery plans, fix all the existing and potential problems  and prepare process documentations.  • Perform a day to day DBA tasks like monitoring database traffic, performance, and general  database infrastructures.  • Implement a database and row level encryption on records with sensitive information, prepare  a new backup and disaster recovery plan, implement a change and document the new plan.  • Plan and propose database infrastructure changes, built and configure new database  infrastructure, SQL Server always on availability group on multi-subnet failover clustering for development, test, production and disaster recovery environments.  • Assist different teams on their database related support on MSSQL and on MySQL Database  on Linux environment. Create a database design and schematic representation, develop stored  procedure and prepare scripts to support the customer request.  • Discuss with the client, take the requirement, project objective and deliverables. Plan, schedule, assign tasks to other developers and work with the team to meet the project  objective. Develop a dynamic report using TSQL, SSRS, Visual basic and custom developed  application as per client reequipment.  • Preparing technical interview questions, review resumes, interviewing and select candidates  for database developer/report developer positions.  • Provide training for the developers joining the database/report development team, assist on any technical related questions and related tasks.  • Provide technical assistance for the database/report development team, give presentations, demos and prepare a walkthrough for the for the team.  • Provide a database support for SharePoint team.  • Migrate very large size database environments from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2014,  2016 and 2017 both on stand-alone and always on availability cluster Environments.  • Implement column-level and backup encryptions, apply a key and certificate management as per the best practice. Prepare a standard process and procedures, guides and documentations.  • Design, create and monitor a database, tables, functions, stored procure and triggers to assist, document and automate the routine database administrator tasks. Database Administrator/Developer Stewardship Technology - Mount Vernon, OH January 2016 to Present Key Responsibilities  • Manage SQL Server database servers and processes, including system health and performance monitoring to ensure high levels of performance, availability and security.  • Planned, configure and implement windows clustering and SQL Server always on availability on SQL Server 2014.  Tel: 2027807606  E-mail: hdechassa@gmail.com    • Design, develop and build databases for different project needs.  • Provide 24x7 support for critical production systems. Perform scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activates after hours.  • Evaluate, modify and implement different level of security including database, backup  and server-side encryption  • Responsible for the routine data migration and importing from CSV and flat files in to SQL Server.  • Develop T-SQL stored procedures, Triggers, Functions and other objects as per required.  • Developed appropriate Backup and Disaster Recovery planes, automate, monitored jobs  and confirm scheduled tasks are going accordingly.  • Perform routine DBA tasks including checking Database health using DBCC commands  and DMV's, monitor server activities, error log, space usage, and trouble shooting as needed.  • Environment: - SQL Server 2000, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 on windows server 2008R2,  2012 and window server 2016 Sr. Database Administrator J.P. Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH August 2015 to January 2016 Key Responsibilities  • Installation and configuration of standalone and failover cluster sql server builds on window  server 2008R2 and 2012.  • Working on different server and instance, configuration IAC (infrastructure asset change) on both production and non-production servers.  • Configuring sql server high availability solutions like database mirroring and replication.  • Manage users, logins and provide appropriate permissions.  • Owning, tracking and responding for all Database related ticket requests and resolve issues  raised by customer.  • Worked with various teams by assisting in database design, installing SQL Server clients, phasing from development to QA and to Production environment  • Convert and migrate and synchronize very big databases from oracle to SQL Server using  Microsoft migration assistant.  • Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, T-SQL, SQL Profiler, Replication, Log  shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Always On.  4. SQL DBA Tech Net Consulting LLC - Rockville, MD 2013 to July 2015 Key  Responsibilities:  • Administration and maintenance of different instances in SQL Sever 2008 and 2012.  • Perform day today and on-call support of several Production and DR Environments; handling  User permissions, restoring backups on test server to make sure backups are restorable, documentation, and performance-monitoring e.t.c.  • Manage Windows and SQL Server securities like Users, Logins, Roles, and Permissions.  • Create Indexes, Stored Procedures, Views, Functions and Triggers using T-SQL scripts.  Tel: 2027807606  E-mail: hdechassa@gmail.com    • Design, schedule and run appropriate backup and disaster recovery (DR) strategies and monitor  jobs to make sure all scheduled jobs are running successfully.  • Create jobs to identify index fragmentation and Apply performance tuning techniques and performing ongoing Database maintenance tasks like update statistics, index reorganizing and/or  rebuilding and shrinking the database.  • Documentation of codding standards, best practices and technical specifications and procedures.  • Participate on reviewing SQL scripts done by development team prior to installing on production  server.  • Performed Import and Export data from Flat file, CSV file and accessed to/from SQL Server  Database using SSIS.  • Provide support on High Availability (HA) solutions like Mirroring and Failover clustering on SQL Server 2008 and 2012.    5. Database Administrator SQL DBA Unilever - Rotterdam, NL August 2010 to April 2012 Key  Responsibilities:  • Participated on installation and configuration of SQL Server 2008. Configured and maintained  Database mirroring using automatic fail-over options on SQL Server 2008  • Monitored SQL Server performance using SQL server profiler and DMV's to find deadlock, identify index fragmentation and resolve other performance issues.  • Performed management of SQL server security, assigned appropriate storage for the DBMS  and monitor disk space to make sure SQL Servers won't run out of space.  • Managed a SQL Server 2008 infrastructure and implemented solutions for security, troubleshooting, deployment and optimization.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  • Planned and designed a monitoring solution for a SQL Server 2008 instance to monitor object  usage statistics and to minimize performance effect using dynamic management views. Junior SQL DBA and IT support Ethiopian Science and Technology Agency - Addis Ababa, ET 2008 to 2010 Key Responsibilities:  • Supported and help information technology team to install and maintain operating system, troubleshooting, installing and configuring software, and other tasks as per request.  • Installed, configured, and applied patches for SQL Server 2000 and 2005.  • Maintained and administered different SQL-Server instances on production and test  environment.    References will be available up on request Education Master's in Information Systems Fort Hays State University Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, T-sql, Linux, C#, Html, Php, Ms access, Sql Dba, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses MCSA: SQL 2016 Database Development - Certified 2019 Oracle Database 12c Certified Associate, May 2017. MCTS- Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist: Microsoft SQL Server, Implementation and maintenance. MCITP- Microsoft Certified IT Professional: Database Administrator. Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming: T-SQL, PLSQL, PowerShell, HTML, PHP, dotnet, C#  • Database: SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL, Oracle  • Operating Systems: Window server Windows Server 2000- 20016, Linux  Tel: 2027807606  E-mail: hdechassa@gmail.com