SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Strategic Intelligence Technologies LLC Laurel, MD Focused and meticulous database administrator with extensive knowledge in backup, recovery, performance tuning, as well as a wide breadth of knowledge in software installation and maintenance with the ability to communicate complex technical concepts to professional and non-professional audiences; Enthusiastic with strong work ethics. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Strategic Intelligence Technologies LLC August 2015 to Present Installed, Configured, and Administered SQL Server Instances on both clustered and standalone machines.  ? Design and implement maintenance plan and procedures; also responsible for setting up SQL Server jobs to monitor disk space, CPU activity, and Index fragmentation.  ? Deploy SSIS packages provided by the Developers into the Production environment.  ? Extensively used SQL native tools like SQL profiler, Database tuning advisor (DTA), Performance monitor, Activity monitor, Event viewer, Dynamic Management Views (DMV) for monitoring, performance tuning/troubleshooting.  ? Recommend and implement database security policies that are consistent with security guidelines and best practices such as provide database access to users by adding their logins, creating roles, granting privileges, unlocking accounts and resetting passwords.  ? Participate in on-call schedule to respond to SQL Server alerts and potential production database issues.  ? Imported data from Excel, Flat file and BCP to SQL Server Database using SSIS.  ? Migrated MS SQL Server 2008R2 to MS SQL Server 2012.  ? Documented Disaster recovery plans and participated in disaster recovery drills; monitor SQL Server service status, Application log, Jobs, SQL Server Logs, Dead locks/ Blocking  ? Perform Database backup and restoration procedures, disaster recovery procedures. testing and implementing these procedures  ? Configure, and support Log Shipping and Database Mirroring strategies in high availability environment.  ? Manage and administer all aspects of user account management such as password reset, user account creation, user group assignment, and organization unit in Active directory. Office Support Rotika Systems and Communications January 2013 to July 2015 • Performed customer service responsibilities.  • Served as the initial point of contact for resolution of helpdesk issues  • Maintain inventory of all equipment, software and software licenses  • Clean windows re-installation  • Provided administrative and clerical support (mailing, scanning, faxing, copying, filing) while acting as a point of contact to clients.  • Scheduled and coordinated meetings, appointments, and travel arrangements for other professionals; also answered phone calls and took messages.  • Performed assigned responsibilities, duties, and tasks according to established practices  • Prepared and edited documents like letters, reports, memos, and emails Education MSc in Management Information Systems Bowie State University May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Agriculture in Agriculture Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology September 2009 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CLUSTERING, DATA CENTER, VMWARE, SSRS, R2, SHIPPING, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Microsoft SQL Server 2008R2/2012 R2 Data Center/2014/2016 SSIS SSRS Import and Export Wizard SQL Profiler DTA Extended Event TSQL VMware/Hyper V Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016 Clustering Log Shipping Mirroring Database Mirroring High Availability Active Directory Network SAN Storage System.