Executive Database Administrator Executive <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Executive Database Administrator New York, NY Work Experience Executive Database Administrator American Express/We-Work - New York, NY January 2019 to June 2019 Transferred data from paper formats into computer files or database systems using keyboards, data recorders or optical scanner  ? Sorted and organize paperwork after entering data to ensure it is not lost  ? Processed customer and account source documents by reviewing data for deficiencies; resolving discrepancies by using standard procedures or returning incomplete documents to the team leader for resolution  ? Corrected errors and organizing the information in a manner that will optimize swift and accurate capturing  ? Created and managed spreadsheets with large numbers of figures  ? Achieved data entry operational objectives by contributing information and recommendations to strategic plans and reviews Executive Assistant The Boys & Girls Club - New York, NY October 2017 to December 2018 Liaised with executive and senior administrative assistants to handle requests and queries from senior managers  ? Acted as the point of contact for internal and external clients  ? Organized and schedule appointments for executive director  ? Wrote and distribute email, correspondence memos, letters, faxes and forms  ? Ordered office supplies and research new deals and suppliers  ? Assisted in the preparation of regularly scheduled reports Administrative Assistant Cresa New York, LLC - New York, NY January 2016 to October 2017 Under immediate direction and under work guidance of administrative staff, assisted and supported  divisions in development of business projects (areas of specific interest include business  communications, analytics, and general business)  ? Utilized Microsoft Office products; prepared spreadsheets with data interpretation; performed related duties in support of project efforts (e.g. design, monitoring, data extraction, research and reporting)  ? Provided support with project meetings (scheduled project meetings,  assisted with project documentation, documented meeting minutes, and project action/task items) Administrative Assistant Tablet Inc - New York, NY December 2014 to October 2015 Provided the highest level of customer service and professionalism ensuring continued support of exceptional travel and value added services.  ? Maintained current commercial and contractual knowledge of the marketplace and methods adopted by peer groups / other industries to ensure that best practices are continually developed, shared and utilized within the travel team  ? Recommend to clients efficient and alternate routes, lowest available fares, booking class, exchange rates and travel products/services Administrative Assistant The YMCA Retirement Fund - New York, NY November 2013 to October 2014 Provided administrative support to ensure that municipal operations are maintained in an effective, up to date and accurate manner  ? Sorted and distributed all incoming mail to areas and staff within the organization and dispatch outgoing mail  ? Provided maintenance and cleaning services as requested as well as performing any additional office duties as instructed and assigned  ? Assisted Office Manager in developing and instituting methods for quality control and accuracy in membership, conference, and other databases Education Business Management SUNY Empire State University - New York, NY 2019 Skills Data Entry, Event Planning, Marketing, Office Management, Outlook, Word, Organizational Skills, Scheduling, Microsoft Office, Receptionist, Filing