Sr. Oracle and SQL Server DBA Sr. Oracle and SQL Server DBA Sr. Oracle and SQL Server DBA - Americold Atlanta, GA Work Experience Sr. Oracle and SQL Server DBA Americold - Atlanta, GA October 2018 to Present ? Installation and configuration of 10g, 11g, 12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)  ? Upgrade multiple Standalone databases from 11gR2 to 12cR2.  ? Apply PSU patches on production servers on a quarterly basis  ? Implement Dataguard configurations with Physical Standby Databases  ? Duplicating Tablespaces and Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  ? Involved in datacenter migrating large size database in multiple platforms.  ? Generate AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan reports for Performance tuning.  ? Hands-on experience in user-managed Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning/duplicate of databases using RMAN.  ? Configure and manage Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 70GB to 2TB.  ? Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  ? Experience in Installing OEM 13c Cloud Control and using it for Database Management and monitoring  ? Schedule RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, and Crontab.  ? Design and implement different backup strategies such as Cold, Hot (RMAN) and Logical Backups using EXPDP/IMPDP.  ? Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases;  ? Manage SQL Server databases through multiple product lifecycle environments including development, QA and production environments using SQL Server management Studio and other third-party Admin tools.  ? Install, Configure and maintain MSSQL database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  ? Provide 24x7 support for critical production systems.  ? Ensure availability and performance of the SQL databases.  ? Install database latest service packs and cumulative updates  ? Create and schedule SQL Server agent jobs and Perform database maintenance activities such as backup/recovery and rebuilding/reorganizing indexes  ? Set up mirroring, and replications Oracle DBA OSCA - Jefferson City, MO August 2015 to October 2018 ? Performed incremental backups using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Created recovery catalog, performed complete and incomplete recovery.  ? Performed Hot Backups, Cold Backups.  ? Worked with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  ? Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  ? Maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  ? Configured DataGuard for Disaster Recovery.  ? Configured GoldenGate Downstream Mining and Integrated components for Active-Passive and Active-Active replication.  ? Installed and configured GoldenGate JAgent to work with OEM GoldenGate Plugin.  ? Performed Database-level, Schema-level and Table-level data refreshes from Production to Development environments using Datapump EXPDP/IMPDP.  ? Monitored various database activities such as Backup, Error Logs, Space, Object, Performance, and User Sessions to ensure proper Capacity and Availability.  ? Involved in User Management and Database Security by assigning appropriate Roles, Privileges, and Profiles.  ? Monitoring the availability of system, listener, database, alert log file, trace files.  ? Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes  ? Use Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification  ? SQL Query tuning in OLTP Environments with techniques such as SPM (SQL plan management) fix by taking advantage of cell offload efficiency.  ? Maintained ORACLE Software (RAC and standalone) by upgrades, and Applying PSU patches on quarterly basis  ? Performed numerous ORACLE software upgrades from 10g to 11g and from 11g to 12c by managing whole process.  ? Test and Implemented Applicable new feature during each upgrade  ? Maintained 24*7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting live issues within defined tight SLA times  ? Managed High Availability Architectures (ORACLE RAC and ORACLE Data guard)  ? Performed Database cutovers using ORACLE Data guard switchover  ? Designed and implemented Application aware ORACLE RAC Active/Active Service based infrastructure  ? Troubleshooted ORACLE RAC issues using ORACLE cluster ware and Database logs.  ? Troubleshooted and maintained ORACLE Data guard environment where TBs of log shipping and apply happen every day.  ? Troubleshooted Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ASH, TKPROF 10053 traces etc.  ? Used custom scripts and implemented standard procedures to troubleshoot Live Production issues by leveraging ORACLE ASH and AWR and ADDM Data.  ? Monitored Production Databases using various internal tools and custom scripts.  ? Database Capacity Management (Working with Storage teams for ASM Disks) using automated scripts/processes and Reports.  ? Utilized shell scripts for purging trace files, alert log and network log files in Linux boxes used as standard script across all the databases  ? Experience in PL/SQL, SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting (Implemented UNIX Scripts using CRONJOB for Day-to-Day activities and Windows Task Scheduler)  ? Installed the Oracle software using silent feature and created databases  ? Worked on designing, installing & maintaining OCR, 11gRAC and Data guard components of Oracle.  ? Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  ? Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  ? Managed Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback Segments, Undo Segments, and Constraints.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control.  ? Automated hourly, daily, weekly system health reporting using Crontab, PL/SQL and shell scripts. Oracle Database Administrator KeyBank - Cleveland, OH June 2012 to July 2015 ? Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  ? Installed Oracle 10g and 11gR1,11gR2 database on HP-UX 11.0, Redhat 6, IBM AIX 5.1,5.2,6.1  ? Applied Bug fixes patches and Quarterly Security Patches for the stand-alone databases and 2-node RAC databases within the maintenance window.  ? Installed RAC/GRID Infrastructure on Oracle 10g,11g and worked on ASM feature of Oracle on HP-UX/LINUX.  ? Worked on the ACFS file system and scheduled backup using RMAN on ACFS file system sharing between the nodes  ? Maintained a 2-node RAC environment on LINUX AS 4.0(RHEL) for the staging purpose to support the business requirements and provide High Availability.  ? Upgraded DEV/QA/performance databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2  ? Upgraded the databases from 10gR2 to 11gR2 and upgrade from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  ? Installed and configured golden gate for real-time replication.  ? Managed DSS (Decision Support System) and OLTP (On Line Transaction Processing system) full life cycle projects with multiple databases, with the biggest database size being around 10 TBytes  ? Responsible for handling Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues  ? Deployed Grid Control to monitor and manage all the databases on clients  ? Worked on the Load Balancing issues on the Server side by creating services.  ? Experience with Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, EMC (Time finder and SRDF), RAID, RAW Devices.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  ? Handling large database environments (Data warehouse) using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis observing the performance of the production database and constantly active regarding performance and space management issues and accordingly providing recommendations to make database healthy and running.  ? Managed Database security using DB Auditing and Labeling.  ? Data loads using SQL*Loader and refresh the test environments using Data Pump export/import  ? Ministered the databases using Grid Control including but not limited to Space Management, Performance Tuning, and Workload Analysis (AWR, ADDM)  ? Involved in setting up disaster recovery sites using Data Guard technology. Configuring the Physical Standby, active data guard and snapshot standby database  ? Used Shell Scripts to automate database operation and schedule jobs using CRONTAB  ? Created and managed the RAC clustered databases.  ? Upgraded Grid Infrastructure and Databases from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3. by creating a new home of 11.2.0.3 and relinking the binaries.  ? Worked with Oracle Support to fix production issues and also to get the merge patches.  ? Involved in capacity planning  ? Provided application support to create database objects and apply database changes.  ? Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption.  ? Involved in Disaster Recovery (DR) testing. Education B. Sc. in Biological Sciences University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, DDL, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G