Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Global Health and Education Projects, Inc Riverdale, MD I am an accomplished Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 8 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, cloning, replication, security implementations, high availability and disaster recovery solutions. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS Access. I have exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational skills. Proven leader with a motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and developing innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully prioritize and manage multiple projects and perform effectively under pressure. I recently finished learning Front-end web development to understand and support the building of web applications Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Global Health and Education Projects, Inc - Riverdale, MD September 2017 to Present • Construct database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Rewrote and implement backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Champion database the migration from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively.  • Install and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also install, administer and maintain SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.   • Install and administer Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (DATA GUARD).  • Support daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  • Carry out performance tuning with AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Clone databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Install 12c OEM Cloud Control for monitoring; periodically reorganized and resized database objects, created table Partitions, Materialized Views, and indexes, yielding a 35% performance boost.  • Perform PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL.  • Generate shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Set up Ec2 instance using OL7.2-x86_64-HVM-2015-12-10 Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and administer the instance using MobaXterm, SQL developer, OEM and SQL*plus in our development environment.  • Migrate oracle on-premise development database to Amazon Oracle RDS  • Reconcile functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Oracle Database Administrator Target - Brooklyn Park, MN August 2014 to September 2017 • Worked with the Application Development team to implement data strategies, build data flows and develop conceptual data models.  • Created logical and physical data models using best practices to ensure high data quality and reduced redundancy.   • Implement table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.   • Developed best practices for standard naming conventions and coding practices to ensure consistency of data models.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Reviewed modifications to existing software to improve efficiency and performance  • Performed reverse engineering of physical data models from databases and SQL scripts.   • Evaluated data models and physical databases for variances and discrepancies.   • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Perform database Refreshes from production environments.  • Migrated databases from On-premises hosting to Amazon Web Services EC2/RDS instance on Multi Availability Zone and validated its objects and provided performance support using cloud watch /OEM/RAT.  • Optimize and update logical and physical data models to support new and existing projects.  • Analyzed data-related system integration challenges and propose appropriate solutions.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Guide System Analysts, Engineers, Programmers and others on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Kca Deutag Drilling Inc. - Houston, TX March 2010 to August 2014 • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.   • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments.  • Configured and managed CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education BSc in Computer Science Abia State Polytechnic Skills Linux, Javascript, Database Security, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Performance Tuning, Oracle Applications, Data Pump, Version Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager, HTML, SQL, SQL Server, jQuery, Oracle RAC, ASM & Grid control, Oracle DBA, Database Administration, Transparent Data Encryption, Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 12c Certification March 2019 to Present knowledge and skills required to properly execute daily operational management and maintenance of an Oracle Database CompTIA IT Fundamentals+ May 2018 to Present knowledge and skills required to identify and explain the basics of computing, IT infrastructure, application and software, software development, database fundamentals, and security