Aviation Maintenance Program Coordinator Aviation Maintenance Program Coordinator Aviation Maintenance Program Coordinator Jacksonville, FL Experienced Aviation Military Specialist with a proven track record in leadership and the ability to perform at optimal levels in areas of Aircraft Maintenance, Navy Program Management, Accounts Management, and Aviation. Strong integration and operational skills to achieve company goals and objectives. Work Experience Aviation Maintenance Program Coordinator US Navy, Patrol Squadron Ten - Jacksonville, FL August 2015 to August 2015 • Managed configuration team of seven Sailors in the implementation and migration of NALCOMIS OOMA.22 to Virtual Environment.  • Coordinated the migration of 322,000 data records from the home guard sever to deployed multi-org server in support of 6th Fleet Strike Group Operation in Sigonella, Italy.  • Senior Database Administrator for multisite operations in 7th fleet (Okinawa, Misawa Japan; Clarke Philippines)  • Direct and manage the training and qualification of 168 aviation maintenance mangers and technicians.  • Provide leadership and development to fill critical manning requirements to ensure mission readiness.  • Managed the logistics, scheduling, and completion of aircraft technical directives of seven Boeing P-8A 737'-800.  • Conducted performance reviews to supervisors providing encouragement, mentoring and recommendations to strengthen performance and correct deficiencies. NALCOMIS OOMA Database Administrator US Navy, Strike Fighter Squadron Eleven - Virginia Beach, VA January 2011 to August 2015 • Managed day to day operations of the Sybase NALCOMIS OOMA Server.  • Facilitated transition of command assets for integration to afloat network and mid-tier replication onboard USS Enterprise in support of 5th fleet operations for Operation Inherent Resolve (Arabian Gulf).  • Performed data analysis of platform maintenance actions to identify aircraft mission degradation.  • Managed the configuration, implementation, and training of Boeing Fleet Automated Maintenance Environment (FAME) 2.0.  • Maintained system security and software upgrades through monthly Information assurance vulnerability alert (IAVA) compliance and new Data Alignment Programs (DAPS). Logs and Records Supervisor US Navy, Helicopter Maritime Squadron Forty - Jacksonville, FL December 2009 to December 2011 • Led 11 subordinates in the requirement of six NAMP programs in the incorporation of 4, 834 flight critical components, 1,644 SRC/EHR cards and 356 inspections.  • Orchestrated the timely back-fit and the download of mission cards accounting for 3,952 flight hours with 100 percent accuracy for all maintenance and flight data on 12 SH-60R aircraft.  • Managed the documentation efforts of 11 work centers contributing directly to the completion of 14,500 maintenance actions and the proper debriefing of 3,179 aircraft data files.  • Performed database backups for home and offsite servers.  • Managed contingency planning for any potential system outages. Education Masters of Business Administration in Project Management Saint Leo University Saint Leo December 2020 Bachelor's in Business Administration/Project Management Saint Leo University - Saint Leo, FL May 2016 to December 2018