Freelance/Consulting - Greater Freelance/Consulting - Greater Data Analysis Cupertino, CA A passionate problem solver hoping to leverage innovative ideas and technology to help move business forward. Enjoy developing solutions to inefficient tasks and problems. Currently, very interested in data analysis/science and machine learning. Long term goal to help drive products and services that can make people's lives more prosperous and productive. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance/Consulting - Greater Self Employed - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to October 2018 General IT technical work  ? Replace printers and computers  ? Troubleshoot computers and kiosks Computer Sales Associate Fry's Electronics - Sunnyvale, CA June 2016 to August 2016 - Sunnyvale, CA 06/2016 - 08/2016  A retailer of software, consumer electronics, household appliances and computer hardware with 34 locations.  Computer Sales  ? Assisted customers purchasing computers, tablets, printers and other peripheral accessories.  ? Stocked and organized products. Database Administrator (DBA) MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO October 2010 to March 2015 - O'Fallon, MO 10/2010 - 03/2015  A $9B+ global payment network providing payment products and services with 37 offices around the world.  Database Administrator (DBA)  ? Supported the data warehouse. Responsible for implementing database objects in all environments and assisted with many other support and maintenance projects.  ? Created a 1400+ line semi-automated shell script to discover, implement and track OID (Oracle Internet Directory) names for the hundreds of Oracle databases to reduce a DBA task and enforce naming standards enterprise-wide.  ? Created a few hundred line "Health Check Report" PL/SQL package to find possible database issues with standards, best practices, audit, performance and maintenance which would automatically email HTML formatted reports to focus our maintenance efforts and prevent problems. The report was helpful in cleaning up around 7TB of junk data.  ? Converted a load table to use interval partitioning and created a PL/SQL procedure that would clean up old partitions and reduced the batch load process from over an hour to a few minutes which cut down on database processor and hard drive cycles.  ? Diagnosed and maintained 20+ custom PL/SQL packages for stats, backups, partitioning and database health Database Administrator Technology Partners April 2010 to October 2010 Worked at MasterCard Programmer, Web Designer, Database Developer (College Team Project) Digital Blue - St. Louis August 2009 to December 2009 Lead programmer, web designer and database developer for my team's UMSL senior project.  ? Created and designed web application in unfamiliar environment and language within 3 months. IT intern Monsanto - Creve Coeur, MO January 2008 to June 2008 Contributed on team project for the ES&H Department (Environmental, Safety and Health) to track new employee's completion of their safety training requirements which reduced time and errors by manually tracking in a spreadsheet.  ? Created java application to transform extracted flat file to import into MS Access. Used Access to compare thousands of data fields with data stored in SAP to find incorrect or missing data.  ? Evaluated SAP automated testing tools (Worksoft Certify and HP Quality Center) Education B.S. in Information Systems University of Missouri - St. Louis, MO A.A in Electronic Engineering Technology St. Louis Community College at Florissant Valley Skills SQL (5 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Excel, access Links http://linkedin.com/in/mikewschmidt Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ ce Certification October 2018 to October 2021 Earners of the CompTIA Security+ certification have the knowledge and skills necessary to perform core security functions required of any cybersecurity role. CompTIA Security+ professionals know how to identify and address potential threats, attacks and vulnerabilities and they have established techniques in risk management, risk mitigation, threat management and intrusion detection. Data Science Professional Certificate July 2019 to Present The badge earner is ready for a career in data science with demonstrated ability to solve for real-world problems. They can apply Data Science methodology - work with Jupyter notebooks - create Python apps - access relational databases using SQL & Python - use Python libraries to generate data visualizations - perform data analysis using Pandas - construct & evaluate Machine Learning (ML) models using Scikit-learn & SciPy and apply data science & ML techniques to real location data sets.