Development Database Manager Development <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager A skilled IT professional with 9 years of data management experience. Diligent project manager offering a proven record of results leading all phases of diverse technology projects. Experience with corporate, non-profit and clinical sectors. Designing, managing and analyzing data to cultivate desired organization functionality. Organized, analytical and self-motivated; I have an eye for detail without losing sight of the big picture. New York, NY Work Experience Development Database Manager Cardinal Hayes High School - Bronx, NY June 2017 to Present A key member of the development department, my role was to create a systematic function of donor records, donations and projected pledges. Creative contribution to fundraising goals, events and student enrichment.  • Customize in house DBM system, develop financial reports. Reconcile accounts and audits  with finance and accounting.    • Reconcile accounts and audits from Finance and accounting, continuously and on year end  reporting  • Evaluate Major gift prospects. Wealth screen constituents, project pledge requests. Provide  constituent account analysis and develop outreach goals.    • Process incoming constituent donations, setup recurring donations and develop/ maintain  fundraising web tools.    • Report quarterly appeal numbers, process and code appeal data.    • Train staff for accurate reporting and team technology improvement.    • Alumni events support, provide mailing lists, event registration and event logistics. Clinical Data Administrator / Forensic Data Specialist Columbia University Presbyterian Hospital / NYSPI -RFMH May 2016 to Present Working with the top psychiatric investigators in the north east to construct research studies  for mental health conditions. Responsible to develop systems, audit and analysis data for clinicians, researchers and patients.  • Develop a user-friendly custom database for each funded research study. Maintain data  accuracy, review and deliver data reports. Liaison between research staff and patient data.    • Onsight point person for Electronic Medical records system (EMR), train staff and review  accounts and inputted data.    • Create data files for statistical review. Use SPSS, MATLAB for datafile analysis.    • Apart of the site CORE team, who is overall responsible for the ease functionality of the entire clinic. Contract Career Database Developer, Database Manager, Data Analyst, Event Coordinator United Nations 2012 to 2016 Highlights United Nations; Outreach director for sustainable growth. NGO; World Mission Foundation  Goddard Riverside  Ecumenical Community Development Organization (ECDO)    Freelancing has opened up a gateway for me to take on numerous projects and expand my talent. I have  executed my ability for website administration, database development and management as well as branding and social media advertising.    • International affairs outreach director for NGO organizations under the United Nations  • Assist with ensuring contractual city program requirements are meet, including program  deadlines  • Facilitator of monthly NYC focus group to help improve a workforce development curriculum.  • IT troubleshooter; Microsoft Xbox live series, customer service  • Website administrator for family lifestyle website growwithme.com  • Blogging for bronxmama.com; included review posts, social media advertising and branding Database Coordinator United Way - White Plains, NY August 2012 to 2014 United Way's 311 division for health and human services; my work with them was focused on working  directly with this division and keeping the database functional and up to date. My responsibilities included:    • Information and referral database coordinator. Responsible for managing and processing the human service information for the 2-1-1 database  • Project manager for disaster case management team that kept 2012 Super Storm Sandy disaster  information up to date on a 24hr basis  • 2-1-1/United Way website receiving over 15000 searches during the storm. Education A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems Southern New Hampshire University Bronx Community College - Bronx, NY Skills ORACLE, SQL, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C++, VBA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/marthakatechis