IT Infrastructure Manager IT Infrastructure Manager IT Infrastructure Manager - Private Investment Firm San Jose, CA Challenging and exciting opportunity in IT technology, requiring multi-dimension technical/business  exposure in today's fast-pace environment.    PROFILE HIGHLIGHTS  • 10 years of excellent performance in IT infrastructure integration and IT resources  management/procurement to provide best IT practices and meet corporate business  requirements.  • Instrumental in global network infrastructure implementation and improvement. Expertise in  network device configuration, switch/router/firewall management, server virtualization with  VMware. In-depth knowledge of Palo Alto/Sonicwall/Fortinet security policy and intrusion  prevention management. Expertise with Meraki/Aruba/HPE Wireless/LAN device deployment    • Responsible for company SaaS platforms and production applications: G-Suite, Office 365 suites,  MS Sharepoint, MS Power BI, MS Flow, AWS, Sysaid Helpdesk, and OKTA SSO(SAML&SWA)  administration and development. Support HR/Accounting/Finance app: Bamboo, Jobvite, and  Concur.  • Solid hands-on experiences with data center design, planning and deployment for both on-prem  and COLO locations. A key driver in space planning, rack allocation, server configuration and  deployment, A/C system and UPS planning with power management.  • 7+ years of experiences of data management, from data preparation to customized ETL application  implementation. Working knowledge of MapR big data platform administration. Solid understanding  of data integration from multiple channels to design and implement data campaign programs.  Professional with excellent problem solving skills.  • Experience in leading IT staff to provide prompt responses and reliable helpdesk support for  employees at all level of the company. Provide guidance and expertise in enterprise wide network  implementation and troubleshooting. Service area includes N. America (US&CA) and Asia  (CN&TW).  • Proven track record as database application developer for Oracle/MySQL/MS SQL database and  analyst with diverse reporting, analysis skills. Work Experience IT Infrastructure Manager Private Investment Firm - Menlo Park, CA 2018 to Present As an IT infrastructure manager, supervise IT staff and infrastructure for offices on both CA and NY. Help firm to change company email domain, migrate on-prem exchange 2010 server to Office 365 cloud and office/server room  move, all three projects completed within 8 months after on-boarding.  • Worked with research team and vendors, migrate on-prem database and client web portal to AWS cloud  services. Job included: AWS architect verification, VPC/ACL/Security group/VPN validation and setup.  • Responsible for IT infrastructure to user helpdesk for both NY and CA offices. All account provision, administration and troubleshooting. System included Office365 cloud, Airwatch for mobile device mgmt.,  DUO security for MFA, and Barracuda backup appliances.  • Leading role on migrating on-prem exchange 2010 server to Office365 cloud service. Worked with IT staff  from on-prem exchange server inventory to Office365 cloud account provision and user data migration.  • Responsible for IT infrastructure, server room built, and video conference design and implementation on new office move project. Job included kinds of vendor coordination, from cabling, A/C vendor, and  construction vendors.  • Being part of firm's compliance team, responsible for cyber security strategy and practice, third part risk  assessment, solution to security concern provided and employee compliance training. System Analyst/Network Administrator MapR Technology - Santa Clara, CA 2016 to 2018 As an IT System Analyst in a start-up company, take responsibility from help desk to IT infrastructure  implementation.  • Design and implement 30 plus SOX compliance controls for IT management, information security and system application. Lead IT staff to ensure all controls are executed properly to ensure compliance without  exceptions. All SOX compliance control templates and tickets were certified by 3rd party consultant.  • As a G-Suite and Office 365 admin, help company transition from G-Suite application to Office 365 suite  within 2 months. Jobs include email transfer, email group/distribution list transfer, cloud document  transferring.  • Design, implement, and deploy network infrastructure for branch office in Dallas, include DELL Sonicwall  firewall config/deployed, Meraki wireless and switches configuration/deployment.  • Moving company production infrastructure from on-prem to COLO. Job included, network infrastructure  plan, design, configuration and deployment to adapt COLO environment. Configured and deployed  PAN/Sonicwall FWs, HPE/Aruba SWs along with 700+ servers  • Helped company for office relocation. Major role for network infrastructure, included FWs, SWs, and routers config/test and deployment. Coordinated service transition within inter department to minimize  risk and downtime.  • Responsible for wireless/LAN infrastructure and Backup/Recovery plan and practice for company wise.  Practice from design and planning, execution and monitoring report with visualization tools. Tools  include: PRTG, Scrutinizer, MS Power BI and Tableau. Sr. Infrastructure & Operation Manager Foxlink International 2013 to 2016 Managing companywide help-desk and network services for AM/FAE/PM/BDM personnel at four branch offices in the U.S. which generated 80% revenue for Foxlink Corp.  • Led IT staff of Los Angeles, Seattle and Chicago offices to design/implement/deploy best-fit network  infrastructure. Integrated HQ and branch office LAN/WAN to improve service level and information access for office-based and mobile employees.  • Led and managed IT capacity/service procurement and planning to fulfill internal department requests.  (i.e. HR, Accounting, Legal, and different manufacture BGs)  2  • Identified network security risks/concerns for all branch offices and architected HW/SW remediation  solutions to safeguard corporate information assets.  • Responsible for recruiting new IT staff. Led IT training program for all new employees during on- boarding process.  • Responsible for rack, server, A/C, cabling and power management in server room at all company office  locations. IT Syustems/Operation Analyst Foxlink International 2010 to 2013 Responsible for IT management in hardware, software, helpdesk and network troubleshooting for Sunnyvale office.  Instrumental in the design and implementation of a new server room for office relocation.  • Designed and built a new server room for office relocation within 6 months after hire while in parallel  maintained daily users support tasks.  • Coordinated different vendors during new office construction; deliver cost effective and fully functional  server room without service interruption during re-location.  • Network devices configured and deployed included: Cisco router, Fortinet firewall, DELL L3  switches, Cisco switches, Netgear switches, Ruckus wireless AP, VOIP Gateways, NAS.  • Initiated and completed network infrastructure upgrade and improvement. Deployed virtualization  with VMware/VirtualBox for critical business services, including email server, AD, Internal/External DNS, DHCP, CAD license server(UG/Pro-E).  • Designed, configured and deployed companywide VPN (IPSec) and VLAN network infrastructure to facilitate employee communications, data access, and application transactions.  • Designed and implemented customized inventory application; integrated QR-code for inventory  inquiries, re-invented and automated back-end data store with a commercial database instead of manual excel spread-sheets.  • Developed customized database application to consolidate/integrate/data cleansing for different phases  of BOM table, helping FAE/ME/AM/BDM to better serve customer in time.  • Provide helpdesk support all US offices, total 110+ employees serviced. Mac and Win platform both included.  • Served as point of contact between branch offices and HQ for corporate enterprise application service  troubleshooting and problem resolution, i.e. Oracle ERP, Siebel system, Citrix, Agentflow and etc.  • Responsible and admin for CCTV, PBX phone system, inter-company VOIP system, video conference, access control system and burglary alarm system. Sr. Database Marketing/Ops Analyst BD Biosciences - San Jose, CA 2009 to 2010 Technical lead responsible for the design and implementation of a marketing database for marketing and sales, provided comprehensive solutions to improve campaign efficiency critical for major revenue-driven  programs.  • Designed and developed marketing leads database helped marketing and sales inside BD.  • Customized processes for daily leads from different channels, including on-line, trade show, direct mail  request and ad hoc campaign.  • Helped management team to identify major revenue sources combined with leads/opportunity  management system, iterative feedback process implemented on leads/opportunity tracking and optimization.  • Implemented data reformatted application, transformed unstructured customer transaction records in SAP into structural hierarchy data format.  • Initiated and implemented customized intelligent data matching application for customer transaction  records, a scoring scheme developed to improve the matching rate.    3  • Designed and implemented quality and integrity data control process to improve data accuracy of business contacts, accounts, campaign response, and survey data.  • Improved the delivery rate for follow-up marketing campaign. Turn leads into opportunity and revenue  source through iterative campaign process.  • Identified, documented and articulated business requirements for marketing department, and provided  IT solutions within limited time frame and budgets.  • Facilitated data captured points to ensure data was validated and correctly populated. Provided  marketing report customization and leads identification management as required. Database Marketing/CRM Analyst deem Inc - Foster City, CA 2008 to 2008 2008  Technical lead in implementing and managing the database for marketing team, deployed mass  communication email campaign program reached 2,000+ companies and drove 24% user back to website for upsell.  • Implemented and deployed various marketing campaign programs, from contacts/leads  generation to final mail casting.  • Initiated implementation improvement for campaign deployment process by leveraging business  Intelligent and data/leads analysis report.  • Analyzed campaign response from business contacts, accounts, and survey data to identify  opportunities to improve marketing database effectiveness.  • Implemented B to B customer database in Oracle/Linux for marketing department, included database  schema design, data modeling, code development, and data acquisition processes.  • Identified and diagnosed data quality issues, data quality and integrity validation process performed.  • ETL techniques applied/implemented for data cleansing, transforming, merging & deduping operations.  • SQL scripts implemented for marketing campaign audience/list generation.. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA Master of Science in Structural Engineering in Structural Engineering University of California - Los Angeles, CA Skills G-Suite, Okta, Office365, AWS, Citrix, Airwatch, AD/DHCP/DNS/GPO, Palo Alto Network FW, HPE Switch, Cisco Router/Switch, MFA with Duo Security and MS Cloud, Migration, Data Warehouse, Cisco, Data Center