Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle DBA Bowie, MD Daniel is a highly skilled professional with 5 years experience in managing Oracle Database systems. Results driven Database Administrator that fosters trust, integrity & respect within team to accomplish all tasks. Uses Leadership skills to motivate others to perform their duties and work toward common objectives.  • Focuses on Customer satisfaction by providing superior service, responding to customers needs and seeking/acting on service improvement opportunities. Coordinates work activities by managing time and resources so that work objectives are accomplished on time. Presents information effectively in formal and informal settings to individuals and groups by encouraging productive communication. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Inc. - Bowie, MD 2011 to Present ? Respond to ITS hotline calls on issues related to any databases.  ? Generated internal DBA team documents including problem resolutions documents, lessons learned documents, how to documents and basic knowledge transfer documents.   ? Configured Grid Control along with configuring FGAC (Fine Grain Audit Control).  ? Managing Golden Gate manager process and extract groups using GGSCI commands.  ? Installed/maintained Data Guard.  ? Deployed Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU), one-off patches and Bug fixes when applicable to LOC to ensure a stable and robust Oracle environment  ? Installed Oracle software on newly created servers in support of the infrastructure enhancements  ? Create Oracle database instances using DBCA to conform to Oracle's optimal flexible architecture (OFA) standards  ? Create and manage tablespaces (datafiles), redo logs, controlfiles on Windows and Linux platforms  ? Configure Oracle Enterprise Manager  ? Maintain data integrity, managing profiles, resources and password security  ? Create and manage Users, privileges and roles and create tables for developers  ? Setting up range, list, hash and interval partitions for performance  ? Creating indexes on fields that are used most often for search criteria  ? Using set timing on and autotrace to figure out explain plans, running parallel DDL and DMLS   ? Configure Oracle networking components such as the listener, TNS names and other connection protocols for the Oracle client  ? Use RMAN to perform full and incremental backups   ? Use traditional and datapump utilities to facilitate cross platforms restore operations   ? Program enhancements including data editing, data conversion, SQL Loader    Environment: RedHat Linux, Oracle10g/11g, MySQL, Oracle 11g R2 RAC, ASM, Oracle Streams, Oracle Grid Control, Golden Gate 11.1, Dataguard. Database Administrator U.S Security, NJ - Jersey City, NJ 2009 to 2011 ? Created and modified shell scripts to perform daily, weekly, monthly jobs that parsed security logs for violations of internal policies   ? Participated in development and deployment of technology-based systems  ? Involved with proactive capacity planning in terms of memory and system storage resource allocation  ? Installed database software, patched and upgraded development and test servers  ? Created tables for developers. Implemented backup procedures using RMAN for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations. Extensively used SQL Plus for Querying/Reporting.  ? Install, setup and configuration of physical Standby Database using Data Guard. Performed encrypted RMAN backups.   ? Provided remote database support for Users using SSH and terminal services   ? Managed the customer table.    Environment: RHEL 3.0/4.0, Solaris 9, Oracle 11g/10g, RMAN, Golden Gate 10.4, Data Guard, TOAD, OEM, Shell scripting. Oracle DBA A Buck & a Dream Company - Jersey City, NJ 2007 to 2009 ? Automated frequent administration tasks for production, test, development  ? Documented all security practices and created daily management reports  ? Provided on the spot troubleshooting and monitoring using Oracle tools and/or third party tools  ? Responsible for identifying, analyzing and executing new initiatives and strategies  ? Responded and adjusted to multiple demands, shifting priorities, ambiguity and rapid changes in the work environment  ? Improved company knowledge through professional development programs and implemented appropriate facility department needs effectively.    Environment: Redhat Linux Enterprise Server, Oracle 10g/9i, RMAN, OEM and Shell scripting. Education Associate in General Science ESSEX Community College - Newark, NJ 2011 Skills Database Skills: Databases Oracle11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2005 and MySQL Cluster Database Oracle RAC 10g R2, 11g R1 and 11g R2 Administration Tools OEM, TOAD, Grid Control Storage System ASM (Automatic Storage Management), VERITAS VxVM, NFS Backup RMAN, Export, Data Pump ETL Tools Data Stage, Informatica Data Modeling Tools Erwin DR Database Physical Standby (Data Guard) Tuning AWR, ADDM, Statspack, DBMS_SQLTUNE and DBMS_SPM Querying/Reporting SQL*Plus, SQL/PLSQL Scripting UNIX, Shell, AWK, SED Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Redhat, SuSe, Sun Solaris, Windows 2008/2003 Server. Apps/Tools Oracle Enterprise Manager, SSH, Microsoft Project, Oracle SQL Developer Networking LAN/WAN architecture, TCP/IP, Internet/Intranet, Ethernet, Client/Server, Client/Server/Web Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Database administration Oracle 11g, 10g  • Oracle Platforms Linux, Unix, Windows  • Implementation of New Features  • Cross platform migration Implementation  • Disaster Recovery Procedures  • Oracle upgrade implementation