Agile Scrum Master Agile Scrum Master Agile Scrum Master - BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD Dallas, TX • Lean- Agile Change Agent and servant leader with over 5 years of experience in leading teams in Agile software delivery  • Excellent team player and protects the scrum team while also providing un-biased transparency on progress.  • Tracking and maintaining product backlog, burndown chat metrics, team velocity and sprint/release progress  • Thorough understanding of the SDLC cycle  • Expert at driven the adoption and enforcement of scrum rules, removing impediment and fostering self-management  • Empowered teams to self-organize and grow cross-functionality  • Excellent communicator, team leader/player and can work alone with minimal or no supervision.  • outstanding problem solving, judgment, and decision-making skill  • Excellent motivator and great ability to multitask  • Highly organized, functions well in a high-intensity, and constantly changing environment Work Experience Agile Scrum Master BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD - Richardson, TX January 2015 to Present • Responsible for facilitating agile sprint ceremonies for two scrum teams (Backlog Grooming, Spring Planning, Retrospectives, Demo, Daily Standups)  • Facilitates meetings and assist the product owner to make sure the product backlog is in good shape before the sprint.  • Developed metrics to detect levels of teams' capacity and velocity, accurately estimate projects and to continuously help improve the team's performance from iteration to iteration  • Lead backlog-grooming activities and facilitate clarification on requirements and stories, ensure stories and tasks are properly estimated.  • Provide day-to-day leadership, direction, and coaching to the team to encourage adoption of agile practices best practices.  • Ensure the Product Owner is talking to the team regularly and reviewing the features being delivered  • Assist the Product Owner in setting realistic priorities and expectations of the product under development during the product backlog grooming process.  • Taught Agile Methodology throughout the organization to improve communications between IT, Engineering, Product Management, and Business; providing transparency and obtaining great business value  • Launched software delivery with zero defects, on-time, and under budget ($2M+) yielding immediate ROI of double the budget  • Increased team velocity by 15% within the first 3 months of Agile adoption by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions  • Facilitated scrum ceremonies (backlog refinement, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.)  • Enacted change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of Scrum teams by 15% and the quality of deliverables by 30%  • Empowered teams to self-organize, grow cross-functionality, and protected them from over-commitment  • Ensured roadblocks/issues were resolved within 24 hours and managed the lifecycle of code development, from ideation to sprints to deployment  • Effectively tracked and communicated sprint/release progress to senior leadership  • Make sure the capacity of the team is transparent so they do not get overloaded and can operate at a sustainable pace  • Identify, monitor and manage Risks to the sprint in collaboration with the Product Owner, assigning sufficient resources and time to address the risks throughout the project  • Assist the Product Owner in setting realistic priorities and expectations of the product under development during the product backlog grooming process.  • Initiated and maintained teambuilding exercises to boost team morale and collaboration.    STAPLES, FRAMINGHAM, MA DECEMBER 2014 - DECEMBERY 2015  Role:Scrum Master  • Manage projects within the IT Security domain leading project teams through all phases of both waterfall project lifecycle and agile framework.  • Follow Agile philosophy, strategy, tools and processes like Scrum, SAFe with wide spread adoption  • Manage onshore & offshore teams to deliver quality products which led to over $1M in quarterly revenue  • Facilitate team and cross-team retrospectives to build good working relationships among 3 agile teams across 2 cities  • Coached product owner to gather effective requirements resulting in improved deliverables.  • Maintained burn-down charts, facilitated daily standup, retrospectives, sprint reviews or sprint planning Sessions  • Worked with 3 scrum teams parallel with total of 23 team development team members, with more self-organized and cross functional environment, led to increase productivity by 18%  • Collaborate with members of the Product, Business and Engineering Teams to develop and maintain Product Backlogs  • Encourage and facilitate cross-team coordination and collaboration  • Develop test approaches and test plans to test application enhancements and changes against documented business requirements, in a manner, which results in a high quality solution meeting the functional and non-functional requirements of the end user.  • Facilitate scrum ceremonies (backlog refinement, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.)  • Remove impediments, manage the lifecycle of code development, and track velocity using story points and burn down charts  • Effectively track and communicate sprint/release progress to senior leadership  • Liaised between the product owner, stakeholder and development team to ensure user stories/acceptance criteria is clearly defined, understood, and implemented successfully  • Delivered multiple large-scale projects that had direct and measurable cost savings, and shorter time to market  • Created self-organizing agile teams, training them in the scrum process and encouraging self-governance  • Worked with Product Owners team to create vision statement, DoR and DoD  • Partnered with product owner by communicating updates, and assisted with backlog maintenance  • Created information radiators through Scrum boards and burn down charts to bring accountability and improve efficiency  • Lead the transformation of the teams from waterfall to agile methodology Evangelized the values of self-organization, and cross functionality, while facilitating scrum ceremonies  • Provided visibility to team impediments and risks to senior leadership while working on eliminating them  • Work closely with designers, developers, and business SMEs to effectively assure delivery of a quality project  • Support continuous improvement of team quality management practices, such as defect management, manual testing  • Assists with and supports the maintenance of statistical, metric-based reporting of testing progress, including clear and concise reports and dashboards. Oracle/MSSQL Server Database Administrator EOG Resources Inc - Houston, TX April 2012 to December 2014 • DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.2 & 5.3. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  • Providing 24x7 supports for production databases from versions 10g, 11g and 12c via Linus, AIX, Windows and Solaris servers  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 11g and 10g on Red hat 5.0, IBM-AIX 5.3.  • Implemented oracle 12c active standby database for test database environment.  • Implemented oracle 12c flexi asm for pre-prod environment.  • Utilized rman recover table functionality and created proof of concepts for our pre-prod environment.  • Used PUTTY, SQL Developer and OEM for managing and supporting databases  • Extensive knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup  • Wrote scripts for Backup of databases and maintenance of archive logs for databases  • Scheduling and Monitoring backups on crontab  • Creating and managing users and objects  • Extensive working knowledge of SQL, PL/SQL, and shell scripting  • Used traditional export-import and DataPump for refreshing schemas, tables and different objects  • Planned and implemented Oracle 11g RAC and Standby Databases Data Guard for High availability and Disaster Recovery.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Tuning of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c RAC databases  • Troubleshooting critical issues on production/ development environments  • Using the oracle utilities like TKPROF and AWR for Performance and Tuning of Database  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and patches on all the databases.  • Installed Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2012  • support over 200 dev, test and prod databases on sql server management studio  • Used SQL server management studio (SSMS) to managed and monitored SQL databases  • Scheduling and monitoring jobs using SQL Server Agent on SSMS  • Generate reports using PA performance Tools  • Restored SQL Server Databases from FULL, DIFFERENTIAL, and TRANSACTIONAL logs backups  • Shrink LOGS to create space when needed to ensure application operation  • Monitored overall system performance and Database growth  • Strong analytical problem solving and excellent communication skills with ability to work within team environment and independently Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Corporation June 2010 to March 2012 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export and Data pump utilities).  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN and performed tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN and user managed backups.  • Implemented Streams replication between RAC and non-RAC database environments.  • Installed Oracle 12c Enterprise Manager (Grid control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on test databases.  • Assisted a team of DBA's in upgrade of databases from Oracle 10g Release 2 to Oracle 11g Release 2.  • Monitoring and tuning using tools like Enterprise Manager GRID, Oracle Cost Based Optimizer (CBO) SQL analyzer, automatic checkpoint tuning, SQL Advisors, Performance Manager and Statspack.  • Performed conversion single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database instances.  • Utilized Oracle Streams to capture, propagate, and apply the transfer of data, transactions, and events within managed databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases. Education Master's Degree in Health Care Administration Anna Maria College - Paxton, MA August 2014 Bachelor' of science in Health Science Dominican College - Orangeburg, NY May 2012 Skills Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master, Rally, CSM, Scrum, Kanban, Certified Scrum Master