Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/AWS Cloud Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/AWS Cloud <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/AWS Cloud Administrator - Martin Federal Consulting Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator/AWS Cloud Administrator Martin Federal Consulting February 2019 to Present Oracle Infrastructure and Operation database administrator support and Responsible to provide 24x7  database administrative activities over different database servers  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database  based on the applications they are accessing.  • AWS Oracle RDS, Aurora Postgres SQL, MySQL as well as experience managing a large Oracle  database on EMC Storage in a data center environment  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Data Base subnet group for isolation of resources within AWS RDS.  • Amazon RDS automatically patches the database software and backs up database, storing the backups for a user-defined retention period.  • Upgraded WebLogic Servers to 12.2.1.3  • Implemented and configured Data Guard for higher availability Sr. Oracle Database Administrator IKUN August 2017 to February 2019 Performed installation of new Middleware software releases, system upgrades, and patches.    • Network with System Administrators, Oracle DBA's, and Information Security Specialist to create and maintain effective production systems.  • Assist DBA's in managing relational database tables and objects based upon both logical and physical data  models.  • Used the WebLogic Server Administration Console to control production-specific deployment details.  • Deployed multiple applications on WebLogic server and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality  • Created, configured and maintained Weblogic managed servers and server clusters.  • Deployed and maintained web, Java, and enterprise applications.  • Developed an automation tool using shell scripting that would start, stop and check the status of the web  process on application servers from a centralized jump server and generate alarms.  • Participates in disaster recovery planning, including assisting with fault tolerance and disaster recovery plans  • Provide DBA implementation and support for Oracle migrations and upgrades, including environment's using  Oracle Dataguard  • Maintained Database security by performing Security Technical Implementations Guides (STIG's) Intelligence Analyst STOPSO May 2017 to August 2017 • Applied analytical and evaluation techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature.  • Knowledge of the theory and principles of management and organization, including administrative  practices and procedures common to organizations, such as those pertaining to areas of responsibility,  channels of communication, delegation of authority, routing of correspondence, filing systems, and storage of files and records.  • Conducts Various Database checks Oracle Database Administrator U.S Department of State January 2016 to April 2017 Assist Senior Staff in technical support, performance tuning, and maintenance of Oracle 11g databases supported  by Data Guard.    • Perform root-cause analysis to troubleshoot and resolve database performance issues using various tools and techniques (i.e. AWR, ADDM and Alert Log).  • Assisted in performance tuning and optimization using the Cost-based Optimizer (CBO) to efficiently execute  SQL statements.  • Assist Senior DBA's with high volume data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading (ETL) using Data Pump,  SQL Loader, and Oracle Streams technologies.    • Responsible for developing and implementing comprehensive backup and recovery strategies for Oracle  databases using RMAN.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures and functions.  • Upgrading databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c  • Created role objects to manage user privileges. Oracle Database Administrator Fem Nursing Services March 2012 to October 2015 s RMAN backup and recovery skills.  s Configured scripts to monitor activity with database.  s Designing and creating schema objects like Database tables, indexes, views, synonyms, and all  schema objects in Oracle.  s Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability.  s Upgrading databases from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g/11g/12c Oracle Database Administrator Best Buy - Annapolis, MD May 2010 to December 2012 Assisted with the installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 11g databases.  Developed and changed database objects such as tables, packages and indices using SQL DDL and DML statements.  • Created users, roles, and profiles to manage CPU resources and accessibility.  • Created and executed backups and developed recovery procedures using RMAN.  Assisted with technical documentation outlining requirements, standards, and procedures for database processes.  • Environment: RHEL 5.1 and 6.1, 11g, OEM, RMAN, Data Pump, Diagnostic and Tuning Advisors,  Exports, and Imports  • Refreshed tables and Schemas across environments for testing and other purposes using Data Pump.  • Utilized ASM to provide database storage management.  • Resizing and reorganization of database objects: tables, indexes, rollback segments and redo log files of existing production and development systems. Resizing tablespaces, tables, indexes, and rollback segments Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD