Leasing Administrator & Staff Accountant Leasing <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Staff Accountant Leasing Administrator & Staff Accountant - Widewaters Group, DeWitt, NY Minoa, NY Work Experience Leasing Administrator & Staff Accountant Widewaters Group, DeWitt, NY April 2018 to Present Prepare monthly, quarterly, and annual tenant account reconciliations per lease  ? File monthly, quarterly, and annual sales tax returns for various states  ? Prepare, bill, verify, and post payments for tenant rent and taxes of numerous entities  ? Audit tenant accounts and prepare reports for delinquent payments  ? Maintain communication with various departments and settle disputes on tenant accounts Advancement Database Analyst Cazenovia College - Cazenovia, NY December 2015 to April 2018 Record and analyze all gifts and donations received by the college from various donors  ? Direct gift tracking and data research analysis across several time tables  ? Responsible for the effective retrieval of all constituent records for multiple departments  ? Lead the Institutional Advancement Department in the use of all data-tracking software Staff Accountant Pyramid Management Group - Syracuse, NY August 2014 to December 2015 Prepare and verify journal entries and process payables  ? Perform general ledger analysis and reconciliations for multiple mall accounts  ? Responsible for majority of cash movements for malls, including account transfers, wires, and ACHs  ? Work with field personnel to ensure completeness and integrity of financial information and processing Reconciliation Analyst Rochester Regional Health System - Rochester, NY July 2013 to August 2014 Responsible for timely and accurate daily reconciliation of all patient related cash transactions  ? Provide monthly reconciliation reports to Accounting used for preparing financial statements  ? Identify, research, and resolve any variances in daily cash reconciliation Intern State Farm Insurance - Cazenovia, NY May 2012 to August 2012 Use computer software to research and call prospective clients to raise interest in the company  ? Maintain accurate recording of information on clients and prospective clients Education Bachelor of Professional Studies in Management in Management, Accounting Cazenovia College - Cazenovia, NY May 2013 Accounting Program Director College Honors 2010 to 2013 ACCOUNTING AND BUSINESS COURSE WORK Cazenovia College 2010 to 2011 Skills Spss, Excellent communication skills, Microsoft office Additional Information ? Knowledge of Raiser's Edge, Yardi, SPSS, and all Microsoft Office Applications  ? Excellent communication skills and ability to convey complex information in a coherent manner