Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer - Database Support Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer - <span class="hl">Database</span> Support Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer - Database Support - United States Postal Service Scott Township, PA Database Developer/Analyst with 6+ years of experience including database design, PL/SQL,  performance tuning, data analysis, programming, requirements gathering, troubleshooting, production  support, post-production management/maintenance, reporting, testing, and quality assurance.  Personable team player with a passion for success and overall professional and personal improvement  through experience and education. Work Experience Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer - Database Support United States Postal Service 2015 to Present Lead database developer for several user-facing web applications responsible for database  management, maintenance, production support, ad-hoc reporting, query optimization, design, data  gathering, and analysis  ? Worked closely with business system analysts to translate business requirements to database  design/structure while creating efficient packages, procedures, tables, views, and functions as part of creation, enhancement, and management of several applications at one time  ? Worked on numerous, varied applications including USPS's global ecommerce payment system;  voice services which included Amazon Alexa and Google Home applications; USPS's skunkworks  team developing new technology; identity verification team dealing with secure handling of PII data, LOA levels, FBI Fingerprinting services, and new revenue-generating user services  ? Used Oracle databases to gather and analyze data to improve application performance; identify  discrepancies, vulnerabilities, or fraudulent activity; resolve production incidents; and provide  reporting to the business  ? Took on the role of mentor to train and provide direction to less experienced members of the team Database Administrator Jenkins Township, PA 2015 to 2015 Lead developer for multiple Excel-based applications centered around daily work production using  VBA  ? Developed and executed Oracle SQL Queries for ad-Hoc reporting  ? Collaborated with reporting analysts to acquire accurate data for reports for the client and developed reporting dashboards Business Analyst TMG Health - Jessup, PA 2013 to 2015 Lead developer responsible for converting the Quality Department's database from Microsoft Access  to SQL Server; thereby increasing production performance by 130%  ? Responsible for maintaining and troubleshooting departmental SQL Server database and front-end  Microsoft Access interface  ? Collaborated with multiple departments to develop and execute both standard and ad-hoc reporting  in order to meet clients' needs  ? Collected and analyzed data to be used in business requirements and process improvement plans  ? Used my proficiency in front-end interface and back-end database tables to investigate and solve  production issues  ? Became proficient in writing business rules using Drools Expert for web-based enrollment  application  ? Used my hands-on experience to improve performance by training fellow team members in SQL Student Teacher Grades Mathematics, Lake-Lehman High School - Lehman, PA 2012 to 2012 Collaborated daily with cooperating teacher in planning mathematics curriculum for ~115 students, with needs ranging from emotional support to gifted  ? Taught mathematics courses ranging from Geometry, Algebra, Remedial Algebra, Precalculus, and Calculus  ? Integrated technology into the classroom using Promethean Boards, Mathematica, GeoGebra, Khan  Academy, and various tablet apps Education Computer Programming Certificate Luzerne County Community College Present Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Education Wilkes University - Wilkes-Barre, PA December 2012 Skills Microsoft access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Html, Vba, Visio, Xml, Unix, Etl, Java, Microsoft excel, Microsoft word Additional Information SKILLS  Oracle 11g, 12c and SQL Developer, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Access, PL/SQL, ETL, VBA, Microsoft  Visio, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Java, HTML, XML, Unix, Agile, VersionOne, ServiceNow, ALM,  proficient verbal and written communication