Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Arafat Travel Arlington Heights, IL Detail-oriented, proactive, and performance-focused professional, offering broad-based experience in Oracle database administration, project development life cycle, and solutions development. I have worked on Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c versions across different platforms such as Linux, Unix, and Windows. I have done database administration duties including production support. I have also been getting experienced in AWS.    • Experience in setting up AWS environments. EC2 instances, EBS Volumes, Load balancers, Dynamo DB, Aurora, Route 53, Cloudfront, Cloudwatch, and Cloudtrail.  • Experience in setting up Data Guard.  • Experience working with App Team in reviewing their Data Model and Design.  • Managing Databases changes for the releases.  • Reviewing DDL and recommending corrections and modifications to the App team.  • Experience with Toad and OEM.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, and STATSPACK.  • Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  • Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine-tuning those SQL's for better performance.  • Experience in using 11g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 12c.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfil the storage needs.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers; evaluate and implement latest database technology and new Oracle 12c features.  • Perform database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Arafat Travel - Chicago, IL 2017 to January 2019 • Experience in AWS, launched EC2 instances, Aurora DB, EBS volumes, Load Balancers, and AMI groups  • Conducted Oracle database administration tasks for customer, in charge of improving database performance, restoring, and implementing recovery processes while overseeing performance tuning and performing regular system backups using ping to examine connectivity with client and server  • Administered operating system tuning by utilizing top command to see load average, CPU, memory, and zombie processes; which includes database and applications through ASH, AWR, ADDM, EXPLAIN PLAN, and Statspack, and SQL Trace  • Expertly managed database creation and configuration through Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA) along with database upgrades utilizing Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) and shell scripts  • Utilized data pump in performing numerous schema, object, and overall database refreshes  • Organized tablespace threshold alerts and checks for password expiration through the use of database and OEM grid control  • Served as database administrator (DBA) responsible for tablespace and database migrations across endian format platforms utilizing RMAN for file conversion; database backup and recovery on backup window and service level agreement (SLA) through recovery manager (RMAN) and user manage; logical backups using data pump; and backup scheduling  • Led the execution of standard auditing, fine grained auditing, and value-based auditing, as well as security base on company SLA by creating users, expiring their passwords, and delegating necessary roles and privileges in accordance with SLA  • Experience in Backup-Recovery Models for MS SQL Server.    ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 12C RAC, 11g RAC, LINUX, OEM, Grid Control, RMAN, ASM  Windows XP/Vista/Win7. Oracle Database Administrator Chase Bank - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2017 • Utilized explain plan and Oracle optimizer to improve SQL statements performance, handled and monitored tablespace and data files mount point growth  • Conducted user requirements and troubleshooting activities and promptly addressed connectivity issues  • Led the execution and maintenance of daily backup and archived data on tape, while developing user accounts as well as system and user-level database objects  • Held accountability on data export and import through appropriate tools, as well as 11g to 12c migration  • Experience in advanced primary database storage structures and objects, and operate system security for database users  • Tracked database instances and storage space for production environments and developed storage requests to UNIX groups  • Observed RMAN back-up operations and schedules as required, while controlling database and schema refresh from production to creation  • Fulfilled on-call DBA functions every month and assisted end users on Oracle  • Utilized ddl scripts to define a table using Create or alter command and dml scripts to modify table records using insert, update and delete statements to query databases  • Performed general DBA activities like user management, tablespace management, and security management of the databases.  • Performed general tasks like, database patching, OEM Agent installations/patching,  • Monitoring disk space utilizations, sizing, and capacity planning.  • Involved in the data migration from Oracle 11g on both RAC and Non-RAC databases.  • Experience performing database Refresh/Cloning from production for Dev & QA environments using RMAN  • Installed 11g OEM agent on the servers using silent installation method.  • Used import/export, Data Pump, to refresh databases, tables, schemas from production as when requested by the application team.  • Performance Tuning of high volume databases  • Experience in Performance tuning of a database using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM. Education Some college Skills DATA MIGRATION (3 years), DATABASE (4 years), SECURITY, PERFORMANCE TUNING (4 years), CLONING (3 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Solution Architect, AWS, Linux, Python Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect AWS Developer Oracle Certified Associate 12C AWS SYSOPS AWS Security Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Data Migration  • Customer Service  • Data Security  • Performance Tuning  • Data Guard  • 24/7 Production Support  • Capacity Monitoring  • Backup and Recovery Administration  • Database Creation and Configuration  • Patching and Upgrade  • Cloning and Refresh  • Rac    • AWS