ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow Developer - Verizon, VA Utah, TN • Overall 8+ years of IT Experience, proven success and experience in ServiceNow (5 years) Development and Administration, Remedy, knowledge of ITSM tools and ITIL framework.  • Expertise in complete end-to-end project implementation and consulting in ServiceNow and BMC ITSM Suite software leveraging best ITIL practices.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Configuration and Asset Management, Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Reporting, Discovery.  • Experienced in Service Now platform as both Developer and Administrator and BMC Remedy - CMDB, BMC ADDM, BMC Enterprise Monitoring and Event Management software.  • Experience in designing, developing, customizing & administering ITSM suite of applications  • ServiceNow applications implemented: Incident, Change, Configuration, Asset Management, and Software Asset Management and Service Watch.  • Solid understanding of Glide APIs, Server side and Client-side scripting in ServiceNow.  • Proficient in developing Client scripts, Business Rules, Web Service Import sets, Transform Maps& developing scripted Webservices.  • Customization and Configuration of Service Watch, Dashboards.  • Piloted ServiceNow initiatives in conceptualizing and implementing robust and effective solution designs for the organization's ServiceNow COE (Center of Excellence).  • Proficient in coordinating and collaborating with the client's IT enabled Business Service leaders to provide a holistic approach to reduce over cost of maintenance.  • Working knowledge of Agile Scrum, Waterfall, Iterative and Spiral methodologies.  • Strong experience on testing methodologies and experience on preparation of test plans, and support for Integration Testing & UAT.  • Experience in implementation of Business Rules, Date Dictionary, UI actions, UI Policies, Client scripts and validations Scripts in ServiceNow.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management ITSM frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and clients.  • Involve in CAB calls and Change Management activities for new enhancement process for organizational change and application change in the wok around.  • Monitoring the RTACS configuration and data support team globally.  • Enhancement coordination, discussion and Project release responsibilities and maintain with the tech team  • Implementation of custom dashboards, reporting as well as Staff assessment on ITSM & ITIL Processes.  • Attention to detail, proven multitask dexterity, analytical and programming savvy, complex problem-solving abilities from operational and technical perspective, and excellent Interpersonal skills.    Asset & Configuration Management:  • Performing CI Add/ CI Modify requests in Remedy 7.5 CMDB.  • Maintaining Global Asset & Configuration Wiki Site/Share point to ensure latest updated CI Add/ CI Modify/ GMSL Update process documentation is provided to end users.  • Participating in Weekly Global CAB, EMEA CAB and APAC CAB meetings and addressing any Configuration Management related queries/issues.  • Designed Standard Operating Process document for Standard No Impact Changes.  • Creation of Process Documents (PowerPoint presentation, Flow charts) for user education to use this process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Verizon, VA June 2018 to Present Key Achievements:  • Responsible to look over Globally Service Now Issues and give trainings for Incident/Problem/Change according to the business needs and updates.  • Support the development and configuration of a variety of areas including Service Catalog, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Release, Asset Management, Configuration Management (CMDB), and Reporting.  • Monitored and performed Service now admin activities which involve user and group administration.  • Responsibility to monitor the ITIL Service delivery via process mapping audits and design the procedure.  • Providing solution and standardized the ITSM process in bid management for to satisfy the customers.  • Responsibility to work with Project management to improve the daily base operation.  • Responsibility to update the dash board and make visibility to all employees and reporting tool.  • Handling Day to day IM/PM and CM tickets according to the Priority.  • Coordinate Problem Management team and Incident management.  • Involved in configuration of Email notification to alert the users of ServiceNow.  • Find root cause analyzing about the fail changes and the services.  • According the RFC, need to raise the changes in particular and handle the Technical team/Operational team.  • Conduct employee focus groups to ensure a thorough understanding of the issues.  • Responsible to coordinate with the escalation management team on Root Cause Analysis for failed changes.  • Responsible to Track and analyze unsuccessful changes to bring about process improvement with the help of frame work Remedy.  • Responsible to Develop, evaluate and present the weekly and monthly change management metrics to Executive management.  • Responsible to provide and present the monthly Change Cost Analysis report of the customers to the accounts management team.  • Experience in working on the ITIL Process Configuration like Incident and Problem Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, CMDB, Asset Management and Service Catalog Management in ServiceNow  • Develop a set of actionable and targeted change management plans - including communication plan, sponsor roadmap, coaching plan, training plan and resistance management plan.  • Work with project teams to integrate change management activities into the overall project plan.  • Find root cause analyzing about the fail changes and the services.  • According the RFC, need to raise the changes in particular and handle the Technical team/Operational team  • Conduct employee focus groups to ensure a thorough understanding of the issues.  • Responsible to coordinate with the escalation management team on Root Cause Analysis for failed changes.  Environment:ServiceNow, JSON, jQuery, Web Services, SOAP, SQL, XML, Angular JS, BootstrapJavaScript,XML, HTML, Windows 7, ServiceNow, CSS, AJAX. ServiceNow Developer Aclara, VA June 2016 to May 2018 Key Achievements:  • Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events.  • Identified and Recommended the ITIL v3 methodologies to deliver technical methodologies around the Service Now platform.  • Great knowledge and experience on Eureka, Fuji, and Geneva.  • Gathered requirement from users for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items.  • Great experience in Agile and Scrum Methodologies.  • Manage data with tables, the configuration management database (CMDB), import sets and update sets.  • Enhanced the existing LDAP integration and modified business rules.  • Involved in Geneva Up gradation and migrated data from Eureka to Geneva.  • Created Data Sources for various external applications. Used Import sets and Transform maps to import data into Service Now.  • Good Experience in Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Coordinated with Offshore team and monitored the work on daily basis.  • Developed Geneva Instance with Custom tables such as Demand, Analytics Project Requests and Business Intake Requests.  • Created Email Templates and Email Notifications.  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  • Implement Service-Now customization including, but not limited to, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Actions, Script Includes, Business Rules, workflow administration, report setup, and data imports and exports.  • Collaborated with application and infrastructure teams to provide architectural and technical guidance and oversight for ServiceNow solution implementation and customization.  • Developed and oversaw testing strategies to ensure rigorous testing and validation of ServiceNow implementation prior to production.  • Involved in the ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB maintenance.  • Integration experience with directories, such as Active Directory using methods such as LDAPs.  • Involved in providing 24*7 production supports in five different versions of Remedy application from onsite location and resolving issues within the Service Level Agreement.  • Worked on troubleshooting security rules, scripts etc.  • Created UI Actions/ UI Policies in customizing forms and buttons.  • Server side scripting using Script Includes.  • Update sets to move customization from Development to Production Instance.  • Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Release Management, Knowledge Management, Asset management, CMDB , Service Requests and SLM..  • Working knowledge of Web Technologies (XML, HTML, JAVA Script, AJAX, CSS, HTTP/S, etc.)  • Working knowledge of Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries.  • Created transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Developed UI Actions, script includes and Business rules for overall platform.  Environment: Service now Eureka/Dublin, Windows 7/8, XML, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Toad, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, UNIX. ServiceNow Developer FedEx, WI November 2014 to May 2016 Key Achievements:  • Worked on BMC Remedy ITSM and Service Now - SMAS (Service management automation support) release project.  • Responsible to gather requirements according to the client needs and documentation for Remedy enhancements and issue fixes  • Defines project scope and objectives, coordinates activities of a project team, and identifies resources and develops detailed work plans, schedules, project estimates, resource plans, and status reports.  • Responsible for preparing project reports and summaries as requested by department managers, handling scheduling, and conducting/facilitating project meetings.  • Provides technical and analytical guidance to project team and recommends and takes action to direct the analysis and solutions of problems according to the business needs.  • Manage outages, driving and coordinating resolution, including calls, escalation and notification to all senior and executive stakeholders across the firm, as well as coordinating all incident support activities  • Provides input into performance management and career development processes, and staffing and disciplinary actions and Responsible to ensures service scope, SLAs and other agreements are reviewed on a regular basis, ideally at least annually.  • UAT coordination and Build UAT test plan, Training materials and UAT develop test scripts  • Involvement in identifying business requirements, collection of use cases, process design, work flow mapping, testing, training and implementation support according to the business needs.  • Enhance the project management process to achieve business objectives  • Helps to plan the deployment, during the design stage of the process lifecycle, in conjunction with personnel from other teams and functions  • Need to provide reporting and metrics to Business unit IT Portfolio Manager, Engagement Manager and business unit management on program initiatives.  • Facilitate communication between business and technical staff to ensure effective and efficient implementation and communication of results  • Responsible to handle the Incident and problem management operation and monitor the trend and work flow of tickets through BMC remedy tool  • Involve in CAB calls and change management activities for new enhancement process for organizational change and application change in the wok around.  • Monitoring the RTACS configuration and data support team globally.  • Enhancement coordination, discussion and Project release responsibilities and maintain with the tech team  • Implementation of custom dashboards, reporting, and metrics as well as Staff assessment on ITSM tools and ITIL Processes  • BMC Remedy ITSM tool configuration with process deployment according to the business benefits  • Understanding the Business Value of each deployment and enhancement process  • Track Incident results and accomplish in ITSM tool road map  • Perform top-level administration of ITSM tool and be the primary contact for both end-users and other administrators.  Environment:Servicenow Dublin, Business Objects XI R2, Crystal Reports, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL, Server 2005. ServiceNow Engineer IBM - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2012 to October 2014 Key Achievements:  • Provided analysis, design and development of ServiceNow trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company's technical operations.  • Participated in process designing sessions and documented ITIL process flows.  • Working with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Experience in designing, development and implementation of ServiceNow Platform ITSM application.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Worked on fixing bugs and doing enhancements for Incident, Problem and Change management and Service Catalog modules.  • Creation of tables within ServiceNow.  • Managing data with tables, CMDB import sets Users, Groups and roles.  • Creation of custom reports and designing the dash board.  • Design and implement SLA - Service Level Agreement and the required work flow with Email notifications.  • Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests.  • Involved in evaluation of ITSM tools like Kovair, OTRS, Digite for selecting tool to be used for internal projects.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Part of core team to implement ITIL V3 at organization level and finding the delta between ITIL v2 & v3.  • Create schedules, reports and monitor performance of Service-Now.    Projects handled in Remedy Tools COE: -  • Migration of Remedy 7 to Remedy 7.5  • Managed Interfaces with Remedy 7.5  • User Migration from Remedy 6.3 to Remedy 7.5  • Remedy ITSM Process CoE.  • MI Support.    Release Management definition of a new release management processes for around 136 applications that are dependent on CRM, ERP and web application tier services.    Environment: Service Now, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Fire eye, HTML, Java script, CSS, CMDB. Database Administrator/Analyst Nova Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to December 2012 Key Achievements:  • Automating entire migrating of data from flat files to Final Stage with building process and PS/SQL Scripts using OWB(Oracle Warehouse Builder)  • Migration Environment Setup and executing the whole process successfully.  • Debugging in real time faults for migration of data.  • Maintaining and updating the scripts for successful Migration of data with help of version control.  • Updating the developments in the OWB Repository.  • Extracting Data Dump of Migrated Data for the Build Team to Test.  • Preparing Reconciliation Reports using Crystal Reports.  • Synchronizing the scripts in Migration database with updated, developed scripts.  • Development of shell scripts.  • Administrating BMC Tools (BPM Portal and BMC Patrol Central) to collect data for various applications that to be monitored as per client requirement.  • Applying the product patches and upgrades the tool to latest version.  • Created policies, which notify events through email alerts to command centre and respective teams.  • Training the support staff on configuring the thresholds and monitoring the various parameters, configuring the various groups for accessing the BPM Portal, BEM and Reporting.  • Integrating BMC PATROL, to monitor the network devices and UNIX servers, and creates the trouble ticket (Incident) in Remedy.  • Design of Asset Availability and Reliability reports for Servers and Applications (Crystal Reports)  • Remedy-Active Directory Integration using LDAP.  • Developing System level Availability Reports for all the monitored applications according to Clients Requirements using Crystal Reports.  Environment:Oracle 7.0, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, SQL Server, SQL*Plus, Windows 98. Education Bachelor's Skills Mapping, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Pl/sql Additional Information Technical Skills:  IT Software:  ServiceNow, BMC CMDB, BMC Atrium Discovery and Dependency Mapping (ADDM),BMC Remedy ARS, BMC Atrium Integrator, BMC Proactive Net and BMC Portal, BMC Event & Impact Manager, BMC Remedy Mid-Tier, Apache Tomcat (5.5,6.0), IIS 6.x,7.x, BMC Analytics 7.6.05, SAP BOXI R 3.1 SP5, BMC Dashboards.    ITSM Modules:  Configuration & Asset Management, Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Service catalog, SRM (Service Request Management), Knowledge, License Management.    Data Bases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, SQL Server 2005-2008. Oracle, SQL Server - Programming, Scripts & Stored Procedures, MY SQL, Access.  Operating System: UNIX, LINUX, Windows NT, Sun Solaris, Windows XP, Window Server 08, UNIX scripting, Windows Scripts, Batch Files, Jobs.  Languages: Core JAVA, PL/SQL, HTML, XML.