Package Handler Package Handler Package Handler - UPS Aurora, CO Work Experience Package Handler UPS 2018 to Present Presents small sorts and scans, labels and bags small packages for distribution throughout building. Financial Advisor Centennial State Financial 2018 to 2019 * Sold life insurance, annuities, retirement plans, key man policies and any other investments that may have benefited client.  * Created budget with clients and reviewed their current income, debt and portfolio before any planning was done.  * Educated each client and their spouse as to which products were invested in which markets and how each aspect of their financial plan was projected to work based on information found during initial budget review.  * Ensured that they understood risks and possible rewards, providing minimum of three financial plans for them to choose from.  * Researched several companies that housed each decided-upon products once plan was in place, selecting best one based on fee schedules, minimum contributions and maximum earning potential.  * Performed review of every client completed by team at least once per year to ensure each product was still achieving maximum gains, or other companies would be researched for possible movement. Financial Advisor Pruco Securities 2018 to 2018 * Advisor in training, transitioning from insurance agent to financial advisor.  * Prospected for clients and teaming with direct manager to learn proper interview techniques, fact-finding questions and data entry for progress tracking.  * Presented formal financial education to each client based on their personal accomplishments, goals and ability to achieve them.  * Created data sheets explaining historical markets, current markets and outlined risk versus reward; and answered any questions they had from first meeting to end of professional relationship.    Continues Insurance Agency Owner Farmers Insurance Group 2016 to 2018 * Sold property and casualty insurance along with retirement accounts and life insurance, and was responsible for all recruiting, hiring, terminating, training and licensed agent duties in office.  * Ensured that all calls were answered and/or returned same day, explaining coverages and deductibles, and educating on different discounts and their importance.  * Maintained top position in district for life insurance sales for two consecutive months, and was tapped to teach weekly classes on how different policies worked, which clients were best suited for which policy, and how fiduciary rules were governed in regards to cash value accumulation, loans and withdrawals. Connectwise Database Administrator Xssentials Home Automation 2015 to 2016 * Responsible for merger of Xssentials and eBode Home Automation in ConnectWise system.  * Received tickets submitted by employees for trouble or requested feature additions, deciding if those requests should be honored  * Implemented and declared permissions; provided training; and filtered tickets. Executive Office Assistant American Intense Racing 2011 to 2016 * Created office with technology to include functioning website, built customer database in Access, presented PowerPoint for lobby, completed customer invoices with formulas in Excel, networked security system through shop, and linked to owners phone.  * Researched solution for any technical issues or needs as requested; and self-taught QuickBooks and kept it updated.  * Liaised with supplier, partner or vendor to have applications processed, dealer status created, invoices revised, cancelled or paid. Specialist Verizon Wireless 2014 to 2015 * Transferred all data from customer's old device to new one, assisting and educating them on use as well as settings and other features.  * Informed customer of previous training, and networked other devices together if they brought them in. Ensured that customers left feeling confident that they knew how to work their technology. IT Intern 303Tech 2014 to 2015 Performed various tasks around office and on location such as: monitored Microsoft accounts for problems, assisted in networking issues for Little Caesars account, networked client machines and devices together, and created and monitored emails. Education Certificate in Cybersecurity University of Phoenix February 2021 License Colorado Technical University 2010 Skills Sql, Html5, Ios, Javascript, Microsoft office, Photoshop Additional Information Computer Skills: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Microsoft Office, Photoshop, Apple iOS, SQL