Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - New Jersey Sharing Network Bloomfield, NJ Self-motivated and highly adaptable detail-oriented professional with an aptitude for writing, research, data entry, and database management. Seeking a unique position that will utilize these skills and provide an opportunity for personal and  professional growth within the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator New Jersey Sharing Network - New Providence, NJ January 2019 to Present Maintain the Foundation's database in Raiser's Edge, ensuring accurate daily gift entry, timely gift acknowledgment, and overall data integrity. Create events and registrations, as well as importing data with ImportOMatic, exporting and  manipulating data in Excel, and generating queries, lists, and financial reports for reconciliation.  ? Spearheading several long-term cleanup and maintenance projects in RE, with the larger goal of optimizing communications with Sharing Network constituents and supporting future donor cultivation and gift solicitation. Freelancer Ohlinger Studios - Columbus, OH December 2017 to Present Development Coordinator St. Hubert's Animal Welfare Center - Madison, NJ October 2015 to June 2018 Utilized Raiser's Edge to enter incoming charitable gifts and in-kind donations, create financial reports for bookkeeping, and manage constituent profiles, along with performing regular data cleanup and administering queries and lists. Performed data merges in Word, printing, and coordination of up to 1600 acknowledgement letters a month (featuring weekly highlights), while overseeing the content and assemblage of new/lapsed donor kits. Supported all other donor-recognition and fundraising efforts by assisting the Development & Communications Team with prospect research; grants administration and management; and event planning and logistics.  ? 2017-18 member of the Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP). Front Desk Associate SoulCycle, Inc - Short Hills, NJ October 2013 to July 2015 Delivered high-end, individualized customer care and hospitality to clients. Managed high-volume scheduling, calls, and class check-ins, while playing an active, energizing role in team performance and regularly assisting management with new employee training. As an essential team member and shift lead, promoted further community development and growth of the company brand within NJ with the overall goal of heightening levels of customer satisfaction and retention rates.  ? Scored manager rating of 4.5/5 - "exceeds expectations" - on second mid-year review, along with receiving two studio-wide "SoulCollades." Recognized with merit-based raise. Coordinator, Community Service and Volunteer Resource Center Montclair State University - EECO AmeriCorps Prog - Montclair, NJ September 2012 to September 2013 Responsible for contributing to and increasing levels of civic engagement among Montclair State University members through non-academic volunteer recruitment, management, and retention. Liaised with students, faculty, staff, and alumni to identify meaningful and impactful community service opportunities, while developing and maintaining sustainable partnerships with community-based nonprofits. Successfully conceived, planned, and executed service projects on and off campus.  ? 2013 Akili Lynn Gordon Outstanding AmeriCorps Member Award Winner, NJ statewide conference.  ? Recruited over 1,400 potential volunteers for the 2012-13 school year.  ? Implemented university-wide 5th Annual National Day of Service and launched inaugural University-Community Partnership Fair (over 300 student, faculty, and nonprofit attendees).  ? Developed unique university webpage with all-new content in TerminalFour, improving visibility and accessibility of VRC services among internal and external users. Volunteer Coordinator Food Bank of Delaware - Newark, DE June 2012 to August 2012 Education Bachelor of Arts in History UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE - Newark, DE 2012 Skills Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook) (7 years), Database Management (4 years), Data Entry (4 years), Time Management (10+ years), Westlaw (Less than 1 year), TerminalFour (1 year), Raiser's Edge (4 years), ImportOMatic/Luminate Online (Less than 1 year), TeamRaiser (Blackbaud) (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Core competencies include:  Donor Database Management • Data Entry/Recordkeeping • Nonprofit Development & Administration • Verbal and Written Communication • Detail Orientation & Time Management • Internet & Prospect Research    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Highly experienced with... Raiser's Edge • ImportOMatic • TeamRaiser • Microsoft Office Word, PowerPoint  Proficient in... Chaucer • Microsoft Office Excel • Westlaw • LegalServer • TerminalFour  Heartsaver CPR/AED, American Heart Association (2013-2015)