MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server DBA - AMICA Insurance Company • Over 7 years of professional experience in Database Administration, Database Design, Development, implementation of various database solutions and Support of MS SQL Servers 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008 & 2005 in Production, Test, Development environments.  • 6+ years of experience in Relational Database Administration (RDBMS), Design Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000 in Production, Test, Development and Cluster Server Environments.  • 6+ years of hands on experience in Managing, Installation, Configuration, Upgrade and Migration of SQL Servers 2014/2012/2008R2/2005 in standalone and clustered server environments.  • Experience in performing periodic service packs and hot fixes (cumulative updates) to SQL servers.  • Expert in designing and implementing the business's Recovery Point Objective (RPO) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO) strategies based on available Service Level Agreements (SLA).  • Migration experience from MS SQL server 2000 to MS SQL server 2012 and MS SQL server 2005 to MS SQL server 2008R2/2012.  • Experience in implementing best security practices for Database administration activities (creating logins, users, roles, and assigning permission to them).  • Master in Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server performance issues and database activities using SQL server native tools such as SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, Extended Event, Trace Flags, Activity Monitors, Stored Procedures, DBCC, and DMVs and common third party tools.  • Solid experience and knowledge of High Availability and Disaster Recovery solution including Mirroring, Log shipping, Replication and Always on Failover Cluster Instance (FCI) and Always on Availability Groups.  • Highly proficient in the use of T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, user functions, user profiles, relational database models data integrity, SQL joins and query writing.  • Experience in use of Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Extensive work experience on DTS/SSIS Import/Export Data from various sources, Bulk Insert, Log Shipping, BCP and DTS/SSIS Packages.  • Extensive work experience on Performance Tuning & Index Tuning, Disaster Recovery Planning, Security Management, Managing server and clients.  • Have hands on experience with PowerShell for backups, DBCC DB cheeks, post installation setups (security (user & logins), and automating some jobs.  • Extensive work experience on system analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of projects with full SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Solid knowledge on capturing SQL Server table data changes for downstream consumption using the Change Data Capture feature of SQL Server.  • 3 years of data encryption experience (transparent data encryption) -encryption tool used for protecting data and understand data corruption and troubleshooting encryption problems. Work Experience MS SQL Server DBA AMICA Insurance Company December 2014 to Present Responsibilities:-  • Installation of MS SQL Server enterprise on Clustered Production, Test and Development boxes.  • Regularly monitor the performance of UAT and PROD server (CPU, Memory, I/O) using SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, Dynamic Management Views, Wait Stats and Events.  • Installation of Service Packs and patches on SQL server 2012 boxes.  • Create login id, passwords and roles in production and non-production environment.  • Set up transactional and snapshot replication among SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012 boxes.  • Monitor the status of transactional replication status using Replication Monitor  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Backing up system and user databases and restoring them when necessary.  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Create databases in DEV, SYS, UAT, and Production environment.  • Re-align the database structure for performance and space management.  • Worked on linked servers to run distributed queries between SQL Server and Oracle Databases  • Running DBCC consistency checks, fixing data corruption on application Databases.  • Extensively used DMV, SQL profiler and performance Monitor, and Performance Dash board.  • Maintain index rebuild and re-organize indexes periodically.  • Performing data Transfer among SQL boxes using SSIS, BCP, Migration using Export/Import and Back up & restore.  • Transparent data encryption(TDE) understand data corruption and troubleshooting encryption problems.  • Monitor message from red gate on SQL Server Load, and Space.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach-technical guidance, task assignment and tracking.  • Provide 24/7 technical support and monitoring.    Environment:-  Microsoft SQL Server 2008R2/2012, Windows 2003R2/2008, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, TFS, Windows Live Meeting, Citrix, Lite Speed, IDERA (IDERA diagnostic manager, IDERA SQL safe, IDERA SQL secure), Microsoft Excel 2007, Performance Monitor, SQL Profiles, Microsoft Dash Board, Replication Monitor, Mirroring Monitor, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Visio, Quick base, Microsoft Outlook 2003/2007, DBCC, DMV, Data Collector. MS SQL SERVER DBA Soft net Engineering INC June 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:-  • Installation of MS SQL enterprise servers on production, test and development boxes.  • Create New Databases and maintenance of existing User Databases and System Databases.  • Reorganization of existing databases to standardize the placement of various databases related files.  • Drop and add users, logins, aliases, and groups to the databases and granting/revoking permissions on Database objects.  • Written stored procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions.  • Extensively used SQL Server Management Studio, SQL profiler, SSIS, and SQL mail services.  • Performance tuning by dropping and rebuilding index.  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Data Transfers between various systems using BCP and SSIS.  • Defining and Implementing the Processes required for proper data conversion from the existing system to the New System.  • Interacting with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designing and implementing the Database Schema.  • Performance tuning on the Production, QA and development Servers.  • Performance and Fine Tuning of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries and User Defined Functions  • Using Performance Monitor for monitoring memory, processor, Disk I/O and user connections and fine-tuning.  • Database and log backups and restoration, backup strategies, scheduling backups. Backing up master and system databases and restoring them when necessary.  • Regularly maintained database for database consistency check using DBCC  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Create a customized report using SQL Server Reporting Services..  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.    Environment:-  MS-SQL Server 2008, Windows 2008, Oracle 9i, Solaris 2.8, VERITAS Net Backup  Crystal Report, MS-Project Database Administrator Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation April 2009 to June 2013 Responsibility  • Interacted with end users and prepared the functional and business requirement specification document.  • Involved in design, development, implementation and installation of this system using Visual Basic 5.0 as front end and SQL Server as back end on Windows NT environment.  • Install Database Management Software for SQL Server on the server and client machines, provide connections and manage databases.  • SQL Server Installation, patch application, migration of databases to newer releases.  • Working with various business groups while developing their applications, assisting in database design, creating ER's, phasing from development to QA and to Production environment.  • Database design, creation of user databases, database devices, segments  • Creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, clusters, indexes, procedures triggers and maintained Referential Integrity  • Importing and Exporting of Databases.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of SQL servers.  • Create and maintain various databases for Production, Development and Testing using SQL Server 2008.  • Perform everyday backups and develop recovery procedures.  • Migration of data across different databases and different servers.  • Install and configure Informix Dynamic server and clients.    Environment:- SQL Server 2008, Informix Dynamic Server 7.0, Windows 2008, Sco-Unix  ER- Studio, ASP, Apache web server, MS-Project. Education BSC in Electrical and computer engineering Addis Ababa university BA in Accounting and Finance Addis Ababa University School of commerce Skills MS SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (8 years), SQL SERVER (8 years), APACHE (4 years), ASP (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages:- Java, C#, T-SQL, PL/SQL, ASP. Net, XML, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting.  RDBMS:- MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2,2012, Informix dynamic server,  MS-Access 2003/2007  Front End:- MS Visual Basic, Developer 2000  Reporting Tools:- Crystal Reports 9.0. SSRS Designer  Server Operating Systems:- Windows 2003,2003r2,2008,2008r2, UNIX (Solaris), Sco UNIX, Linux.  Web Servers:- IIS ( Internet information server), Apache Server.  Packages:- Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, MS Visio 2003, MS-Project  Hardware:- SUN, IBM AS/400, HP, Compaq, Dell, Cisco routers.  Other Tools: SPSS, OpNet, ER/Studio, Veritas Net.