Materials Planner Materials Planner Materials Planner Southaven, MS Extensive clerical experience with emphasis in leadership, administration, planning and  management reporting Work Experience Materials Planner Smith & Nephew - Memphis, TN July 2016 to April 2019 Remotely/On site)  • Coordinates and expedites the flow of work and materials to meet production  schedules  • Ensure daily production requirements are achieved to meet the customer expectation  • Creates production orders and prioritize job orders for production optimization  • Follow-up as required with all necessary teams to expedite flow of material and documents to meet production schedule and other reports.  • Complete status reports for production progress, work in process, and raw material  inventory.  • Interacts with shop floor team members on a daily basis to resolve issues regarding manufacturing efficiencies or additional information from Manufacturing, Customer  service, and accounting.  • Solve production issues.  • Maintains data discrepancy log.  • Uphold operations by following policies and procedures.  • Ensure order priority to meet surgery date.  • Serve as customer interface for demand shipment information.  • Responsible for creating deliveries in SAP, and production orders for sales orders.  • Monitor quality of material, service, and delivery issues, and take corrective actions as needed.  • Contribute to department and company goals.  • Ensure processes are consistent with quality objectives. Visionaire Database Coordinator II Smith & Nephew - Memphis, TN December 2013 to July 2016 Primarily responsible for overall accuracy and integrity of the marketing and FDA  regulated study databases, regulatory product registration database and case report  files.  • Maintains filing system for marketing and FDA regulated studies by creating, reviewing and preparing confidential patient case records and booklets for reference  and storage.  • Create clinical study case report forms using appropriate software.  • Enters data with high level of accuracy. Create new files in database when required.  • Processes new and current patient case documents by auditing and reviewing data for discrepancies, consistency of data and compliance with FDA requirements.  • Resolves discrepancies by contacting clinical study sites to address and resolve.    • Prepares source data for entry by completing and sorting information.  • Establish entry priority.  • Audits data for deficiencies and assign numbers for new products.  • Performs periodic verification to assure product registration database is updated  correctly.  • File Regulatory materials relating to the Product Registration information.  • Generates highly confidential monthly clinical project summary progress reports and patient follow-up schedule lists and letters.  • Maintains data discrepancy log.  • Assists supervisor and/or organizational unit in meeting goals and objectives.  • Develops objectives, priorities, and deadlines; plans and carries out assignment  handling problems and deviations.  • Uphold operations by following policies and procedures; recommending changes to improve efficiency.  • Communicates routinely with clinical research personnel to assure discrepancies in the database and patient case reports.  • Maintain order priority to meet surgery dates. Materials Buyer/Planner Jabil Circuit - Memphis, TN November 2011 to December 2013 • Serve as customer interface for demand shipment information.  • Report creation in SAP and excel in preparation for daily internal production meeting  as well as weekly meetings with the customer.  • Maintain HDD levels along with buffer stock according to SAP data to ensure there is  no down time due to material shortages.  • Accurately maintain raw and assembled components using accurate data in SAP  • Maintain add-ons, deletes, cost change, renames and merges on Inventory items in SAP  • Functions as the focal point in creating a production schedule using the best  combination of Visual Manufacturing MRP system and Excel.  • Research and assign manufacturing times and due dates on parts as needed and document during the releasing process.  • Identify and resolve supplier and internal errors that result in budget, material or schedule discrepancies according to SAP and other reports.  • Analyze project information and requests from engineering personnel via an engineer-change-notice and effectively communicate the requirements to purchasing  and manufacturing personnel.  • Accurately maintain part-master database in SAP.  • Correctly assess whether required parts can be issues from Finished Goods Inventory, should be manufactured in-house, or sub-contracted to outside vendors.  • Maintain inventory items in SAP including adds, deletes, cost change, renames and merges  • Act as back up for master planner Planning Order Administrator Jabil Circuit - Memphis, TN September 2010 to November 2011 Responsible for creating deliveries in SAP, and travelers for sales orders.  • Responsible for creation and maintenance of weekly build plan for manufacturing  • Gather and record a log of inventory transfers from SAP as needed for planning  • Monitors, analyzes, and reports performance to schedule of production activities  utilizing information derived from material and production control systems.  • Monitor quality of material, service, and delivery issues, and take corrective actions  as needed.  • Research order discrepancies using SAP.  • Coordinate teardown of returned product  • Coordinate with departments as needed to identify and resolve issues regarding inventory, budget and delivery.  • Routine clerical duties to support department activities and equipment.  • Data Entry  • Provide means to track and help manage daily manufacturing workload and inventory  status.  • Assist production scheduler    Computer Proficiencies and Skills  • Microsoft Excel  • Microsoft Word  • Power Point  • Extensive Data Entry in SAP  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills  • Type 45-50 net WPM Education None in Business Administration University of Memphis - Memphis, TN 2012 Skills PROBLEM SOLVING, DATA ENTRY, TYPING, PAYING, ARTICULATE, TRAINING, Shipping, Management, Logistics, Excel, Inventory