Program Analyst Program Analyst Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Analyst Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General - Audit - Denver, CO 2018 to Present Complete a full range of duties to support evaluation engagement execution, including responsibility for engagement stages through design, data collection and analysis, message development, and drafting segments of products that are technically complete and appropriately targeted to the audience. Data Analyst Analytic Partners 2017 to 2018 •Harmonize, process and analyze data to develop charts, reports and client presentations  •Ensure statistical models and all deliverables are of high quality and meet the internal quality control guidelines  •Harmonize, process and analyze data to develop charts, reports and client presentations  •Ensure statistical models and all deliverables are of high quality and meet the internal quality control guidelines  •Creating SQL ETL processes for marketing data from multiple sources  •Creating SQL stored procedures and queries for extracting and analyzing marketing data  •Generating insights from data analysis for Marketing Mix Modeling studies  •Communicating effectively with clients to ensure a successful adoption of insights from marketing studies Database Administrator Datavail 2016 to 2017 • Supporting multiple large client's accounts and participating in a 24 x 7 on-call rotation  • Configuring and deploying SQL Server Database solutions across the organization  • Designing High availability solutions using clustering, log shipping, replication, Always ON and Database mirroring  • Making database design and architecture recommendations on new and existing environments  • Ensuring High Availability and reliability of all enterprise databases  • Controlling access permissions and privileges.  • Monitoring Database performance and making recommendations to users on their queries to help them get faster response  • Developing, managing and testing backup and recovery plans  • Developing, managing and testing archive plans for the enterprise  • Designing, architecting, and implementing Data Warehouse solutions across the enterprise  • Upgrading and patching our database environments with the latest releases  • Developing project and implementation plans for production releases  • Writing SQL scripts to automate some of the administrative database maintenance jobs  • Writing SQL scripts to fix production issues  • Documenting any known issues or production changes Senior Consultant - Contract Panorama Consulting Solutions 2016 to 2016 • Well-versed in competitive solutions and business analysis.  • Daily tasks included conducting business process mapping, ERP advisory engagements, process analysis and design, gap analysis, functional system design and specifications - all within a client-facing role.  • Tasked to provide key decision support, monitor issues and risks, and create mitigation plans for clients.  • Managed full life-cycle ERP software implementations from a functional, organizational change management (OCM) and business process improvement (BPI) standpoint. Economist Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014 to 2016 • Performed methodological research, economic analysis, and quality assurance & technical accuracy of data.  • Managed collection and quality assurance of wage and comprehensive benefit cost data for 96 accounts on a quarterly basis for the National Compensation Survey.  • Assisted in the development and implementation of a new national labor study for the Social Security Administration's (SSA) Disability Determination Process, which quantifies physical and cognitive requirements for active occupations in the national economy.  • Created national training modules for SSA study, used to train over 100 field economists within BLS.  • Participated in activities to address program development needs such as quality improvement or process monitoring initiatives.  • Assisted with development of requirements for statistical/economic computer systems and carried out acceptance tests for enhanced or new applications. All-Source Analyst Kore Federal 2013 to 2014 • Produced time-critical intelligence products for U.S. Government organizations in aviation security, consisting of security systems and technologies employed in the commercial freight and transportation industry, to include various screening, access control, and monitoring systems.  • Performed counter-terrorism analysis in relation to foreign aviation security susceptibility. All-Source Analyst BAE Systems 2011 to 2013 Assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency's Cyber Threat Analysis Division, Office of Middle East &  Assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency's Directorate for Intelligence Analysis, Office of Asia-Pacific Analysis    • Conducted research and analysis relating to the C4ISR infrastructure of the assigned countries and urban areas; including in-depth review and analysis of classified, unclassified, and open source material.  • Prepared customer-tailored analytic profiles and products - including Defense Intelligence Reports (DIR) - under daily deadlines for internal and external customers - including DIA's regional offices, DIA Director's Office, Defense Attaché Offices, and other members of the intelligence community.  • Identified trends within foreign militaries and among foreign military officials, with respect to leadership intentions, promotional potential, attitudes toward the U.S. and American foreign policies.  • Identified regional and domestic political trends in relation to foreign militaries' personnel moves.    Awards: BAE Outstanding Achievement Award S-2 Intelligence Analyst US Army May 2007 to May 2008 • Analyzed real time and stationary imagery of the emplacement and movement associated with improvised explosive devices (IED) to develop and implement tactical counter-IED measures.  • Designed and implemented link diagrams and pattern of life analysis of multiple active IED cells and logistical support cells to support tactical disruption of activity.  • Produced daily counter-IED products, which led to the decreased lethality and emplacement of enemy IED targeting.  • Completed targeting and data mining research on high value targets to support tactical disruption of activity.  Awards: Bronze Star Medal, Army Achievement Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal Education Bachelor of Science in Economics Shippensburg University May 2011 Economics Association of Pennsylvania State College Skills SQL (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Excel (5 years), Visio (2 years), Sql Server, DBA