SQL BI Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS SQL BI Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS SQL BI Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS - Centene Corp St. Louis, MO • Over 8+ years of IT experience in Database Administration/ Database designing, Development and maintaining Databases/BI Application. A wide range of expertise In SQL Server and BI Stack (SSIS, SSRS,SSAS) within multiple industries such as Media, Finance, Insurance andHealthcare  • Expert of MS SQL Server 2012 suite of Business Intelligence products SSRS, SSISandSSAS  • Expertise in creating packages using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Knowledge regarding the Administration of SQL Server, MySQL implementation including installation, configuration, patching, backups, documentation and monitoring  • Strong Experience in working with BCP, SSIS (DTS, DTSX) packages for Data Integration Services  • Experience in data analysis, design and development of databases for business applications in a client/server and data warehouse environments in SQL2014  • Designed and developed SQL SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources such as Access database, Excel Spreadsheet, and flat files in SQL Server for data analysis and Reporting by using Multiple Transformation Provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, merge and union all  • Extensive Knowledge of using System Variables and creatingUser-Defined Variables for SSIS Package  • Expertise in creating Report Models for building Ad hoc reports using SSRS  • Expertise in creating various Parameterized, Cascaded, Linked, Drill-through and Drill-down reports  • Created complex DTS Packages for Data Migration and Transformation. Experience in data migration from Oracle/Access/Excel Sheets to SQL Server 2012  • Good Knowledge of Normalization/De-Normalization, data design methodology and building Referential Integrity for the relational Database Model implementing as per business requirement  • Efficiently helped in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)processes including Analysis, Design, Programing, Testing and Documentation  • Experience in publishing Power BI Desktop reports created in Report view to the Power BI service.  • Created, Maintained and scheduled various reports in Power BI like Tabular Reports.  • Expertise in using Power BI and prepared dashboard reports for internal team progress tracking  • Excellent Knowledge in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DML Triggers, Views, User defined data types, Cursors and Indexes Using T-SQL  • Experience in Diagnosing and Troubleshooting performance issues DMV's and DTA  • Worked in administration tasks such as data loading, batch jobs, data unloading, backup&Recovery, user and application table management, upgrades, creating database/File groups/files/Transaction logs  • Excellent knowledge of scheduling jobs and Alerts using SQL Server Agent  • Good team player, strong interpersonal and communication skills combined with self-motivation, Initiative and the ability to think outside the box Work Experience SQL BI Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS Centene Corp - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing stored procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors for both Online and Batch requests handling business logic and functionality of various modules  • Experienced in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Cursors, Joins, Constraints, DDL, DML and User Defined Functions to implement the business logic and created clustered and non-clustered indexes  • Created SSAS OLAP Cubes and Partitioning Cubes, monitored and full and incremental load using cube wizard.  • Created tabular, matrix, chart, drilldown reports, and parameterized, cascaded reports according to business requirement.  • Involved in developing Cubes in Business Intelligence Development Studio using SSAS.  • Involved in Analyzing, designing, building &, testing of OLAP cubes with SSAS and in adding calculations using MDX.  • Generated multiple Enterprise reports using SSRS from SQL Server Database (OLTP) and SQL Server Analysis Services Database (OLAP) and included various reporting features such as group by, drilldowns, drill through, sub-reports, navigation reports (Hyperlink) etc.  • Created SSRS report templates for ease of report development.  • Created different Parameterized Reports (SSRS 2008/2012) which consist of report Criteria in various reports to make minimize the report execution time and to limit the no. of records required.  • Wrote MDX queries and expressions for use in Front End BI Applications and created SSRS reports.  • Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Generated multiple Enterprise reports (SSRS/Crystal/Impromptu) from SQL Server Database (OLTP) and SQL Server Analysis Services Database (OLAP) and included various reporting features such as group by, drilldowns, drill through, sub-reports, Parameterized Reports.  • Developed custom calculated measures using DAX in Power BI to satisfy business needs.  • ?Created Job Monitoring and Financial Dashboards using Power BI and DAX queries.  • Experience in creating SSAS 2012 tabular model by adding tables to the model and creating relationships between tables.  • Integrated Custom Visuals based on business requirements using Power BI desktop.  • Developed complex SQL queries using stored procedures, common table expressions (CTEs), temporary table to support Power BI and SSRS reports.  • Involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures  • Designed T-SQL scripts to identify long running queries and blocking sessions  • Optimized the performance of various SQL scripts, stored procedures and triggers by using embedded UDFs, CTEs and System stored procedures.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases  • Involved in database management, performance measurement and performance tuning for new databases and existing databases by using SQL Profiler, SQL Analyzer, and SQL Enterprise Manager.  • Developed different types of tabular reports, matrix reports (cross tab or pivot) reports, chart and graphs, reports that aggregate data using SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS)  • Worked closely with business power users to create reports/dashboards using SSRS.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2016/2014, MS Access, MDX, DAX, SSAS, SSIS, SSRS, HTML, Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010, IIS, Query Analyzer, ERWIN, Windows server 2008R2, TSQL, SQL Profiler, DTS, Team Foundation Server. SQL BI Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS UHG - Minnetonka, MN February 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering User Requirements and System Specifications.  • Developed Stored Procedures, functions and database triggers and maintained referential integrity and implemented complex business logic.  • Created and executed SQL Server Integration Service packages to populate data from the various data sources, created packages for different data loading operations for many applications.  • Created SSIS Packages using SSIS Designer for exporting heterogeneous data from OLE DB Source, Excel Spreadsheet to SQL Server.  • Migrated DTS packages to SSIS packages and modified the packages with new features of SQL SSIS.  • Designed ETL packages dealing with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, and XMLs etc) and loaded the data into target data sources by performing different kinds of transformations using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using BCP utility, DTS and SSIS services.  • Data Loading Experience in SQL Server 2008 using SSIS ETL and Experience in developing packages in SSIS and DTS according to task.  • Data analysis and data migration by transferring them using SSIS packages.  • Experience in designing, configuring, deploying SSIS packages and providing security for packages.  • Implemented incremental Load for many SSIS packages.  • Experience in Error handling, Debugging, error logging for production support in SSIS.  • Experienced in Extracting, Transforming and Loading ETL data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using BCP utility, DTS and SSIS services.  • SQL Server OLAP database development including KPIs, Data mining, working with changing dimensions.  • Performed Logging and Deployment of various packages in SSIS.  • Experienced in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server.  • Built MDX queries and Data Mining Expression (DMX) queries for Analysis Services & Reporting Services.  • Created Dimensions and cubes with star schema using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Created multiple reports (SSRS) in Drill mode using tables, financial tables, crosses tabs and chart.  • Design, deployment, and maintenance of various SSRS Reports in SQL Server.  • Designed and implemented Parameterized and cascading parameterized reports using SSRS.  • Used SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, and optimization of SQL Server and non-production database code as well as T-SQL code from developers and QA.  • Backing up, restoring system & other databases as per requirements, and also scheduled those backups.  • Developed Star schema using SSAS cubes.  • Created parallel period, filter, ancestors and cross join MDX queries.  • Developed Aggregations, partitions and calculated members for cube as per business requirements.  • Involved in analyzing and designing disaster recovery / replication strategies with business managers to meet the business requirements.  • Designed Dimensional Modeling using SSAS packages for End-User. Created Hierarchies in Dimensional Modeling.  • Used SQL Server Profiler to trace the slow running queries and tried to Optimize SQL queries for improved performance and availability.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Erwin, XML, T-SQL, SQL Server 2012/2014, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, VisualStudio.NET SQL Developer Vernovis - Cincinnati, OH January 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Create and modify SQL Reports that relate to the client or department reporting  • Read and write Complex queries, ability to create the database objects (tables, views, stored procedures, User Defined Functions) and modify the existing reporting content.  • Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)process by analyzing business requirements and understanding the functional work flow of information from source systems to destination systems.  • Created volatile tables and partitioning the tables and responsible for supporting existing projects using Teradata SQL assistant tool.  • Developed and implemented SSIS 2012 ETL processes to load data from source files to target tables  • Migrated data from Heterogeneous Data Sources to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to overcome transformation constraints.  • Worked on Onboarding the WMS (Warehouse Management System) Oracle data and landed the data tables on our production SQL Server with process indexing and considering other constraints.  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Designed, Developed and Deployed reports in MS SQL Server environment using SSRS-2012 R2  • Developed and responsible for development of Dashboards in Tableau  • Developed various Drill-throughand Drill-Down custom reports using .Net framework within SSRS  • Developed different kind of reports such as Sub Reports, Charts, Matrix reports,Linked reports. Used cascaded parameters to generate a report from two different Data Sets.  • Productions support, troubleshooting's and debugging in a high-volume transaction processing environment  • Support existing projects over the holiday season to ensure the business had all the data and reports available  • Apply business and database analysis skill to gain deep understanding of user's needs  • Aid in the definition and creation of solutions that meet the needs of our users  • Understand complex business processes, gather requirements, work efficiently and verify their results  • Assume an increasingly active role in computer systems design    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012R2, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis services (SSAS), SQL Server Integration services (SSIS), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), MS Excel, MS Access, Windows XP, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) SQL Database Developer The Zidian Group February 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirement Analysis, Design phase and Development phase of Agile SDLC model system.  • Developed various T-SQL objects such as Functions, Tables, Views, Triggers, Indexes, Constraints and created Dynamic and Static Stored Procedures and Queries to develop Decision Engine.  • Developed, monitored and deployed SSIS packages for Dynamic ETL flow to validate, extract, transform and load data into database.  • Performed Full load & Incremental load with several Data flow tasks and Control Flow Tasks using SSIS.  • Involved in the Migration of Databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  • Developed and implemented SSIS 2012 ETL processes to load data from source files to target tables  • Worked on OLAP Data warehouse, Model, Design and Implementation.  • Maintained Batch logging, Error logging tables and handled errors using Event handlers.  • Created SSIS package to Export and Import data from SQL Server to Access, Text and Excel files and Configured SQL mail agent for sending automatic mails.  • Developed reports and deployed them on server using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Developed Parameterized, Drill-through and Drill-down Reports to get monthly customers account details and profits using SSRS.  • Sound Experience and understanding of SSAS, OLAP and OLTP cube, Data mining and Architecture.  • Involved in deploying, configuring and managing reports using Report Manager and Report Builder.  • Formatted the reports using the Global variables and expressions.  • Scheduling the SSIS packages and Jobs.  • Improved Performance by creating Clustered and Non- Clustered Indexes and by optimizing the T-SQL statements using SQL profiler.  Environment:MS SQL Server 2012, T-SQL, Power pivot, Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio), Visual Source Safe (VSS). SQL Developer California Creative Solutions - Poway, CA February 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered functional requirements and Business requirements and written the technical specifications for building the Global Enterprise Data warehouse.  • Worked closely with end users in designing and creating the Global Enterprise Data warehouse.  • Implemented member properties, virtual dimension, dimension custom rollups, write back, action and drill through.  • High Level Design of ETL DTS Package for integrating data from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, Text Format Data).  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Created SSIS Packages using SSIS Designer for export heterogeneous data from OLE DB Source (Oracle), Excel Spreadsheet to SQL Server 2008.  • Created Drill-through, Drill-down, Cross-Tab Reports and Sub-Reports using RDL.  • Developed a multi-dimensional database (MDDB) and OLAP cube using SQL Server 2000 that stored and maintained the data.  • Implemented MS Analysis Services setup, tuning, cube partitioning, and dimension designing including hierarchical and slowly changing dimensions.  • Managed Up gradation ofDTS packages to SSIS packages.  • Involved in the complete data warehouse development life cycle and solely responsible for the design, development and maintenance of 8 cubes.  • Implemented transactional replication among different servers.  • Provided technical guidance and support to end-users by developing documentations required.  • Performed application and database code production pushes, following production release procedures.  • Performed production SQL release final verification procedure to production.  • Documented all database changes and follow and enforce change and release management processes.  • Audited and enforced database security, code and procedural standards.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, MS-Excel, DTS, Visual Studio.Net 2003 SQL Database Administrator/Developer HCL Technology - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed and maintained 2-Node (Active-Active) Clustering as a High availability solution.  • Implemented and maintained Database mirroring as a Disaster Recovery Solution.  • Installed, authored and managed reports using SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services.  • Analyzed the project environment and sub systems of the project and prepared a high-level documentation for application designing.  • Responsible for gathering business requirements, developing and reviewing of design documents.  • Did trouble shooting of Client connections, viewing error log and applications.  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2008 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Developed and optimized database structures, stored procedures, Dynamic Management views, DDL triggers and user-defined functions.  • Transferred data (ETL) to Data ware house Environment using SSIS.  • Used Data Partitioning, Snapshot Isolation in SQL Server 2008  • To analyze long running queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  • Maintained the database consistency with DBCC at regular intervals.  • Involved in development activities included hardware and network specification, installation and configuration and participation in database design, architecture and SQL scripting.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, SSRS and Windows Server 2003, MS Access. SQL Server Developer/SSIS developer SSP Group May 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed end to end ETLs for transactional data flow from the source system to the end tables.  • Took ownership of various Sprints and managed to provide the user cases individually within the deadline.  • Maintained the Defect Tracker for the team to ensure timely and correct handling of data issues.  • Independently developed new applications which considerably reduced the Turnaround Time (TAT) for the team.  • Interacted directly with users across the EMEA region and resolved complex PRD data issues.  • Analyzed and subsequently raised Change Requests for bug fixes in ETL and SQL.  • Mentored new entrants into the team, providing them adequate support and technical help.  • Prepared and updated documentation for major changes in the system landscape, which was subsequently used across various teams.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, SSRS and Windows Server 2003, MS Access Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Database: SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008 T-SQL Programming, Dynamic SQL, C#.Net  Data Modeling: ER-win, MS Visio  Development Tools: BIDS, SSDT, SSMS Integration Services (SSIS) Analysis Services (Multidimensional/Tabular Model) Reporting Services (SSRS, Report Builder)  BI Tools: Power BI, Power Pivot, Tableau  Source Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS)  SDLC: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, and Spiral SharePoint, PerformancePoint Services