Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Developer Jonesboro, AR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator East Arkansas Community College - Forrest City, AR April 2019 to Present • Maintains SQL server databases and SQL server security permissions for the entire school.  • Automated an email notification system by using SQL Server's built-in mail profile and stored procedures that pulls users whom passwords have expired or are expiring in SQL Server that has decreased help desk calls by 80%.  • Automated a daily process that pulls data using SSIS that outputs a CSV file for other school applications to process.  • Leads software upgrades for the Jenzabar and PowerFAIDS software.  • Built an EDI tab-delimited CSV file that pulls student information and automated the file creation using SSIS that uploads to National Student Clearinghouse to validate degrees. SQL Developer Star Transportation LLC - Jonesboro, AR September 2017 to January 2019 • Developed an in-house C# program with a SQL database to store truck and driver records, view truck preventative maintenance logs, and export data to a CSV for auditing that has increased work efficiency by 90%.  • Updated current C# and SQL code to the client's requirements.  • Successfully develop and maintain complex queries utilizing temp tables, window functions, and CTE's.  • Develop stored procedures in SQL that allow invoice data to be extracted in the form of CSV and Excel files to clients.  • Performed requirements gathering with clients and supervisors to ensure the correct data is in the correct format and extracted from the database.  • Successfully manages and completes multiple SQL projects simultaneously before their deadlines.  • Create SSIS packages to automate daily SQL data pulls, output and split the data into unique flat file naming conventions and upload the file using the built-in FTP task.  • Used execution plans to determine bottlenecks in queries.  • Created multiple indexes on multiple tables to improve query performance by 80%. Computer Support Specialist Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR May 2017 to August 2017 • Utilized a Mac with Windows on VMware to assist and solves issues from 13,000 plus users, including students and faculty.  • On more than one occasion have been complemented on how thorough my problem solving and patience is when dealing with complex issues.  • Thoroughly explained technical solutions to users and train them if they need assistance  • Successfully pushed a fix to reword the college's reset password security page that decreased call volume by 20%.  • Successfully automated a desktop application to retrieve over 200 records from an API and merging the differences.  • Successfully automated ways to clear the database on every execution and automatically populates the SQLite flat file with current data as well as test data.  • Using web debugging tools such as Fiddler and Postman to perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Developed a password saving desktop application that requires users to sign in.  • The application performs CRUD operations with an SQLite for portability and ease of use. Programmer Analyst Rural Sourcing Inc - Jonesboro, AR March 2014 to March 2017 • Created content with WordPress Family Crisis Center that successfully allowed them to access and manipulate their content.  • Successfully trained volunteers from Family Crisis Center in WordPress.  • Implemented the design of RSI's choose a charity holiday card with JavaScript/jQuery validation that successfully allowed all clients to choose a charity they preferred.  • Utilized daily sprint meetings with clients that created a high success rate of ticket completion.  • Designed a responsive social media mock webpage using bootstrap.  • Developed a simple validation page using JavaScript and HTML/CSS. Quality Assurance Analyst Rural Sourcing Inc - Jonesboro, AR February 2012 to March 2014 • Analyzed and documented software bugs for my client R.J. Reynolds Tobacco company.    • Compatibility, functional, regression, negative, and testing for the Accenture CAS software.  • Successful tier 2 end-user technical support for 1,300 users.  • Utilized and repaired MSSQL Servers that allowed field users to communicate to their company's servers successfully.  • Performed basic search queries to narrow down and correct client records. Education B.S. in Computer and Info. Technology Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR Skills SQL (4 years), C# (1 year), SSIS (Less than 1 year), Sql Server, T-SQL, Sql Database, ETL, TSQL, SSRS, DBA Links https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC47Eqf_qX4cb8O6um1kkG9g Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fa9era6ignwbakia Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Completed Projects  • A Password Saver application that has a flat file database back-end to add, update and delete website passwords.  • Catch a Dish – A web-based search engine for recipes. Technologies utilized are MVC, VueJS, a web API, and MSSQL backend.  • ETL – Using SSIS with the Adventure Works database to extract, transform and load data into flat/excel files.