Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Adalante Healthcare Glendale, AZ Three years experience in MSSQL administration for a Fortune 500 company. Created and developed a variety of applications with a total revenue increase measured in the millions. Skilled at root-cause analysis and tackling new technical challenge. A self-motivated, driven, and adaptable person. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Adalante Healthcare - Phoenix, AZ August 2016 to Present • Served as sole database administrator for multiple SQL2012 servers containing HIPAA data, solely responsible for server configuration, backups, optimization, and support.  • Provided financial and other reports to executives in support of company needs. Reverse engineered existing queries from NextGen to provide complete rollups that could be viewed at one time.  • Installed and configured SSIS and SSRS on servers to support data analytics. Authored jobs and procedures to automate movement of data. Lead QA Analyst U-Haul International - Phoenix, AZ December 2015 to August 2016 • Supervised a team of three analysts performing issue research on complex technical issues and served as primary point of contact and research for a 100+ developers.  • Performed white-box testing and analysis on new development and performed impact analysis on existing frameworks, services, and applications to best utilize developer time.  • Created dynamic TFS queries to track QA effectiveness against release iterations and generate metrics for future improvement. Database Administrator August 2012 to December 2015 • Administrator for MSSQL 2005/2008/2012 servers comprising the core of company business, from a 13TB data warehouse to an 18,000 transaction/second OLTP database. Performed advanced indexing and optimization for the company's primary point-of-sale database and server.  • Authored advanced T-SQL procedures to accommodate development needs. Performed SQL monitoring to ensure smooth server operation. Achieved 99.9%+ server uptime on all servers.  • Experienced in schema usage, permission inheritance/chaining, linked server setup, backup/restore operations, and automated maintenance.  • Created WebService and database logic used to provide on-demand real-time inventory and customer management.  • Enhanced and supported and database logic used to provide on-demand scheduling for equipment rentals at a specific time and location. This service boosted rentals by 8%, and doubled reservations taken on the company website.  • Created and deployed SSIS packages to move and transform data as needed. Configured SSAS services, dimension tables, and fact tables for construction of cubes based on business data.  • Created and deployed dozens of SSRS reports backed by intricate data logic to serve highly filtered and business-appropriate data to all parts of the company. Education Art Studies Arizona State University 2016 to Present General Studies Gateway Community College 2014 to 2016 Additional Information Technical Skills  T-SQL, PL/SQL, MSSQL2000 - MSSQL2012, C#, WCF, ASP.NET, jQuery, Visual Basic, Redgate SQL Compare, Redgate SQL Data Compare, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 9d, Oracle 11g, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft SQL Profiler, Linux, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, CrystalReports, Windows Server 2003/2008, Regular Expressions, Team Foundation Server  Available On Request