Sr SQL Server Database Developer/ Administrator Sr SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer/ <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr SQL Server Database Developer/ Administrator - Dominion Enterprises, VA, Norfolk Norfolk, VA • Almost 7 years of professional experiences in database development in Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Hands on experiences in various programming languages as MS SQL, Oracle and Python and C#.  • Hands on experience in writing T-SQL queries, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions (UDF), Cursors, Derived Tables, Views and Triggers.  • Hands on knowledge on maintaining database support tools, database tables and dictionaries and recovery and back-up procedures  • Performance Tuning and Optimization of SQL script.  • In-depth knowledge of Transact-SQL (DDL, DML and DQL).  • Advance knowledge in RDBMS concepts, logical/physical data models.  • Able to install, upgrade and configure of Microsoft SQL Server Databases.  • Strong hands on experiences in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for making various packages for data integration from various sources.  • Experienced in designing Data Model and Building reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Experienced in Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) in SQL Server database.  • Knowledge of Oracle 10g Database and PL/SQL.  • Strong analytical, problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  • Able to work collaboratively, quickly understand system architecture and business needs while committed to achieving corporate goals.  • Good verbal and written communication skills. Positive attitude towards superiors & Peers.  • Ability to work independently and in large team environment.  • Quick learner and good performer both in team and independent job environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr SQL Server Database Developer/ Administrator Dominion Enterprises, VA, Norfolk April 2017 to Present Dominion Enterprises is a leading marketing services company serving real estate, apartments, automotive and travel.  Responsibilities:  • Creating tables, stored procedures, views, functions, indexes and modify them as per business requirements for forrent.com.  • Writing T-SQL Script, Complex Custom Query, Merge statements, Joins, pre-deployment scripts in SQL Server 2012 and 2008R2 and post-deployment Scripts in SQL Server Data Tool (SSDT) 2012.  • Maintaining database support tools, database tables and dictionaries and recovery and back-up procedures.  • Installing different version of SQL Servers as 2008, 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014.  • Building SSIS package and modify it using SSDT.  • Run SQL jobs and SSIS package.  • Writing SQL scripts in SSMS and execute directly in production.  • Assisting Quality Assurance Engineers for Testing.  • Participating various meetings as a part of Agile Software Development Life Cycle  • Participated various periodical database security trainings, various project workshops, peer programming.  • Performed Code Review in the SSDT for maintaining coding standard.  Environment:- MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2014, Windows Server 2008, SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) 2012, Reporting Services 2012, Visual Studio 2012, UNIX, MS Access07, Sharepoint, JIRA, TRACK, MongoDB, Google Hang out, MS Excel, MS Word, Team Foundation Server(TFS), Integration Services 2012. SQL Server Developer Med Assurant, Inc - Herndon, VA February 2015 to March 2017 Med Assurant is a healthcare technology company.  Responsibilities:  • Creating database objects like tables, view, stored procedures, and writing T-SQL script as per business requirements.  • Installation and Configuration of SQL Server 2012, 2014.  • Creating SSIS packages and modify them as per business requirements.  • Fine tuning of the database queries. Creating appropriate indexes for code optimization.  • Migrated data across different data sources and SQL server environments.  • Wrote complex queries, correlated sub queries and joined tables.  • Working within an Agile SDLC process.    Environment:- MS SQL Server 2012, Windows Server 2012, Visual Studio 2008, 2012, Reporting Services 2012, Windows 2000 / XP, Visual Studio 2012, MS Access07, Sharepoint, Mainframe, TRACK, Google Hang out, MS Excel, MS Word. Database Developer CoStar Group, Inc - Norfolk, VA January 2013 to December 2014 CoStar Group, Inc. provides information, analytics and marketing services to the multifamily and commercial real estate industry  Responsibilities:  • Creating tables, views, and T-SQL script to retrieve data for identifying data discrepancies and to support data analysis as per business requirements.  • Building SSIS packages as per requirements and modify the packages.  • Installation and Configuration of SQL Server 2008.  • Schedule database restore using SSMS.  • Fine tuning of the database queries. Creating appropriate indexes for better performance plans.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, MS, 2012, Windows Server 2007, SSRS 2008, BIDS 2008, MS Access07, Sharepoint, TRACK, Google Hang out, MS Excel, MS Word.    References will be provided upon request. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Mysql, Oracle, T-SQL, SSRS, ETL, Ssis, Sql Database