Database Developer/ Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator/Developer Falls Church, VA US CITIZENSHIP Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer/ Administrator Arcadia - Honolulu, HI January 2014 to March 2017 Installed, configured and maintained Microsoft SQL Server databases for Vision software. Vision software is an enterprise application suite managing a large scale retirement community and healthcare organization in Arcadia. It was comprised of several components:  ·        A financial module to handle billing, shipping, and payment of its vendors, residents, and staff.  ·        A healthcare module handles information related to their physician and nursing staff.  ·        The resident model generated reports on demographic profiles, nutritional information, medication services, and clinical data.    -Performed Windows and DB administration tasks – e.g. SQL Server database backup, performance monitoring and tuning, and privilege management for corporate headquarters.  -Developed ETL scripts (SSIS packages) to load data from application database into reporting database/data warehouse.  -Refreshed SQL Server databases from production to development, UAT and training servers on regular basis.  -Applied security patches and latest Microsoft Core updates on Windows and SQL Server instances to ensure compliance with cyber security policies.  -Analyzed complex SQL queries to ensure optimal retrieval time and CPU savings.  -Advised developers and architects on best methods on generating reports from data warehouse or OLAP databases.  -Maintained database architecture in data dictionaries, entity relationship documents, database design/requirement documents.  -Planned and upgraded databases from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012.  -Participated in SCRUM/Agile teams to ensure database enhancements and requirements were implemented within each sprint.  -Worked with product manager and scrum master on level of efforts and scope of each ticket.  -Designed and developed key modules of Vision application via T-SQL codes, customized stored procedures, triggers, functions and views.  -Leveraged SSRS to create customized reports as plug-ins to Vision software.  -Used Business Intelligence Development Studio to develop client reports.  -Setup and configured Microsoft Reporting Services Server to host reports.  ·        Vaccination Report  ·        MealIntake Report (Bronze McKnight Award winner)  ·        Demographics Report  ·        Geriatric Functional Rating Scale(GFRS) Report  -Defined XML schemas and implemented XML format to generate data of resident information  -Developed and maintained SQL Server ad-hoc queries running on regular base  -Provided user support for PC, Mac, Printer and Office software.    Computer Maintenance Pacific Gateway Center - Honolulu, HI January 2012 to May 2012 -Maintained all corporate(Windows/Mac) computers were operational.        -Work with technical team on debugging and fixing service desk issues.        -Help with the accounting team on their day-to-day task and audit support. Computer Lab Maintenance Honolulu Community College - Honolulu, HI May 2008 to August 2008 -Responsible for maintaining Windows XP computer lab for students and facility.     -Supported user inquires and resolved issues from professors and students.     -Performed system maintenance and applied security patches to all computers on the network. Software Engineer Guangdong Guangxin Green Island Cement Company - Guangzhou, CN April 1998 to March 2001 -Job Order Maintain System (JOMS): Web application used to manage service desk entries for the company. It employed IIS 5.0 on Windows 2000 Server, SQL Server 7.0and Microsoft Transaction server (MTS).   -Performed requirement analysis, database design, and development.   -Responsible for the Visual Basic 6.0 codes of both client and server components and ASP/HTML codes.    -Computer Equipment Management System (CEMS): Web application used to keep track software, licenses, servers, and client, etc. Integrated with the SAP ERP system. It employed IIS 5.0 on Windows 2000 Server, SQL Server 7.0 and Microsoft Transaction server (MTS).       -Developed ASP/HTML code to provide a rich and fast front-end for users.      -Peer reviewed the code of fellow developers.    -Cement Strength Analyzing System (CSAS): Client/Server application based on MS SQL Server 7.0, Visual Basic 6.0 and VBA. This application also used ADO, RDO, Crystal Report 7.0 and True DBGrid.  -Maintained and enhanced back end SQL Server stored procedures and triggers.   -Material Planning System (MPS):Client/Server application used to manage the materials for producing cement. It was based on MS SQL Server 7.0, Visual Basic 6.0 and VBA. It also used ADO, RDO, Crystal Report 7.0 and True DBGrid. Senior Programmer XinYuCheng Computer Company - Guangzhou, CN May 1997 to April 1998 -Maintained company’s payroll system.  -Ensured all employee data, rate information, vacation/PTO, retirement funds, taxes are calculated correctly.  -Generated management and accounting reports for C-level review. Programmer Guangzhou Women and Children Hospital - Guangzhou, CN July 1996 to April 1997 Guangzhou, China  -Maintained Windows NT 4.0 LAN (TCP/IP) and the LAN-based Access 2.0 statistical application.  -Maintained Novell 4.1 LAN and LAN-based Foxpro 2.5 E-hospital application.  -Developed a program for analyzing woman and children data using Foxpro 2.6. Education A.S. in Accounting Kapiolani Community College - Honolulu, HI 2012 M.S. in Information System George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2007 M.S. in Computer Science Southeastern University - Washington, DC 2004 B.E. in Computer Engineering Guangdong University of Technology - Guangzhou, CN 1996 Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database, Oracle Database, .NET, VB, SSIS, SSRS, DBA Certifications/Licenses MCSA SQL Server 2014/2012 MCAD .Net Developer Oracle Database SQL Certified Associate (12c)