Linux System Administrator Linux System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator - Multimedia Genius, Inc Upper Marlboro, MD Work Experience Linux System Administrator Multimedia Genius, Inc - Laurel, MD October 2015 to Present • Installed, deployed CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x in test/dev and prod environments. Also installed packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers when required.  • Implement virtualization technologies such as installing, configuring and administering VMware vSphere, AWS cloud, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, etc.  • Provision enterprise infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) including EC2, ELB, EBS, S3, Auto-Scaling, AMI, RDS, IAM, VPC, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail etc.  • Perform day-to-day operational maintenance of test/dev and prod Linux servers. Respond to support requests and incidents using ServiceNow ticketing system.  • Installed and configured DevOps tools such as Ansible configuration management tool, Git, Jenkins for DevOps environment.  • Developed automated processes that run daily or periodically to check disk usage and perform clean-up of file systems on Linux environments using shell scripting and CRON.  • Install, configure and maintained Apache web servers and WebSphere Application Servers in RHEL and CentOS environment.  • Installed, configured and maintained a LAMP Stack on RHEL environment.  • Monitoring System Performance, managing swap space, disk utilization and CPU utilization to ensure optimum performance and uptime.  • Installed, configured and maintained Nagios monitoring tool in Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment.  • Investigate and research servers related issues, determine impact, and provide remediation and document Root Cause Analysis (RCA) when required.  • Working experience with Ansible configuration management tool, GitHub version control tool and Jenkins continuous integration, continuous deployment tool in DevOps environment.  • Working knowledge of containerization using Docker.  • Working Knowledge of networking (TCP/IP, Ethernet), FTP, NFS, NIS, DNS, DHCP, SNMP and RAID levels.  • Remediate security vulnerabilities in the environment by maintaining relevant chains of iptables rules and SELinux on production servers.  • Performed extensive Logical Volume Management (LVM) and disk management tasks.  • Analyzed daily system monitoring logs, verified the integrity and availability of all hardware and server resources, and reviewed system and application logs.  • Identified user problems and worked within a structured problem management and resolution process to remediate them within established SLAs.  • Provided support for server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring.  • Managed users and groups using LDAP and IAM servers. Assign file access privileges, ACLs, changing users and groups ownership and modifying the file permissions using command line utilities per the requirement. Linux System Administrator Ronchess International - New York, NY June 2012 to September 2015 • Perform general CentOS & Red Hat Linux System administration, security patching, OS upgrades, troubleshooting, while ensuring maximum performance and uptime.  • Built, implemented and maintained system-level software packages such as OS, clustering, disk, file management, backup, web applications, DNS, and LDAP.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes. Extended logical volumes for file system growth using Logical Volume Manager (LVM).  • RPM and YUM package installations, patching and other server management routines.  • Implemented firewall rules for new servers to enable communication with applications.  • Monitored and optimized server performance using various stat commands such as top, vmstat, iostat and kernel tuning.  • Developed cron jobs and Shell Scripts for automating administration tasks like file system management, process management, etc.  • Installation and configuration of Web server (Apache 2.2.17), MySQL 5.5 and PHP in a LAMP stack.  • Setup and manage password-less key-based ssh authentications on servers.  • Provision and configure Linux Repository.  • Users and account support such as resetting passwords, adding and removing users with various privileges and access levels on AWS IAM, local and LDAP servers.  • Provisioning of servers using AWS cloud platform such as, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Orchestrated Linux automation with Cron Job.  • Day-to-day servers' maintenance, responding to service request and incidents management using Jira ticketing system. Oracle Database Application Support - Graduate Assistant UMES, MD March 2010 to May 2012 • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS.  • Performed Oracle database Upgrade and Migration from Oracle to 10g to 11g.  • Performed database upgrade from 10201 to 10204.  • Installation and management of Oracle database using Grid and database control.  • Installation and application of several Oracle critical patches to various database versions.  • Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems.  • Install and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity.  • Establish, implement and maintain comprehensive Oracle database maintenance plans.  • Developed, implemented and maintained an Enterprise Oracle backup, recovery and disaster recovery strategy.  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to back up the databases.  • Performed import and export as needed and scheduled nightly export on each database.  • Perform various RMAN cold and hot backups.  • Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle problems such as connectivity problems, backup and performance issues.  • Perform maintenance and related preventative maintenance on databases.  • Providing Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties.  • Create and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases.  • Perform bulk load into the database using SQL loader.  • Tune the database and applications for faster and better performance; also performing goal-oriented tuning as necessary.  • Develop and enforce database related policies, standards, naming conventions, operating procedures and best practices.  • Develop a strategic plan for the database development that supports the organizations operational requirements. Education M. S. in Applied Computer Science University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD 2012 Skills LINUX, UNIX, VIRTUALIZATION, VMWARE, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills    Language:  Java, C++, C, Perl, Bash Shell Script, YAML, HTML, SQL    Cloud/Virtualization:  VMware, AWS Cloud, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.    Databases:  Oracle 11g. MySQL, PostgreSQL    OS:  Linux, Fedora, UNIX, MAC OS