Account Services Assistant Account Services Assistant Account Services Assistant Fishers, IN Work Experience Account Services Assistant Hamilton Eastern Public Library - Fishers, IN August 2018 to April 2019 Completes a variety of clerical tasks dealing with the circulation of materials. Sort materials, process holds and update catalog. Application Specialist Hamilton Southeastern Schools - Indianapolis, IN September 1999 to October 2002 and in the childcare center at the Fishers YMCA.    Indianapolis Star - Indianapolis, Indiana  September 1999 - October 2002  Application Specialist - Work closely with our HR and Finance user communities to ensure that all of their needs are handled in an effective and friendly manner. Provide desktop and development support. Develop documentation for our team's technical reference and for the user community. Work with consultants for application conversion & implementation.  Training: Windows 2000 Advanced Server & Professional, Cyborg, Cognos Impromptu, Application/Scan Extender, ProComm Plus, SQL & SQL*LOADER, UNIX, AS/400, and Oracle Financial Applications, Lawson Financial Applications, WS FTP, and DOS. Technology and Database Coordinator Indianapolis, IN February 1999 to September 1999 Provided users applications support for headquarters and eight regional offices via one on one questions and creating documentation. Applications include Microsoft products, FaxServe, and Paradox. Other responsibilities included hardware/software inventory, researching/purchasing new products and coordinating consultants.  Training: Windows95 and 98, PowerPoint, Access, Word, and Excel. Database Administrator Indiana Chamber of Commerce - Indianapolis, IN September 1997 to February 1999 Managed customized TASS Database utilizing FoxPro Report Writer and primary contact with TASS for modifications and additions. Education Bachelor of Science in Parks and Recreation Administration in Parks and Recreation Administration Indiana University - Bloomington, IN State Tourism Office Certificate Indiana University School of Business Skills Customer Service