Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - TCS • Over 6 years of experience as an Oracle Database and application Administrator, Responsible for database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, backup and recovery, database security, RAC, Data Guard, auditing and space management.  • End-to-End implementation of High Availability solutions Oracle 11g RAC with ASM  • Knowledge of cloning and database security with Oracle Software 12c/11g/10g/ on Red Hat Linux and Windows Platform.  • Experience on working with implementing disaster recovery using data guard physical standby databases.  • Experience in Upgrading databases and applied patch sets to multiple databases.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Backup of Databases (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc.) using RMAN and other backup techniques.  • Recovery of Databases (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption etc.)  • Experience in using OEM, TOAD, Data Migrations using export/import and Data pump.  • Good experience in applying the patches using opatch.  • Upgrades from 11gr2 to 12.1 and from 12.1 to 12.2. Schema refreshes from prod to development and test databases.  • Good experience in design, installation, administration and support of RAC Databases.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Excellent Written and verbal Communication skills and knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests with Metalink. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator TCS - Troy, MI September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • 24 X 7 Production database support with on call pager  • End-to-End implementation of High Availability solutions Oracle 11g RAC with ASM.  • Experience in Data guard (DR) Switchover and failover of RAC and Non RAC databases.  • Working on Different applications which databases are in support. Helping customer on their applications and developers for code deployment.  • Upgrading databases from 11gr2 to 12.2 and doing schema refreshes. Creating DB links and user accounts for new users in the database.  • Migration of 11g databases to 12.2 databases on Linux 6 and above using Data pump.  • Experience with RMAN backup and recovery setup.  • Database Cloning and standby database creation using RMAN and manual method from Production to Test and Development environments.  • Planned and upgraded DB including patch updates  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, Cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Maintained and setup streams for schema level propagation and SQL apply.  • Responsible for optimizing data access and performance by tuning indexes.  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g/12c RAC, SQL Loader, OEM, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, PL/SQL, and SQL. Oracle Database Administrator Liberty Mutual Boston September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.  • Installation and Maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g on Windows and Red Hat LINUX.  • Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment.  • Minimized downtime during disaster recovery and data corruption using data guard.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Worked on several shell scripts to maintain the database activities & implemented automated backup strategy using the UNIX shell script.  • Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration, schema management.  • Assuring appropriate backup and recovery procedures to be in place to meet the Company's requirements.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database.  • Provide 24x7 production database support  • Support round the clock deployments  • Install the 11gR2 databases for test, development, production-like, production and standby databases  • Upgrade Oracle Database from 10g to 11g  • Clone 10g and 11g oracle homes for setting up standby databases and recovery purposes  • Use traditional export-import and Data Pump for refreshing schemas, tables and different objects  • Use Export/Import, Data Pump Utilities to move the data between different databases and for backups  • Apply security related CPU and One-off patches using Opatch utility, Apply RDBMS Patch set Utility (PSU)  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally,  • Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption)  • Generate performance reports and Daily health checkup of the database using utilities like AWR,  • Work closely with the project teams to deploy their changes in the database and servers.  Environment: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Linux, Shell Scripting, RMAN, Grid control, Data Guard, EXP, IMP, Data Pump, and SSH connectivity using Putty Oracle Database Administrator ASDA - Leeds April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • 24x7 Production support with the on-call Pager.  • Proficient in installation and creation of Oracle 9i, 10g databases in development, Production and QA environments including configuration, backup & performance tuning.  • Designing, documenting and deploying through the various development and production environments.  • Refresh/Cloning of the databases from Production to the Test and Development environments.  • Upgraded database from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  • Installation and Configuration of Oracle 10gRAC and Standby Databases for high availability and disaster recovery.  • Automation of deployment/migration from existing systems (Oracle), monitoring and reporting.  • Database Migration  • Applied CPU, One-off patches using Opatch utility, RDBMS patch set Upgrade (PSU).  • Used Oracle 10g grid control utility.  • Planned and implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN.  • Implemented Cold Backup and Hot Backup depending on the requirement.  • Refreshed development and test databases from production using Logical Backups (Export and Import).  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using ADDM with the help of AWR report.  • Maintaining Database Security by Creating Roles, Privileges, Quotas, and Passwords.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  Environment: Oracle 9i/10g RAC, RHEL, SQL, RMAN, Oracle 10g Grid control, Data Guard, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, TOAD, and Data pump. Oracle Database Administrator Arnold Clark automobiles - Glasgow January 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, build, and testing phase of the life cycle for the project.  • Developed PL/SQL packages to capture end of day transactions.  • Created Tables, Views, Synonyms, Sequences and Indexes.  • Review of Database logical and Physical design  • Creating and managing users, roles, privileges, profiles, schemas  • Established database backup/recovery strategy for different databases  • Recovery procedures are applied for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure  • Oracle Security Patches Installation on Oracle 10g R2.  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment  • SQL tuning and Database tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace.  • Troubleshooting Expdp/ Impdp errors in a RAC environment, configuring storage accordingly Education Masters in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Glasgow Caledonian University Glasgow Masters in Information Technology in Information Technology Comsats institute of information technology Abbottabad Pakistan - Abbottabad, PK Skills Database (6 years), databases. (6 years), DOS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), MS-DOS (Less than 1 year), ODBC (Less than 1 year), OEM (3 years), Oracle (6 years), Oracle 10g (6 years), R2. (1 year), Red Hat (4 years), RMAN (5 years), SAP (1 year), Solaris (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), Windows XP (Less than 1 year), XML (Less than 1 year)