E-Commerce Product Manager / Purchasing Administrator E-Commerce Product Manager / Purchasing <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Purchasing Coordinator / Project Coordinator Winter Park, FL • 5+ years experience in purchasing, accounts payable, inventory management and implementation lead.  • Assist in Re-bid/re-negotiate contracts with vendors once pricing has expired or an increase is requested.  • Served as central point of contact for all outside vendors needing to gain access to the building.  • Reviews planned orders, creates requisitions for purchased items, and manages approval process.  • Coordinated and managed all aspects of procurement process, from requisition through contract close-out. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience E-Commerce Product Manager / Purchasing Administrator DME Holdings, LLC - Daytona Beach, FL April 2018 to July 2018 • Over see all purchasing, inventory, and logistics management operations. Working with accounting team in processing invoices and reporting P&L monthly.  • Collaborated closely with engineering team as consultant to product implementation and site functionality as per customer specifications.  • Point of contact for all 3rd party vendors   • Communicated shortages on backorder reports with vendors and forecast market activity to avoid potential interruptions.  • Performed inventory and quality check for all materials in company’s catalog with fulfillment department.  • Reviewed requisitions and coordinated with vendors to obtain product or service information. Transmits approved purchase orders and supporting documents to supplier. Field Operations Supervisor Tetra Tech - Saint Augustine, FL October 2016 to January 2018 • Scripted hurricane restoration operations for St. Johns County Emergency Management department.  • Scheduled staff according to budgeted labor hours on contracted Statement of Work. . plans designed by county vendors and project managers.  • Trained emergency management officials, subcontractors and supervisors on GIS software.  • Oversaw field operations and scripted operation procedures to provide scalability for FEMA reports.   • Trained contractors for OSHA compliant Aerial Lift certification and safety equipment compliance.   • Trained field service center technicians to navigate the Automated Debris Management System (ADMS) application and troubleshoot the Android/Motorola GPS settings on their devices.   • Worked as consulting operations supervisor, directing automated debris management and inventory departments.   • Collect and prepare all documentation necessary for close-out. Assist in daily close-out audits with Project Data Manager and GIS Analyst to resolve discrepancies. Junior Database Administrator K-Force Staffing Agency - St. Luke's Health Network - Jupiter, FL July 2017 to October 2017 Managed all user groups that use the subscriptions, administrative manager to access and of online data feeds.   • Prepared purchase order requisitions to IT procurement team and reviewed bid proposals from Project Managers.   • Liaison to approved vendors, supply chain group, IS (Information Security) and back office IT teams.   • Determined scope of work for contractors, analyzed problems, and provided recommendations to management.   • Software: Microsoft Excel, Outlook, Microsoft Access, SAP ERP. Purchasing Office Coordinator Soho Grand Hotel - New York, NY March 2013 to November 2014 • Responsible for accounting and administrative functions within the F&B department. Tasks such as:  • Oversaw F &B department yearly budget, reporting all department expenses and monitoring New York State Liquor License through state office.   • Supervised month end inventory count; audit inventory reports for variances, all china, glass and silverware for replenishment for department.  • Managed all data input into Amadeus ERP database. Updating portion costs and menu pricing as needed.  • Communicated with management and suppliers relative to purchases consistent with hotel needs and specifications.   • Negotiated pricing according company forecasts reports, market value and availability.   • Reviewed shipments to ensure products received are consistent with company specifications and quality grades.  Purchasing Admin Assistant Abigail Kirsch Catering - Tarrytown, NY June 2012 to April 2013 • Prepared purchase orders, solicit bid proposals and review requisitions for goods and services.  • Supervised loading dock operations, inventory control and recording of all transfers to ensure cost controls are in place.  • Implemented inventory control processes, audited inventory reports, and reported product damage to vendors for credit. Day Auditor Taj Hotels - New York, NY March 2011 to June 2012 • Aid accounts payable supervisor prepare folios for vendors and month end closing.  • Audit day end financial reports for accuracy and legitimacy.  • Balance revenue and expenses from general ledger and deposit all transactions nightly.  • Reconcile all revenue outlets daily financial reports and request inventory replenishment to par level. Night Auditor Hilton Garden Inn Hotel - Tallahassee, FL July 2008 to October 2009 • Audit day end financial reports from OnQ portal.  • Balance revenue and expenses from hotel outlets on general ledger and deposit all transactions nightly.  • Reconcile all revenue outlets daily financial reports and request inventory replenishment to par level. Education Certificate of Completion in Full Stack Web Development University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 2019 to Present Associate in Arts Tallahassee Community College - Tallahassee, FL 2011 Skills Microsoft Office (8 years), Excel (10+ years), HTML (Less than 1 year), Quickbooks (2 years), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Product Management, Ecommerce, E-Commerce, SAP ERP (2 years), Product Development, Warehouse Management (2 years), Inventory Control (4 years), Accounts Payable (3 years), Hipaa (4 years), Insurance Verification (1 year), POS (2 years), Kronos (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Word, MS Office, Operations, Inventory Certifications/Licenses Driver's License