Project Management Quality Specialist Project Management Quality Specialist Toledo, OH Operations and Service Solutions Specialist with a history of achieving standout results in multiple industries. Focused on customer service, culture and engagement leadership, research and project analysis, managing budgets, project costs, as well as vendor relationship management. Expertise in driving business support services, creating purchase orders and prioritizing project deliverables. Work Experience Project Management Quality Specialist General Electric Company - Cincinnati, OH 2017 to 2017 Project Analyst General Electric Company - Cincinnati, OH 2016 to 2017 Project Administrator - Contractor General Electric Company - Windsor, NJ 2015 to 2016 Executive Administrative Assistant/ Database Administrator Adecco Staffing - Cincinnati, OH 2014 to 2015 Associate The Novak Consulting Group - Cincinnati, OH 2012 to 2013 Assistant to the City Manager City of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 2010 to 2011 Assistant Store Manager Sears Holding Corporation - Florence, KY 2008 to 2010 Director of Residence Life/ Supervisor Florida Gateway College Formerly Lake City Community College - Gateway, FL 2006 to 2007 Selected Highlights:  • Contract Administrator for the Global Spectrum management contract for Duke Energy Convention Center, Cincinnati USA Convention and Visitors Bureau partnership contract between Hamilton County and the City of Cincinnati, and state and federal lobbyist contracts. Participate in contract renewal agreements with in-house Legal Counsel. Evaluated and monitored management contract performance to determine the need for contract amendments or extensions and compliance with contractual obligations. Results in value-add services in maximizing resources and generating more revenue by marketing well-attended conferences.  • Budget Coordinator working with finance on the budget for all purchase orders, keeping a tracking sheet of all costs related to purchase orders for Knowledge, Learning and Content Management Solutions. Approximate total PO Savings for 2016: CMS $300k, KMS $63k and LMS $800k.  • Managed and allocated an annual retail store budget of $15 million and department budget of $250,000 in college housing to maximize use of resources while controlling costs; developed marketing strategies to increase profit and generate revenue.  • Assist Program Managers in project cost accounting by tracking and reporting all costs associated with projects. When invoices are received, hours are calculated against the original SOW and any change orders to ensure project costs align.  • Built and steered multiple teams to maximize performance in consistently completing projects on time and within budget in a fast-paced, time-sensitive environment requiring superior strategic planning, organization, and leadership skills.  • Conduct comprehensive research and analysis of various companies and proactively identified key methods to improve daily operations. Education Masters of Public Administration in Justice Administration Troy University - Troy, AL 2008 Bachelors of Science in Criminology in Criminology Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 2004 Skills Customer service, Contract administration, Database management, Database, Budget management, Strategic planning, Problem solving, Operations, Operations management, Needs assessment, Relationship building, Budget, Process improvement, Training, Staff training Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Team Leadership • Strategic Planning • Staff Training & Motivation • Process Improvement  Proactive Problem Solving • Research & Analysis • Negotiations & Presentations • Customer Service  Relationship Building • Resource Allocation • Budget Management • Investigations • Database Management    Maintain full accountability for overseeing all aspects of customer service, contract administration, project management and operations management. Apply strategic planning, prioritization, and management skills toward consistently achieving critical deadlines while maintaining high quality standards. Contribute dynamic information gathering, needs assessment, and analytical skills toward effectively and diplomatically responding to issues for timely resolution.