SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) - Department of Health and Human Services, MD Alexandria, VA Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Department of Health and Human Services, MD November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and Managed SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2  • Experienced in maintaining and supporting Very Large Database  • Performed Backup and Recovery:  * Used Native and third-party tools for Database backup and Recovery including POINT-IN-TIME recovery  * Designed backup and recovery strategy based on RTO and RPO in SLA level of the company  • Implemented Security Models:  * Instance, Database, and Data Security using TDE, Data Masking, Column and Row-Level Security, SSL, IPSec, Data in motion including different security models; authentication modes, Server and Database Roles, Custom Group including troubleshooting logins and users  • Implemented HA Solutions using:  * AlwaysOn, Clustering, Mirroring, Replication and Log Shipping  * Applied SP and Hot in HA Environment  * Upgraded and Migrated HA servers and Databases  • Performed different types of Performance Tuning activities such as  * Query Tuning, Server Tuning, Session Management, Lock, Block, Dead-Lock  * Improving performance for long running queries  * Monitoring and Troubleshooting Memory, CPU, HD related issues  * Index Management such setting jobs for fragmentation management - Rebuilding Index and Updating Statistics  * Tuning MS SQL Server Database performance  * Hands on experience in Table partitioning for very large Databases.  * Experienced on Temp-DB configuration and management.  * Used different Performance Management Tools: Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, SolarWinds, and OpNet  • SQL/TSQL Programming experience:  * Wrote complex queries, Stored Procedure, function, triggers  * Worked with developers to improve performance of applications by improving the performance of queries, and Stored Procedure  • Troubleshooting:  * Monitored Event Viewer and SQL Error logs different activities including event logs at the Windows  * Monitored error logs to troubleshoot jobs, connection failures, disk failure/full/out of space  * Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities  • Data Modeling:  * Worked different data modeling projects for new applications  • Reengineered existing Data Model  * Implemented relationship, constraints, and other indexes as needed  * Tools used: Toad Data Modeler, ERWin  • Report Development & Administration:  * Installed Managed security, upgraded and migrated SSRS server  * Developed, and deployed reports  * Tools Used: BIDS, SSDT (SQL, configured, and managed Reporting Server: SSRS Server Data Tool), and Report Builder  • ETL Tool: SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services)  * Developed ETL packages to move/transfer data, dump data  * Deployed ETL packages and setup jobs when needed and also used for Ad-hoc  * Transferred Databases, objects, Data, Logins, and Jobs by using SSIS tool  • Database Migration and Upgrade:  * Upgraded database server from lower to higher version  * Migrated Servers, databases, objects  * Applied SP (Service Pack) and Hot fixes  • Supported 24/7 Environment SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) Department of Labor - Washington, DC August 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for monitoring and making Recommendations for Database Server performance improvement.  • Configured and Managed Clustering on Virtual Machines.  • Implemented and Monitored SQL Server Replication.  • Configured and Managed Active/Passive Clustering on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition.  • Administered, Configured and Managed Log Shipping and Mirroring for HA, DR and load balancing.  • Implemented and Managed SQL Server Database Security for both Data at rest and live Data.  • Managed long running queries using DMV and DMF.  • Set up Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery solutions according to RPO and RTO in SLA.  • Automated different maintenance tasks like; DB health check, Rebuild index, Update Statistics.  • Setup Database Mail, Alerts and Notification for Server and DB Status.  • Performed upgrading and migration from SQL Server 2005 to 2012.  • Worked with application developers to create optimized queries.  • Created database DDL triggers for DB Automation and Audit.  • Reviewed and Optimized SQL Scripts, Indexes and Complex Queries.  • Reviewed query performance and optimized codes.  • Handled Memory configurations for SQL Server Database Software.  • I have done Rebuilding / Monitoring Indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Performed Capacity planning and optimization for SQL Server databases. SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA)/Developer Innovative Data Solutions - Alexandria, VA February 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Hands on Experience in installing, configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting & Administration of SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, 2012 & on Windows Server 2003 & 2012  • Responsible for securing SQL Server environment, involved in creation and granting permissions on various Objects, created the guide line to secure SQL Servers.  • Created the SOP (Standard operating procedures) for all SQL Server activities like - Installing SQL Servers, applying service packs and security fixes.  • Backed up and restored user and System Databases.  • Imported and exported data between MS SQL servers and Non-Microsoft SQL servers using SQL Transfer manager and bulk copy program.  • Performed ETL process by using Export/Import utility, BIDS and SSDT from source to destination.  • Created and Deployed SSIS Packages and Configured SSIS Catalogue.  • Experienced on Managing Security, Permissions and Roles of Reporting Server  • SQL server memory allocation configured Temp-DB in RAM.  • Scheduled and monitored all maintenance activities of SQL Server 2005, 2008R2 including database consistency check, and index defragmentation.  • Monitored database status including CPU, memory, I/O, space, and dead locks, Locks, Blocks.  • Performed SQL Server tuning techniques to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Configured securities and access to databases in SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, Windows Server 2003. Education Master's Skills Sql Server