Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - United Airlines Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA United Airlines - Houston, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Supported multi-terabyte databases on 10g migrating to 11g.  • Upgraded 10g to 11g and applied latest PSU every quarter.  • Installed and configured new Quarterly ORACLE HOMES for the 10g and 11g versioned servers.  • Documented all the incidents and presented in a form of report.  • Supported the agent patching for 12c server transformations.  • Used OEM 11g and 12c to connect to and monitor 10g and 11g databases.  • Making sure the backups and file system usage is up to date.  • Used RMAN, datapump, and SQL Server management studio as needed to perform refreshes of tables and full databases on staging and development environments.  • Tablespace management including, adding/resize data files, allocated quotas to user and managed disk space  • Monitored system performance mostly for costly SQL statements, identified the SQL, evaluated it, got concurrence on it, terminating the processes as necessary to boost performance or refreshing stats or index builds to boost performance.  • Handled frequent code releases and data fixes to production  • Export and Import of User, Tables and Database using exp/imp and Data Pump.  • Performed hundreds of code reviews, stages, and releases to production.  • We also had over 100 databases on SQL Server versions 2005 & 2008 with some migrating to 2012 and 2014.  • Involved in creating and managing users and objects  • Involved in assigning roles and privileges to different users.  • Managed and resolved design issues during development stage. Worked closely with developers.    Environment: Export Import, HP service guard, Upgrade, Migrate, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Tuning, Instance Tuning, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, MSSQL, RHEL, AIX, HPUX, Windows, TOAD, Grid Control, RMAN, Troubleshooting Skill. Grid Control, Cloud Control 12c, OEM 12c. Oracle DBA Boeing Company - Milford, OH May 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Supported more than 800 databases for more than 150 production servers for 24/7 support.  • Upgraded 10g to 11g and applied latest PSU every quarter.  • Installed and configured new Quarterly ORACLE HOMES for the 10g and 11g versioned servers.  • Primary DBA for 17 databases including DEV/TEST/PRODUCTION on 11g and 12c (Agents and Databases monitoring).  • Supported the upgrade of RHEL and Hardware diagnostics on various servers.  • Worked in all shifts and 5 days snap at the maximum handovers.  • Documented all the incidents and presented in a form of report.  • Supported the agent patching for 12c server transformations.  • Regular work on 12c OEM for Monitoring the system databases and applications for availability and maintenance.  • Making sure the backups and file system usage is up to date.  • ASM is enabled and auto rebalancing is on.  • Supported the quarterly reboots for multiple servers and involved in Data guard home relinking as well as RAC Relinking.  • Prepared the document for applying quarterly UNIX patch over several databases.  • Tablespace management including, adding/resize data files, allocated quotas to user and managed disk space  • Export and Import of User, Tables and Database using exp/imp and Data Pump.  • Installed GRID Patch for 11.2.0.4 and moved ASM to newer homes.  • Installed the fresh homes for 11.2.0.4 on Linux servers.    Environment: Export Import, RAC, Data Guard, ASM, Upgrade, Migrate, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Tuning, Instance Tuning, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, MSSQL, RHEL, AIX, HPUX, Windows, TOAD, Grid Control, RMAN, Troubleshooting Skill. Grid Control, Cloud Control 12c, OEM 12c. Oracle DBA AT&T - Dallas, TX April 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installing and Managing Oracle 10g and 11g RAC databases.  • Good experience in handling RAC production environments.  • Maintain the Oracle 10g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g/11g databases.  • Set up, configured and maintained oracle active data guard/Veritas Cluster (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Performed day-to-day DBA jobs for managing Production/Development databases.  • Excellent experience in Opatch and Oracle upgrades.  • Support & Maintenance of Production, Development and Test Databases on various servers Solaris and HP.  • Creating and managing users with appropriate tablespaces and Indexes, public and private database links.  • Rebuilding Indexes and gather statistics on tables on different databases on a regular basis to gain database performance.  • Manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Grid Manager, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) and SQL.  • Worked on import/export and datapump export/import  • Tuning the Databases for optimization using AWR, ASH, ADDM, STATSPACK, Explain Plans and TKPROF, Estimating Table & Index Size.  • Used Quest live re-org and IONS for database tuning.  • Configured shell scripts for job/process automation.  • On call DBA and provides 24X7 supports for production problems.  • Excellent experience in moving databases to different servers and schemas to different databases.  • Excellent experience in managing space for tablespaces with physical and logical standby databases in place.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/, data guard with physical and logical standby databases, Sun Solaris 10 on M5000/M3000, HP servers, Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL, TOAD, AWR, ASH, ADDM, TPROF, Explain plan, STATSPACK, from oracle to oracle databases. Oracle Database Administrator PNC Bank Pittsburg, PA January 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Part of the team for database upgrade from 10.2.0.2 to 10.2.0.4 with logical and physical standby in place.  • Performed day-to-day DBA jobs for managing Production/Development databases.  • Provided 24X7 supports for production problems  • Supported 17 production/development databases.  • Migrating and upgrading the databases to higher versions.  • Part of the migrating team responsible for up gradation from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  • Worked on Opatch and Oracle upgrades.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle server.  • Worked in release management involving database components.  • Support & Maintenance of Production, Development and Test Databases on various servers.  • Oracle security and familiar with database vault.  • Creating users, tables with appropriate table space and Indexing, database links.  • Manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Developed PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, Cursors, triggers.  • Set up Grid Control to monitor databases.  • Worked on import/export, export datapump/import datapump and SQL- loader.  • Backup/Restoration, scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups  • Setup backup, recovery and testing backups and procedures using RMAN.  • Automation of job scheduling by crontab.  • Tuning the Databases for optimization using STATSPACK, Explain Plans and TKPROF, Estimating Table & Index Size.  • Database Tuning - Tuning Applications, Memory Tuning and Tuning Disk Usage.  • Partitioned large tables to increase the performance.    Environment: Oracle 10g/9i , HP-UX, Windows NT/2000, Sun Solaris 10, Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL, TOAD, Erwin Data Modeler, RMAN, TPROF, Explain plan, STATSPACK, I3agent, SQL* Loader Oracle DBA MBIA - Armonk, NY June 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:    • Installed 9i, applied patches in various environments and upgraded databases from 9i to 10g.  • Set up, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Performed day-to-day DBA jobs for managing Production/Development databases.  • Provided 24X7 supports for production problems.  • Management of table spaces for different users by granting quota on Default & Temporary tables paces.  • Estimated Storage capacity for database objects.  • Monitored the growth of the database objects UNIX Shell and Perl scripting. Implemented for capacity planning.  • Created UNIX shell and Perl scripts to automate batch jobs through Crontab.  • Extraction of data from different flat files into Oracle Database using SQL*Loader and automated the process by using Basic Replication using materialized views and streams.  • Utilized SQL*loader and data pump import to load data into tables.  • Utilized Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) to manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas.  • Database Administration and Planning including logical design, physical design, backup & recovery.  • Took a logical backup of the entire database using import/export utility.  • Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability  • Performed Database and SQL tuning by using various Tools like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, optimizer hints and SQL tuning advisor.  • Tuning test and production database by altering the parameters.  • Implemented JDBC (Java Database Connectivity).  • Export and Import of database objects to copy from one database to another database.  • Investigating suspicious database activity using Auditing.    Environment: Oracle 10g/9i , HP-UX, AIX, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, Erwin Data Modelar, RMAN, TPROF, Explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL* Loader, Windows NT/2000 Education Bachelor's Skills Oracle (7 years), PL/SQL (6 years), RMAN (6 years), SQL (7 years), UNIX (6 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Database Additional Information Technical Skills:    OPERATING SYSTEMS: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10, AIX 5.1, 5.2, IBM, Red Hat Linux RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x and Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP.  RDBMS: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/, SQLServer2005.  LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, JAVA, Pro*C, C, C++, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting.  TOOLS/UTILITES: Recovery Manager (RMAN), RAC, STATSPACK, Clusters, VERITAS Net Backup, EMC Storage(DMX4), Developer 2000, SQL Loader, TOAD 9.7/9.5/7.6/7.5, ER/Studio, Oracle Enterprise Manager,  HARDWARE: HP-UXB.11.23.0409 (Itanium2), HP Service guard A.11.16, SunFire6900, IBM eServer p5 Model 590.