DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - NYC DEPARTMENT OF HPD Edison, NJ • Over 8 years of IT experience in Administration and Development on Database Design using SQL server (2008, 2012, 2014, 2016 Servers in OLAP and OLTP environment), Oracle (11g, 12c) and AWS environments.  • Continue to learn new technical skills, to allow for expansion and progression of duties.  • Experienced in troubleshooting database performance issues and SQL performance tuning  • Experience installing, configuring, updating and managing Windows Server Operating Systems  • Experience working with Active Directory  • Accountable -- takes ownership of responsibilities & tasks  • Ability to follow established workflow/implementation processes, and apply creative solutions where needed  • Ability to multi-task and prioritize deliverables/responsibilities  • Ability to work independently and as part of a team  • Ability to function under close deadlines with minimal supervision and under potentially stressful situations  • Demonstrated desire and capacity to learn new technical skills in the past  • Good verbal & written communication skills Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NYC DEPARTMENT OF HPD - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Work with support teams on both internal & external developed applications to insure data and process integrity  • Install, monitor and support SQL server instances including SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS components  • Install, monitor, and support various High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions  • Create new databases and overwrite test databases with copies of production databases while maintaining proper security differences  • Manage SQL Server authentication using both SQL logins & AD groups; enforce principle of least privilege while providing necessary data access  • Backup/recover/rollback production, test, and development databases environments  • Troubleshoot application database connectivity, SQL server issues, query performance, SQL HA/DR (i.e. SQL cluster, Always On &, Log Shipping) and other issues in production, QC and development environments. Coordinate/implement production fixes, or advise the application owner/developer, as appropriate.  • Create and test disaster recovery options appropriate for each application  • Monitor & manage data storage capacity of production and pre-production SQL Servers to support database growth and coordinate drive expansions with operation & user teams  • Complete and maintain inventory documentation of all SQL databases, servers, applications, business and technical owners  • Decommission databases: proactively identify obsolete databases, obtain DB owner's approval, archive & delete databases  • Write T-SQL code and stored procedures to monitor, automate and support DBA tasks Senior DBA ACCORDO - New York, NY April 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and deploy MS SQL Server. Perform capacity planning, performance turning, monitoring, troubleshooting and optimization of the database  • Automate and enhance daily administrative tasks, including space management, object alteration, backup & recovery and performance monitoring.  • Optimizing of SQL Queries and Performance tuning of SQL server.  • Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server Systems from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2016.  • Load Balance, DR strategy and automate SQL jobs with alerts using database mail services.  • Assist developers with MS SQL Server issues and questions  • Interface with developers, network, virtualization, storage and systems operations teams to resolve problems with applications and database systems  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain database security and audit solutions  • Administer and monitor 24/7 applications and systems, developing automated alerts to warn of failure  • Plan and Lead database development, documentation and maintenance of databases including Production DBA/ BI DEVELOPER Holiday Systems International October 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Automated notifications for SQL Server Backups and schedule-maintained Jobs.  • Optimized database using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Responsible for performance tuning and Optimization of stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Database tuning wizard.  • Monitored server services and cpu usages using nagios XI.  • Expert in automating process by creating jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent.  • Proactively monitored the production SQL infrastructure environment to ensure availability of the database services.  • Regularly checked OS Event Logs and SQL Server Logs for unusual events.  • Setup permissions to Share folder and transfer log files to another server to hold records using PowerShell script.  • Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server Systems from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  • Setup monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud watch to monitor major metrics like Network packets, CPU utilization, Load Balancer Latency.  • Created Database Objects - Tables, Indexes, Views, Triggers and Constraints.  • Troubleshooted sql server agent services which was starting and stopping continuously.  • Designed and Developed new SSAS Tabular models and provides operational support to existing SSAS Tabular models to satisfy business requirements.  • Migration of SQL server 2008 R2 to 2014. DBA/Developer Hurley Medical Center July 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities: Expertise in extraction, administration, building schedule, upgrading servers and applying patches to 2008/12, fixing integrity checks/ optimization check alerts, system administration audit, SQL Server licensing inventory & true up, research possibility.  • Migrated data from different sources including flat files, MS EXCEL, to SQL Server 2012 by using SSIS.  • Problem Fixation - Effectively moved the integrity checks/ optimization check alerts  • Involved in Migration of SSRS 2008 to SSRS 2012.  • Assisted in migrating the existing data center into the AWS environment.  • Design and Develop new SSAS Tabular models and provide operational support to existing SSAS Tabular models to satisfy business requirements.  • Performed Code review as per coding guidelines  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 AMI, Red hat, Ubuntu Instances. Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Participated in creating indexes to improve the performance of database and Created Constraints, Defaults and Views  • Monitor Database jobs and backups.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Help monitor SQL Servers using the performance monitoring tools SQL server 2012 Activity monitor and data collection tools for both real-time and archived data. SQL Server Developer Bank of Baroda - Vapi, IN May 2010 to June 2014 Responsibilities: Implementation of MS SQL Server Management studio to create Complex Stored Procedures using T-SQL to evaluate result for the reports & Developed different Scripts for the Data analysts for verification of reports.  • Responsible for performing T-SQL tuning and optimizing queries for reports which take longer time in execution with SQL Server 2008.  • Performance tuning of the SQL 2008 servers in order to reduce I/O and Memory contentions.  • Reviewed and offered recommendations for Database system configurations, responsible for tuning data, indexes, and queries as well as providing assistance on these areas to development teams.  • Writing stored procedures and DTS packages for maintenance tasks in Production environment.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  • Export or Import data from other data sources like flat files using Import/Export of DTS  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters  • Creating logins, groups, users, roles, database devices, databases, mirroring devices, checking for database consistency, fixing DBCC errors, monitoring error logs, database space allocations, transaction log space allocations, fine tuning SQL performance.  • Written Tested and Documented Program code and implemented programs.  • Involved in entire life cycle including database design, development, testing, optimizing and deploying on development and production servers  • Responsible for creating the tables, views, stored procedures, triggers  • Participated in creating indexes to improve the performance of database Education Master of Science in information system management DeVry College of New York - New York, NY Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Gujarat University