GM Motors GM Motors GM Motors - Raytheon Remote Work Experience GM Motors Raytheon 2017 to Present Learning Management System Content Administrator (Remote)  Leading the technical efforts and conducting recommendations of path forward for GM Motors  educational resources including the Center of Learning (LMS), managing documentation and updating internal document content and there hosted sites. Training new LMS Admins to processes, as well as leading projects from concept to delivery.    • Provide support of level II escalations to all eLearn inquiries, resolve more complex  issues unresolved by level I teams related to all Compliance based training.  • Create, add, modify online content, exams, curricula, catalogs, assignments  profiles, and review rosters for credit validation.  • Add, modify, develop SOPs, Work Instructions, Job Aids, Protocols, and train to them.  • Perform QA Testing on AICC and SCORM modules, review SOP and quizzes before pilot launch and assignments.  • Work with trainers, SME, and Managers to schedule and coordinate ILTs and virtual  training sessions.  • Support, coordinate, monitor and manage training activities for varies dealerships  • Manage multiple training projects with enternal and external vendors. LMS Administrator/ Database Administrator PDC Energy - Denver, CO 2015 to 2016 Oversee the design, development and overall implementation of Saba, support efforts to build and execute the overall technology roadmap and strategy for the LMS. Managed  relationship with 3rd party vendors with purchased course content (i.e. SkillSoft AICC files,  Drive Safe SCORM files). Acted as a consultant to internal Directors, Managers and Supervisors of path forward regarding learning solutions.    • Developed reporting templates, policies and summaries, and elearning videos  to ensure compliance training, recommend resolution to training gaps,  monitor and edit data, streamline compliance and create ad-hoc reports  • Closely work with remote teams to identify system deficiencies, ensuring system  accuracy and improving volume of training to role-specific requirements based upon newly implemented policies and procedures  • Design and Develop Ad Hoc Reports based on business objectives, trained  management and trainers to usage of these reports and accessibility.  • Mentor Managers, QA teams and SME's alike regarding employee training plans,  designed a method for building learning plans for each new job. Created SOPs, step by step work instructions and evaluated all learning content.  • Beta tested changes to the LMS within the sandbox environment, posts and test e-  Learn modules, assigning to specific groups for completion, update roster attendance,  ensure demographics are accurately set for compliance training with regulatory deadlines. LMS Administrator/ Training Coordinator AlloSource - Centennial, CO 2012 to 2014 Managed the transition from Cornerstone to Success Factors including change management,  training matrix, policies and procedures, updating SharePoint 'how to', administered the day- to-day systems administration and continued operation (LMS) to ensure seamless execution of  learning compliance, coaching management and serving the learning needs of the organization for both compliance requirements and Org Development opportunities. Serving  as the front-line resource to all levels of employees and acting as a liaison between the organization and the LMS vendor.    • Successfully designed and launched dozens of academic and training courses, face- to- face and distance learning  • Provided high-level of LMS training for all leveled employees, including  classroom, video conferencing, webinars, and Q&A  • Demonstrated successful application of design principles for eLearning training  and blended learning tools  • Trained Managers on employee on building learning plans to ensure systematic results of  • Responsible for creating, modifying and enhancing a diverse array of courses for the purpose of improving the performance of individuals and groups with an enterprise  focus.  • Create new systems based reports for the a variety of needs (i.e. training  discrepancies, compliance confirmation, proper training deployment)  • Demonstrated successful application of design principles for eLearning training  and blended learning LMS Coordinator Denver Health - Denver, CO 2005 to 2010 Successfully managed/coordinated training events, marketing events, and advertisements.  Assisted with transition to the validation of a global LMS platform. Collaborate with the Director to create vision, design and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Coordinate  all logistics of events and vendors to meet all project requirements and deadlines.    • Maintained and administered the LMS day to day as well as the support inbox.  • Worked closely with internal clients to effectively deploy training for Medicaid, Medicare  and CHP+ Programs to meet hospital requirements  • Tested scripts for e-Learn status updates.  • Updated the CRM with new client data to include updated contracts, client demographics,  vendor contracts, patent information, and confidential legal information.    "Janee is attentive to detail and accuracy, is committed to excellence, looks for improvements  continuously, monitors quality levels. She has very good investigative skills which enable her to quickly  get to the source of system problems and implements appropriate corrective actions."    ~ Denis Meade, Director of Training & Development/ AlloSource (Previous Director) Education Management Software Center of Learning; Cornerstone; Success Factors; SumTotal & Smart Solve Additional Information • Strong background of e-learn, implementation, e-Learning, and educational technology.  • 12+ years of experience in adult education in highly regulated environments such as healthcare  industries, Oil & Gas industries, and manufacturing industries.  • Extensive QA/QC testing experience of training material within Ethics and Compliance  Departments  • Outstanding communication skills, problem solving, attention to detail, and time management  • Positive attitude and high levels of professionalism to meet the expectation  • Project management experience in training activities.