Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Tango Analytics • 8+ years of IT experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with key strengths in Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, 11gR2 and 12c databases on Linux, UNIX and Windows operating system environments.  • Possess excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Work Experience Oracle DBA Tango Analytics - Coppell, TX January 2018 to Present • Worked on Automating repetitive tasks using Python scripting.  • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Worked on writing scripts using PL/SQL  • Extensively Worked on Data Security at Rest and In Transit.  • Designed and Implemented Active Data Guard for High availability purpose.  • Designed and Implemented Oracle Golden Gate for Replication purpose.  • Designed and Implemented 4 Node Oracles RAC on 12c.  • Extensively worked on Tuning Oracle Databases for better performance. GM Financials Arlington, TX June 2016 to December 2017 Oracle Database Administrator    • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Written a SQL/PLSQL Code, Shell Scripts to automate routine DBA tasks and ETL Processes.  • Performed Data Guard setups.  • Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patching and Support of Banner Servers on Linux.  • Performed Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Installation, Configuration and support of Oracle Weblogic Servers on Linux environment.  • Installed and Configured RAC.  • Applied Security and Bug Fixing Patches.  • Extensively worked on resolving complex database performance issues.  • Setting up daily monitoring jobs, automatic alert notification when database is down or preset thresholds exceeded, installed new database upgrades, patches, create databases, primary database objects like table spaces, tables, views, synonyms, snapshots, partitioning and sizing tables, indexes etc.  • Monitored and Administrated ORACLE RAC databases on ORACLE 11g Clusters. Oracle Database Administrator PEPSI CO - Plano, TX November 2014 to June 2016 • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Written a SQL/PLSQL Code, Shell Scripts to automate routine DBA tasks and ETL Processes.  • Extensively worked on resolving complex database performance issues.  • Setting up daily monitoring jobs, automatic alert notification when database is down or preset thresholds exceeded, installed new database upgrades, patches, create databases, primary database objects like table spaces, tables, views, synonyms, snapshots, partitioning and sizing tables, indexes etc.  • Supported installation and setup of ORACLE Cluster's and RAC database.  • Monitored and Administrated ORACLE RAC databases on ORACLE 11g Clusters.  • Implemented security policy using Fine Grained Audit (FGA) to watch any suspicious activity on objects.  • Automated the different tasks like (Creating Databases, Binaries Installation, backups) using shell scripts.  • Configured logical stand by database for the primary database and opened up the database to the reporting users group to distribute the load between primary and standby database.  • Monitored performance of queries using Explain Plan, TKPROF, STATSPACK reports and assisting the developers in optimizing and tuning the SQL and PL/SQL code using SQL trace & SQL Tuning Advisor  • Created and analyzed Statspack report, AWR reports and identified solutions.  • Performed Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, and Data Pump tools.  • Managed Oracle in High Availability environments using Real Application Cluster (RAC), Failovers, data Guard and Cloning technologies.  • Refresh/Cloning of Database and applications for development and testing purpose.  • Tuned database parameter, PL/SQL scripts and query received from the statspack report, AWR, ADDM or through the end users. Used Materialized Views when possible to reduce network load.  • Backup of Database (Performed database Backup depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc.)  • Handled complete and incomplete recovery in case of database failure.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed backup validations using RMAN. Oracle DBA Consultant AT & T - Richardson, TX October 2012 to November 2014 • Worked as an ADBA for AT &T mission critical databases supporting in 24/7 model.  • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Supported Migration of Databases (U2L) using Golden Gate.  • Supported Golden gate replication issues on daily basis.  • Managed application development rollovers to production.  • Implemented data security using database roles and views.  • Worked on CSP/IDM and Upstart for database identity/access management solutions.  • Continuous monitoring of Database Performances and identifying any bottlenecks hindering the performance of the database  • Performed tasks associated with tuning of database systems for performance and efficiency enhancements, reviewing the logs, available space, configuring the initialization parameters based on application requirements, optimizing complex SQL queries, adhering to the OFA standards, using RAID drives to implement file systems.  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, Tkprof, and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Refresh required Oracle instances/databases for development, test and production environments Oracle DBA CITI BANK IRVING TX - Irving, TX May 2012 to October 2012 • Performed database Migration from Windows platform to Linux using RMAN (Convert) and Datapump.  • Analyzed the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor Reports from various Databases in various time intervals, creating BASELINE and monitoring performance metrics of Databases workload.  • Created Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Increased Performance and Data Replication.  • Used Flashback Technologies-Flashback Table, Flashback Query & Flashback Database to recover from user errors and minimize the Full/Incomplete database recoveries  • Monitored databases and setting alerts using Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager  • Configured users into consumer groups and set the resource utilization based upon business activity using Resource Manager.  • Patched/Upgraded ORACLE 10g Databases to ORACLE 11g databases using DBUA/Manually.  • Refreshed PROD, DEV, UAT databases using Datapump, RMAN, and Transportable Tablespaces etc.  • Administrated database regarding space related issues- monitoring Tablespaces, users' security of data accessibility and Configuring Archive log destinations and Flash Recovery Area (FRA).  • Created Triggers and defined constraints to maintain the data integrity in the databases.  • Generated daily, weekly and monthly reports regarding total revenue management.  • Developing various Business and ad-hoc Reports.  • Writing stored procedures to achieve back end functionality  • Assisted DBAs for Creation of all database objects, Allocate system storage and Plan future storage requirement.  • Develop and maintain Application and Database Security Standaqgctf deward. Wrote and trouble shoot database triggers/Stored Procedures.  • Shell Scripted in csh and ksh  • Security Managed that includes enrolling users and maintaining system security by controlling and monitoring user access to database. Oracle DBA Consultant JPMC - Houston, TX February 2010 to June 2012 • Worked on EM grid control setup and deploying agents on to Servers.  • Designed and developed database DDL and DML scripts to meet development application requirement for tablespaces, security and roles, SGA and other memory configurations for both OLTP and ETL applications  • Design and development of shell and database scripts for data loads and conversion of DB2 data to Oracle  • Worked with development team to design data model and architect solution for database components  • Worked with SA, Integration Architect, Application Server Admin, Unix Admin to resolve infrastructure and database related issues  • Designing the logical and physical architecture of the database - Erwin Converting the conceptual model into logical and physical model Indexing strategies.  • Configured Oracle 10g Physical Standby DB with appropriate lag time and logical for reporting DB.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g Grid and its agents on DB server.  • Tuned SGA by Tuning Library Cache, Dictionary Cache, and Buffer Cache. Tuned OS by Reducing Paging/Swapping. Tuned I/O which includes Separation of Data files and Redo log files.  • Supported the migration of Oracle datafiles to ASM filesystem  • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) in order to provide ongoing, remote database support using the OEM intelligent agent, OEM repository, event monitor and paging system. Implemented hot backups using RMAN with jobs scheduled via OEM.  • Responsible for creating hot backup and recovery scripts and plans. Education Master's in Computer Science ITU - San Jose, CA Skills Oracle Dba, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba, Sql Server