MSSQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MSSQL <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> MSSQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY Essex, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MSSQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY June 2016 to Present • Generates reports from SQL SERVER database using SSRS and Visual Studio  • Extract Transform and Load data from different data sources into SQL SERVER using SSIS service  • Configures three nodes AlwaysOn SQL Server Failover Microsoft Cluster Configuration to support very vital healthcare provider applications.  • Uses RED-GATE and IDIRA as a third party tool in increasing performance of the SQL server 2014  • Participates in MSSQL SERVER data modeling and defining attribute relationship and developed entity relationship diagrams  • Manages Bulk-insert from different data sources  • Administers windows user access to MSSQL SERVER INSTANCE and SECURABLES  • Performs server installation and configurations for SQL Server 2012. Migrating data from SQL 2008 to 2008R2, SQL 2012 and 2014 in both single virtual sever and cluster environment.  • Applies security service packs for both testing and production SQL instances.  • Troubleshoot SharePoint related errors and worked closely with SharePoint admins to upgrade SharePoint 2010 to 2013.  • Verifies all SQL Server instances are up and running.  • Verifies that all scheduled jobs have run successfully, and backup jobs successfully executed. Monitors MSDB database is backed up, and index and statistic maintenance are completed.  • Setup backup and restoration jobs for development and QA environments.  • Monitors disk space by checking the amount of free space available on each SQL Server to ensure it is not below 10%.  • Reviews database sizes and growth settings.  • Checks SQL Server and Windows application and system event log entries for warnings and errors and determine if any entries warrant further investigation.  • Troubleshoots all reports related errors for customers. Conduct SQL DBA daily health checks against the Databases to avoid downtime.  • Designs data analysis plan and conducts data analysis for both quantitative and qualitative studies using statistical software packages including SAS, STATA, SPSS and Atlas.ti. These include creating databases for data entry, generating and recoding variables, data cleaning for analysis.  • Generates reports for both descriptive and inferential statistics  • Independently run a bivariate, chi2, linear regression, ordered logistic/logistic regression, and multivariate regression MS-SQL DATA ANALYST June 2013 to May 2015 IBTCI  • Performed server installation and configurations for SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014. Migrated data from SQL 2008 to 2008R2 and SQL 2012 in both single virtual sever and cluster environment.  • Administered windows user access to MSSQL SERVER INSTANCE and SECURABLES  • Applied security service packs for both testing and production SQL instances.  • Configured Reports to run against back-end production Databases.  • Involved in capacity planning, sizing and database growth projections. Fine tune databases to increase performance.  • Scheduled Full and Transactional log backups for the user created and system databases in the production environment using the Database Maintenance Plan Wizard.  • Setup backup and restoration jobs for development and QA environments.  • Troubleshoot all reports related errors for customers. Conduct SQL DBA daily health checks against the Databases to avoid downtime.  • Maintains the disaster recovery solution at the remote site for the production databases using Cluster.  • Participated in MSSQL SERVER data modeling and defining attribute relationship and developed entity relationship diagrams  • Setup Database Maintenance Plans to reorganize indexes, re-indexing and update the index statistics on the production databases.  • Microsoft SQL Server Database Migration from MS SQL 2008R2 to MS SQL 2014.  • Created and scheduled Maintenance plans ( database and log backups and cleanups), Created tables and performed data imports and restores for successful migration.  • Managing data resource by shrinking data files and log files.  • Helped in the process of generating reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services).  • Performed Production Support and On-call duties.  • Monitored the database instances daily to make sure they are up and running. Troubleshoot if they have problems.  • Recreate database and view indexes to improve query performance.  • Restoring corrupted databases from backup locations to production or staging servers.  • Migrating databases from production Servers to Development Servers for Testing.  • Implementing Tuning tools, such as Database Tuning Advisor to improve performance.  • Setting database mirroring for High Availability Solutions.  • Installed and configured SQL Server in SQL Server 2008/2008R2 using Window Server 2008R2. MS-SQL DATA ANALYST AND DBA ETHIOPIA AIRLINES June 2009 to May 2013 • Created logical and physical relational data bases  • Conducted performance tuning, maintenance and troubleshooting  • Administered Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations  • Troubleshoot performance issues, fine-tunes databases and index analysis  • Conducted SQL Server 2014 migration from SQL Server 2012  • Made memory configurations for SQL Servers  • Conducted Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Database Monitoring tools and Application support  • Created packages for data transfer between environments Education M.SC in Health Information Technology and Management GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY May 2014 BA in Information Technology and System Administration ADDIS ABABA UNIVERSITY August 2008 Skills SHAREPOINT (2 years), ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, .NET, DBA, Sql Server, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Additional Information SKILLS  • HTML, C##, CSS, ASP.NET, .NET, SharePoint