Bank Teller Bank Teller Bank Teller - Wells Fargo Bank Baltimore, MD Work Experience Bank Teller Wells Fargo Bank - Austell, GA December 2017 to Present Provides account services to customers by receiving deposits and loan payments; cashing checks; issuing savings withdrawals;  recording night and mail deposits; selling cashier's checks, traveler's checks, and series e bonds; answering questions in person or on telephone; referring to other bank services.  • Records transactions by logging cashier's checks, traveler's checks, and other special services; preparing currency transaction reports.  • Cross-sells bank products by answering inquiries; informing customers of new services and product promotions; ascertaining customers'  needs; directing customers to a branch representative. Oracle Database Administrator Pherme Solutions - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to October 2017 Installed Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network  access while creating, migrating and backing up database for various clients.  • Project Lead - successfully analyzed, recommended and implemented an active Oracle Data Guard to facilitate data protection, site  redundancy and disaster recovery.  • Successfully upgrade multiple databases and performance tuning, maintenance and training for continuous operation  • Carried out Oracle Database maintenance; baselining, performance tuning, alert configuration, using snapshots taking by Automated  Workload Repository (AWR)/ Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to generate performance reports, monitoring and database performance  • Performed database cloning and refreshes from production to UAT/DEV environment Business Analyst Intern Portal of Health - Lawrenceville, GA June 2017 to September 2017 • Assisted with the redesign of a volunteer system to increase the productivity of company volunteer.  • Constructed strategic survey enhance the accuracy and relevance of survey results.  • Embedded redesigned survey models and instruction onto the company website and designed surveys accessibility features.  • Managed membership and client database using online systems to store, import and export necessary data for analysis. Data Management Systems Intern Emory University Hospital - Atlanta, GA October 2016 to December 2016 • Worked with other interns on improving database functionality to improve data entry and reporting errors.  • Created and presented data finding and recommendations to senior leadership.  • Monitored and maintained data elements in SQL database systems. Data Analyst / Application Support SkyPacific Group Inc - Atlanta, GA February 2011 to March 2013 Maintain the Oracle 10g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems which included building test strategies, backup & recovery models for Oracle. Refreshing test databases.  ? Managed backup & Recovery for Oracle on Linux using RMAN and went through the day-to-day user requests to troubleshoot the database related problems.  ? Linux shell scripting for monitoring oracle Database status, security & backups.  ? Monitored Tablespace size, resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O.  ? Created user, allocation of appropriate tablespace quotas with necessary privileges and roles for Oracle & SQL Server databases.  ? Created backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups and RMAN backup technology.  ? Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune the application and SQL queries  ? Ran complex queries to retrieve data and ad-hoc reports from multiple tables within Oracle database Education Bachelor's of Interdisciplinary Studies in Health Informatics in Interdisciplinary Studies Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visio, Excel, Microsoft excel, Microsoft powerpoint, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Visio, SQL and PL/SQL Fundamentals, Oracle Database 10g/11g  Administration, Oracle Grid Infrastructure and ASM, Oracle Active Data Guard Internals and Data Guard Broker