NttData-customer service rep NttData-customer service rep NttData-customer service rep - Dell Del City, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NttData-customer service rep Dell 2017 to Present inbound calls from Massachusetts customers with questions regarding their health insurance, wellness programs, prescription plans, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are combined into one program called MassHealth. MassHealth members may be able to get doctors' visits, prescription drugs, hospital stays, and many other important services.  • Consulting with customers to review health related products and services. Discussing customer needs and assisting with the best solutions for their individual situations  • Opening and maintaining customer accounts and information  • Creating customer solutions with compassion by listening and selecting the best and fastest solution to customer inquiries  • Resolving customer technical issues with patience and understanding  • Identifying any additional needs the customer may have and helping them to upgrade products or services customer service agent Hertz 2017 to 2017 2017  • Provide excellent customer service by efficiently handling the incoming calls from customers with inquiries about their billing and rental transactions. This includes answering questions, making adjustments, researching discrepancies, and achieving overall customer satisfaction.  • Contribute to departmental and center effectiveness and productivity by maintaining acceptable attendance, maintaining a minimum of call handling time standard, and remaining logged into the Billing phone queue which will ensure proper and timely handling of customer complaints.  • Uphold company policies and standards by being knowledgeable in utilizing various resources in order to research time discrepancies, rates, mileage etc. This enables the representative in resolving customer disputes at the time of the call, thus mimimizing cost in further correspondence. The resources include GAR, ASAP, Carrent, Carisma, PC Excalibur, Mobius, Sales Systems, Frequent Traveler, Frost, Intranet, and Global Marketing.  • Protect company assets and financial interests by thoroughly documenting any system that was altered in anyway for each call. In doing so, the next representative will know what action was taken and if anything further needs to be done if customer calls back.  • Contributes to Hertz Improvement Process (HIP) to discover new and more efficient ways to run our business and deliver the right products and services to our customers faster and at a lower cost. Drives change from within to improve customer satisfaction and uses teamwork to tackle problems. loan agent Midland Mortgage - Oklahoma City, OK 2014 to 2016 Duties include customers service explaining, evaluating, authorizing or recommending approval of commercial, real estate, or credit loans. Advise borrowers on financial status and methods of payments. Includes mortgage loan officers and agents, collection analysts, loan servicing officers, and loan underwriters.  • Pull reports from Nautilus and convert to Excel.  • Audit ARM loans to verify that ARM parameters match the notes.  • Set-up ARM screens to match modification terms.  • Pull daily index values and update Fiserv. Technical Support Apple February 2012 to March 2014 Tasks can include troubleshooting, listening, installing and configuring computer systems, diagnosing hardware/software faults and solving technical problems and/or any issues or changes required, such as forgotten passwords, viruses or email issues in a call center sitting Database Administrator Farmer Insurance Prepares source data for computer entry by compiling and sorting information; was establishing entry priorities. Verifies entered customer and account data by reviewing, correcting, deleting, or reentering data; combining data from both systems when account information is incomplete; purging files to eliminate duplication of data.  Tests customer and account system changes and upgrades by inputting new data; reviewing output.  Secures information by completing data base backups.  Maintains customer confidence and protects operations by keeping information confidential. Insurance Agent AAA Insurance Deliver and explain policy to policyholders. Analyze insurance program and suggest additions or changes including changes to beneficiaries. Claims, defaults, payments and polity's changes  Approaches potential clients by utilizing mailings and phone solicitation; making presentations to groups at company-sponsored gatherings; speaking publicly to community groups on the subject of financial well-being.  Determines clients' particular needs and financial situations by scheduling fact-finding appointments; determining extent of present coverage and investments; ascertaining long-term goals.  Providing information protection plan by calculating and quoting rates for immediate coverage action and long-term strategy implementation.  Provides continuing service by providing direct deposit forms; processing changes in beneficiary and policy loan applications. Education Some college Skills Customer Care, CSR, Customer Service, Call Center, Customer Support, Payroll (6 years), Human Resources (7 years), Office Administration (7 years), Inventory Control (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Human Resources Management 2012 to Present