Network Engineer / Programmer Network Engineer / Programmer Network Engineer / Programmer at PHP and .NET Chicago, IL Work Experience Network Engineer / Programmer ITconsulte4you.Inc - Chicago, IL January 2008 to Present - Analyzed corporate LAN and WAN to determine what were the major problems and improvements needed to be made to the network infrastructure, and network Security using Protocol Analyzers, security auditing software packages from Network Associates.  -Troubleshooting computer hardware/software on site both at home office and at company, hardware/software configuration to the highest performance.  - Develop Point-of-Sale and E-commerce software applications using PHP, Zend Framework, ASP.NET, Visual Basic.NET, Java, and MySQL.   - Perform computer network maintenance on Windows Server NT / 2003, FreeBSD, Red Hat, Ubuntu, Linux Server and Remote system support Implementation of TCP/IP and related Services- DHCP,DNS,SMTP, HTTPS and FTP   - Credit card processing API and PCI compliance., Merchant services. Computer Administrator - contact Lectrocomponent, Inc - Weaton,IL November 2010 to April 2011 - Supportcomputer hardware/software.  - Implemented Virtual Private Networks VPNs using Cisco routers, PIX firewalls, Check Point firewalls, and Cisco VPN 3000 Concentrators. Enabled RSA SecurID with Cisco VPN 3000 Concentrator. Reduced customer costs 50 percent by replacing leased circuits with VPN solutions.   - Write applications using VBA, Excel 2003 , Crytal Reports and perform computer network maintenance on Windows Server NT / 2000-2003, Citix , Prophet21:11V, warehouse software and Hardware Troubleshooting.   - Analyzed LAN to determine what were the major problems and improvements needed to be made to the network infrastructure.  - Engineered a dedicated server to move them from a peer-to-peer network to provide more reliable service and to reduce the latency.  - Migrated their primary record keeping software AviMark to the server along with the time keeping software TimeWolf so it could be accessed from any workstation.  - Engineered a Internet connectivity solution as a Dial on Demand, with security policies to protect sensitive data, and prevent user access to the Web, along with a RAS solution to provide after hours access to AviMark in the event of an emergency and for providing support.  - Implemented a backup strategy along with a disaster recovery plan in the event that the server should go down to prevent lost revenue. Computer Consultant Northwest Pediatric Service - Elgin, IL August 2007 to October 2008 - Implemented Virtual Private Networks VPNs using Cisco routers, PIX firewalls, Check Point firewalls, and Cisco VPN 3000 Concentrators.   - Networking design with Windows Server 2003, DNS-DHCP Server, Squid Proxy , NFS, Medisoft Server, Citrix Server, Linux and Firewall.  - Maintaining web applications used by internal/external customers, troubleshooting and fixing defects with technical team. Involved in software development life cycle and conducted testing during post implementation phase analyzed and designed database and user interface; and working with technical team to ensure the product meet the customer requirements. Developed web applications using PHP and MySQL database.   - Network maintenance 9 locations Database Administrator- contact International Software= Development, LLC CA, USA - Los Angeles, CA May 2007 to July 2007 - Supported the software development team to enhance, update, test, debug and maintain Point-of-Sale Restaurant software Application - the touch screen operated computer supports the basic restaurant cash register functionality, the option of printing of kitchen orders, and flash report.   - Mainly developed using PHP and MySQL  - Developing class diagrams, use case diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagrams and deployment diagrams. Computer Information Systems Intern Trace Die Cast, Inc - Bowling Green, KY December 2006 to March 2007 - Responsibilities externship project for students include troubleshooting computer hardware/software, program computer, and perform computer  - Network maintenance on Windows Server 2000 ,DNS-DHCP Server, Red Hat and Linux. Administrator / Programmer Ubonrachthani University, Ubonrachthani, Thailand - Ubonrachthanie, Thailand October 2004 to May 2005 - Maintained system for faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences Database Server, Windows 2000 Server, DNS Server, Mail Server, Proxy Server FreeBSD v5.4/6.2, and PPP Server (Remote Access) Linux SIS  - Wrote CGI and Java scripts for the camWrote CGI and Java scripts for the campus directory Web server application. pus directory Web server application. Administrator / Programmer Regional Health Promotion Center - Ubonrachthani, Thailand November 2003 to September 2004 - Maintained system Database Server, DNS Server, Mail Server, Proxy Server Microsoft windows NT/2000.   - Develop web application for HIV Report using ASP, SQL Server, and Microsoft Access Outside Sales Agent - contact PrimePay global, - Henderson, NV April 2012 - Credit card processing API and PCI compliance. Point of sales.  - Support for Point-of-Sale Merchant services. Direct Sales Representative - contact Clearent,LLC, - Clayton, MO January 2012 -Credit card processing API and PCI compliance. Point of sales and E-commerce system  - Sales support software and hardware Education Business English Ccomputer Systems Institute - Chicago, IL 2011 to Present MSc Keller Graduate Scholl of Management of DeVry University - Chicago, IL 2011 M.Sc. in Computer Science Ubonrachathani University February 2004 to May 2006 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Ubon Rachathani Rajabhat University June 1996 to April 2000 Additional Information Posses expertise in Web Data base / Design  - Strong knowledge of Web/Networking programming  - Demonstrate understanding of.NET technology and Freeware technology  - Good knowledge Object Oriented Programming  - Good knowledge of Windows Server and Linux Server  - Ability to handle stressful situations with a positive attitude  - Demonstrate ability to meet deadlines  - Ability to work independently as well as with a team.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    - Languages: PHP, Drupal 6,VB6, VB.NET, ASP, ASP.NET, JAVA, C # Programming  - Database Languages: MySQL, SQL Server, Microsoft Access, Oracle  - Microsoft Server: Microsoft Windows NT, Microsoft Windows Server 2000/2003, Microsoft  Exchange Server, Windows Web Hosting.  - Open Source: Linux Fedora 6.0/10.1,SIS, FreeBSD, Ubuntu 10, Red Hat Linux  - Networking Security: Open SSL, Wireless Security  - Concepts: Object Oriented Analysis/Design, UML  - Web security camera    COURSE WORKS AND PROJECTS    Myposonline: Web Application Shopping Cart using ASP.Net and MySQL.  (www.myposonline.net) (Present)  Mybusinessintown, Inc: Web Application (order online) using PHP, Java, Jquery and  MySQL.  (www.mybusinessintown.net) (Present)  Nickantphotography:Web Application (order online) using CSS-Flash, PHP, Java, Jquery  and MySQL.  (www.nickantphotography.com) (Present)  - Therubystone Web Application using PHP and MySQL.  (http:// therubystone.com)  - Restauran Web Application using PHP (http:// www.Divachicago.com),  (http:// www.jitladathaionline.com), (http:// www.Goldenthaijasmine.com)  - Gambacortalaw Office Web Application using PHP and MySQL.  (http:// www.gambacortalaw.com/)  - The Cats Pajamas Web Application Shopping Cart using PHP and MySQL.  (http://www.catspajamas.com/)  - KidCareMedical Web Portal -the application to present the record of medical staff/employee  information such as employee schedule, directory of medical staff, timecard, and company  news. This application is mainly developed using PHP and MySQL. and Medical Record  Health Care Application - Developed using ASP and Visual Basic.  (http://www.kidcaremedical.net )-