Sortation Associate Sortation Associate MSSQL DBA Dallas, TX Initiative-taking IT professional with proven experience in Database Administration, Business analyst, software development life cycle. Work Experience Sortation Associate AMAZON - Dallas, TX November 2018 to Present • Picking Route  • Identifying problem solve packages  • Scanning Packages  • Sorting Packages    8 Database Administrator Tecnotree Corporation - Lagos, NG January 2014 to June 2017 • Provide development and design assistance for billing database and CRM application  • Improve the performance of billing queries by tweaking it or modifying, reorganizing or rebuilding indexes  • Provides support in capacity planning, forecasting, and tuning. Develops performance/tuning evaluation reports for billing databases  • Interface with developers, network, virtualization, storage and systems operations teams to resolve problems with the billing database/CRM applications systems.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain database security and audit solutions  • Administer and monitor applications and systems, developing automated alerts to warn of failure  • Weekly and Monthly housekeeping on database structures and objects. Data Warehouse Developer TechMahindra - Lagos, NG March 2013 to January 2014 • In a team that manages a data warehouse of over 53 terabytes of data.  • Perform data warehouse design and modeling according to established standards.  • Determine data warehousing solutions to meet business needs.  • Produced ad hoc reports and documents for senior team members.  • Verified data integrity and accuracy.  • Responded to customer requests via telephone and email.  • Worked directly with Marketing team by providing data which helps in making better business decisions.  • Implemented marketing strategies which resulted in 12% growth of customer base. Business Intelligence Developer Tech Mahindra - Lagos, NG February 2012 to March 2013 • Coordinated with Business users to develop business requirements and specifications documents.  • Maintain business intelligence models to design, develop and generate both standard and ad-hoc reports using SAP BO and Microsoft excel.  • Planned, designed and implemented diverse business intelligence solutions.  • Monitored and optimized SQL server performance.  • Ensure the data quality and integrity in databases.  • Recommend improvements to provide optimum reporting solutions.  • Develop best practices for database design and development activities  • Stay updated with business operations and business intelligence processes.  • Improved data gathering, analysis and visualization procedures with strategic optimizations.  • Generated reports, updated spreadsheets and presented results. Database Administrator Leadway-Pensure PFA - Lagos, NG March 2009 to February 2012 • Serve as support for database administration tasks. Configuration management, backup/recovery, performance optimization, and space management  • Perform database deployments and provide support for application releases  • Assist developers with MS SQL Server issues and questions  • Interface with developers, network, virtualization, storage and systems operations teams to resolve problems with applications and database systems  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain database security and audit solutions  • Perform SQL administrative tasks, including installing and upgrading SQL server products, creating maintenance plans, and creating database objects  • Install, configure and deploy MS SQL Server. Perform capacity planning, performance turning, monitoring, troubleshooting and optimization of the databases  • Standardize and manage Database Administrator procedures for monitoring database performance, testing, archiving, and optimizing  • Maintenance and support of SQL server Mirroring, Log shipping, Clustering, and other methods of disaster recovery Education Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry Lagos State University - Lagos, NG August 2002 to March 2007 Skills Database administration, Data modeling, Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10, Replication, Sql, Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Etl, Metadata, Data warehouse, Dhcp, Tcp, Disaster recovery, Scripting, Security Additional Information Skills  • Data modeling and database design.  • Database administration using the ACID properties concept  • Database Diagnostics skills using DBCC  • Metadata management and repository usage.  • Database schema creation and management.  • Backup and recovery.  • Database security on server level, database level and table level.  • Knowledge of High Availability (HA), Log shipping, Replication and Disaster Recovery (DR) options for SQL Server  • TSQL and PLSQL Procedural skills  • Performance management and tuning.  • MSSQL Server Security  • Data ETL and data warehouse development. Both in Oracle and MS  • SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.  • Scripting.  • ORACLE 10/11 G.  • MSSQL SERVER.  • Window server.  • Active Directory.  • Microsoft Exchange.  • IP/TCP, DHCP, DNS concepts.  • Process Documentation.