AWS Engineer AWS Engineer AWS Engineer - Allianz Life Insurance, MN Work Experience AWS Engineer Allianz Life Insurance, MN May 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:    • Worked extensively with AWS services like EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, AutoScalingGroups, Route 53, IAM, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CloudFront, SNS, and RDS.  • Set up and built AWS infrastructure with various services available by writing cloud formation templates in json.  • With the help of IAM created roles, users and groups and attached policies to provide minimum access to the resources.  • Created topics in SNS to send notifications to subscribers as per the requirement.  • Worked on the databases of the Amazon RDS and carried out functionalities for creating instances as per the requirements.  • Implemented Amazon RDS multi-AZ for automatic failover and high availability at the database tier.  • Created CloudFront distributions to serve content from edge locations to users so as to minimize the load on the frontend servers.  • Configured AWS CLI and performed necessary actions on the AWS services using shell scripting.  • Implemented CloudTrail in order to capture the events related to API calls made to AWS infrastructure.  • Defined all server types in Ansible, so that a newly built server could be up and ready for production within 30 minutes OS installation.  • Involved in scrum meetings, product backlog and other scrum activities and artifacts in collaboration with the team.    Oracle Database Administraton / AWS SOLUTION ARCHITECTURE Prime Therapeutics - Edina, MN March 2017 to April 2018 Edina, MN  MARCH 2017 TO APRIL 2018    • Worked extensively with AWS services like EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, AutoScalingGroups, Route 53, IAM, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CloudFront, SNS, and RDS  .Administered and supported development of Oracle 11g databases by installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle server, creating databases, objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid  Control.  • Implemented backup procedures using RMAN and Data pump utility for Oracle  databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations.  • Maintained 24*7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting  live issues within defined tight SLA times.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, table partitions, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever  possible, amongst others.  • Performed patch jobs using crontab utility.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing and other security related task including  transparent data encryption.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ADDM and ASH.  • Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC  configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using  Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as TDE and Data  Masking Oracle Database Administrator / AWS solution architecture Verizon - New York, NY June 2015 to May 2017 • Worked with customer for different RAC related issue like split brain and hugepages setup. Troubleshoot performance issues for the RAC instances.  • Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and also defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Development of policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security and archiving.  • Monitoring and maintaining 2/3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Generated and automated Statspack/AWR reports from Oracle database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, table space growth, and database growth.  • Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to ERP jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of testing using RMAN.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer, Foglight.  • Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  • Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  • Performing database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments.  • Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and active Data Guard for faster Disaster Recovery.  • Installed and Configured OEM grid control for maintenance administering the databases.  • Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  • Used Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading Oracle10gR2 to the latest Oracle 11gR2 and applied patches as required.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN for development and production databases.  • Database cloning from Production to Test and Development environments.  • Extensively worked on applying patches (CPU&PSU) whenever required.  • Schema Refreshing of databases using normal copy method and exp/imp utility.  • Cloning database and schemas using Data pump for 10g and 11g versions.  • Cloning 10g and 11g databases using RMAN duplication (with and without backup).  • ASM Disk storage and user Management  • Monitoring the Hit Ratios and tuning the System Global Area (SGA) accordingly.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Involved in all the stages of the software development cycle (SDLC) namely design, specification, administration, environment setup, debugging, testing (test plan and test execution), integration and system testing.  • Worked extensively with AWS services like EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, AutoScalingGroups, Route 53, IAM, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, CloudFront, SNS, and RDS Oracle Database Administrator AT&T - Dallas, TX June 2013 to May 2015 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10gGrid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Detect corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  • Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine grained Auditing.  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery. Education BBA UNIVERSITY OF YAOUNDE 2007 to 2011