Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 8+ Years of IT Experience as an Oracle Database Administration Encompassing Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup & Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring, Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Golden Gate and Enterprise Manager.    • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA.  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 11g/10g/9i, with experience in very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Installed Standalone server on 11GR2 Linux 5.8.  • Installed Oracle 12c database on Linux server.  • Upgraded database from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.1 on Linux.  • Installed 11g 6 node production RAC CLUSTERWARE and DATABASE on Linux.  • Experienced in installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g and 11gr2 RAC 2 node and adding a node to this cluster database for high availability.  • Hands on experience on building 11gr2 RAC databases on EXADATA X2-2 HALF RACK servers.  • Experience in a variety of hardware and software platforms including; MS-Windows, NT Server, UNIX/Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX & AIX and RHEL.  • Knowledge of administering E-Business Suite R12.  • Involved in upgrading of Oracle Application E-Business suite from R12.0.6 to R12.2.4.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 10g/11g RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation.)  • Good experience RAC Clusterware administration, Configuration and Patching, RAC Backup and Recovery.  • Involved in construction of Disaster Recovery (DR) for all the production databases.  • Extensive experience in Dataguard configuration, implementing and monitoring standby databases.  • Hands on experience in Grid control, Golden Gate Replication.  • Performance Tuning: Tuned various large critical OLAP and OLTP databases of Tera bytes size using various tools like STATSPACK, AWR, SQLTrace, SQL profiles, SQL baselines Tkprof, Analyze, ADDM and Explain Plan Methods.  • Setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g & Grid Control (11g) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  • Extensive knowledge in Database Backup and Recovery concepts using RMAN utilities (scheduling full/incremental/cumulative backups, hot/cold backups writing/editing UNIX Shell Scripts for RMAN)  • Experience in LOGICAL BACKUPS and Database migration tools with DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable Tablespaces.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, import/export. Experience in upgrading ORACLE from 10.2.0.X to 11.2.0.3 out of place upgrade.  • Extensive experience in Oracle Upgrades, Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU) and other oracle patches.  • Good understanding of database block corruption.  • Knowledge and experience on Data Warehouse using ETL.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers and extensively used TOAD for querying databases etc.  • Exposed to Data Warehouse assignments in various domains like Medical services, Sales, Insurance, Financial & Bank, Inventory Distribution, and Production Data warehouses  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing ASM and proficiency in using ASMCMD and ASMLIB, Flash-Back Technology.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) / Network Attached Storage (NAS)  • Experience in database cloning with RMAN, Capacity Planning, Database Refresh and patch management.  • Experienced in maintaining databases on large Production, Testing and DEV environments.  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM)  • Excellent Communication skills, co-ordination and communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development teams Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator AT&T - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and maintenance of oracle 10g, 11g on UNIX, Windows Platforms.  • Supporting 24*7 production databases with on-call Phone.  • Resolving database, applications performance issues using tools like OEM Grid Control, Oracle SQLT, ADDM, AWR Diagnostic and tuning packages.  • Migration of databases from Oracle 9i, 10g to 11g.  • Day to day troubleshooting of environments which includes fixing issues and supporting various components of oracle applications - Forms, Apache, Concurrent Manager, SOA and SSC services, apps login etc.  • Upgrading JDK versions from 1.5 to 1.6 and JRE versions to 1.7, 1.8  • Configuration of Standby Database for Disaster Recovery using Data guard.  • Refreshing the Test, Prod, DEV databases from the Production Live Data.  • Set up, configuring, monitoring scripts and maintain the daily maintenance jobs, hot backups using shell scripts.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption)  • Resolving locks, blocking objects, killing inactive sessions, compiling invalid objects if needed.  • Applying oracle recommended CPU and PSU patches on Databases which are tracked under IPC (interactive Patching Console)  • Moving objects using FNDLOAD, managing the concurrent managers and its operations. Working on Replication issues Mview, goldengate, streams.  • Supporting the different versions of ExaData with latest versions included.  • Working on Bulk Migration, Instance Refreshes and User account issues like forks, Passwords expire etc using AT & T defined specific packages.  • Working with utilities like TOAD, EXP/IMP, SQL Loader, SQL Analyze and Oracle Supplied DBMS_PACKAGE  • Interacting with the Oracle support on Service Requests and implementing the solutions provided for successful completion of the tasks.  • Working with Development Teams for Deploying Scripts.    Environment:  Oracle 11gR1/R2, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Golden Gate, Oracle E-Business suite R12 Oracle DBA Walgreens Corporate, Washington September 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assisted in management and database administration of Oracle database applications on Exadata platforms.  • Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system.  • Involved with day to day tasks and user related Application support issues  • Creating primary database storage structures (tablespaces) after application developers have designed an application.  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to QA, UAT and Development databases.  • Performed the 12c Upgrade of RAC cluster ware from 11g.  • Creating primary objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application.  • Modifying the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers.  • Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using Data pump.  • Used Data Pump extensively for logical backups and schema migrations between environments.  • Enrolling users and maintaining system security.  • Ensuring compliance with your Oracle license agreement.  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database.  • Applied Rolling Patch in RAC environment.  • Planning and scheduling for backup and recovery of database information.  • Maintaining archived data on tape.  • Remedy for Change Control Management for Ticketing Services.  • Migrated code between environments as part of the change management process.  • Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities.  • Used Unix Shell Scripting for auto customize database creation.  • Responsible for importing and exporting database and objects as per the requirements.  • Exporting and purging the old data as per the business requirements.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using Enterprise Manager 12C cloud control.    Environment: Exadata, Oracle 11gR2, RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Linux, OEM Grid Control Sr. Oracle DBA Department Of Pennsylvania May 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g database on SUN SOLARIS.  • Configured Physical Standby for Production databases and converted Physical standby to  Snapshot Standby and ACTIVE data-guard.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 2 /3 Node Real Application Cluster.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2)  • Configured disaster recovery databases using Data guard and perform switchover & failover and monitor using Data Guard Manager command line  • Applying specific bug-fixing patches, security patches, and patch sets across all the environments on Standalone Databases  • Upgradation of Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 on 3 node RAC environment.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities.  • Migrated the Database from Non-ASM to ASM.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Configured and Implemented Cold/Hot Backups.  • Wrote unix shell scripts for daily backups.  • Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using data pump export/import.  • Providing Application Support for performance and database related issues.  • Implementation and configuration of Oracle GOLDEN GATE.  • Implemented Golden Gate for data recovery and data migration for Oracle 11gR1 RAC multi nodes on LINUX and debugging Golden Gate issues such as extract, replicate rebuild and abend.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery in RAC and stand-alone database.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using Enterprise Manager 12C cloud control.  • Cloned schemas, objects and data between servers using Data pump.  • Configured Oracle Transparent Application Failover (TAF) setting for Production databases.  • Experience in performing backup and recovery operations using RMAN.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Performed Block Recovery and Data file recovery using RMAN.  • Performed database refresh from production to test environment in both RAC and NON RAC environment using RMAN.  • Performed data refresh at Table level, Schema level, Tablespace level using DATAPUMP.  • Performed Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path, creation of materialized Views and gathering necessary statistics on objects.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Performance Tuning for the SQL queries which are Running slow and consuming high  Resources.  • Involvement in day to day activities like Space management, rectification of Lock problems, managing quotas, Table partitioning to improve I/O access.  • Alert log Monitoring for critical databases every day in the production environment.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL, Oracle Grid Control, UNIX, Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Control, DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, Sun Solaris, ASM, Golden gate, RAC, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TTS, Data pumps, Exports/Imports. Oracle DBA Cargill, Minneapolis December 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Configuration the database on Exadata and upgrading the database from 10g to 11g.  • Configuration of Database with FAST START FAIL OVER for maximum availability.  • Manually configuration of ASM through commands.  • Extensively worked on Installation and Maintenance of SQL Server 2012/2008R2 on Test, Development and Production Environments  • Database Backup and restores, and periodical database refreshes  • Refreshing the Database from production to Non Production using Auto refresh Process.  • Configuration of Physical Standby database for maximum performance mode, Maximum Availability- Oracle Data Guard by using OEM 12c.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle RDBMS and Client software in various environments.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities  • Oracle Agent installation OEM 12c, ORACLE HOME, GRID HOME.  • Worked on Operational side for Disk Space, Log Space, Blocking and Deadlock issues, Use log shipping for synchronization of database.  • Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users.  • Created Database Maintenance Plans for the performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity checks, update database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Patching SAP databases in AIX and LINUX server.  • Setup of Jobs using the Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c and 11g. Auto refresh process and RMAN backups in OEM 12c  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using data pump export/import, Auto Refresh.  • Loading data into database tables using SQL *Loader  • Implemented Materialized views, database links  • Performed day-to-day activities such as creating users, roles, schemas, tables, views, indexes and rebuilding Indexes and running scripts given by the clients.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement  • Creating batch files and automating the tasks  • Granting roles and privileges to end users  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Daily healthcheck up of the database using TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.  • Monitoring alert log/system log.  • Managing Database Locks and blocking sessions    Environment: Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, ExaData, Linux, UNIX Windows 2003, SQL Server 2008, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 11g 12c, RDBMS, SQLPLUS, RAC Oracle DBA/Developer Soft Planet Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Backup Script creation and Standardization. Performed Database Installation and up gradation.  • Created materialized views, table partition for Tuned databases.  • Created indexes, rebuild indexes and maintained indexes.  • Involved in user creation and user access control. Involved in Schema creation and management.  • Implemented Oracle security features and audit mechanisms for Fine grained access control.  • Maintained the RMAN repository and customized recovery catalog.  • Created Logical and Physical standby Databases to ascertain high availability of database during system crashes.  • Performed database tuning for daily loads and slow response issues.  • Used Triggers for database activities, like delete, update triggers.  • Used STATSPACK, PERFSTAT and TKPROF utilities for Tuning and analysis.  • Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events in the database.  • Involved In query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  Environment: Oracle 8i, 9i, SQL, Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Control, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader, NT. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki Vishwavidyalaya Skills DATABASES (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), UNIX (6 years), LOADER (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS:  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, Oracle 12C/11gR1 R2/10g  Operating Systems UNIX, Sun Solaris, Windows XP/2000/2003, Linux Red Hat.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, XML, UNIX Shell Scripting  Oracle Utility RMAN, OEM, Export/Import, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, DB Verify, Log Miner, ASM CMD, Data Guard, Golden Gate.  Performance Tuning Grid control, Toad, Quest SQL Optimizer, SQL Baselines, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH report, SQL profile  Tools TOAD, SQL* Loader Utility, OEM Grid Control, RMAN, NETCA, DBCA, SRVCTL, ORCAD  Microsoft Office Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall