BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST Knoxville, TN Work Experience BUSINESS SYSTEMS ANALYST United Healthcare - (Remote) April 2016 to July 2019 Functioned as the leading Report Developer & Analyst across the Provider Domain, offering superior business insight reporting. Oversaw ad-hoc and supporter data quality for Provider Contract, Provider Organization, Claims, and Pricing elements.  Technologies:HIVE, SSRS, Tableau, PowerBI, Big Data, SQL  Key Contributions & Accomplishments:  • Routinely utilized SSRS, Tableau, and PowerBI in HIVE to develop requested reports and analytics.  • Proficiently maintained all SSRS reporting for Data Source and Provider, transitioning older report data links to the new data link.  • Offered superior support and guidance, serving as a Technical Advisor for cross-functional teams.  • Properly provisioned data analysis and reporting for Claims impacted by Retro Change.  • Strategically developed reporting analytics using HIVEQL for Big Data, enabling clients to generate data-driven opportunities for growth.  • Developed reports that enabled retro changes to be analyzed and utilized in claims, saving overall costs. INFORMATION ANALYTICS SPECIALIST Sentara Healthcare - Virginia Beach, VA August 2016 to March 2018 In a multifaceted role, served as the leading Information Analytics Specialist assigned to provide proactive data analysis to clients and monitor programs for operational performance. Meticulously aligned reporting and analytics processes to cultivate ad-hoc metrics.  Technologies:Tableau, PowerBI, Ad-hoc Metrics, SQL Server    Key Contributions & Accomplishments:  • Maintained and administered elements of analytics Dashboards & Portals, ensuring the proper transition into Tableau.  • Diligently provided a seamless transition experience for the end-user, maintaining minimal downtime, and proficient data transfer. Following the transfer, allocated a new Visual Dashboard that enabled the client to serve as self-sufficient, using a self-serve Dashboard.  • Strategically provisioned data analysis and reporting for a high-level client, aligning reporting capabilities with critical needs.  • Researched, organized, and maintained ad-hoc data analysis for a principal client account, providing critical on-time information for immediate use and allocation. BUSINESS ANALYST/DATA WAREHOUSE ANALYST Anthem - Norfolk, VA November 2015 to August 2016 Directed oversight of all data warehousing content organization, allocation, and usage, updating the system, and performing reference data management (RDM). Diligently supported and administered relevant content according to current data policies and procedures, regularly updating incoming information.  Technologies:RDM, SQL, SSIS, Key Contributions & Accomplishments:  • Investigated, researched, and identified potential gaps, determining resolutions that cater to business user needs.  • Collaborated effectively with cross-functional teams, offering routine guidance and support on data warehousing and research-related tasks.  • Created and maintained data warehouse, ensuring continual data integrity.  • Established, implemented, and integrated all data structure design definitions, capabilities, SQL entries, and monitored data integrity issues.  • Developed and executed clear and concise user data definitions, ensuring adherence to all related policies, procedures, and protocols.  • Revitalized data based on information gathered from analysis and reporting, redefining business objectives, and offering data-driven opportunities for improvement. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Newport News ShipYard - Newport News, VA May 2012 to September 2015 As a Database Administration Professional, provided exceptional data support and advisement to senior management in addition to internal and external users. Strategically developed access database and related peripherals for report automation, augmentation, and training efforts. Regularly performed system maintenance, including upgrades and testing. Developed and implemented metrics and reports using: SAP, SAS, Cognos Report Studio, Microsoft Access.  Technologies:SAP, SAS, Cognos Report Studio, Microsoft Access  Key Contributions & Accomplishments:  • Drastically improved overall interactions between senior leadership, cross-functional teams, and end-users.  • Developed and implemented new business solutions, pioneering new technological advancements that significantly improved data integrity and analysis automation.  • Meticulously translated technical requirements into practical business-centric information that effectively offered clientele database reports.    Technical Proficiencies  Platforms: Unix; Solaris; Windows; Mac OS  Tools: Cogno Report Studio; SAP; JD Edwards EnterpriseOne Data Interface; Microsoft Office Suite/O365 (Word, Access, Excel, Outlook); VBA; C++; SAS & SQL; Terradata; SSIS Package; SQL Server 2008/2012; Tableau, SAP Business Objects; Lumedx; Apollo; Armus; Hive QL; DeBeaver; PowerBI; SSRS; Hadoop Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Saint Augustine's College - Raleigh, NC Skills Data analysis, Data warehousing, Sap, Data reporting, Presentation skills, Client support, Business analysis, Process improvements