Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA Senior Oracle DBA - Lackland Airforce Base San Antonio San Antonio, TX Over 7 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with hands-on experience in  database installation, administration, configuration, production support, upgrades, patches,  performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning,  migration, shell scripting and documentation.  • Team player with excellent interpersonal, analytical and communications skills.  • Installed, Configured and Administered Oracle databases 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Provided 24X7 production support to high critical databases  • Worked extensively on Oracle Software Installation, Oracle Database Upgrade, Migrations  (from 10g to 11g and to 12c) and Patching {Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set  Updates (PSU), One-off Patch}.  • Proficient in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Software  Implementation Life-Cycle (SILC).  • Configured, Managed and Administered Container (CDB) and Pluggable (PDB) Databases.  • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid  and Cloud Control, SQL*PLUS, TOAD.  • Handled operational responsibilities like database Refreshes/Copy backs, Security, Documenting  Standards and Procedures.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like DBMS.STATS,  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM, Scripts and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing  of tables and indexes.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing and  use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics for the same.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups and Logical Backups.  • Logical backups using Data Pump and Import/Export utilities.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting for RMAN backups, maintenance and REFRESHES for  databases.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by  Data guard on Oracle 12c, 11g RAC, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery  procedures.  • Installed, Configured, and Administered Two and Three Nodes Oracle 11g RAC for High  Availability Solutions.  • Wrote scripts to inform the DBA's regarding the status, performance and space management of  the database  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  • Wrote several Purging/Administrative shell scripts on Linux which are being used as standard  scripts at the workplace.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE Work Experience Senior Oracle DBA Lackland Airforce Base San Antonio - Houston, TX December 2018 to Present Environment: RHEL, Windows OS, Oracle 11g,12c. ASM, SQL Developer, SQL-plus, RMAN,  Datapump, WebLogic, OEM 13C,  Responsibilities:    • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun  Solaris and Windows environments.  • Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c Databases.  • Applied the Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution)  using opatch.  • Used OEM Cloud Control and WebLogic console extensively for administrative tasks.  • Intermediate support of WebLogic Environment.  • Responsible for Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues.  •Building Oracle Standby databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal  Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report  using crontab.  •Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target  Databases with the Catalog.  •Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  •Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. Oracle DBA U.S. Airforce. Pentagon - Alexandria, EG November 2016 to Present Environment: RHEL, Oracle 11g,12c. ASM, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL-plus, RMAN,  Datapump.  • Identifying objects no longer accessed and remove those objects which results in saving space in the databases.  • Worked on moving data from one storage area to another.  • Implemented & Managed Physical Standby and even Configured Automatic Storage  Management (ASM).  • Applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches  using OPatch and run Installer under UNIX and Windows.  • Performed database tuning by using various tools such as ADDM (Automatic Database  • Diagnostic Monitor) from AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), OEM (Oracle Enterprise  Manager) and STATSPACK  • Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments,  buffer cache, redo mechanisms  • Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant, Oracle Net  Manager, Netstat and ping utility  • Installed an Oracle 12C database on a window server. Senior Oracle DBA IPNS - Herndon, VA March 2018 to December 2018 Environment: RHEL, HP, Oracle 11g,12c. ASM, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL-plus, RMAN,  Datapump, WebLogic OEM 13C.  Responsibilities:    • Supported & maintained the Production/Development/Test databases on various servers.  • Applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU).  • One off Patch) using "runInstaller" and Perl based utility "opatch".  • Used OEM Cloud Control extensively for administrative tasks.  • Intermediate support of WebLogic Environment.  • Responsible for Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues.  • Manage WebLogic Users. Oracle Database Administrator KeyBank - Cleveland November 2015 to November 2016 Environment: Windows, RHEL, Oracle 11g/12c/10g, Oracle RAC (11g), Data Guard, Oracle Grid/Cloud  Control, RMAN, ASM, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL*Plus.    Responsibilities:  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g, 11gR2 and 12c on Linux and also Upgraded and Migrated from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Responsible for Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues  • Extensively implemented Data Pump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration  and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set  Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using  Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).  • Administering Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication  • Used OEM Grid and Cloud Control extensively for administrative tasks.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery Solutions.  • Setting up physical Standby/Data Guard for disaster and recovery.  • Involved in DR testing.  • Involved in capacity planning.  • Installed and configured golden gate for replication. Junior Oracle DBA Humana Inc - Louisville, KY January 2015 to October 2015 Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Data Pump,  SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN    Responsibilities:  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Configure block change tracking to work with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent  allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Installed and Administered Oracle 11g & 10g RAC software with ASM. IT Help Desk Department of Defense, US Navy November 2009 to November 2014 • Maintained daily performance of computer systems.  • Installed, modified, and repaired computer hardware and software.  • Installed computer peripherals for users.  • Wrote training manuals.  • Trained computer users.  • Walked customer through problem-solving process.  • Followed up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Track, route and redirect problems to correct resources. Education Bachelor's degree information systems management University of Maryland University College Skills DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), DBMS (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), OEM (4 years), Oracle (5 years), PL/SQL (1 year), RDBMS (Less than 1 year), RMAN (5 years), scripting (Less than 1 year), shell scripting (Less than 1 year), Solaris (1 year), SQL (5 years), SQL Server (Less than 1 year), UNIX (3 years), UNIX Shell (Less than 1 year), DBA, Oracle Dba, Oracle Database, Sql Dba Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4