Financial Analyst/HR Administrator Financial Analyst/HR <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Beaumont, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Financial Analyst/HR Administrator Gadolin Research - Beaumont, TX 2019 to Present ·        Negotiate budgets for contracts and invoicing to customers for medical research projects  ·        Responsible for entering new hires into system and setting up direct deposit, verifying I9 and hours worked  ·        Pay outstanding AP bills and communicate payment terms with vendors for AR bills OPERATIONS / ACCOUNTING ANALYST Phillips 66 - Beaumont, TX 2017 to 2019 Entered daily inventory for all storage tanks at the Phillips 66 Beaumont Terminal storing oil/gas products for multiple customers, and moving product via ships, barges, pipelines, or from tank to tank.  • Ensured all daily gauge tickets contained correct temperatures and levels as submitted by a third-party inspector, completed revisions if necessary, informed the inspector of changes, and relayed data to the customer.  • Completed an average of 20 to 25 tickets each day, and provided training for one new hire alongside a team member.  • Verified invoices and statements were accurate, assuring gain/loss for assigned tanks were within tolerance per policy.  • Researched gain/loss stats at the end of each month, sending to inspectors for review, and changing data if required, achieving cost savings by remaining within accepted tolerance levels.  • Frequently interacted with internal/external customer regarding invoices, billing statement, inspection reports, and the movement of commodities to and from the terminal. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE CLERK Exclusive Furniture - Houston, TX 2016 to 2017 Entered all incoming invoices into QuickBooks and Storis, a standard inventory/billing management system, for the furniture company with six large stores in the Houston area.  • Served as an advocate for transitioning from paper invoicing to an electronic system, obtaining a scanner and reducing the amount of paper required in addition to setting up ACH payments to ensure invoices did not go past due dates.  • Requested vendors send electronic invoices rather than in paper format.  • Reviewed bills of lading, comparing to all incoming invoices to ensure zero discrepancies between purchase orders and invoices, and assisted the controller with weekly A/P aging summaries, open bill status, and administrative/accounting tasks in addition to paying invoices after verification of accuracy. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / STATION RECONCILIATION ANALYST Sunoco Logistics 2014 to 2015 via Zero Chaos and Mountain Limited Contracts), Sugarland, TX 2014 to 2015 and 2015 to 2016  DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / STATION RECONCILIATION ANALYST  Reviewed tickets to determine correct measurement and temperature entries for transferred products, working with various stations in the region to verify the correct site was entered for each ticket.  • Researched discrepancies in deliveries and losses to determine if deliveries were completed at the right location.  • Delivered training to new staff, ensuring comprehension of tasks.  • Provided new hires and managerial staff with confidential data regarding applicable security systems.  • Reconciled data from multiple stations to ensure parallel information between the company's accounting system and station log records.  • Maintained database security by ensuring only approved users could access specific network systems and folders.  • Played a critical role in controlling losses at stations by researching the transfer of paper-based records to an iPad system, assisting in the company making the transition for heightened accuracy and efficiency. DATA ENTRY / ONLINE SALES COORDINATOR Games People Play Golf - Beaumont, TX 2013 to 2014 Performed detailed online data entry at the family-owned business selling golf equipment. Listed product information, including SKUs, UPCs, price, handling time and other specifications, to ensure all products were ready for sale on Amazon and eBay.  • Provided direct links to listings on Amazon and eBay through Magento Enterprise, a proprietary software allowing the entry of one SKU and automatically populating various sites.  • Utilized SAP to track customer orders, update product pricing, and manage inventory. Education MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Lamar University - Beaumont, TX BACHELOR OF ARTS in INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Univ. of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS Certifications/Licenses Driver's License