Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager - JUST, inc San Francisco, CA Degreed Manufacturing/Industrial Engineer with value-added experience in supervisory leadership.  Background includes Lean Manufacturing strategies, new product manufacturability, team problem  solving, value stream mapping, statistical analysis, root cause investigations, SOP development, time  studies and integrating regulatory standards into decision-making. Pro-active, energetic approach and  communications promote trust, teaming and goal accomplishment. Work Experience Project Manager JUST, inc - San Francisco, CA 2017 to Present Responsible for project management for emulsions and cookie dough platform projects with co-manufactures.  Duties include: Creating and managing scope, budget and timelines for new product extensions and cost improvements projects; Communicating risks and issues to all levels of the organization; improving project  management tools and processes  ? Created high level dashboards and reports to communicate project statuses and risks using  Smartsheets  ? Created templates for project timeline, product trial plan and project charter for management  standardization  ? Implemented best practices for meeting effectiveness including agenda and action items  register including using Team sites to foster collaboration  ? Lead team to update all emulsion formulas including a re-brand at our co-manufacturer.  ? Lead team to start up a new co-manufacturer for Just Cookie Dough increasing offering to 3  formats. Industrial Engineering Manager GHIRARDELLI CHOCOLATE COMPANY - San Leandro, CA 2014 to 2017 Responsible for Industrial Engineering department  Duties include: Creation and updating labor standards, scrap rates and OEE metrics across 3 facilities;  Mentoring 2 direct reports; Cost savings justification for Capex projects; Work cross-functionally to determine & improve the Manufacturability of new products  ? Rolled out Label system to all co-manufacturers and co-packers to eliminate incorrect labels:  Annual saving of $60k from fine reduction  ? Improved accuracy of OEE through standardizing nominals and increasing granularity of production  data collected  ? Justified Capex spend to automate case packing of bars: Annual savings of $1.1M in labor & $300K  in material Industrialization Engineer ROCKWELL AUTOMATION - Mequon, WI 2010 to 2014 Mequon, Wisconsin  Global leader in Industrial Automation control and information solutions  Industrialization Engineer  Responsible for developing and implementing manufacturing plans for new product development.  Duties include: Creation and updating Manufacturing Bill of Material; Part extension; Part warehouse  management set up; create time standards; electronic DWI creation and maintenance; DC torque tool  troubleshooting (Atlas Copco); lead pilots for line extensions  ? Obtained Green Belt certification within first year of employment  ? Co-lead Kaizen event to re-layout a high horsepower drives line: savings: $115K in 6 months  ? Mentored interns and contractors  ? Created procedure documentation for Global label system and warehouse management  ? Worked on projects globally including Mexico and China Production Team Advisor SCHREIBER FOODS, INC - West Bend, WI 2009 to 2010 West Bend, Wisconsin  Producer of private labeled cream cheese products and a part of a $3B cheese and dairy enterprise  Production Team Advisor  Responsible for managing 3rd Shift plant operations encompassing a 20-employee production unit and  10 maintenance, support and warehouse personnel. Operations feature meeting daily production  requirements, as well as equipment cleaning, maintenance and troubleshooting. Duties included:  communicating/prioritizing customer orders; assisting problem solving; team coaching/motivation per  continuous improvement goals; CAPA quality analysis/forms; ensuring regulatory compliance; and inter-shift collaboration and communications.  ? Teamed in developing processes, which improved the movement/management of materials into production staging areas. Solved customer shortages by improving material accuracy.  ? Shortened time needed to clean equipment on a key line by developing a written SOP.  ? Contributed to team development of operating/process changes permitting backlines and blenders  to be cleaned once per week, rather than every 3 days. Database Administrator Oregon State University - Corvallis, OR 2009 to 2009 Maintained 3 Access databases, with duties in creating/updating queries, reports, forms and macros. Manufacturing Engineering Intern MICRO POWER ELECTRONICS, INC - Beaverton, OR 2008 to 2008 Beaverton, Oregon  Closely held producer of portable power solutions for medical device and military applications  Manufacturing Engineering Intern  Assisted Engineering and Production with daily problem solving, as well as short/longer term projects.  Conducted equipment and process qualifications and designed production fixtures.  ? Contributed to the manufacturability analysis for 3 new product development teams, which included  customer participation. Work included conforming to ISO, UL, Mil-Spec and DOT standards.  ? Created and updated several Build Documents, Bill of Materials and PFMEA's.    ? Led and participated in several Kaizen events, e.g. initiated a 5S reorganization of tool storage  area, batching together the complementary tooling needed per different processes.  ? Saved $44k annually by analyzing the specifications for a key production supply and qualifying a new, lower cost vendor. Industrial Engineering Intern UNITED PARCEL SERVICE - Portland, OR 2007 to 2007 Conducted time studies, performed work measurements and created master plans with process maps and SOP's for various functions within the distribution center.  ? Entered and compiled time study data into Excel for analysis and report generation. Education BS in Industrial Engineering Oregon State University - Corvallis, OR 2009 Skills SOLID WORKS, SQL SERVER, SQL, MICROSOFT PROJECT, VISIO, Estimating, Outlook, budget, Scheduling, Smartsheets (2 years), Asana (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Driver's License Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS:    SAP - Level 2 Advanced; Microsoft Office Suite - Word, Excel, PowerPoint - Level 2 Advanced  Microsoft Project, Visio, Access and Outlook - Level 1 Proficient; Solid Works - Level 1 Proficient  SQL Server - Level 1 Proficient