SharePoint Administrator/SharePoint Developer SharePoint <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/SharePoint Developer SharePoint Administrator/SharePoint Developer - CACI International Work Experience SharePoint Administrator/SharePoint Developer CACI International - San Diego, CA October 2016 to Present Site Lead Supervisor:  Manage 3 employees in Knowledge Management Department and travel budget for 13 employees in different  locations all under the same contract.  • Works at the Naval Special Warfare Center (NSWC), a part of the United States Naval Special Warfare Command  under the United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM).  • SharePoint Site Collection Administrator on both Unclassified (NIPR) and Classified (SIPR) networks, technical  support, and Database Specialist utilizing T-SQL in support of the NAVY SEALS (BUDS, SQT, and SWCC)  training.  • Passed the SharePoint Basic Site Manager Course M10KDMT 2017055 on 4 Nov 2016. Then passed the SharePoint Advanced Site Manager Course M10KDMT 2017090 on 1 Dec 2016; both courses taught by MAGTF  Integrated Systems Training Center Command and Control Training Branch (C2TB).  • Lead in SharePoint upgrade and migration in an active site that has 1,000+ users in four different geographical  locations.  • Portal design, creating Web Parts, KPIs, best practices for permissions groups and site design, Infopath, SharePoint Designer, workflows, custom lists, document libraries, and all out of the box capabilities.  • Utilize Agile and Scrum coding methodologies  • Quality Assurance testing  • Active Security Clearance  • Completed Remedy ticket training, experience with Microsoft Visio and Microsoft Project, Power BI and Formsite.  • NSIPS data access and run queries  • Passed CompTIA Security+ Exam on 30 Mar 2017 Database Analyst Client Solution Architects - San Diego, CA January 2015 to October 2016 San Diego, CA 1/15 - 10/16  CSA specializes in helping clients optimize, leverage and gain the productivity and results they desire from their  operations. These strategic and operational solutions help clients analyze, improve and execute their operations while enabling them to manage the trade-offs of cost and performance.    Database Analyst  • Monitor millions of NAVY assets in both MS Access and Excel in support of both CoSC and NGEN closeout.  • Passed multiple DAU classes.  • Obtained Secret Clearance.  • Face to face correspondence with client.  • Attend corporate brownbag meetings.  • CLIN 5000's, 6 Ag's, CLIN 32's, CLIN 9999's, CLIN 23's, TRP's, and Requirement to Award Process Tool  (RAPT).  • Wrote multiple Business Clearance Memorandums along with ACO letters.  • Received a Team Achievement Award in regards to supporting the Government Administrative Contracting  Office (ACO).  • Developed pages in MS Sharepoint  • Created efficiencies in the workplace to present deliverables to the client quicker and more accurately.  • One of the top performers in the company in terms of Lynda.com courses learned.  • Skills Used: Access, Excel, SQL, Sharepoint, Time Management, Research, Team Leader Salesforce Consultant RelationEdge - San Diego, CA November 2014 to January 2015 San Diego, CA 11/14 - 1/15  Contracted out Salesforce work. When RelationEdge had a client that needed services, they used contractors to get the work done.    Salesforce Consultant  • Worked with companies to integrate their current systems into Salesforce. This involves going to various  businesses and observing their practices.  • With the newly gathered information, finding the best way to integrate Salesforce into their current setup. This  involves anything from integration to revamping it entirely. Product Support Engineer EDL Consulting - Deerfield, IL September 2014 to November 2014 Deerfield, IL 09/14 - 11/14  EDL solves the complex systems integration issues behind state-of-the-art technology solutions to make organizations  more successful. The solutions EDL builds generate revenue, result in cost savings, promote differentiation and make it  easier for clients to do business with their customers.    Product Support Engineer  • EDL Consulting is a national technology services firm specializing in the intelligent integration of eCommerce, CRM and business intelligence solutions to improve business performance.  • Trained in Salesforce.  • Became a Salesforce Certified Developer (Dev 401)  • Worked remotely in San Diego and managed time correctly to get work completed in an appropriate matter. ExtraMeasures LLC - San Diego, CA June 2014 to August 2014 San Diego, CA 06/14 - 08/14  ExtraMeasures is a full-service promotions and incentive company offering Bundled Stored-Value Solutions. We are the most experienced with over 18 years specializing in customized Reward, Rebate and Prepaid programs.    Information Technology  • Learned some CentOS  • Fixed and updated computers. Associate Software Engineer Home Junction INC - San Diego, CA June 2013 to June 2014 San Diego, CA 06/13 - 06/14  Home Junction® is a data driven company, having compiled over 90 unique data layers, including U.S. homes, businesses, schools, community features, demographics, parks, topography, boundaries, crime, and much more. Integrating these  unique data sets into a defragmented, real-time, interactive search experience that is visually engaging and personally  relevant to the user creates a one-stop information source for our customers' websites.    Associate Software Engineer  • Program and test new markets for the real estate development company that focuses on multifamily residential  projects, including real-estate market analysis.  • Work in PHP/SQL/UNIX/JSON environment; build advanced searches, market trends, populate house listings on a map and manipulating hundreds of databases behind the MLS listings, all around the country.  • Change clients' websites Domain Name System (DNS) to connect their staging sites point with the Home  Junction INC servers. This entails logging into GoDaddy, hosting websites and updating the client's staging sites.  • Update the timeclock on the company's server side, importing over notes from Podio into Infusionsoft.  • Super admin responsibilities for the company; include supporting all employee's emails servers, setting up new  computers for new employees and performing necessary repairs/updates.ayed a critical role in the creation and submission of an e-commerce marketplace proposal to the six largest North American railroads valued at $15  billion per year.  • Developed and implemented a Southeast US sales initiative resulting in a 35% increase in registered users and the awarding of over $1.5 million in new business.  • Managed the development, implementation and roll out of a web-based procurement system.    2 Education B.S. in Financial Mathematics & Statistics in Financial Mathematics & Statistics University of California - Santa Barbara, CA June 2013