SQL SEVER Database administrator SQL SEVER <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> SQL SEVER Database administrator - EHP VENTURE, VA Arlington, VA A certified SQL Server DBA with over Five (7) years of professional experience in IT field (2) years as a help desk and (5) years' experience with SQL Server Database Administration with excellent technical knowledge, and troubleshooting experience in Database Design/Modeling, create, manage, deploy reports as well as creating and deploying packages using DTS, and Integration Services (SSIS). Backup/Recovery, Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Replications, Always On, Mirroring, Clustering, and writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Constraints, and Views. Acquired solid working experience in designing and implementing Database Security including Encryption and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  Substantial knowledge, and strong experience in using third party tools like Red Gate, Idera, Solar Winds, Net, ERWin, Visio and Toad Data Modeler in managing SQL Server database development.  Very good team player and can work without supervision self-motivated and can easily work with non-technical people. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL SEVER Database administrator EHP VENTURE, VA July 2016 to Present • Installed, configured, and managed MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012 in Development, Test, and Production environments,  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008/2008 R2 /2012 to SQL Server 2014/2016,  • Performed Performance Monitoring and Tuning using windows and SQL performance monitoring tools (i.e. system monitor, task manager, extended events, SQL profiler, activity monitor, DBCC, DTA & DMVs),  • Used DBCC commands, DMVs and DMFs to check database integrity, index fragmentation and statistical updates,  • Administrated the MS SQL Server security by enforcing security policy.  • Resolved low disk space alerts, connection issues and failed jobs,  • Identified and Troubleshoot CPU, Memory and I/O bottle necks,  • Configured database mail, jobs and alerts in all SQL Servers,  • Planed, designed and implemented backup and restore plans according to company's Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO),  • Configured various event driven e-mail notification process in SSIS packages,  • Develop, update and maintain existing processes and procedures relating to databases  • Maintain, monitor and improve database status, security integrity, access controls and performance  • Develop, test and maintain procedures for backup, restoration and Disaster Recovery for high availability databases  • Provide Database capacity planning and developing and maintaining best practices  • A basic understanding of executing PowerShell scripts and as they related to MSSQL is required.  • Ensuring database integrity, stability and system availability.  • Ensuring new database schema meets standards for readability and performance.  • Performance tuning new and existing applications.  • Working with IT Manager to be responsible for database procedures, and related documentation.  • In-depth understanding of application lifecycle management process including planning, design, development, maintenance, and management of multi-terabyte OLTP databases in a 24/7 support environment.  • Environment: Windows server IIS 5.0, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Window Server 2003 IIS 6.0, Operational SQL DBA MCM CPAs & Advisors LLP March 2014 to June 2016 • Install, maintain and troubleshoot all database environments and serves as primary SQL server database administrator  • Monitor, identify, and implement security related updates and patches for SQL Server database systems and Microsoft OS  • Configured SQL Server Agent job and automated alerts and maintenance plan,  • Performed root cause analysis for slow running quires, missing index, outdated statistics, blocking and deadlocking issues,  • Configured and maintain database Always On in Synchronized and A synchronized mode,  • Imported and Export data from/to flat file, access, excel to/from SQL Server databases using SSIS and Import/Export wizard,  • Create and maintain documentation as it relates to database system configuration, mapping, processes, and service records.  • Recommend and execute modifications to database and server environments in order to improve efficiency and performance.  • Coordinate and collaborate with various Information Services departments to ensure availability, reliability, and scalability of corporate database environments to meet business demands.  • Configure and maintaining different high availability technologies that are used to support MSSQL i.e. log shipping, transactional, and snapshot replication, mirroring.  • Manage clustered/non-clustered indexes, index rebuilds, partitioning.  • Manage security, roles, logins, and user accounts integrated with Active Directory.  • Teaming with technical and business resources to perform implementation and ongoing upgrades.  • Developed parameterized and non-parameterized store procedures, functions, triggers, views and other T-SQL codes,  • Deployed and Automated SSIS Packages using SQL Server Agent Jobs,  • Monitors and maintains physical database structures for data integrity, database performance, quality, recoverability, and maintenance and space requirements to maintain optimal service levels.  • Researches, evaluates, and coordinates software releases, systems upgrades, enhancements, and software updates to ensure that client specifications, industry standards, and best practice guidelines are met.  • Environment I use Idera for back up databases and check the health of the database  • I used SSMS to create availability groups  • I used activity monitor to verify the connectivity to the database server  • I used red gate and spotlight to manage my transactional replication for alert and make replication healthy Microsoft Operation Manager (MOM), Visual SSMS, T-SQL, OLTP 2012 to 2016 PowerShell ISE,  • SQL Server Enterprise Edition 2012, 2016, Microsoft Operation Manager (MOM), Visual  • Source Safe, SSMA  • SSIS, SSRS I create job to run the package every night .Also I have some packages that runs every week. First I have to go through the security layer in order to run the job, I create the credential account with the role SA and I create the proxy so the job will run on behave of SQL server agent(I run the job using maintenance plain). Education management Specialized Institute of Applied Technology June 2006 Bachelor degree in Science Dhar El Mahraz University June 2003 Skills Data modeling, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Team foundation server, T-sql, Active directory, Networking, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Etl, Tcp, R2, Erwin, Html, Visio, Windows xp Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIESs    Database: SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, MY SQL, Oracle 11g  Operating System: Windows Server 2016, 2012, 2008 R2, Windows XP, 7, 10  Languages: SQL, T-SQL, HTML  ETL Tools: SSIS/DTS,  Reporting: SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services), VISIO 2007/2010  Data Modeling: ERWin, Visio, Toad Data Modeler, SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram)    Third-Party Tools: RedGate, Idera, ERWin, Visio, Toad Data Modeler, SolarWinds  Networking: Active Directory, TCP/IP, TFS( Team foundation Server)