Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator and Administrative Assistant Everett, WA Service-oriented Administrative Assistant with 5 year background in stressful and fast-pace environments. Core competencies include analytical and conceptual problem solving, empowering others, and managing change as well as excellent communication and time management skills. HIPAA and HITECH compliance knowledge with 3 years healthcare industry work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator SEIU Oregon State Council - Portland, OR October 2013 to October 2016 Oversaw data operations for 3 years in a start-up environment in the healthcare industry.  Worked as part of a team to coordinate database and tools research,  development, implementation, partner coordination and training.  Trained users and answered questions in 1-1 and group settings of 10 staff in both formal and informal settings.  Researched systems and tools for recommendation to the Director.  Lead 4 administrative and program staff for 2 years.  Developed staff as part of a commitment to personal growth within the organization.  Created and reported directly to the Director and Lead staff various  programmatic metrics for planning.  Affected thousands of Oregonians lives increasing their access to health  insurance and assisting them with education to maintain their benefits. Organizing Assistant SEIU Local - Portland, OR December 2011 to October 2013 Entered data into databases and spreadsheets for use in analysis and reports.  Created reporting functions and collaborated with staff and leads on data  collection and use.  Extensive use of MS Excel to produce reports, analyze data, and create tools for staff and leads.  Engaged in social justice for the betterment of the immediate community;  fighting for fair wages, food safety, and mortgage debt relief during the financial disaster.  Organized incoming data for entry, collected data for entry from field  locations, entered data in non-office conditions when necessary.  Collaborated in a team environment of 8 staff and lived the dream of "Duties as Assigned." Education Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies Carroll College - Helena, MT April 2010 College Democrats Skills Training & Development (3 years), DATA ENTRY (7 years), HIPAA (2 years), Problem Solving (7 years), TEAM PLAYER (5 years), TIME MANAGEMENT (5 years), Database Management (3 years), Excel (5 years), Word (5 years), Wordpress (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Additional Skills:  Creative Problem Solving  Proven Team Player  Time Management  Conflict Mediation and Deescalation training  Active Listening  Exceptional Data Entry and Phone Service  Staff Education and Training  HIPAA and HITECH Compliance