Program Director - grant writer Program Director - grant writer Program Director - grant writer - University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center - Division of Diagnostic Imaging Houston, TX ? Expertise in scientific writing, project coordination, and data  management  ? Broad knowledge of research principles, regulatory requirements,  and clinical applications of research  ? Excellent interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Director - grant writer University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center - Diagnostic Imaging Division January 2019 to Present ? Scientific writing and editing - predominantly grant proposals, researchp plans manuscripts, abstracts, narratives, and compliance documents  ? Identifying funding opportunities Scientific Consultant Moleculin Biotech, Inc; CNS Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and Houston Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Houston, Texas - Houston, TX February 2018 to January 2019 ? Grant writing of NIH-funded research proposals; Reviewing scientifici literature; Translations (English<>Polish) Postdoctoral Research Fellow (2013-2015), Assistant Professor (2015-2017) University of Texas Health Science Center - Houston, TX August 2013 to August 2017 Texas - Pediatrics Dept.  ? Writing and editing manuscripts and grant proposals  ? Project management of NIH and DoD-funded clinical research grants  ? Demonstrated practical knowledge and expertise in research data analysis  - Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)  ? Design and implementation of image processing pipelines on clusters of computers at Texas Advanced Computing Center (Python, bash, Unix) Database Administrator University of Texas Health Science Center - Houston, TX July 2012 to July 2013 Texas - Surgery Dept.  ? Development and maintenance of financial billing system and clinicald datatracking software (MS SQL, C#)  ? Prepared data and summary metrics for program leadership on a monthlya basis and managed clinical data from multiple complex databases Education PhD in Biomedical Engineering University of Science and Technology 2011 MSc in Biology Jagiellonian University 2011 MSc in Computer Science University of Science and Technology 2005 Skills Writing