Learning Database Administrator/ Administrative Contractor Learning <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Administrative Contractor Administrative Assistant Chesapeake, VA Obtain an Administrative/ Office Specialist position by using skills in Administration, Finance, and Human Capital Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Learning Database Administrator/ Administrative Contractor Conduent Business Services April 2019 to Present • Keys data into automated system and verifies input  • Conducts audits and reviews/analyzes data and documentation  • Responds to routine questions related to area of responsibility  • Gathers information, researches and/or resolves inquiries  • Communicates appropriate options for resolution in a timely manner  • Provides functional guidance, training and assistance to lower level staff  • Prepares standard reports to track workload, response time and quality of input  • Evaluates improvements to various systems  • Ensures that data and information are sufficiently accurate and reliable. Implementation Specialist II/ Project Lead Automatic Data Processing September 2018 to April 2019 Main point of contact for the clients' Implementation.  Schedule and host the Welcome Call with the client and the project team  • Host daily and weekly status calls with client to discuss project progress.  • Distribute recap emails that outline the items that were discussed during calls/meetings.  • Review the client documentation list to ensure all necessary documents are gathered.  • Collect client and project data and aggregate information in spreadsheets and presentations.  • Collaborate with project team to ensure all milestones are achieved on time  • Configure CCI, Payroll, HR and Work Force Now set up.  • Create custom spreadsheets and reports using Microsoft Excel.  • Train client on how to use the Workforce Now system  • Provide a seamless transition from Implementation to Service. Personal Banker I Wells Fargo Bank, N.A September 2014 to September 2018 • Specialized in financial assessments, uncovered needs while providing appropriate products by overcoming objections, opened all accounts and cross sold additional services.  • Developed and maintained relationships with partners to identify cross sell opportunities and made outbound sales calls to increase product per customer ratio.  • Built a strong book of business by providing a broad base of financial and credit services.  • Directed customers through the lending process and successfully solicited and sold business and personal products and services that included consumer loans/lines, business loans/lines, debt consolidations, credit cards, merchant services, and other retail banking products and services such as check reorders, safe deposit box access, and account maintenance.  • Demonstrated excellent time management, customer service, interpersonal skills and the ability to multi-task in a fast paced environment.  • Actively participates in the financial center team meetings to ensure that financial goals were achieved and used effective leadership skills to motivate and generate enthusiasm among financial center team members.  Teller  • Maintain stock levels and assist Lead Tellers and Managers with supply ordering.  • Assisting clients with opening of new accounts  • Accepting loan payments  • Depositing or cashing checks for clients  • Making withdrawals for clients  • Briefing customers about new banking products  • Answering queries of customers or directing them to appropriate supervisory staff  • Processing night deposits  • Accurately maintain and balance teller cash drawer. Administrative Multi-Line Representative Kelly Zahratka State Farm July 2015 to July 2016 • Recognize patron's needs and aligning those patrons with market appropriate products and services.  • Answer and direct telephone and email inquiries; directing them to the appropriate party.  • Use customer-focused/needs-based review process to educate customers about insurance options.  • Create and maintain computer records, as well as paper files.  • Schedule appointments.  • Prepare letters, reports, and records from rough drafts.  • Proofread material and make necessary corrections.  • Record, transcribe and compile information for meetings. Print Specialist OfficeMax December 2010 to September 2014 • Create, print, copy, bind, and laminate standard and personalized documents.  • Provide patrons with necessary assistance to help complete their projects, both professional and personal.  • Develop and maintain new and existing customer relationships through telephone contact and sales activity.  • Develop an organizational system for customer files, as well as store files and documents.  • Create Letters, Bulletins, Flyers, Business Cards and Training Manuals  • Create and Maintain Data on Excel Spreadsheets  • Advertising and Special Event Planning Education Tidewater Community College August 2010 to May 2012 Skills EXCEL, INTERNET EXPLORER, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, Oracle Dba Additional Information Skills  • Natural leader that leads by example, while maintaining a productive climate.  • Confidently motivate, and encourage fellow employees to meet and maintain high performance standards.  • Ability to operate multi-line telephone systems, printers, scanners, fax machines and various office equipment.  • Ability to proficiently operate Microsoft Office Suite (Office, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Publisher) Mac and Apple operating systems, Internet Explorer, Safari, Chrome  • Faultlessly and proficiently type 51 words per minute  • Flexible team player that thrives in environments requiring ability to effectively prioritize and juggle multiple concurrent duties.  • Critical thinker with great self-awareness.  • Exceptional Communications skills regarding listening and communicating information effectively, both verbally and written.