Database and Middle Tier Systems Administrator – Subcontractor GDIT (USDOJ/OCIO) <span class="hl">Database</span> and Middle Tier Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> – Subcontractor GDIT (USDOJ/OCIO) Database Administrator / Middle Tier Systems Administrator Clinton, MD Certified Oracle Database Administrator (OCA) with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. Skilled in Oracle Database Administration, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL and MariaDB Databases. Working knowledge of Middle Tier system administration including software such as Weblogic, RSA IAM, Apache HTTPD, Sun solaris and RedHat Linux servers. Experience with Ansible scripting for automation and AWS S3 and RDS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database and Middle Tier Systems Administrator – Subcontractor GDIT (USDOJ/OCIO) REI Systems - Sterling, VA October 2016 to Present · In charge of upgrading our "Inventory Tracking Database System" Sunflower. Responsible for applying patches based upon vendor release.   ·Review Database Statistics for both Oracle and MS SQL SERVER to ensure that databases are functioning correctly on all nodes daily for production environments  · Attended daily scrum meetings to update team members on daily tasks and accomplishments  · Attended monthly all-hands meeting to review departments progress for the month  · Generated shell scripts that automated task for daily health checks reducing time to perform them on all servers  · Create PL/SQL Scripts to simplify tasks for deployments  ·In charge of running Data Change Request daily on Test and Production Environments upon requests  ·Support MS SQL SERVER databases. Monitored and provide weekly status reports to management.  ·Utilized Management Studio to perform task associated for SQL Server Databases.  ·Support Patching for Production, Test, and Development Environments  ·Utilize Amazon Web Services (AWS) to spin up Database instances  ·Work together with team members to accomplish tasks and requests  ·Support Capacity planning efforts during server migration. Compiled spreadsheets for our Production Databases to track growth on a year to year basis.  ·Created excel spreadsheets to better organize the space usage for production, test and development databases  ·Provide vital information for application security audits.  ·Validate Data Pump and RMAN backups for Dev, Test and Production.  ·Security Management through service accounts, passwords, STIGs and utlpwdmg  ·Troubleshoot issues and slowness with Execution plans, AWR reports and ADDM. Utilized tools from TOAD and Enterprise manager to perform these tasks.  ·Monitor System and logs  ·Patch Java during maintenance windows  ·Upgrading of PHP and APACHE on Linux Servers using YUM  ·Deploy code changes sent from developers to servers hosting website code  ·Clear CF caches after code deployments  ·Start and stop services upon request in conjunction with IIS services  ·Manage starting and stopping Node Manager  ·Deploy new code from development team (war and ear files)  ·Utilized Ansible to perform site migration which included importing a database through Ansible Tower.  ·Automate backups of DB and server files. Scripts included uploads to the S3 Bucket associated with the site.  · Automate restore process for Database and server files  ·Maintained playbook scripts to ensure everything is functioning properly  ·Tasked with upgrading Enterprise Manager from 12c to 13c after data center migration  ·Secure the new Database used for repository and bring DB up to security standards  ·Update agent Middleware targets every time a deployment occurred   ·Managed the OMS and supported bringing up/down the OMS  · Assist in weekly database refresh process when needed which includes RMAN backups or database dump expdp/impdp processes   ·Assist in database patching   ·Install new oracle databases when needed  ·Participate in management and technical interviews in order to hire new talent Math Tutor/ STEM Instructor/7th and 8th Grade Math Instructor Community Youth Advance - Upper Marlboro, MD November 2010 to June 2019 Deliver Saturday School Instruction to middle school students as a supplement to their normal weekly learning. In charge of academic achievement of Junior Leadership academy.    Created a Coding curriculum for the summer of 2016 to teach approximately 30 students ages 9-15 how to code using Scratch and Java on Eclipse.    Instruct a class of 12 student ranging from ages 9-16 how to program in Java using Eclipse and Scratch.     To work as a math tutor for high school males teaching topics from Algebra Concepts to Trigonometry     Worked as a Science Instructor for the Youth Advance Summer Academy 6 week program July 2015-August 2015    Tutored a High School graduate in math for a month which lead him to pass his ASVAB and gain acceptance into the Merchant Marines Oracle Database Administrator Brivo Systems - Bethesda, MD July 2016 to August 2016 • Review Database Statistics to ensure that database was functioning correctly on all nodes  • Attend daily scrum meetings to update team members on daily tasks and accomplishments  • Attend monthly all-hands meeting to review departments progress for the month  • Generate shell scripts that queried tables in production to send monthly reports to developers   • Opened and closed tickets through the ticketing system  • Created ERD of QA databases for analysis Oracle Database Administrator Trainee Bereans Technology Partners - Silver Spring, MD September 2014 to June 2016 Work as a Data Center DBA trainee to help and learn to maintain and monitor many 24x7 databases. Responsibilities include but not limited to:    Collaborate with the system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database. Capacity Planning with developers on development and test for production for growth potential    Proactive Monitoring and tuning strategies to satisfy clients SLA for databases ranging from 5gb to 5tb.    Applying database patches such as SPU and PSU while incorporating Oracle's best Practices with quarterly patches.    Create and implement recovery and hot/cold backup procedures for RDBMS by using RMAN.    Provide support in Massive Data Uploading ETL using the SQL*Loader utility and DataPump.     Database Security - Transparent Data Encryption, Datapump and RMAN Encryption and User Account Management    Performance Tuning of Database and SQL queries. SQL Trace, TKprof and SQL Tuning Advisors.    Database design with developers from scratch. Creating ERD’s, forward and reverse engineering.    Distribute Database administration and Management – Database Links, Golden Gate, Oracle Streams.    Zero downtime database migration from Windows 10g or 11g to Unix 12c using Golden Gate.    I/O balancing and performance enhancement, utilize table partitioning. Purge for space managament    Monitor objects and usage in order to determine if objects needed to be cached.     Perform Upgrades of Oracle 11g to 12c including migrations for Databases and Schemas using datapump.    Database conversion to a pluggable database on 12c.    Configure and manage ASM - Grid Control instances. Configure Oracle Restart.    Configure, Manage and Monitor Dataguard    Utilizing Dataguard Broker to configure primary and standby databases to perform fail-over and switchover.    Virtualization using Oracle Virtual Server and Oracle Virtual Manager.    Use ODBC on MS SQL Server to import data from oracle databases and format them into excel for reports Benjamin Stoddert Middle School Stem Instructor Community Tutoring, Inc June 2012 to August 2012 Instructed students in grades 4-8 in Science and Technology courses    Worked in a team of college students to construct a syllabus for instruction in Lego robotics    Assisted my students in creating a class science fair project to present to judges, winning them  second place against 13 other classes    Taught a Lego Robotics course to students ranging in ages 9-15 Education B.S. in Geographical Information Sciences University of Maryland - College Park, MD December 2015 Skills Oracle (5 years), Microsoft SQL Server (3 years), RMAN (4 years), Oracle RAC (3 years), SQLPLUS (5 years), UNIX/LINUX SHELL SCRIPTING (4 years), UNIX/LINUX (5 years), PL/SQL (4 years), ODBC Driver for SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), ASM (5 years), DataGuard (1 year), Database Creation (5 years), Oracle 11g and 12c Installation (4 years), Datapump (4 years), SQL*Loader (2 years), Database Upgrade and Migration (4 years), Disaster Recovery (3 years), Backup and Restoration (5 years), SQL Tuning (3 years), Performance Tuning (3 years), Patching (4 years), Maintaining Database Integrity and Security (4 years), High Availability (3 years), Java (1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), VM Ware (3 years), Virtual Box (2 years), Secure Shell (4 years), SQL Developer (3 years), RDBMS Management (3 years), Managing Container and Pluggable Databases (3 years), Microsoft Excel (4 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c Cloud Control (2 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g Grid Control (3 years), Toad (4 years), AWS (2 years), Amazon Web Services (2 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c (1 year), Ansible (1 year), Ansible Scripting (1 year), Ansible Tower (1 year), Cold Fusion (1 year), IIS (1 year), Oracle Weblogic (2 years), RSA IAM (2 years), Moodle (1 year), MariaDB (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Apache (1 year), Putty (5 years), Sql Server, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate September 2016 to Present Additional Information LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE, MEMBERSHIP AND ACTIVITIES:    Deputy PM   REI Systems                                                                                                                                    10/2018-Present  ·Work alongside Project Manager to fulfil duties as well as be ready to be a stand in.  ·Participate in management and technical interviews in order to hire new talent    University of Maryland  National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) BES (University of Maryland-College Park Chapter) September 2011-2014    Membership Anchor- 2012-2013     Dedicated to academic excellence and professional success of African-American students and professionals    Operation10Toes July 2010 – December 2013  Created in order to help less fortunate children in third world countries    Collected new and used shoes and shipped them to Cameroon, Africa October 9th 2010 and to Abra, Philippines September 12th 2012. Amount of shoes donated to date: 209 pairs    CARing Kids February 2012-May 2012  Church-related mentoring program designed for elementary school students