Curriculum Development Specialist Curriculum Development Specialist Software Engineer Houston, TX Overview    "Without craftsmanship, inspiration is a mere reed shaken in the wind."  - Johannes Brahms German Composer    I am a professional software developer with more than 6 years experience. I am passionate about  developing high quality software that people enjoy using. I am a full-stack developer that places user  experience and design at the forefront of the development process, thereby facilitating a clear vision for  the future of a product. I am comfortable in a multitude of development environments from Linux, to Mac,  to Windows, but I am no evangelist. I enjoy the process of building software no matter the language or  environment. I got my start in Linux using Vim to write C and C++ while as a university student, then  moved on working with Javascript, Python, and Ruby programming languages in my professional life. The  majority of my professional experience is in Ruby/Rails (3 years) and Python/Django (3 years). I enjoy  working with web technologies because of the constantly changing technological landscape, and the  extensibility of web based platforms.    Personal Background  ? U.S. Army Medic July 2007 - July 2011  ? Deployed to Iraq 2008 - 2009 with 2-6 Infantry PSD Platoon Work Experience Curriculum Development Specialist Condensed Curriculum International May 2019 to July 2019 Developed full course curriculum to be used by Amazon employees for Microsoft (MTA 98-375  Front-End Web Developer Certification) Software Engineer Waste Management Security Services October 2015 to March 2019 Developed and maintained enterprise web application, and test suite    Technologies Used  ? Angular.js, Ajax, Bootstrap, CSS3, Html5, Javascript (jQuery), Linux (Gentoo), Materialize, Python (Django)    Responsibilities, Applications Developed / Maintained  ? Incident Management  * FireEye Incident Management System(Django, Ajax. Angular.js)  ? Listen and parse FireEye (cyber security) software and provide a web  interface to facilitate chain of custody, reports, asset information and management  * Case Management (Django)  ? Provide web and mobile accessible software to manage legal and hr  case creation and workflows with email dispatch to provide notifications  ? Asset Management (Django)  * IT Networking libraries (netaddr, socket)  ? Creation and management of site specific network subnets  ? SCADA/Security device management  ? Contract and Case Management (Django, Pandas)  * Contract Analysis  ? Python Tesseract OCR - wrote software to analyze and parse contracts  for pertinent information such as: dates and stipulations important to end  user  ? Pro Forma Parser - software that parses financial data (provided in Excel) and creates stylized reports per designs set out by management  using Javascript charting libraries  ? (D3.js, Highcharts, Google Charts)  ? (Legal) Case management software, designed to handle the entire life  cycle of a case and all ancillary concerns..    Companion DX Labs (Full-Time Position) Web Application Developer May 2015 to October 2015 Developed and maintained enterprise web application and lab information management system  (LIMS)  Technologies Used  ? Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, Html, CSS /SASS, Bootstrap, SQL, SQL  Server, LIMS    Responsibilities, Applications Developed / Maintained  ? Researcher Interface for laboratory testing systems  ? Customer portal providing lab results and client - doctor communications Full-Stack Developer Orlin Research March 2015 to May 2015 Created public-facing website, and added new features for statistical research application  Technologies Used  ? Ruby, Ruby on Rails, PHP, MySQL, Javascript, Jquery, CSS, Bootstrap, Postgres  ? www.orlinresearch.com    Responsibilities, Applications Developed / Maintained  ? Optimized queries in PHP for legacy application  ? Created client side interface to Unix system and MySql using Ruby for legacy application  ? Optimized database performance. Full-Stack Developer Poetic Systems November 2014 to February 2015 Developed complete rework of legacy application (Dress for Success)  Technologies Used  ? Ruby on Rails, Postgres, Jquery, Ajax, Coffeescript, Heroku, Haml, CSS, Bootstrap  ? www.dfshouston.org    Responsibilities, Applications Developed / Maintained  ? Implemented new features based on client preferences and consultations  ? Adhered to TDD Best Practices using Rspec and Capybara  ? Strong adherence to Agile methodologies SQL Server Database Administrator Halcon Resources December 2013 to October 2014 Contractor)  ? SQL Server Database Administrator    Technologies Used  ? Microsoft SQL Server (Visual Basic, C#)    Responsibilities, Applications Developed / Maintained  ? Maintained a 95% same day turnaround time for all help tickets assigned  ? Performed database maintenance tasks (Backup, Restore, Re-indexing, and Optimization)  ? Database and Server consolidation project. 13 servers to 5. Creating $32,000 in savings Education M.S in Psychology University of Houston College of Liberal Arts June 2020 B.S. in Computer Science Oregon State College of Engineering June 2013 B.A. in Political Science University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Science May 2006 Skills Django, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Python, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Html5, jquery, Ajax, Css, Frameworks Additional Information Skills & Abilities  Programming Languages:  CSS3, Html5, Javascript, Python, Ruby    Frameworks and Libraries  Angular.js (Javascript) Django (Python), Ruby on Rails (Ruby), jQuery (Javascript), Ajax (Javascript),  Bootstrap (Html, CSS, Javascript), Materialize (Html, CSS, Javascript)