Direct of Information Technology and System Administrator Direct of Information Technology and System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Direct of Information Technology Port Saint Lucie, FL Robust Background in the Information Technology Management Industry with experience in HIPAA  Security and Compliance. Seeking a position in the IT industry with growth opportunity to drive  network security and accessibility. Highly skilled with system virtualization using VMware and Hyper  V. A self-motivated professional with the ability to quickly master new technology to drive process  improvements. A strong team player with excellent communication and collaborative abilities.  Experience in the Health Industry and Health Information. Resilient communication and people skills,  both written and verbal. Able to assess and resolve client issues quickly. A proven record of reliability  with the ability to perform under time constraints, and good judgment under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Direct of Information Technology and System Administrator MISE Holdings, Inc / SAS Group, LLC - Port Saint Lucie, FL November 2016 to Present Inspect the use of technological equipment and software to ensure functionality and efficiency  Identify the need for upgrades, configurations or new systems and report to upper management  Coordinate and supervise computer, technicians and other professionals to provide guidance  Control budget and report on expenditure    Assist in building relationships with vendors and creating cost-efficient contracts Led server  infrastructure development, quality assurance, staging and production systems.  Provided second-level support for all server class systems.  Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software.  Optimized system security and performance with proactive changes.  Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Ensured high availability of infrastructure through enterprise-wide planning, testing, implementation and support.  Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site. Technical Support Level 2 & 3/ System Administrator DrScribe, Inc / XYNYX, Inc - West Palm Beach, FL May 2014 to Present Researched, troubleshot and resolved complex problems independently.  5 years of technical support experience.  Set up PC and Apple desktops and laptops and all types of mobile devices.  Built and provided basic end-user troubleshooting and desktop support on Windows, Linux and Mac systems.  Answered telephone calls promptly and minimized delays that could lead to abandoned calls.  Defined and documented technical best practices.  Followed up with clients to ensure optimal customer satisfaction.  Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  Provided base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the business.  Used ticketing systems to manage and process actions taken.  Worked closely with team members to meet or exceed all customer service requirements. Help Desk Support / Programmer / SQL Database Administrator Call 4 Health - Boca Raton, FL August 2012 to December 2014 Provided excellent customer service through communication and interpersonal skills.  Exercised creativity and flexibility to respond quickly and positively to shifting demands, tight  deadlines and simultaneous handling of multiple detailed tasks.  Maintained composure and efficiency in the high-pressure IT environment.  Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  Recommended network security standards to management.  Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.    Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data  circuits. Education Associate of Arts in Information Technology Palm Beach State College - Lake Worth, FL 2012 Skills TCP, TCP/IP, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, FIREWALLS, NETWORK SECURITY, VIRTUALIZATION, SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/omar-diaz-9b682054 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hlfe06sqfkidgomq Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ayycz9yiolwtxvwm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Cloud Computing (AWS, Azure) Network infrastructure administration  Network security   Virtual Box | VMware Fusion  TCP/IP protocol | Switches and routers | Infrastructure planning  Virtualization   SonicWall | Sophos | Pfsense | Fortinet   VPNs and security products   Storage virtualization  Hardware and software installation   HIPAA Compliance and SRA's