Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst Seattle, WA Work Experience Data Analyst Masswell Development Group Inc. - New York, NY February 2019 to Present • Filter and clean data, review reports, printouts, and performance indicators (gross income, profit margin, etc.) to locate and correct code problems.  • Develop automatic data entry (from manually input spreadsheet to database) tools with Python.  • Interpret data, analyze results using Excel and Tableau and provide ongoing reports. Data Analyst, Administration Assistant Krypital Group - Plano, TX January 2018 to December 2018 • Provided daily, weekly and monthly performance reports for 7 clients’ websites and 4 marketing channels.  • Developed automatic transaction data fetching and archiving program.  • Determined total investment “hard cap” of ICO after processing more than 35,000 transaction records.  • Achieved detailed single-user behavior tracking by upgrading clients’ web traffic tracking system from Google Analytics to Google Tag Manager.  • Managed CEO's daily schedule.  • Arranged interviews with managers of multiple departments.  • Maintained job-tracking system and timecard system.  Java Back-end Developer Tellon Trading Inc. - Norcross, GA August 2017 to January 2018 • Adopted agile software development with peers.  • Maintained website functions and scaled on cloud server for expected higher payload.  • Cooperated with Quality Engineers to develop test automation. Database Administrator/Developer Phoenix Trading Co., Ltd - Kitakyushu, Fukuoka December 2012 to January 2015 • Redesigned and maintained inventory record database, achieved paperless data recording.  • Analyzed cost of export for previous years and reported 15% reducible expense.  • Accomplished automatic warehouse management by introducing RFID tags and scanners.  • Instructed more than 20 part-time workers. Academic Project - Agricultural Internet-of-things Project Dalian University of Technology - Dalian, Liaoning October 2011 to July 2012 • Deployed HBase environment and completed early development of the database.  • Determined business logic of the shopping website and Interactive Voice Response system. Association Manager of Google Camp, DUT Dalian University of Technology - Dalian, Liaoning September 2009 to July 2011 • Organized more than 10 association activities  • Increased members by 70% Education Master's in Information Technology and Management The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX May 2017 Master's in Finance The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX August 2016 M.Eng in Information Architecture Waseda University March 2014 B.S. in Computer Science Dalian University of Technology July 2011 Skills HBase, ACCESS, APACHE, C#, Hadoop, Java, C++, C, Python, Tableau, Crystal Reports, ERP, SQL, Excel, Linux, Visio, Sql Server, MYSQL, Google Analytics Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chenweiwang Certifications/Licenses Google Adwords April 2017 to Present Awarded this for passing the AdWords Fundamentals and Shopping Advertising exams. Google Analytics April 2017 to Present