Membership Intake Program Specialist Membership Intake Program Specialist Database administration, Document Specialist, Documentation Support, eDiscovery, FOIA, Data entry, Documentation specialist, help desk, Jr data analysis Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Membership Intake Program Specialist Zeta Phi Beta Sorority HeadQuarters - District of Columbia War Memorial, DC March 2019 to Present ·        Process, edit and issuing financial cards/certificates and other appropriate Sorority documents for enrollment of new members  ·        QA/ QC all incoming applications and reviewed them for approval for the 1st Anti.  ·        Verified all monies were accurate and distributed them to Financial Services.  ·        Ensured all shippable sales items in batches are forwarded to shipping department for shipment.   ·        Entered all information into computer base system.  ·        Assisted in the receiving, researching, and issuing materials for undergraduate and graduate prospective candidates.   ·        Set up Excel workbook for new member batches.   ·        Responded to and resolves basic member inquires via telephone, email, and mail.   ·        Research member inquiries including follow up to ensure member satisfaction.   ·        Maintained a high level of customer service with members and met performance targets.   ·        Communicated procedures to prospective members and provided additional assistance to the Membership Chair in submitting MIP materials. ·        Process, edit and issuing financial cards/certificates and other appropriate Sorority documents for enrollment of new members  ·        QA/ QC all incoming applications and reviewed them for approval for the 1st Anti.  ·        Verified all monies were accurate and distributed them to Financial Services.  ·        Ensured all shippable sales items in batches are forwarded to shipping department for shipment.   ·        Entered all information into computer base system.  ·        Assisted in the receiving, researching, and issuing materials for undergraduate and graduate prospective candidates.   ·        Set up Excel workbook for new member batches.   ·        Responded to and resolves basic member inquires via telephone, email, and mail.   ·        Research member inquiries including follow up to ensure member satisfaction.   ·        Maintained a high level of customer service with members and met performance targets.   ·        Communicated procedures to prospective members and provided additional assistance to the Membership Chair in submitting MIP materials.  High-threat Integrated Tracking System (HITS) Specialist SOC LLC - Chantilly, VA February 2018 to July 2018 • Performed quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) of candidate documents   • Personally identifiable information (PII) and biographical information (BIO) - in support of a large government contract.   • Coordinated with Task Order Managers to identify critical staffing needs and facilitate processing of priority candidates by proactively interfacing with the customers, identifying and addressing any potential issues that might impede candidates' processing/client approval.   • Monitored rejections and provides findings to management to help identify trends and corrective actions to drive approval rate and processing times. This is a featured job at SOC + Conducts QA/QC of a high volume of candidate PII and BIO documents and submits for review and processing to the customer.  • Updates records in the client's document submission database, HITS, (DOS system) as appropriate, to include affiliation records, clearance records, training records, and letters of authorization (LOAs), common access cards (CACs), BIO and PII.  • Maintains candidate records within the internal project management database; performs periodic audits to ensure data integrity and internal consistency.  • Provided excellent analytical and problem solving skills with significant attention to detail and ability to identify errors.   • Demonstrated knowledge of recruitment, sourcing, screening, interviewing, and using referral processes as well as knowledge of employment law.   • Communicated effectively with both candidates and employees, to successfully meet deadlines. Documentation Specialist Northrop Grumman - Merrfield Virginia June 2016 to September 2017 • Obtained and maintain active Security Clearance.   • Interacted directly with USPS General Counsel, Office of the Inspector General, Postal Inspection Service, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), OIG, National Intelligence Unit (NIU), National EEO Investigative Services Office (NEEOISO) Labor Relations Department, USPS Management and other entities through the recovery, preservation, and delivery of pertinent electronically stored information.  • Conduct internet-based and library searches using Enterprise Information Repository; a USPS database for records regarding existing USPS applications and data.  • Case Managed by use of own discretion to evaluate and analyze collection of data from disparate data sources to provide complete investigation results to the requestor for their case.  • Develop appropriate methodologies (based on unique requirements of each individual case) to collect pertinent metadata from the varied data sources (internal Postal systems, external internet searches, etc) to fulfill approved requirements.  • Assist in the assessment, acquisition, or deployment of new electronic document management systems.  • Provide information electronically such as; (emails, emails searches, LMS training reports, My Docs, PCES, OIG eAccess, Package Intercept, Collections point Management, internet usage, data and telephone records, ) by using USPS archiving systems and retrieving information from the USPS Data centers when requested by the USPS Attorneys, Office of Inspection General, Inspection Service and PCES Manager.  • Use best practices and lessons learned to cull data and categorize by type, volume, and location while maintaining complete chain of custody through completion of case.  • Prepare FOIA’s and submit final cost analysis to the client.  • Analyze research data, such as statutes, decisions, and legal articles, codes and documents.  • Responsible for creating a case manifest to track and enter activities into a customized tracking system for monthly reports.  • Assisted in providing electronic data derived from querying Enterprise Business Applications and their associated databases.   • Provide analysis of electronic data.  • Work on Class Action cases with USP General Counsel content.  • Monitor regulatory activity to maintain compliance with records and document management laws.  • Use own discretion to evaluate and analyze collection of data (the size and scale of this collection is determined by the identification phase) from disparate data sources against the base requirements to provide complete investigation results to requestor for the case to ensure results match the requirements.  • Used Excel to generate spreadsheets, and pivot tables, budget and cost, FOIA cost Analysis, IP address, Pay role tracking and time keeping. Preformed daily data queries and prepare reports on a daily, monthly, weekly and quarter basis. Export\import data.    Information Security Duties:  • Safeguards information system assets by identifying and solving potential and actual security problems.  • Determines security violations and inefficiencies by conducting audits.  • Protects system by defining access privileges, control structures, and resources.  • Recognizes problems by identifying abnormalities; reporting violations.  • Implements security improvements by assessing current situation; evaluating trends; anticipating requirements.  • Upgrades system by implementing and maintaining security controls.  • Maintains quality service by following organization standards.  • Maintains technical knowledge by attending educational training; reviewing ICP Manual.  • Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed. Database Administrator Institute for Building Technology and Safety - Ashburn, VA February 2015 to April 2015 New York City Disaster Relief Project:  • Performing data extraction using Xactimate Software, and exporting cost estimate items into a useable form using Sharepoint  • Conducting quality assurance checks of various documents and costs, and repairing cost estimates when necessary  • Supervising temporary employees - training employees, organizing and managing tasks, dividing workload amongst team members, and ensuring timeliness and accuracy of output  • Scheduling, editing, and cancelling all construction inspection requests  • Notifying team members of status and discrepancy of all files, and sending daily status reports to management  Federal Manufactured Housing Program:  • Researching, retrieving (using internal software), and providing certifications to homeowners for HUD manufactured homes  • Maintaining all logs and reporting documentation, and handling time sensitive process and sensitive materials  • Participating and developing cross-training procedures  • Helped with webpage improvements by suggesting and creating FAQs for the Labels Department  IBTS Technology Services Department:  • Preparing weekly reports by compiling information (from all managers), creating charts and graphs, editing and formatting all notes, and sending out report to upper management  • Performing data extraction using Xactimate Software, and exporting cost estimate items into a useable form using Excel  • Keeping monthly totals of EDI's processed for the month  • IMR Scanning and Indexing back up  • Researching, retrieving (using internal software), and providing certifications to homeowners for HUD manufactured homes  • Maintaining all logs and reporting documentation, and handling time sensitive process and sensitive materials  • Participating and developing cross-training procedures  Publications- processing and delivering paper and electronic publication requests  • Customer Service as needed  Accounting tasks:  • Review monthly financial reporting information disseminated to lenders.   • Coordinate the preparation of comprehensive internal reporting packages to evaluate key performance metrics across the Company.   • Assist in the review, preparation, and monitoring of the annual corporate budgets, including operations and capital expenditures.   • Provide financial oversight to weekly plant phone calls discussing critical business developments and plant financial performance.   • Perform check runs; analyzing and verifying outstanding invoices to ensure proper payment and adherence to Sar-banes-Oxley requirements.  • Ensuring that all financial deadlines regarding accounts payable are met for month-end, quarter-end and year-end financial closings, including supporting requests from internal and external audit functions  • Compose reports and other communication materials.  • Given goals and general guidelines, administer company policy and apply to support functions as assigned.  • Process the employee expense reporting process including Purchase Cards.  • Maintain consistency of adherence to accounts payable policies and goals.  • Communicate with other departments, internal customers, and with vendors regarding our position on relevant issues, design/revise tools, processes and procedures to improve efficiency and head special projects.  • Adhere to standard operating procedures for accounts payable team to follow, monitor and analyze specific ac-counts payable operations, such as: invoice research and follow-up; problem documentation; and standardization of input  • Used excel to import the statistics form internal software (Xactimate). Determine cost analysis. Ensuring that all financial deadlines regarding accounts payable are met for month-end, quarter-end and year-end financial closings, including supporting requests from internal and external audit functions use. Use statistical methods to analyze data and generate useful business reports by use of excel. TECHNICAL ANALYST 1 ACI Financial World Wide - Chantilly, VA August 2014 to January 2015 • Assist in helping customer get into their account by resetting password, trouble shooting, and resetting security questions.   • Assist inbound customer service calls and assists customers with processing electronic payments or pay-ment inquiries by utilizing company websites (URLs), internal payment applications and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) technology.  • Verifies that payments were processed and distributed correctly.  • Analyze customer issues and resolve these issues by submitting payment modifications, reporting issues via an internal ticketing system and engaging internal resources to ensure timely resolution to customer prob-lems.  • Provided manager status reports of problem calls.  • Virtual Desktop creation, maintenance and support  • Incident and service request ticketing systems, BMC Footprints, Checkpoint FDE  • Provided day-to-day technical support provided by Desktop support staff  • Provide daily customer service by answering the phones in a timely manner  • Execute desktop processes, procedures and policies  • VMware provisioning and break/fix support  • Active Directory Configuration  • Google Docs Suite support  • Printer maintenance and support  • Researched and resolved customers reported issues related to Postilion and RCS applications.   • Collected data, tests and replicates problems.   • Answered questions related to application configuration and operation by testing, reviewing code and re-viewing documentation.  • Installed applications and troubleshoot failure of installations.  • Consults with and coordinated the efforts of other technical teams to resolve customers issues and questions in a timely manner  • Deliver services to the business and meet SLAs  • Assist customers in setting up bill pay options and maintaining accounts security  • Used excel to track number of incidents, data collections, datatools. Firewall, and charts. Medical Data Administrator CHS Medical Center - Reston, VA June 2014 to August 2014 • Receive and pay invoice bills using software: Cost Point, Docuware, Excel, and, Mets  • Verify check information is correct and accurate according to files  • Print, fold and stuff and mailed checks to clients for payment  • Billing and Coding  • Verified check amounts and address, approved and reject invoices, contact clients for patients information  • Quality assurance including administration and control of data  • Maintain company financial logs and documentation  • Receive and verify invoices and requisitions for goods and services.  • Sort & match invoices with backup.  • Review all invoices & check requests to ensure compliance.  • Prepare batches of invoices for data entry.  • Process backup reports after data entry.  • Resolve invoice discrepancies.  • Correspond with vendors and respond to inquiries.  • Prepare manual checks as and when required.  • Prepare manual checks as and when required  Used advanced excel for pay role tracking, Medical budgeting and cost. Data Entry Specialist Parexel International - Chantilly, VA September 2013 to April 2014 Enter patient information electronically into core system, Used Excel for totals  • Data processing  • Approve and deny applications based on information provided on applications  • Generate shipment codes for medications  • Verify verifications for shipment  • Customer Service  • Took in bound calls from patients  • Made out bound calls to patients and doctors offices  • Proficient with EMR  • Insurance verifications  • Create and maintain accounts  • Create accounts base on applications needs Document Processor Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA June 2012 to September 2013 •Transfer data from Excel spreadsheets to specialized databases   •Formatted Excel totals, charts and graphs by using formulas   •Process account receivables  •Configured timeshare and PTO for employees on Excel spread sheet  •Quality assurance, administration and control of data  •Aid in quality control of loans and approval  •Release records for filing  •Maintain records room and database   •Process loans  •Enter clients information in to the system  •Analyzed massive and highly complex data sets, performing ad-hoc analysis and data manipulation  • Filed Record of Authorization to Electronically File FBARs on BSA E-filing system   •Performed Data analysis and Data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and Teradata. Education BA in Business Management Kaplan University Present Associate in Business Administration Bradford College 2007 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License