Yoga Instructor Yoga Instructor Foreign Teacher Assessor - First Leap China Binghamton, NY Apply my strengths, education, enthusiasm and experience, along with my organizational and analytical skills to a position  that will assist the company in exceeding its objectives. Work Experience Yoga Instructor REVIVE Mind Body Spirit - Vestal, NY August 2019 to Present ? Teach essential postures, modifications, and alignment cues to ensure safety  ? Instruct and demonstrate how to connect breath and movement  ? Hold a space where students feel comfortable and can expand their practice physically and mentally  ? Share tools that apply on and off the mat  ? Encourage students to expand and deepen their practice Foreign Teacher Assessor First Leap China - Nanchang, CN April 2018 to May 2019 Manage the Foreign Teacher department  ? Assist in strengthening the department and restructuring the management structure within the department  ? Encourage motivation, growth, and advancement of other Foreign Teachers  ? Handle budget and materials inventory  ? Schedule lessons and hours weekly  ? Maintain a high standard of teaching  ? Observe teachers' lessons and give feedback on their teaching skills and where they can improve  ? Address issues or conflicts in a professional, communicative manner  ? Develop new procedures, programs, lessons, activity classes, and demos to ensure happy, challenged students  and encourage new students to sign up  ? Lead foreign teacher team meetings  ? Cooperate well with Chinese Teachers and Foreign Teachers from all around the world Foreign English Teacher First Leap China - Nanchang, CN October 2017 to May 2019 Creatively teach ESL to children ages 2-12 through content language integrated learning (CLIL) curriculum  using various subjects such as art, music, world culture, global leadership, science, reading, virtual PE, and logical thinking  ? Use effective and appropriate techniques to positively manage a classroom of 10 to 14 students  ? Research, study, and discuss various teaching theories and methods as well as personal growth and development strategies to become a better teacher  ? Familiarize myself with Chinese culture and language to create a better learning environment for students  ? Deliver quality, prepared lessons to students  ? Collaborate with Foreign Teachers from all over the world, Chinese Teachers, Academic Directors, and Chinese Course Consultants to create a positive work environment  ? Manage time to complete all tasks Account Manager Binghamton Bulldogs - Binghamton, NY August 2017 to October 2017 Built relationships with local and national businesses  ? Developed partnerships through advertising sales  ? Visited businesses to gain support for the inaugural season of the team  ? Gained over 10 supporting clients in 2-month period Grants Administrator McFarland Johnson - Binghamton, NY January 2017 to August 2017 Compute, classify, and record grant information  ? Review figures, calculations, and postings pertaining to FAA and DOT grant reimbursement requests  ? Assist with quarterly and annual FAA grant reporting  ? Monitor and track grant status, reimbursement requests, and administrative requirements  ? Communicate and coordinate with project managers, clients, and funding agencies Front Desk Clerk/Sales Representative Court Jester Athletic Club - Johnson City, NY January 2013 to May 2017 Operate the payment and balance of accounts for over 1,000 members Research and Database Support Assistant O'Connor Investments - Binghamton, NY February 2014 to August 2016 Analyzed new technology to support financial planners in advancing their financial techniques and processes  ? Utilized online resources/ tools to research stocks, brokerage, investment, and consulting, to assist the Company  President  ? Trained in programs such as SmartOffice, MindJet, Breaking Through Online, and eMoney University  ? Organized and maintained a database with information from over 1000 clients/ maintain confidentiality of clients Account Manager Greater Binghamton Sports Complex - Binghamton, NY January 2013 to January 2014 Manage charges and payments for various sports teams to use the facility  ? Strategically schedule available field space  ? Direct the company's financials and pay company bills using QuickBooks Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics Binghamton University, State University of New York, Harpur School of Arts and Sciences - Binghamton, NY August 2015 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lindseyaingworth Additional Information SKILLS, ACTIVITIES, & INTERESTS