Consultant Consultant Consultant - Infosys Technology Pvt. Ltd US • Got excellence award for outstanding performance from Barclays(Client).  • Migration of database successfully using Golden gate technology.  • Part of database automation team, build and successfully deploy application using automation tool(ipsoft)  • Hands on a experience of Oracle, SQL, PL-SQL, Shell scripting, Oracle Architecture, RMAN, RAC, SQL tuning and Performance tuning, golden gate  • Mainly RAC Implementation / Installation..  • Dataguard build and Administration  • Database build and Automation  • Oracle DBA and In-house cluster projects and implementing on-time solutions to increase project efficiency and decrease costs.  • Experience in managing Oracle Database & Data migration projects..  • Experienced in Designing Hadoop Architecture In-house and in different Cloud Platforms with Production Ready Features like High Availability, scalability ..etc  • Worked and have in-depth Experience in HDFS, MapReduce, YARN, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Zookeeper. Work Experience Consultant Infosys Technology Pvt. Ltd - PUNE, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2019 to Present Responsibilities  • Mainly RAC Implementation /Installation.  • RAC Trouble shooting issue.  • Database build and automation  • Dataguard buid and gap resolution  • Manintaining backup and recovering data using RMAN  • User Management, Space Management and performance Management  • Administrative support for Oracle database, Oracle RAC DB.  • Setup and implementation of Oracle RAC, RMAN, Oracle Standby DB, DR. Database performance tuning. Senior Database administrator Wipro Technology Pvt. Ltd - PUNE, MAHARASHTRA, IN March 2018 to December 2018 Client: City Bank  Duration: Dec- 2018 to Mar-2018    Responsibilities  • RAC Trouble shooting issue.  • Dataguard buid and gap resolution  • Manintaining backup and recovering data using RMAN  • User Management, Space Management and performance Management  • Administrative support for Oracle database, Oracle RAC DB.  • Setup and implementation of Oracle RAC, RMAN, Oracle Standby DB, DR. Database performance tuning. Senior Database administrator (Oracle) Wipro Technology Pvt. Ltd - PUNE, MAHARASHTRA, IN October 2015 to November 2018 Responsibilities  • Experience in managing database operations, projects and implementing on-time solutions to increase project efficiency and decrease costs.  • Mainly RAC Implementation /Installation.  • RAC Trouble shooting issue.  • Database build and automation  • Goldengate configuration and build  • Dataguard buid and gap resolution  • Manintaining backup and recovering data using RMAN  • User Management, Space Management and performance Management  • User management, Space management, File Management and Performance management.  • Oracle wallet setup.  • Administrative support for Oracle database, Oracle RAC DB.  • Database upgrade and patching  • OEM configuration  • Setup and implementation of Oracle RAC, RMAN, Oracle Standby DB, DR. Database performance tuning.  • Experienced in Designing Hadoop Architecture In-house and in different Cloud Platforms with Production Ready Features like High Availability, scalability ..etc  • Worked and have in-depth Experience in HDFS, MapReduce, YARN, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Flume and Zookeeper. Oracle Dba (Oracle) Kpit Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd - PUNE, MAHARASHTRA, IN January 2014 to September 2015 Client: CUMMINS (US) / UKPN  Duration: Jan - 2014 to Sept- 2015    Responsibilities  • Support 24x7 Oracle Database.  • Resolving issue as per tickets.  • Regular monitoring the database and troubleshooting the errors  • Managing physical standby database.  • Successfully implemented Oracle Rac on AIX 7.1  • Monitoring database space requirements and adjustment for future needs.  • Resolving the issue of hot and archive back if it is fail.  • Monitoring the database availability as per tickets.  • Assign and manage privileges as per client request.  • Carry out logical backups using export and import utilities.  • Backup and recovery of database, schema, objects, datafiles, log files, control files and archived files.  • Reorganization of tables and their indexes of existing database to meet standards or improve performance.  • Monitoring and managing Physical Standby database.  • Basic knowledge of SQL server for backup and restoring database, user management.    • Refreshed the database using RMAN.  • RMAN and manual DB Cloning database (using both cold and HOT database backup) on various platforms.    Real Application Cluster  • Real Application Cluster Installation  • Installed Real Application Cluster on RHEL 6  • Knowledge of Oracle Cluster Registry (OCR) and Voting Disk  • knowledge about global resource directory (GRD) Oracle dba Datapatrol Technology Pvt Ltd - PUNE, MAHARASHTRA, IN July 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Creating and managing Oracle 9i and 10g Databases on UNIX.  • Support 24x7 Oracle Database.  • Managing physical and logical structure of database.  • Configuration and managing Standby database.  • Database cloning (Manual).  • Backup and recovery of database, schema, objects, datafiles, log files and control files and archived files.  • Monitoring database space requirements and adjustment for future needs.  • Assign and manage privileges.  • Performing both Physical and Logical backups.  • Carry out logical backups using export and import utilities.  • Tables and their indexes reorganization of existing database to meet standards or improve performance.  • Monitoring and managing standby database.    Oracle DBA Exposure  Oracle 10g, 9i  • Database creation on UNIX.  • Hands on with Oracle Export and Import tool (exp/imp and expdp/impdp).  • Good exposure to Manual Recovery & Backup techniques.  • Manual database Cloning.  • RMAN Cloning.  • Adding datafile, resizing datafile, movement of object into different tablespace to resolve space issue.  • Renaming of datafiles, monitoring dataguard.  • Backup of controlfiles (using trace), creation of controlfiles etc.  • Backup and recovery of database, schema, objects, datafiles, log files and control files and archived files.  • Managing physical and logical structure of database.  • Good exposure to manual backup and recovery technique.  • Manage Physical Standby database.  • Hands on with Installing Oracle 9i/10g on RHEL 4.5.  • Can support 24x7 environments.  • Understanding about how to work with Oracle Support to resolve issues.  • Good exposure to Unix/Linux OS environments and tools.  • Good understanding of RMAN backup and recovery techniques. Education BE Pune University 2012 Diploma Maharashtra Board 2009 S.S.C Maharashtra Board 2005 Additional Information Areas Of Expertise    • DBA(Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c)  • SQL/PLSQL.  • Oracle RAC Implementation.  • Hadoop admin.  • Jenkins &Autosys  • Performance tuning  • User Management  • Shell Scripting  • GoldenGate  • Dataguard  • Oracle exadata knowledge