Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - US Steel Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator US Steel - Pittsburgh, PA September 2014 to Present • Installation and configuration of 10g,11g,12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)and Windows server 2008,2012.  • Installation and configuration of 12c Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and UNIX platforms.  • Upgraded multiple Standalone and RAC databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Upgrading GoldenGate from v11 to 12c and Expertise on Oracle Golden Gate and be able to configure Golden Gate  • Perform backups to secured URL on AWS cloud storage  • Migrate key system objects from on prem prod-DB to Amazon Web service  • Worked New Features on 12c databases such as data redaction, recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  • Experience in troubleshooting RAC databases and engaging with application team for gaining performance enhancements for application in clustered environment.  • Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU (Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  • Supported in Performing GoldenGate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  • Troubleshooting GoldenGate using GGSERR.LOG and logdump utility.  • Replication Using GoldenGate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  • Responsible for Installation and upgrading of GoldenGate 11.2.1.0.1 to GoldenGate (v12) 12.1.2.0.0.  • Implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automized scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  • Duplicating Tablespaces and Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  • Involved in datacentre migrating large size database in multiple platform.  • Expertise in Active DataGuard, Snapshot using Dataguard Broker (DGMGRL) and RMAN.  • Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and also used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Convert physical standby to Snapshot standby for active reporting and data object querying  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g,11g RAC& 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes. Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  • Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  • Outline standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries.    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle remote Production Support Database Administrator CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA July 2012 to August 2014 • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  • Installation of 2 node and 3 node RAC, Migrating of database to RAC database. Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education MBA in Finance University of Wales/Cardiff Metropolitan University Bachelor of Science in Economics and Management in econometrics & accounting University of Buea Skills ORACLE Database Enterprise Edition (7 years), Dataguard , RAC, exadata , EBS Oracle Financials, Apps DBA (5 years), LINUX (7 years), OEM, 12c, 13c (6 years), OCP 12C, AWS solutions architect (4 years), DBA, ETL, Oracle Dba, Postgresql, Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS    • 5 years of experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in database administration, High Availability solutions, Performance tuning, Backup and Recovery and data movement technologies.  • Administer over 600 databases across Development, QA, UAT and PROD environments via use of command line and Oracle tools-Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Manage large complex Oracle RAC clusters with 50+ applications.  • Installed Oracle 11g RAC and Upgrading Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12c.  • Migrated and upgraded Oracle 11gR2 Databases from Sun Solaris 10 to Red hat Linux 5 using Goldengate.  • Worked on SQL Tuning and how to use the available tools outside of Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Worked on Performance Tuning, identifying large objects, analyze those objects and recommend changes to improve performance.  • Identifying objects no longer accessed and remove those objects which results in saving space in the databases.  • Worked on moving data from one storage area to another.  • Installed and Administered Oracle 11g & 10g RAC software with ASM.  • Had fixed several performance tuning issues which relates to RAC & standalone databases by recommending better solutions that could save cost, virtualization, and resources.  • Implemented fast start failover on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and Snapshot standby database.  • Implemented & Managed Physical Standby and even Configured Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using OPatch and run Installer under UNIX and Windows.  • Performance Tuning of Oracle database using OEM , SQL analyzer , Stats pack, AWR, ADDM, ASH, RDA, Explain plan, TKPROF, SQL TRACE and Ordebug.  • Data transferring using Export/Import utilities and SQL*Loader.  • Expertise in creating and maintaining databases to Oracle Optimal Flexible Architecture (OFA) standards in very large scale database environment (VLDB) and mission critical OLTP and DSS systems.  • Performed database tuning by using various tools such as ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor) from AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and STATSPACK.  • Performed SQL Tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF with SQL trace and STA(SQL Tuning Advisor).Coordinated with System administrators, application developers and other DBAs.  • Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms  • Installed Oracle 10g,11g RAC software with ASM & ACFS File systems  • Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant, Oracle Net Manager, Netstat and ping utility.  • Involved in writing stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in PL/SQL to interface application with database system.  • Assisted in management and database administration of Oracle Database application on Exadata platform  • Conducted analysis and feasibility studies for development of Oracle Exadata solutions.  • Monitor and troubleshoot on Oracle Database on Exadata via Oracle database Appliance    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Database Tools: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2