Database Administrator; Developer; System Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Administrator; Developer; System Analyst Database Developer/ Database Administor Washington, DC ? Extensive experience with SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008, and 2005 with strong experience in Database Administration and database performance.  ? 5 years of experience creating SSIS packages and Reporting Services.  ? 4 years of experience with SharePoint 2010, and managing and maintaining SharePoint databases.  ? Excellent SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014, 2016 Administration skills including user authorizations, Database creation, Creating Roles, Tables, indexes and Clusters creation.  ? Proficient with SQL Server 2008/2012/2014,2016 Reporting Services, Analysis Services.  ? Experience providing 24x7 database administration and Remote on-call support for Development, Test, and Production environments.  ? Supported multiple Production Servers along with their Development and Testing environments.  ? Administered & maintained several large databases, some well over 500 GB.  ? Expertise in Performance Tuning, Provisioning Users, Database Development, Backup and Recovery Plans  ? Created and implemented Maintenance Plans and Scheduled Jobs, DDL scripts, Stored Procedures, SSIS packages, Capacity Planning, Log shipping, DB Mirroring, data sharing, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Disaster Recovery Plans, and Database Upgrades.  ? Administered high activity, large OLTP databases.  ? Troubleshooting locking, blocking, and deadlocks related to production issues and index design.  ? Enhanced SQL Server performance using SQL Profiler, DMVs, Precise i3, SQL Query Plan, Query optimization, and built-in tools such as re-indexing, reorganizing indexes, and update statistics.  ? Enforced HIPPA privacy/security standards and assisted in auditing of implemented standards.  ? Experience using Team Foundation Server collaboration platforms and methodologies for application lifecycle development and management of software solutions.  ? Collaborated with architects about data modelling designs for necessary data exchange between applications.  ? Designed, Developed, and Implemented applications through AGILE and SCRUM methodologies for 4+years  ? Participated in the deployment of servers, and provided necessary support to users.  ? Implemented and monitored SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008 Best Practices, Management of Data Warehouses, different Replication models such as Snapshot, Merge, and Transactional Replication. Designed and configured AlwaysOn Availability models for QA, STAGING, and PROD.  ? Used STIGs, Business Requirements, and NIST to design and develop enterprise solutions.  ? Deployed numerous production servers as part of GO-Live efforts.  ? Performed data migration across multiple domains and environments.  ? OLTP experience managing data warehouses using tools such as Analysis Services (SSAS), Reporting Services (SSRS), Business Intelligence Reports Designer, and Integration Services (SSIS).  ? Installed numerous service packs and security patches in a myriad of domains.  ? Built and maintained BI Servers.  ? Created, maintained, and managed databases, DB associated roles, and security of users' permissions.  ? Experienced in resolving blocking and deadlock issues with users access to database tables, rows, and other DB resources.  ? Participated in various disaster recovery drills with AlwaysOn DBs and Clustered Servers, and updated documented disaster recovery plans after successful DR drills.  ? Written and debugged Stored Procedures and Complex queries using T-SQL.  ? Created a comprehensive strategy for database maintenance including automating index rebuild/reorganization, full DB and T-log backups, sao policy, purge jobs, email notifications, orphan users, etc.  ? Performed Contingency and Recovery tests on standby servers as a part of Disaster Recovery Planning.  ? 5 years of experience with Change Request management.  ? Managed Production Changes including Reviewing, Approving, & Implementing changes to production environments.  ? Maintaining an adequate level of knowledge of operating systems and applications' software being used to provide high levels of support to users.  ? Updating, maintaining, and ensuring configurations of systems remain within standards.  ? Supporting and contributing definitions to established application and server security roles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator; Developer; System Analyst ZelTech, LLC - Washington, DC May 2017 to Present The objective of this project is to design an enterprise solution  to replace the client’s current one in use. The solution included designing new and more proficient workflows, enhanced embedded applications,  sample-working applications, sample DBs, and documentation and use cases. I performed the following roles and responsibilities using the below technologies.    Responsibilities:    • Responsible for installing, configuring, and administering Postgres 9.6, SQL Server 2014/2016, and Oracle 11g/12c sample DBs.   • Writing use cases for AWS services like S3  buckets, AWS CloudWatch, Security & Access Management, Oracle IDM, IAM (Identity Access Management), Compliance RDS, File Storage and Management Services, and other code, file, and document versioning control services like GitHub, Git, etc.  • Designed Enterprise Solutions and Architecture using AWS, NIST, and STIGs.  • Designing and developing Enterprise Databases with SQL Server 2016/2014 and Postgres  • Creating Stored Procedures, Views, Complex Queries, Tables, relationships, etc. in Postgres, SQL Server, and Oracle to use and store big data, using T-SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL.  • Upgrading database servers from Oracle 11g and earlier, Access, and SQL Server to Postgres 10 on AWS RDS service.  • Granting execution permissions to users in Postgres 10, Oracle 12c, and SQL Server.  • Working with developers to design enterprise application solutions to run in conjunction with DBs by using Git, JavaScript, Java/C#, HTML, node.JS, XML, and other programming and software development languages for developing applications for the enterprise solution.  • Testing, troubleshooting, and updating code in SQL scripts, configuration scripts, web applications’ codes using JavaScript, C#, and HTML/XML best practices.  • Troubleshooting compatibility issues and security issues.  • Implemented multiple complex levels of security ranging from Row-Level Security, Column-Level Security, Table-Based security, Role-Based Security, etc. based on users’ credentials, access levels, and other user attributes.  • Fixing connection issues between databases and applications, and documenting and designing use cases from results.  • Used Oracles IDM suite to manage access, permissions, and security around database objects and data.  • Creating several databases for design and capacity planning, migrations, and upgrades.  • Working with multiple development teams on logical and physical designs of enterprise solutions using AGILE methodologies and iterations.  • Creating roles and schemas to limit access to database objects, tables, views, and views’ rows, and tables’ rows.  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting Postgres and SQL Server performance issues.  • Interacting closely with developers to troubleshoot application, database, design, and workflow issues.  • Resolved performance related issues to monitoring services, auditing  • Designing, Documenting, Writing Use-Cases and Implementing Table Partitioning in Postgres and Oracle for enhanced security, auditing, and archiving of data.  • Enforcing HIPAA, NIST, and STIG privacy/security standards by implementing auditing application and database tools.  • Adhering to Travel and Expense policies.    Environments: AWS, AWS’s RDS, AWS’s EC2, AWS’s C2S, Postgres, Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012, Windows 2012R2/2012/2008 Servers, SSMS, APIs,  Oracle 12, and Visual Studios. Network Administrator/Cyber Sec. Operations Specialist Air Force National Guard - Montgomery, AL April 2017 to Present I’m responsible for developing and supporting security measures that work against the identification, reconnaissance and exploitation of network vulnerabilities--such as those vulnerabilities that exist in computer networks, server operating systems, web technologies, project management, employee roles, client interactions, etc.  Project goals also include enhancing computer software and hardware capabilities within a myriad of cyber environments.     Responsibilities:    • Assisting in providing computer/network support relating to software and hardware problems reported by users.  • Maintaining an adequate level of knowledge of operating systems and applications’ software being used to provide high levels of support to users.  • Monitoring and evaluating efficiency of software/hardware usage, providing outlines and objectives to be covered in training of users, making users and employee learning more enhanced and efficient.  • Installing new software applications and hardware on LANs; coordinating assistance from third parties when necessary.  • Adding and maintaining users on the network; assigning application access, ensuring security  • Updating, maintaining, and ensuring configurations of systems remain within standards.  • Installing workstations and printers on LANs.  • Participating in team meetings, providing input and suggestions, and preparing discussion items.  • Assisting in gathering bid prices on equipment and supplies as needed.  • Maintaining written documentation that defines upcoming infrastructure needs and/or requirements.  • Monitoring and reporting licenses on applications to ensure compliance  is maintained monthly.  • Performing duties of coordinator in his/her absence.  • Utilizing technology to provide staff with a fast, accurate, and secure method of gaining access to information so they can service fellow employees in the fastest and most efficient manner possible.  • Supporting and contributing definitions to established application and server security roles.  • Provisioning file and system security through NTFS permissions and AD management best practices  • Applying critical security patches to servers as necessary to prevent zero-day attacks and eliminate other computer system weaknesses and vulnerabilities.  • Utilizing VBScript, Powershell, PHP, SQL queries, advanced "hands on experience with Office 2010.  • Adhering to Travel and Expense policies.    Environments: Access, Oracle VMs, Virtual Machines, Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012, Windows 2012R2/2012/2008 Servers, Linux. Database Administrator State of Michigan's Department of Technology December 2016 to April 2017 The objective of this project is to develop databases to store MapServices and MapDocuments information and build SSIS packages for State of Michigan’s Department of Technology, Management, and Budgeting applications in relation to their ArcGIS servers and SQL and Oracle Servers.    Responsibilities:    • Responsible for Installation, Configuration and Complete Administration of SQL Server 2014.  • Involved in Set up, configuration and maintenance of Database Mirroring.   • Developing Databases, Stored Procedures, Views, Complex Queries, Tables, relationships, etc. to use and store data collected from ArcGIS servers and other applications.  • Developing SSIS packages to feed data to development, UAT, edit, and PROD databases.  • Upgrading and installing and decommissioning servers using Oracle 11g/12c, SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008 to 2014 across DEV, QA, and PROD environments and different domains.  • Granting execution permissions to users on SSIS packages and development databases.  • Experience in implementing HADR solutions like Clustering, Replication, and Log shipping  • Used Oracles IDM suite to manage access, permissions, and security around database objects and data  • Working with developers to design Stored Procedures, relationships, Database Designs, and database bulk inserts.  • Troubleshooting user connectivity issues.  • Used C#, JavaScript and node.JS to migrate data from ArcGIS servers to Oracle 11g and SQL 2014 servers  • Fixing connection issues between databases and applications using Javascript and Node.JS and other programming languages.  • Creating several databases for design and capacity planning using T-SQL, PL/SQL, and stored procedures.   • Working with multiple development teams on logical and physical designs of databases. Working on database security.   • Implemented Database Log-shipping, SQL Replication (Snapshot, Transactional), Database Mirroring, Always On Availability Groups  • Creating roles and schemas to limit access to database objects.  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server performance issues.  • Interacting with developers to troubleshoot application and database issues.  • Resolved performance related issues to Blocking, Deadlocks, and long running queries.  • Deployed SSIS packages to MSDB database and file system using manifest file and the wizard utility in SQL Server 2014/2012.  • Used the Execution Plan to improve the optimization of the T-SQL code in complex queries.  • Performance tuned SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL Profiler and the Index Tuning Wizard.  • Using native tools like DATABASE TUNING ADVISOR, PROFILER, PERFORMANCE and ACTIVITY MONITOR.  • Used BULK INSERT to import the data from flat files.  • Using batch-scripts and T-SQL when developing stored procedures, functions, and triggers.  • Worked on Control flow tasks, such as Execute SQL task, Send Mail Task, File System Task, and Data-flow Task, and used different data sources and destinations with derived column, a lookup transformation within Data-flow Task.  • Enforced HIPAA privacy/security standards and assisted in auditing of implemented standards.     Environments: Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2, Windows 2012R2/2012/2008 Servers, SSRS, SSMS, SSIS, ArcGIS Servers, Oracle 12, and Visual Studios. SQL Server Database Administrator Comerica - Auburn Hills, MI January 2016 to December 2016 The main objective of this project was to provide project and production support across multiple environments and domains for applications and databases being developed for various clients. The client Comerica wanted to upgrade numerous platforms to SQL 2012 and many stand-alone and clustered infrastructures to AlwaysOn Configurations.    Responsibilities:  ? Installed SQL SERVER 2008/2008 R2 FAILOVER Clusters and stand-alone installations on Windows Server 2008 R2, 64 bit systems in PROD/TEST/DEV.  ? Installed and administered SSRS 2008/2008 R2 on Windows Server 2008 R2.  ? Implemented DR (disaster recovery exercise) at SunGard for SQL Server 2008/2008 R2.  ? Upgrading and installing SQL Server 2012 across DEV, QA, and PROD environments and different domains.  ? Responsibility maintaining several mission-critical, high-activity Production databases.  ? Troubleshooting user connectivity issues, and delegating and provisioning AD group privileges,  ? Fixing connection issues between databases and applications.  ? Installing, configuring, and implementing SSL Certificates for encrypted connections.  ? Implementing a Backup and Recovery strategies.  ? Implementing and testing disaster recovery protocols by executing DR drills.  ? Implementing special maintenance strategies such as rebuilding indexes, dropping orphaned users, and setting up purge policies to reduce maintenance time.  ? Implemented Backup compression at the server level.  ? Performing patching, correcting code, and performing Backups of a database's data.  ? Developing stored procedures, and promoting scripts across environments.  ? Working with multiple development teams on logical and physical designs of databases using SQL, JavaScript, Java and other programming languages.  ? Developing storage capacity and storage drive configurations for DB servers using reporting services like MSSQL SSRS.  ? Installing and Configuring SQL Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2012 across multiple environments.  ? Worked on database security using MSSQL built in security tools and Oracle IDM. Created roles and schemas to limit access to database objects.  ? Managing Production SQL Servers on VIRTUAL and PHYSICAL environments  ? Maintaining and following change control management policies to seamlessly migrate database changes across SQL Server environments.  ? Upgrading SQL Server databases to SQL Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2012.  ? Configuring SQL Server 2008 R2 Clusters and SQL Server 2012 Clusters.  ? Creating SQL Server reports using SSRS, and moving them to the Service Manager.  ? Creating database maintenance jobs, such as re-indexing, updating statistics, Re-Orgs, Database Backups, Cleanup Tasks, and Shrink Database.  ? Supporting reporting databases by using backup, restore, and database snapshot.  ? Worked on database security. Created roles and schemas to limit access to database objects using MSSQL built in tools and Oracle IDM.  ? Enforcing HIPAA privacy/security standards and assisted in auditing of implemented standards.  ? Used Oracles IDM suite to manage access, permissions, and security around database objects and data.  ? Performing data sharing between DBs.  ? Code checked/validated application teams Java, Javascript, C#,C++, C code and made changes where need when testing applications' code that was run against the database servers.  ? Used XML/HTML when created online documents for online record tracking, reporting, and storing of data and daily, weekly, and monthly activities.  ? Configuring replication methods like snapshot, transactional and merge replications.  ? Monitoring and scheduling jobs on production and staging environment.  ? Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server performance issues.  ? Responsible for applying newest service pack and hot fixes to all the SQL Servers on premiss and in the Microsoft Azure cloud.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2, Windows 2012R2/2012/2008 Servers, SSRS, SSMS, SSIS, Oracle. SQL Server Database Administrator Fifth-Third Bank - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to December 2015 The primary objective of this project was to provide a holistic client centric view (360° View). The Client Credit Administration was identified as an area that could benefit from a holistic client centric view, as the work is currently organized by product and exception activities rather than a view of all activities per client for a Portfolio Monitoring Analyst (PMA) or Credit Support Associate (CSA).    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Development and Maintenance of several databases across environments.  ? Responsible for maintenance of several mission-critical, high activity Production databases.  ? Troubleshoot performance issues, such as locking, blocking and deadlocks on live databases using tools such as SQL Server profiler, Precise i3 and SQL Server DMVs.  ? Implemented Backup and Recovery strategies.  ? Prepared for disaster recovery by executing DR drills.  ? Implemented special maintenance strategies such as using database partitioning to reduce maintenance time.  ? Implemented Backup compression at the instance level. Implemented row and page compression to save SAN space.  ? Upgrading Analysis Services from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012.  ? Performed maintenance on databases in Oracle 11g/12g, such as scheduling downtime to perform patching, correcting code, and performing Backups of a database's data.  ? Used Oracles IDM suite to manage access, permissions, and security around database objects and data  ? Provided database coding to support business applications using T-SQL.  ? Generate and process cubes using SSAS and using this data in the Dashboard reports.  ? Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2012.  ? Upgraded SQL Server databases to SQL Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2012.  ? Configured SQL Server 2008 R2 Clusters and SQL Server 2012 Clusters.  ? Managed and monitored content databases in Sharepoint 2010.  ? Creating Inventory SQL Server reports using SSRS, and moved them to the Service Manager.  ? Creating KPIs, Dimensions, Attributes, Cubes, Hierarchies, Analysis Services databases, Cubes.  ? Configured the options for SSRS and fixed connectivity issues between reporting services applications and SQL Server databases.  ? Used C/C++ and HTML with web application team when developing applications to run in conjunction with database applications  ? Supported reporting databases by using backups, restores, and database snapshots.  ? Configured replication methods like snapshot, transactional and merge replications.  ? Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server performance issues.  ? Enforced HIPPA privacy/security standards and assisted in auditing of implemented standards.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2008 R2, Windows 2012/2008 Servers, IIS 7.5, XML, T-SQL, SSRS, SSIS, Precise i3 and SQL Server DMVs, Oracle SQL Server Database Administrator BCBS - Kansas City, MO May 2013 to August 2014 Blue Cross Blue Shield Department of Information Technology was involved in creating various WCF Web services, which are consumed by several intranet applications (Windows, Web, ASMX and other WCF services). They were used to access and load industry standard messages, such as HIPAA-- Claims Information from the Trizetto Service (QNXT) by the users of HMSA with specific privileges. Technically, this application was architecture on Model-View-Controller (MVC) model with complete Service Oriented Architecture. This also created several Claims Reports using SSRS where a member can see his claims information.    Responsibilities:  ? Upgraded and installed SQL server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012 on standalone and clustered environments and applied service pack.  ? Set up Transactional Replication for reporting purposes.  ? Interacted with application team at the time of database migration from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012.  ? Extracting, Transforming, and Loading data from Sharepoint lists to SQL Server 2012 databases.  ? Managed and monitored content databases in Sharepoint 2010.  ? Migrated databases from Oracle 11g to Sql Server 2008R2.  ? Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues to ensure data optimization. Implemented SQL Audit 2008 and Server Side trace for auditing at server and database level on SQL Server 2008.  ? Set up active-active and active-passive clusters.  ? Maintaining DB performance depending on the app and business SLA requirements.  ? Involved in database design, database standards, and T-SQL code reviews.  ? Configured Active/Active and Active/passive SQL Server Clusters.  ? Implemented Mirroring and Log Shipping for Disaster Recovery.  ? Configured transactional and snapshot replication.  ? Created and developed Stored Procedures and Triggers to handle complex business rules, history, data, and audit analysis.  ? Used tools like SQL Server profiler and Performance Monitor to identify bottlenecks.  ? Documented the results from Upgrade Advisor, and resolved all before and after issues with migrating from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 20012.  ? Involved in troubleshooting all the performance issues for different database applications.  ? Enforced HIPPA privacy/security standards and assisted in auditing of implemented standards.  ? Deployed SSIS packages to MSDB database and file system using manifest file and the wizard utility in SQL Server 2008.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008, Windows 2012/2008 Servers, T-SQL, SQL Server Profiler, SSIS, Oracle Education Bachelors of Science in Business Administration with a concentration in Finance in field of s study of Finance Auburn University - Auburn, AL Skills DATABASE (7 years), MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (7 years), SQL SERVER (6 years), ORACLE (2 years), SQL (4 years), Vmware (4 years), System Administrator (2 years), XML (2 years), HTML (2 years), DBA (5 years), ETL (4 years), MYSQL (2 years), Postgresql (3 years), Sql Dba (5 years), Ssis (4 years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2018 to Present ITIL v3 June 2019 to Present Scrum Master February 2019 to Present Assessments Active Listening — Expert April 2019 Actively listening and appropriately responding in conversations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4jmveraylh01ebnn Problem Solving — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sa1m5up1e9xtgm8a Proofreading — Highly Proficient April 2019 Proofreading written texts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/llyxesbduegbkph Data Analysis — Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gsxfmiky4kuwkoeu Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lvx-mpfr-ced-gsr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Skill Years Used Last Used  Data Modeling/ Database Development 5+ Years 2018  DB Administration 5+ Years 2018  Microsoft SQL Server 4+ Years 2018  Geospatial Data Structure 1+ Years 2017  SQL Server Integration Services 5+ Years 2018  SQL Reporting Services 3+Years 2018  Network Admin 2+ Years 2018  System Analyst 2+ Years 2018  Postgres 3+ Years 2018  Oracle Database 2+Years 2018  Amazon Web Services (AWS) 1+ Years 2018  Web Design/Development 2+ Years 2018  Postgres 9 and 10  pgAdmin 3 and 4    Certifications/Certificates