Program Assistant II Program Assistant II Program Assistant II - NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH Bowie, MD A proven highly motivated, results-oriented partner with broad-based administrative experience; Outstanding interpersonal, solid communication, organizational and analytical skills; Recognized as a team player with proven success at building relationships with all levels of management to integrate communication and engage in overall strategic goals of the organization. Skilled in applying a comprehensive knowledge regarding document management, coordinating training opportunities, implementing policies and procedures, learning and organizational development, communication, and special projects. Experience in working with organizations through a changed environment; Characterized as having an unsurpassed commitment to customer service, while understanding the business needs of internal and external clientele. Recognized as a leader that focuses on a culture that drives high performance. Expert knowledge in prioritizing and time management skills, which in return contributes to increased productivity. Work Experience Program Assistant II NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH - Bethesda, MD September 2018 to Present Bethesda, MD  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI)  Program Assistant II, September 2018 to Current  Center of Translation Research Implementation Science (CTRIS)    Provides Executive Administrative support to the Branch Chiefs, Director and Deputy Directors of the Center of Translation Research Implementation Science (CTRIS). Coordinates and ensures compliance with federal regulations by scheduling for international and domestic executive travel, lodging and incidentals for senior management.    Coordinates with other team members in planning a program response to meet acquisition reporting requirements. Reviews, accepts, amends, or rejects administrative work products completed by other staff members. Recommends improvements to practices/procedures to achieve organizational goals. Research and/or analyze administrative problems and develop recommendations. Develops internal SOPs for improvement of internal procedures. Prepares reports that include analysis and recommendations. Develop guidelines/procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Provides management oversight on performance of a project. Plans and/or manages projects involving extensive coordination with many different groups/individuals. Facilitate the development of program plans that impact long and short-range courses of action. Apply analytical techniques for resolving issues. Advises management on program/policy matters. Develop and implement comprehensive plans and strategies for internal and external integration of day- to-day and long- range projects, actions and activities for the Health Inequities and Global Health Branch Program (HIGH). Analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of programs or operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Analyzes program performance data to identify issues and make recommendations for improvement.    Attend meetings, briefing and other activities in support of organizational programs and inform staff of commitments and deadlines. Create webinar sections to view conferences, seminars and interviews. Evaluate program efficiency and effectiveness. Coordinates staff travel using CGE Travel system and NHLBI travel sites. Process Purchase Order Requests using POTS system. Updates and keeps records for accurate time keeping. Interprets the impact of regulations and policies on administrative programs. Provide support for program planning and analysis activities. Prepares project budget in estimating costs and evaluating resource needs, analyzing and developing conclusions based on data and information. Use integrated reporting systems to compile, consolidate, and summarize budgetary data.    NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH - NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (TAI PEDRO AND ASSOCIATES) Program Assistant. Division of Cancer Prevention Cancer Prevention Fellowship Program (CPFP) - Bethesda, MD April 2018 to September 2018 April 2018 to September 2018    Coordinates and facilitates cooperation among team members with diverse perspectives and priorities. Rearranges workload priorities to accommodate special projects and short turnaround assignments while maintaining a timely and high-quality level of performance on other assigned actions.    Liaise with other NIH internal partners to resolve outstanding NIH database acquisition problems. Coordinate with other team members in planning a program response to meet acquisitions reporting requirements. Review, accept, amend, or reject administrative work products completed by other staff members. Recommend improvement to practices/procedures to achieve organizational goals. Research and/or analyze administrative problems and develop recommendations. Develop internal SOPs for improvement of internal procedures. Prepare reports that include analysis and recommendations. Develop guidelines/procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems.    Provide management oversight on performance of a project. Plan and/or manage projects involving extensive coordination with many different groups/individuals. Facilitate the development of program plans that impact long and short-range courses of action. Apply analytical techniques for resolving issues.    Advise management on program/policy matters. Develop and implement comprehensive plans and strategies for internal and external integration of day- to-day and long- range projects, actions and activities for the Cancer Prevention Fellowship Program (CPFP). Analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of programs or operations in meeting established goals and objectives.    Analyze program performance data to identify issues and make recommendations for improvement. Serve as office liaison for the CPFP which provides postdoctoral training opportunities in cancer prevention and control which include outstanding opportunities for cutting-edge research in the basic, quantitative, social and behavioral sciences, and in clinical cancer prevention. Assist with on-boarding, health benefits, tuition payments, maintain yearly travel budget in excel, book orders, conference attendance request, hosting seminars using cost comparison or sole source for logistical purposes.    Attend meetings, briefing and other activities in support of organizational programs and inform staff of commitments and deadlines. Create webinar sections to view conferences, seminars and interviews. Evaluate program efficiency and effectiveness. Coordinates fellow and staff travel using CGE Travel system and DCP travel sites. Process Purchase Order Requests using POTS system. Update and keep records for accurate time keeping.    Interpret the impact of regulations and policies on administrative programs. Provide support for program planning and analysis activities. Prepares project budget in estimating costs and evaluating resource needs, analyzing and developing conclusions based on data and information. Use integrated reporting systems to compile, consolidate, and summarize budgetary data. Database Administrator BRIGHTKEY -FEDERAL COMMUNICATION COMMISSION - Annapolis Junction, MD January 2017 to April 2018 January 2017 to April 2018    Collaborate closely with Inventory Operations, and the Contracting Officer Technical Representative. Enables and executes Property Management strategy and produce financial reports required for updating General Ledgers. Performs upgrades and maintenance to the Bar/Scan Property database when needed, or upon request. Provides and create new report formats upon request by management or field location. Provide direction to other team members to ensure frequent communication, and proper custodianship is implemented within the scope of procedures outlined within the Property Management Policies manual in support of 28 remote field locations, and headquarter personnel located in Washington, DC. Design new report formats and provide ongoing reports in support of the Headquarter facility, and field locations for new General Services Administration excess property submittal process.    Add new UDF fields within Bar/Scan in support of changes to the current Budget and Organization Codes from the Federal Communication Commission's finance group for updates to monthly Capital Depreciation, Seized & Forfeited, Vehicle Systems, and Bar/Scan Activity Reports.  Perform physical inventory duties as needed as well to track equipment through its full life cycle. Keeps management abreast of any issues related to Bar/Scan, or any asset and vehicle report request. Provides input to management for improved customer service. Keeps abreast of new developments relating to data management and provide proposals to management upon request. Troubleshoot and resolve any data or technical problems associated with Bar/Scan database. Information safeguarding through the use of daily backup practices. Attends annual meetings with the Agency Records Officer to ensure the correct documentation is utilized, filed away, and signed in regard to the movement of any company owned or disposed assets through the General Service Administration. Executive Assistant to Chief Financial Officer CHASE BREXTON HEALTH CARE - Baltimore, MD December 2014 to January 2017 CFO: Robin Brooks), December 2014 to January 2017    Completes various tasks from multiple C-Suite Executives and their direct reports. Manages multiple executive level calendars and triage appointments. Manages executive's e-mail and draft business correspondence.  Develops PowerPoint presentations, design project flow charts in Visio, and Excel spreadsheets to report and facilitate data analysis. Arranges travel. Plans, schedules and execute events. Acts as representative contact person for department with clients, staff, and community contacts in person and by phone. Develops relationships and collaborates with appropriate community resources. Identifies problem areas within the executive office and recommends potential solutions. Maintains complete confidentiality in all communications and interactions. Maintains departmental records, reports and documents and data are organized in such a manner to be easily accessible for other in the department. Coordinates, schedules, and collects agenda items for assigned meetings. Produces accurate and timely minutes which reflect the key issues of assigned meetings. Works independently with minimal direction and collaboratively as part of a team on projects.    Manages organizational online compliance and policy management software. Enrolls all new employees, terminate accounts, reset passwords and troubleshoot difficulties, assign policy reviews and test based on department, and report delinquent assignments to Human Resources. Coordinates with managers to implement new training as needed. Reviews test questions based on clarity to ensure it is in line with the policy content. Coordinates with compliance officer and Human Resources to establish guidelines and procedures. Acts as a liaison between departments to facilitate communications at the executive level. Prioritizes conflicting needs; proactively follow through. Manages department meetings. Coordinates departmental and organizational luncheons with specified budgets. Conducts Reconciliation of executive credit card statements. Monitors expense and collects receipts for proper budget allocation. Submits general staff reimbursements for department. Assists with training new staff. (Contractor), Executive Assistant/ Management Analyst DATA FEDERAL - Rockville, MD April 2014 to December 2014 April 2014 to December 2014    Executive Assistant  Prepared, controlled and managed incoming correspondence and outgoing written controlled correspondence for proper formatting, attachments, signatures, clearances, and supervisor's action. Provided support to Division/Office staff on operations related to administrative and personnel procedures. Processed employee awards at the Division level to include the preparation of forms, cover sheets, and other needed documents. Scheduled appointments and maintain calendar for senior-level managers. Maintained workload and tracking of time & attendance, schedules Go-To Meetings, set up bridge lines for conferences, Advised supervisor of appointments, meetings, etc. and coordinates and adjusts schedule as necessary utilizing Microsoft Outlook to e-mail staff in order to obtain, provide, or research the availability of staff, answered phones, scheduled and attended appointments, projects, generated reports and documents, updates, and other tasks as required. Received incoming telephone calls (external and internal) and personal callers, determined the identity of the caller and nature of the call.    Management Analyst  Maintained a database to track the status or approval of regulatory or scientific documents; Reviewed scientific correspondence for accuracy and official actions; Conducted studies of work or program processes and procedures to identify deficiencies; Recommended improvements or methods to increase workplace or program efficiency; Prepared qualitative and quantitative data from various sources for use in technical reports and summaries and; Interprets analytical methods, techniques or procedures to resolve unprecedented administrative problems. Analyzed and evaluated (on a qualitative and quantitative basis) interrelated issues of effectiveness, efficiency and productivity, and establishes criteria to measure and/or predict the effectiveness of line program operations in meeting established goals and objectives.  Developed life cycle cost analyses or perform cost benefit or economic evaluations of current or projected programs.    Developed options, recommendations, and conclusions that take into account and give appropriate weight to uncertainties about the data and other variables that affect long-range program performance. Developed procedures and systems for establishing, operating, and assessing the effectiveness of administrative control systems such as those designed to prevent waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation of assets. Adapted analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to develop new or modified work methods, organizational structures, records and files, management processes, staffing patterns, procedures for administering program services, guidelines and procedures, and automating work processes.    INTELLIGENT FISCAL OPTIMAL SOLUTIONS MANAGING CONSULATIONS, LLC (IFOS) Secretary II, Division of License Renewal Office of Nuclear Regulatory Reactors - Rockville, MD May 2012 to February 2014 Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852  Secretary II, Division of License Renewal for the Office of Nuclear Regulatory Reactors May 2012 to February 2014    Provided Executive Administrative support to Branch Chief, Acting Director and Deputy Directors of the Division of Licensing Renewal for the Office of Nuclear Regulatory Reactors. Maintained workload and tracking of Time & Attendance (T&A) using Human Resource Management System (HRMS) Software    Coordinated and ensured compliance with federal regulations by scheduling for international and domestic executive travel, lodging and incidentals for senior management. Completed offices correspondence processes by using NRC Editorial Guide, MD Directive 3.57, Gregg Reference Manual, and other materials to properly add/draft, type/edit, dispatch/finalize items via Agency-wide Document Accessible Management System (ADAMS) document processing center and using the Listserv/E-rids process (not limited to memorandums, letters, reports, etc.) by accurately and efficiently proof-reading the staff's documents and identifying text, formats, copying, filing.    Maintained Division Director, Deputy Director and front office calendar and scheduled appointments. Advised senior management of appointments, meetings, etc. and coordinates and adjusts schedule as necessary utilizing Microsoft Outlook to e-mail staff in order to obtain, provide, or research the availability of staff. Answered phones, scheduled and attended Branch Meetings and appointments, projects, generated reports and documents, updates, and other tasks as required Receives incoming telephone calls (external and internal) and personal callers, determines the identity of the caller and nature of the call. Others duties as assigned by branch Division Secretary, Chiefs, Deputies/Directors Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration Program University of Maryland University College 2014 to 2018 Criminal Justice Program Bowie State University - Bowie, MD 2003 to 2005 Skills Organizational skills, Customer service, Typing, 50 wpm, Deltek, Time management, Hrms, Human resources, Excel, Word, Human resources management, Pots, Work flow Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  • Provides professional and courteous customer service to both internal and external clientele.  • Uses appropriate discretion when dealing with sensitive matters.  • Has adopted and perfected time-management and organizational skills to increase daily work flow.    SKILLS  Software: Word, Excel, Power Point  CGE Travel System (NIH)  Purchase Order Tracking System (POTS)  BarScan Reporting System  Deltek Time Management Software  Human Resources Management Software (HRMS)  Typing - 45-50 wpm  Word Processing