Oracle - Database Administrator Oracle - <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle - Database Administrator - ETCC Dallas, TX • Oracle Certified Professional with 10 Years of experience in Oracle DBA with proficiency in, Goldengate,Non-RAC,RAC,RMAN and Dataguard.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting of Oracle Database on Solaris OS, IBM-AIX, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Windows on highly transitive and Very large databases (VLDB).  • Experience in configuring and managing OracleReal Application Cluster databases with ASM technology.  • Installed and Configured the Golden Gate software and created manager, extract, replicate trail files and tested the data is flowing from source to target database.  • Technical expertise in Oracle DB implementations, maintenance, trouble shooting and administration.  • Experience upgrading Oracle databases from 9iR2 to 10gR2, 9iR2 to 11gR2 and 10gR2 to 11gR2  [11.2.0.2.2] on RHEL, AIX and Solaris 10 SPARC 64-bit systems.  • Implementation and Administration of Oracle Dataguard.  • Configuring and Administering Oracle 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Working knowledge in Oracle GRID control (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in applying Oracle PS,CPU Patches on 9i, 10G and 11G.  • Experience in Patching Grid Infrastructure home.  • Experience in Installing, Configure and maintained 2 Node 11g RAC/Non-RAC with ASM development databases.  • Experience in monitoringtablespaces, indexes, extents and performance tuning.  • Exposure of working on OEM and Strong in Database Backups using RMAN, Export/Import, and Data pump, SQL Loader, etc..  • Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMANalso profound in using the new oracle11g features in these utilities.  • Handson experience managing SAP database using SAP tools.  • Strong Experience in Cloning of databases using RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Excellent Knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests with Metalink.  • Good working Knowledge of SQL and PL/SQL Work Experience Oracle - Database Administrator ETCC - Dallas, TX August 2015 to Present • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 11 g R2 on Linux.  • Upgrading Oracle Database from 11.2.0.3.0 to 11.2.0.4.0  • Installed OAS 10.1.2, 10.1.3 and configured and deployed the applications.  • Worked on data center migration for one of the client of ETCC.  • Ensuring SLA timings by taking and restoring backups from PROD to TEST.  • Implemented Data Guard on oracle 11g R2 on Linux.  • Have worked on encryption using TDE and SQLNET encryption for PCI compliance.  • Used to Be on-call, attend to problems on a daily basis, resolve various database- related issues and customer requests.  • 24*7 Production support.  • Worked on Morning checks to ensure all production databases and applications are in good health.  • Scheduling RMAN Database backups on Linux Server.  • Scheduling RMAN backup jobs from Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Had played the supervisory role to the offshore team for a brief period of time.  • Performing Failover operations/Disaster Recovery in Data Guard Environment.  • Used OEM extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with failure notification.  • Wrote shell scripts for weekly/daily backup , to_stdby and to_snapshot.  • Performed production database maintenance and modifications to ensure databases are operational, as well as diagnosed and corrected any database environment problems; monitored database usage, and reported on database performance and system availability.  Environment:Oracle 10g/11g RAC on Solaris/Linux, RMAN, Data Guard, UNIX Shell Scripting, HEAT-LITE tool, OEM. Oracle - Database Administrator Walgreens, IL August 2013 to July 2015 • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11 g R2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g  • Installed, Configure and maintained 2 Node 11g RAC/Non-RAC with ASM development databases.  • Upgrading Oracle Database from 11.2.0.2.0 to 11.2.0.3.0  • Ensuring SLA timings by taking and restoring backups from PROD to TEST.  • Partitioning of large tables for fine performance tuning.  • Implemented Data Guard on oracle 11g R2 on Linux.  • Scheduling RMAN Database backups on Linux Server.  • Upgraded development databases from 10.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.3.  • Scheduling RMAN backup jobs from Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Had played the supervisory role to the offshore team for a brief period of time.  • Configured and maintained replication using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Performed a zero downtime cross platform database upgrade using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Monitoring Goldengate process and working on issues.  • Performing Failover operations/Disaster Recovery in Data Guard Environment.  • Used OEM extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with failure notification.  • Wrote shell scripts for purging trace files, alert log and network log files in Sun Solaris boxes which is used as standard script across all the databases.  • Performed production database maintenance and modifications to ensure databases are operational, as well as diagnosed and corrected any database environment problems; monitored database usage, and reported on database performance and system availability.    Environment:Oracle 9i, 10g/11g RAC on Solaris/Linux, RMAN, Data Guard, UNIX Shell Scripting, Fog light tool, OEM. Oracle DBA/Data Analyst Health Management Systems - Irving, TX September 2012 to July 2013 L3 Support:  • Providing Oracle database administrative support for Production, Development and Staging databases of HMS applications.  • Providing Level 3 Production Support. Responsible for processing all the E-mails and monitoring all the alerts.    • Installed, Configure and maintained 2 Node 10g RAC/Non-RACwith ASM development databases  • Installed, Upgraded Oracle software (10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.3) on both single instance and RAC environments and applied various patches on RAC environments which include quarterly PSU patches and other minor patches for bug fixes on both ASM and DB instances.  • Configured and constructed development databases on RAC environment.  • Managing Daily Backups of Production database.  • Configured Standby database/ Dataguard for RAC databases  • Supporting monthly Change Activities related to Production database and generating AWR and ADDM reports after every Change Activity and perform tuning on SQL's identified in the reports.  • Implemented database refresh using RMAN and full EXPORT/IMPORT.  • Scheduled full database backup jobs and archive jobs through OEM.  • Creating and Managing Table spaces and Data files as needed and implemented database level security using Roles and privileges.  • Performed database refreshes using RMAN.  • Monitoring alert logs, trace files to check Database health and corruption.  • Providing 24*7 on call production support.  • Upgraded Oracle RAC Database's to 11.2.0.3 from 10g.  • Resolved gaps in Dataguardusing RMAN.  • Migration of database storage location from Filesystem to ASM.  • Implemented Rman backups from Physical Standby.  Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, RAC, RMAN, ASM, GRID Control, RHEL , HP-UX, Sun OS, Oracle Enterprise Linux. Oracle - Database Administrator GE (Healthcare) - Waukesha, WI March 2011 to September 2012 • Daily maintenance of the 200 production and 400 development and staging databases and pro-active monitoring of the performance.  • Installation, Maintenance & Configuration of databases.  • Monitor and report status of databases (capacity, size/limit, performance, etc.).  • Carry out with Database refresh (Using Hot & Cold backups, RMAN), schema refreshes, table refreshes.  • Creation of table spaces, user maintenance, database security imposition by creation and granting of roles and privileges.  • Distribution of Table spaces among different Disks and creation of Database objects and monitoring the tablespaces.  • Executed the scripts as on when asked by the developers and provided them the log files of the executed scripts.  • Worked on Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) used to schedule the database backups and handle the failed backups through OEM, used to extract the AWR and ADDM reports and extract the structure of tablespaces and tables through OEM.  • Production Support for Oracle 9i/10g/11g Databases.  • Installed, configured and performed the maintenance of SQL Server.  • Expertise in Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Database Administration including planning, implementing, backup, and recovery strategies.  • Optimized data loading using SQL*Loader to load different types of data from flatfiles to the Oracle server.  • Performed Refresh Activity for Databases from Production to Development, Testing Environment.  • Troubleshooting performance issues reported by the Application Team.  • Worked with application development team to resolve app related issues.  • Monitoring the Tablespace and thus help Predict Trends and take Appropriate Steps like adding and resizing the datafiles.  • Upgrading of Oracle RAC Database's to 11.2.0.3  • Performing Databases Refreshes using Rman Duplication and Active Duplication.  • Applied Patches on Database home, Grid home  • Performed switchover and failover in a data guard environment.  • Creation of Physical Standby databases to Production Databases to ensure Maximum Availability through RMAN  Environment: Oracle 9i,10g, 11g, RAC, RMAN, ASM, GRID Control, VERITAS Netbackup, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, SQL* Loader, RHEL , HP-UX, Sun OS, Oracle Enterprise Linux. Mar 2010Oracle - Database Administrator Fan, Fitzpatrick & Thompson, LLP April 2009 to April 2009 • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity  • Using OEM, AWR, Statspack, SQL Loader for performing the administrative tasks  • Collecting database resource & CPU utilization in busy hours & idle hours and doing maintenance through reorganizing, collecting statistics.  • Worked on taking the health check reports of the database.  • Monitoring CPU& space utilization.  • Database backup and recovery. Used hot and cold backups using RMAN.  • Involved in Generic oracle database support and troubleshooting the issues.  • Used to Be on-call, attend to problems on a daily basis, resolve various database- related issues and customer requests.  • Capacity planning for changes in the size of databases due to business growth.  Environment: Oracle 10g, Tomcat 6.0, Windows, J2EE Oracle DBA Satyam Computer Services Ltd - IN June 2005 to March 2009 • Configured and constructed Development database.  • Designing and Creating database to support system needs.  • Creation of tablespace, adding datafiles, periodical backups and database recovery as needed.    • Monitoring the Mount points(Disk) for space issues and removing the Old files, dumps as per the retention period.  • Distribution of Table spaces among different Disks and creation of Database objects and monitoring the tablespaces. If the tablespaces reach the threshold value either resize or add the datafile as per the requirement.  • Worked on Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) used to schedule the database backups and handle the failed backups through OEM, used to extract the AWR and ADDM reports and extract the structure of tablespaces and tables through OEM.  • Creation of Users and granting required privileges and roles as required.  • Monitoring alert logs, trace files to check Database health and corruption.  Environment: Oracle 9i,10g, RMAN, OEM, TOAD, VERITAS Netbackup, Sun OS Education Bachelors ofEngineering in Computer Science Osmania University Skills DATABASE (9 years), OEM (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), RMAN (9 years), UNIX (5 years), ORACLE 10G (4 years), SCRIPTING (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems RHEL 4, RHEL 5, OEL 4, WIN NT/2003/2008, Solaris 10, HP-UX Itanium, IBM AIX, Windows XP.  RDBMS Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Oracle 10g Real Application Cluster (RAC), ASM,Microsoft SQL Server 2005,2008.  Oracle Products OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), RMAN, SQL*Loader, Import and Export (EXPdp/IMPdp), ASM, TKPROF, SRVCTL,DBCA,DBUA  Languages C,C++, SQL,T-SQL,PL/SQL,Java,UNIX/NT Shell Scripting, Perl.  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR.  Other Tools  TOAD, Putty, SQL Developer, Blade logic BMC Database  automation tool, Data ModelingTools,Erwin,Fog light Monitoring System, Net-backup  management system, GRD Ticketing System, Nexus ticketing System.