Senior Manager Senior Manager Program, Project & Product Manager Austin, TX Result-driven technical product, project and program manager with 7 years' experience in business analysis, product management, technical partnerships, strategic planning, program management, business development and team leadership. I have functioned in the following business areas: ecommerce, payments infrastructure deployment, retail merchandising, enterprise and consumer app development, online and offline marketing, mobile marketing, telco partnerships and performance management.    Technical skills and specialties    Agile Project Management, Product Road-mapping, Scrum, Jira, Trello, HTML, CSS, SQL, VB, Dbase, Java, Xtream, XML, Google Analytics, A/B Testing, Woopra, Microsoft Power BI, Advanced Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Microsoft Project, WordPress, Google DFA/DFP, Adwords, SEO, SEM, Social Media Marketing, Content, e-commerce, Financial services, Analytics, SMS Marketing, Telco VAS, Financial Cards and Systems (MasterCard and Visa), Risk Analysis, Salesforce, CRM/CMS Setup and Management, Strategic planning, Startup and Growth hacking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Manager SureGroup September 2018 to Present SureGroup is a financial services startup with a focus on non-cash solutions. Products include SureGifts (loyalty solutions, gift cards and reward programs), SureRemit (international remittances powered by cryptocurrency), and SureCredit (consumer voucher/gift-card loans).    Achievements as Global Manager  • Led all the company's growth strategy, expanding products and solutions portfolio and directing all business units.  • Achieved $5m in revenue within 6 months, a 56% growth from same period of the previous year.  • Managed the conceptualization, development and roll out of the new enterprise product, SureGifts Business  • Project managed the launch of SureGifts Business and achieved closing 50 large accounts sign-up within 2 months  • Worked with the head of merchant acquisition to grow merchants network by 100% within 6 months Senior Manager JumiaPay - Jumia July 2017 to August 2018 Jumia Group operates e-commerce, marketplaces and classifieds platforms in Africa. Headquartered in Paris and with presence across 23 African countries, Jumia is the first African internet company to reach a USD$1b valuation and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. (NYSE: JMIA)    JumiaPay is Jumia's payment and financial services company with products across payments, lending, savings and investments. JumiaPay is the first payment solution in Nigeria that allows customers pay for stuff via SMS. JumiaPay connects consumers, financial institutions, merchants and businesses in Africa, making it the fastest growing payment processing network.    Achievements as Global Manager, JumiaPay:    • Led cross functional teams across product development, marketing, customer service and finance  • Worked closely with the product team to manage roadmaps, ensuring platforms were easily transferrable and scalable country by country  • Established partnerships and strategic relationships between Jumia and other financial services institutions, e.g. Mastercard, VISA, CBN, Zenith Bank, Paystack, Flutterwave  • Led the payment service solution provider (PSSP) licensing process with the Central Bank of Nigeria  • Led the team to collectively grow payments transactions from 100 a month in December 2016 to 5,000 a month in December 2017 through partnerships and key market positioning strategies  • Achieved a merchant loan portfolio of $1.5m with 5% default rate at 48% annual interest rate Head of Strategic Partnerships Jumia April 2016 to July 2017 Achievements as Head of Strategic Partnerships:    • Responsible for developing strategic and revenue generating relationships with disruptive Fin-Tech and mobile forward companies for the Jumia Group  • Led strategic commercial partnership deals with partners valued around $100,000  • Led the commercial negotiations and roll-out of 20 Jumia pick-up stations at corporate building locations within 1 month (over 10,000 high-value customers covered)  • Led partnership efforts for Jumia Black Friday 2017, successfully securing a free car from Coscharis Motors and 30 free airline tickets to Europe from Air France - KLM - a first of its kind for Jumia Group Program & Project Manager Jumia September 2014 to April 2016 Achievements as Group Program & Project Manager:    • Led the projects on integrating card payment solutions on Jumia's checkout, development and roll out of marketplace solution for vendors (Jumia Seller Centre), development of a scalable shipping matrix and development Jumia mobile app on Android and iOS using Agile methodology which has 10m+ downloads on both app stores  • Led and executed collaborative projects between the Telco (MTN) and Jumia across marketing, sales and technology.  • Led the zero-rating of apps project on MTN network for all Jumia verticals saving Jumia $230,000.  • Led planning and project management for Jumia's biggest sales events for 2 consecutive years - Black Friday (revenue northward $6 million), Mobile week (revenue northward $5 million) and Jumia Anniversary (revenue northward $750,000)  • Actively led the marketing team for 3 months, owing all channels (offline and online) Merchandiser & Product Manager Jumia July 2012 to September 2014 Achievements as Merchandiser & Product Manager:         • Led the team to grow business revenue by 33% (from $321million- $428 million) and site conversion rate from 0.6% to 2.2% in 8 months  • Managed driving conceptual product development and prioritization from a business perspective, with a remote technology team in Portugal  • Daily coordinated engineering, marketing and category managers in 5 countries (Nigeria, Kenya, Egypt, Morocco, Ivory Coast) Data and Business Strategy Analyst IROKOTV March 2012 to June 2012 IrokoTV is the world's largest catalog of Nollywood movies in the world. The company also owns NollyWoodLove (the most trafficked African YouTube Channel) and iRoking (Nigeria's biggest music streaming service).    Achievements as Data and Business Strategy Analyst  • Forecasted revenues to be generated from - subscriptions, advertising and other services.  • Studied user's online behavior to understand preference, clusters and effect on changes made on the website and pricing.  • Carried out performance analysis and audit on movies and music running on the company's video and audio channels. Achievements as Data Analyst The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) March 2011 to February 2012 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is the electoral body which was set up to oversee elections in Nigeria.    Achievements as Data Analyst:    • Carried out quantitative analysis on voters and electoral records; highlight of my work here was election data analysis and audit for use at the 2011 electoral appeal cases in Nassarawa State.  • Detailed statistical analysis of voter records using SQL on a continual basis for updating, reporting and cleanup of the State's voter register.  • Managed the organization's email infrastructure and newsletters content creation and dispatch Database Administrator MTech Communications PLC May 2009 to December 2009 MTech is a technology firm that provides first class services in data communications, focuses on mobile applications technology, using existing GSM networks and state-of-the-art mobile technology.    Achievements as Database Administrator:    • Managed the configuration of SMS value added services for 3 of Nigeria's biggest TV shows Gulder Ultimate Search 2009, Star Trek 2009 and Maltina Dance All 2009. Was also responsible for data mining, adequate monitoring of results, irregularity checks and liaising between the various clients and MTech.  • Worked with a team on the development of Procter and Gamble 'Always-go-girl' mobile application.  • Used Postgres SQL to manage campaign results by querying databases Education Executive education in Computer Science and Information Technology (CIO Institute) University of California-Berkeley (HaaS School of Business) - Berkeley, CA November 2015 to November 2015 Online executive education in Financial Management, Economics for Managers, Business Analytics Harvard Business School (HBX CORe) April 2015 to August 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science Federal University of Technology October 2005 to October 2010 Skills Ecommerce (7 years), Program Management (5 years), Product Management (5 years), Project Management (3 years), PMP, Loyalty Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) June 2019 to June 2021 Badge ID: 1075382    The Certified Scrum Product Owner® (CSPO®) demonstrates knowledge and ability to maximize the value of a product.     The CSPO certificant:  ? Creates and communicates the product vision to the Scrum Team and understands release goals  ? Makes decisions with the customer and business in mind  ? Maintains a Product Backlog   CSPO certification is a prerequisite for Advanced Certified Scrum Product Owner (A-CSPO?) and the first step in the journey to become a Certi?ed Scrum Professional® Product Owner (CSP®-PO).    Certification Requirements  This certificant has:  ? Participated in person for an educational offering (>16 hours) or coaching session (>25 hours) led by a CST®, CEC, or CTC that covers the CSPO learning objectives. Assessments Organizational Skills — Proficient April 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/e9lumzpkq6djgc57 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Skills: Natural leader, data & result driven, business & strategic analyst, entrepreneurial, project manager, team leadership, problem solving, product manager.