Customer Service Representative/Cashier Customer Service Representative/Cashier Lady Lake, FL • Secure a customer service position that will give me the opportunity to utilize my skills to acquire  further experience while enhancing the organization's productivity and efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Representative/Cashier Circle K - Quitman, GA February 2019 to June 2019 Responsible for performing all cashiering, stocking, cleaning, and customer service duties in a manner that will develop good customer relations, build store sales, maximize profits, and protect store assets. My goal was to provide all customers with a service level that exceeds their expectations. Server/Dishwasher Twin Lake Living Facility - Cincinnati, OH August 2018 to February 2019 Take guest food order, Help cook prep food, serve and deliver meals to guest, Wash dishes and clean kitchen and dinning area Cashier Walmart - Pinellas Park, FL August 2017 to July 2018 Managing all the cash transactions in their workplace   Maintaining daily account of the daily transactions   Balancing the daily account at the end of each day   Checking the daily cash balance   Interacting with the customers that come to the counter   Solving all their cash related queries   Checking for the price of products and any discounts or offers   Receiving coupons and deducting the said amount from the customers   Organizing all the work they do and maintaining the accounting records   Reporting discrepancies they find within the accounts to their superiors   Making daily, weekly and monthly transaction reports Environmental Services Aide Tampa General Hospital - Tampa, FL October 2015 to August 2017 Maintain a clean facility for staff, visitors and patients. Tagger Broadband Interactive - Brandon, FL December 2015 to June 2016 • Cable TV Field Collectors are responsible for distributing late notices, picking up cable equipment and collecting payments from Comcast customers.    • Field Collectors drive specified routes in company-provided vehicles.  • Should be high-energy, self-motivated and goal-orientated. Successful Field Collectors have the ability to work independently and effectively manage their territories for maximum results. Single Packer Amazon Fulfilment - Ruskin, FL September 2015 to December 2015 • Take picking orders from supervisors and attempt to find products in Amazon warehouses  • Ensure that the picked product conforms to the order sheet provided  • Isolate damaged items to a predefined marked area and report it to supervisors  • Handle voice directed picking processes by following set protocols  • Maintain daily production and packing records  • Report any errors in product selection and quantity to the supervisor immediately Public Space Attendant Seminole Hardrock Casino - Tampa, FL February 2013 to September 2015 Provides quality customer service to patrons/guests and occasionally performs work with minimal  supervision.    • Maintains clean and attractive public and employee areas within the facility.  • Promotes positive public/employee relations at all times.  • Assists other departmental personnel and performs special projects as assigned. Database Administrator Centurylink - Apopka, FL June 2012 to February 2013 • Provides friendly and professional service to businesses with Internet services via telephone and/or written correspondence.    • Receives and resolves complaints and general calls in regards to service, billing, payment and other service related issues. Emeritus at Wekiva Springs Waitstaff - Apopka, FL August 2012 to January 2013 • Ensures resident and guest satisfaction by providing quick, efficient and pleasant delivery of food and beverages with exceptional communication skills.    • Takes food orders and delivers beverage orders in a timely manner.  • Assists in bussing and resetting tables for the next serving. Political Surveyor Database Adminstrative, Centurylink - Sanford, FL August 2012 to November 2012 • Collects and records confidential survey research data from survey respondents.  • Interviews survey respondents by telephone following strict guidelines and procedures.  • Records interview responses by entering answers into computer assisted system. Education A.S. in Nursing St. Petersburg College January 2012 to May 2012 Cert. Medical Pinellas County Job Corps Center November 2010 to May 2012