Trainer Trainer Driver C&H Solutions Fort Collins, CO Military professional with five years experience in the Army Aviation industry and an  extensive background in customer service. Strengths include oral communication,  diagnosing issues, and strategic thinking. Recognized for maintenance capabilities and  dependability. Detail-oriented, punctual and dependable. Work Experience Trainer 51 Fifty - Kersey, CO July 2019 to Present • Trained and assessed drivers on driving  • Trained drivers on equipment operations  • Trained drivers on safety/hazard assessments  • Maintained driver's training records  • Wrote new training assessments  • Wrote equipment standard operation procedures Driver C&H Solutions - Ault, CO May 2019 to July 2019 • Operated tractor trailers  • Conducted general operator level maintenance.   • Operated belly dumps  • Operated side dumps  • Transported equipment on lowboys   • Properly pre/post tripped equipment   • Maintained daily DVIRs  • Maintained job billing paperwork Driver trainer/coach, 51 Fifty - Kersey, CO January 2019 to May 2019 • Trained and assessed drivers on driving  • Trained drivers on equipment operations  • Trained drivers on safety/hazard assessments  • Maintained driver's training records  • Wrote new training assessments  • Wrote equipment standard operation procedures Driver 51 Fifty Solutions - Kersey, CO July 2018 to January 2019 • Hauled fresh water, flow back water, and production water from pads to disposal  • Safely handled dangerous liquids  • Assessed locations for safety hazards  • Communicated with customers for customer assurance  • Conducted spill mitigation and clean up on frac locations Facility Attendant City of Fort Collins (Recreation) - Fort Collins, CO October 2017 to January 2018 • Set up and tore down for events  • Maintained building security  • Provided customer service for customers renting community spaces  • Set up audio and visual equipment when events required it Clerical Aide City of Fort Collins (Recreation) - Fort Collins, CO May 2017 to October 2017 • Made appointments for recreation members  • Customer service  • Maintained daily funds  • Enforced city policies within recreational facilities  • Ensured daily events and classes operated smoothly  • Maintained information between members and recreational facilities Database Administrator US Army - Fort Drum, NY January 2016 to July 2016 • Maintained database within the hangar  • Troubleshot faults within the database  • Lead and oriented maintenance meetings  • Tracked unit aircraft maintenance and assigned maintenance  • Reported daily and monthly maintenance to executive levels  • Maintained work orders within the organization Avionic Systems Repairer U.S. Army - Fort Drum, NY March 2011 to January 2016 • Maintained armament/electrical/avionic systems on the aircraft.  • Worked to meet maintenance deadlines.  • Conducted scheduled and unscheduled maintenance.  • Assisted in successful qualification training exercises for the unit pilots.  • Participated in numerous aircraft recovery missions.  • Lead and supervised maintenance shifts and field operations.  • Ensured safe launches with no faults for aircraft.  • Lead high risk operations with no with failure. Warehouse Employee/Customer Service Big Lots - Fort Collins, CO 2009 to 2010 • Received all incoming goods from shipping companies, separated all incoming goods according to the departments they belong.  • Priced all incoming goods and inspected all packages for damage or contamination.  • Ensured all shelves remained in order, cleaned and stocked.  • Assisted with the needs of customers.  • Kept count of the stores daily profit. Cook Cook Pizza Palace - Wellington, CO November 2008 to February 2009 • Prepared ingredients for menu items, cooked all foods to customer's order.  • Prepared kitchen and dining areas for the following business days. Cook Cook Burger King - Wellington, CO October 2008 to November 2008 • Cooked customer's food to order.  • Cleaned dining areas.  • Prepared kitchen for each business day for the next shift. Electronics Customer Service Representative Kmart - Fort Collins, CO April 2008 to June 2008 • Kept accountability of store's daily earnings in the electronics department.  • Maintained accountability of store's high value items within the electronics  department.  • Performed custodial duties within the electronics department.  • Performed sales clerk duties. Fairground Attendant Laramie County Fair - Cheyenne, WY July 2006 to August 2006 • Performed custodial duties in livestock living quarters, built and tore down corals  for the livestock.  • Insured safety for fairgoers, provided transportation for patrons within the fair  grounds.  • Provided assistance for set up and tear down for concerts.  • Made sure all livestock had well nutrition and hydration. Education High school or equivalent Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Certifications/Licenses CDL Class A or B