Senior SQL Database Administrator Senior SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL DBA - GEICO Rockville, MD • Having 5+ Years of Database Administration and Development experience on MS SQL SERVER 2014/2012/2008 R2/2008/2005/2000 in OLTP and OLAP environments  • Experience in installing MS SQL SERVER 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008, 2005 and updating with hot fix and service packs  • Strong exp in Always on Availability Groups. Strong understanding of RDBMS concepts as well as Data Modeling Concepts  • Extensive experience in implementing HADR solutions like Replication (Snapshot and Transactional), Log shipping, clustering and mirroring on physical and virtual machines  • Experienced in developing Power BI reports and dashboards from various Data Sources like Cube, Databases, Excel files.  • Good Experience in database design, data modeling, development, implementation, ETL and reporting in SQL Server 2016/2014/2008 R2.  • Reporting Services (SSRS), Analysis Services (SSAS) & Power BI (Power View, Power Pivot)  • Practical understanding of data modeling (dimensional & amp; relational) concepts like star-schema modeling, snowflake schema modeling, and fact and dimension tables. Used Power BI to prepare dashboards to create attractive visualizations.  • Experience and skills in Behavior Modeling, Predictive Modeling for Insurance. Experience in handling business and technical issues & communicating with both business users and technical users.  • Good experience in building reports with Business Objects XI 2/XI3/4.0/4.1 and Tableau desktop. Good knowledge in Spark Apache.  • Created SQL server jobs on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages to automate the execution of the packages at a particular time depending on requirements. Knowledge in writing T-SQL (DDL, DML, and DCL) statements  • Migrated DTS 2000 packages to SSIS packages in 2005 using Migration Wizard. Experience using SQL SERVER 2008 new features like Policy Based Management, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Performance Data Collector and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)  • Experience and working knowledge with Microsoft Azure Infrastructure as a Service platform, including planning, configuration, optimization and deployment. Understands unique differences in customer/departmental needs.  • Worked on Data Integrity, Performance Tuning, Query Optimization. Providing on call support 24/7 on rotational basis for production database on mission critical systems. Developed reports using Microsoft Power BI (Desktop, Service, Mobile)  • Developed dashboards with Power BI which display key KPIs for business analysis and decision-making Implementing CR (Change Request) and CA (Change Amendments) requested by users. Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources.  • Work closely with other departments within Fidelity and act as interface bet the DB2 group and the other technical teams coordinating their upgrades/projects/ deliverables.  • Extensively used native tools like index tuning wizard, database tuning advisor, profiler, performance monitor, activity monitor, event viewer for performance analysis.  • Experience in Client/Server Connectivity, Database health Check, Indexing and Updating Statistics. Azure PaaS Solutions like Azure Web Apps, Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure and Azure Storage  • Expert in Implement deploy and configure Azure websites, configure diagnostics, monitoring and analytics on Azure Platform along with scale and resilience for Azure Web sites. Configured SMTP SERVER for Database Mail setup and received Alerts for the Threshold values  • Experience in Fog light and CIS Tools, Experience in Team Foundation Server (TFS) . Experience in CRQ and BDA Tools. Worked on third party tools like BCP Remedy Tool, Lite Speed, Fog light and Red gate.  • Experience in creating SQL SERVER Reports using SSRS 2005/2008 and worked on Hyper-V and VMware environments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior SQL Database Administrator GEICO - Rockville, MD March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Good Experience in database design, data modeling, development, implementation, ETL and reporting in SQL Server 2016/2014/2008 R2.  • Good experience in Analysis Services (SSAS) & Power BI (Power View, Power Pivot)  • Practical understanding of data modeling (dimensional & amp; relational) concepts like star-schema modeling, snowflake schema modeling, and fact and dimension tables.  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using PowerPivot, Power View & Power BI.  • Exceptional written and verbal communication skills. Able to explain complex technical problems to wide range of vendors and coworkers.  • Play key role in creating and implementing company-wide security policies, including establishing procedures for IT department.  • Manage updates and configure alert responses for all database systems, ensuring optimal security and backup.  • Work closely with coworkers and vendors to analyze reports, assess problems, and ensure timely remediation of all issues  • Tested and assessed vulnerability of systems utilizing multiple programs, analyzing results to track and manage repairs.  • Worked closely with coworkers and other departments to ensure all problems were fixed in timely manner.  • Experience in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server.  • Expert in performing installation, configuration (32bit/64bit), optimization, server builds, patches, service packs, upgrading and troubleshooting of SQL Servers in Clustered and Non-Clustered Environments. Senior SQL Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed the customer comparison reports in MS SQL Server environment using SSRS 2012.  • Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages for new ETL Processes and upgraded the existing DTS packages to SSIS for the on-going ETL Processes.  • Extracted data from various sources like SQL Server 2008/2012, Oracle, .CSV, Excel and Text file from Client servers and through FTP.  • Extensively used Grid View and Details View and Form View to display data in a customized format in the ASP.NET web pages.  • Implemented and supported different High Availability & Disaster Recovery scenarios like Always-On Availability Groups (AAG), Clustering (Active/Passive), Replication models (Transactional, Snapshot), Log Shipping (Native and Custom) and Data Base Mirroring.  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications.  • Good Experience in database design, data modeling, development, implementation, ETL and reporting in SQL Server 2016/2014/2008 R2.  • Reporting Services (SSRS), Analysis Services (SSAS) & Power BI (Power View, Power Pivot)  • Practical understanding of data modeling (dimensional & amp; relational) concepts like star-schema modeling, snowflake schema modeling, and fact and dimension tables. Used Power BI to prepare dashboards to create attractive visualizations.  • Created reports in Power BI preview portal utilizing the SSAS Tabular using Power BI Gateway. Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using PowerPivot, Power View & Power BI.  • Experience in Reporting Services, Power BI (Dash Board Reports), Power BI using MS SQL Server and in supporting services MDX technology of the analysis services.  • Experience monitoring MS SQL Server databases and performance tuning using Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler, and Windows Performance Monitor for optimal performance.  • Expertise configuring and creating SSIS solutions for ETL and business intelligence process for data integration and migration services.  • Skilled in merging data from various heterogeneous data sources, populating dimension and fact tables in data warehouses and data marts, cleaning and standardizing data loaded into OLTP and OLAP databases using SSIS.  • Extensive experience creating SSIS packages to manage SQL server databases and SQL server objects between instances of SQL server.  • Created Dynamic time-based calculations like MTD, QTD, YTD, Prior, %YoY etc.  • Expertise creating various parameterized, cascaded, linked, drill-through and drill-down reports.  • Expertise configuring and managing data sources, data source views, cubes, dimensions, mining structures, roles and creating hierarchies with SSAS.  • Created SQL server jobs on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages to automate the execution of the packages at a particular time depending on requirements.  • Expertise configuring and managing data sources, data source views, cubes, dimensions, mining structures, roles and creating hierarchies with SSAS.  • Created SSIS packages with complicated transformations like Lookup, Derived Column, Condition Split, Multicast, Sort, Union All, Cache Transform, and Conditional Split, Fuzzy, Look-ups, Checksum, Conditional Splits and Event Handlers, Error Handlers etc.  • Great Expertise in event handlers, Package Configurations, Logging, and Check points, Package Securities and User Defined Variables for SSIS Packages.  • Experience in Reporting Services, Power BI (Dash Board Reports), Power BI using MS SQL Server and in supporting services MDX technology of the analysis services. SQL Server DBA ADP - Parsippany, NJ October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Regularly monitored and identified blocking issues. Worked on a procedure that continuously run on all PROD servers and notifies DBA team if any blocking, long running quires/transactions.  • Check Performance counters on all production servers and verify that all counters are within the normal range. Designed SSRS metrics report to review the counters for everyone hour. Throughout the day, periodically monitored performance using System Monitor and DMV.  • Responsibilities include virtual networks, image creation and maintenance, subscription management, storage management, Backup/DR, Network Security Groups, Role Based Access Controls, Azure Active Directory, Azure Automation, Monitoring, and Logging.  • Good understanding and Experience in cloud computing-based services architecture, technical design and implementations including IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. Checked the fragmentation and rebuild/ reorganize the indexes.  • Checked all the Stats Update / nightly checkalloc / Index Rebuild jobs are completed without any issue.  • Good exposure in (ASR) azure site recovery  • Worked with the other teams to make sure that all servers are at health condition and to balance the infrastructure.  • Approach regarding (CR/IR/SR - Change Request/ Incident / Service) Found I/O errors, blocked by, CPU wait stats, and session. Created documentation for Databases (Dev / Stag / QA / PROD)  • Technical Analysis, Code Review, Implementation, 24*7 production support  Developed SSIS packages to extract the data from SAP and load them into SSIS using multiple data flow transformations such as conditional split, merge and union all.  • Excuted SQL Server Integration Services packages using SQL Server Agent Job for building high performance data integration.  • Worked in Team Foundation server to resolve the issues. Worked in automated continuous replication for Azure Site Recovery providing Failover and failback has been triggered with GUI.  • Worked on Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and other related monitoring and troubleshooting tools.  • Involved with other teams in Migrating the SQL server 2012 to 2014. Senior SQL DBA PWC - Albany, NY June 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and maintained of SQL Server 2014, 2012 on Test, Development and Production Environments, Active Directory Administration  • Build High availability, Disaster Recovery and Human T-SQL error plans to meet business requirement.  • Implemented Disaster Recovery Planning (Using Asynchronous (High-Performance) mirroring with manual failover), Testing and analyzing continuous update of documentation  • Provided explicit permissions to specific tables to users in databases  • Prepare RCA (Root Cause Analysis) using Profiler Trace, Performance counters with System Monitor.  • Azure Automation (cloud and on-premises) solution development for Microsoft POC engagements  • Support the DB2 databases on AIX and ensuring their performance, availability and security. Troubleshooting and problem solving of DB2 databases. Tuned stored procedures and T-SQL for performance using indexes.  Azure Backup and Backup Server configuration and POC.  • Azure Site Recovery (ASR) configuration and POC  • Prepared databases for Mirroring and Configured the principal Server  • Handled with both the Planned Failover and the Unplanned Failover  • Generated matrix reports, drill down, drill through, sub reports, chart reports, multi parameterized reports.  • Configure the report server and generate the report models for user interactions.  • Ensured the systems are functioning optimally and that users are able to upload  • Migrated SQL Server 2012 to SQL Server2014  • Monitored, scheduled SSIS and changed SSIS Workflows & Configurations.  • Experienced with optimizing and performance tuning the queries for a large SQL Cube and ETL  • Exposure to supporting ETL based applications. Education Bachelors in Education Details Computer Engineering form New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ Skills MS SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (5 years), SQL SERVER (5 years), ETL (3 years), EXTRACT, TRANSFORM, AND LOAD (3 years), Oracle Dba, MYSQL, DBA, Postgresql, Sql Dba, Ssis, Sybase, RAC, Sql Database, Rman, Oracle Database, DB2 Additional Information Technical skills:  Operating Systems Windows 7/Vista/XP/2000/NT, Server 2012/2008R2/2003, Exchange 2003, Linux, UNIX  RDBMS MS SQL SERVER 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014, DB2, MS Access  Languages Transact-SQL, SQL and Visual Basic  Database Tools  Enterprise Manager SQL Profiler, I-SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, ODBC, OLTP, SQL OLEDB, ERWIN, PSSDIAG, VISIO, IIS, HP SAN SCSI, LITE SPEED, RED GATE, VSS, BMC (MAGIC Help Desk), TFS, Double Take, SQLMON, Quest Lite speed, SQL Safe, Red gate, Tivoli, Azure.    ETL Tools SSIS 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012, DTS  OLAP Tools SSAS 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012  Reporting Tools SSRS 2005/2008/2012, Crystal Reports, BO-Universe, Web Intelligence, MS Excel, Power BI.  SAP Business Objects Lumira, HANA