Manager III / Project Owner DECK-ALS Manager III / Project Owner DECK-ALS Manager III / Project Owner DECK-ALS - DATBASE Callaway, MD A versatile and results-producing professional with over 31 years' aviation maintenance experience and a proven track record in management of quality programs, planning, managing and supervising complex operations, evaluating and directing aviation maintenance and process improvement; Directly performed the duties as VX-20 System Administrator / Data Analyst at VX-20 while on Active Duty. Possess active Secret/SSBI security clearance. Areas of expertise include:    NALCOMIS Database Administrator  Product Owner  Subject Matter Expert Aviation Administration Work Experience Manager III / Project Owner DECK-ALS DATBASE - Lexington Park, MD 2019 to Present Supervisor: Katherine Stone/Katherine.stone@us.kbr.com. (301) 866-5521. Annual salary: $98,000.  Managed 2 Independent NALCOMIS OOMA Servers. Project Owner for DECK-ALS, and Subject Matter Expert Aviation Administration for EPUK, DECK-ALS and Maintenance Scheduler.  • Managed Backlog within Microsoft Visual Studio. Prioritize the Backlog to meet the Government Lead's recommendations as to when they would like work placed into upcoming Sprints.  • Writes User Story's against proposed Change Request. User Story are brief but concise. Meeting the expectations of what changes would need to be implemented within Deck-ALS.  • Write Acceptance Criteria against each User Story. Acceptance Criteria is a more detailed report so that developers can move forward to make the recommended changes to the database.  • Professional working knowledge of several Government programs, such as, Deck-ALS, Deckplate, Vector, and Maintenance Scheduler. Exhibits excellent communication skills within the team, as well as with Government IT Lead. Computer Programmer II /Logs and Records DYNCORP INTERNATIONAL, AIRTEVRON TWO ZERO (VX-20), Patuxent - River, MD, US 2014 to 2019 Supervisor: Thomas Vorse /Thomas.vorse.ctr@navy.mil. (301) 342-2725. Annual salary: $90,000.  Managed the records keeping, flight data, Nalcomis OOMA database, and DYNMRO in support of a multiple aircraft (T-2, C-12, T-6, G-100 and E-6B)    • Manually inputted all required data with DYNMRO for both the C-12B and G-100 aircraft. Update required inspection time cycles, utilizes FAA publications for all inspection requirements. Maintain a manually updated Microsoft Excel spreadsheet for G-100 aircraft for all required maintenance/inspections.  • Processed over 100 Technical Directives for completion on the E-6, T-2 and T-6 aircraft.  • Analyzed maintenance data metrics forecasting trends, aircraft availability, upkeep, and preventive maintenance.  • Issues, tracks and reviews required inspections, forced removals, and technical directives utilizing NALCOMIS OOMA. Updates the Configuration management for NALCOMIS Optimized stored aircraft.  • Maintain aircraft, engine, propeller, and seat ALSS logbooks for multiple aircraft.  • Assisted in the transfer of aircraft, engines, and propellers to Chilean Air Force in support of Foreign Military Sales (FMS).  • Reconfigured Nalcomis Optimized (OOMA) for Foreign Military Sales, establishing separate organizational code (ORG CODE), line of accounting, part requisitions, and flight hour documentation.  • NALCOMIS 5.22 OOMA Database Administrator. Perform daily back-up on main server. Maintain the server's operational capabilities. Upload Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert, Data Alignment and Security Rollups. Maintenance Control Supervisor Safe for Flight 2014 to 2014 2014  L-3 VERTEX, STRIKE AIRCRAFT TEST DIRECTORATE (VX-23), Patuxent River, MD  Supervisor: Stuart Didsbury /stuart.didsbury@gmail.com. Annual salary: $40,800.  Provided Maintenance Control support and accountability for 2 T-45 aircraft maintenance, inspections, and Technical Directive compliance. Managed the workload of 12 L-3 Vertex employees. Achieved Safe for Flight Qualification from L-3 Vertex and VX-23 Commanding Officer. Responsibilities include logistics support management, maintenance data analysis, manpower management, and maintenance information reporting.    • Issued and tracked all workorders utilizing NALCOMIS OOMA .20, issued and tracked the completion of all scheduled Special inspections.  • Reviewed electronic Aircraft Discrepancy Book for last 10 flights, noting any repeat discrepancies, briefed/debriefed pilots, as well as tracking any scheduled forced removal high time items.  • Coordinated with the T-45 Program Office regarding upcoming flights, maintenance schedules, prolonged downtime both scheduled and unscheduled.  • Reviewed Technical Directives, Engineering Change Proposals (ECP) and Project Configuration Memorandum (PCM) for applicability and compliance with configuration management. Coordinated all aircraft modifications with the Configuration Management Office (CMO).  • Reviewed prospective changes to aircraft/weapon/support equipment (SE) quantities, Aviation and Shore Consolidated Allowance List (AVCAL/SHORCAL), Individual Material Readiness List (IMRL), operating aircraft per squadron, squadron manning, and analyze the effect these elements have on logistics support and capability requirements. Database Administrator / Logs and Records Supervisor River, MD, US 2010 to 2014 Supervisor: AECS(AW) Angela Johns /angela.johns@navy.mil. (301) 995-4478. Annual salary: $61,000.  Provided direction to 311 military, civilian, and DoD contractors performing upkeep maintenance and configuration upgrade on 19 aircraft of 12 different type/model/series. Responsibilities include logistics support management, maintenance data analysis, manpower management, and maintenance information reporting.    • Directly contributed to the squadron achievements: delivery and continued testing of the P-8A Poseidon, completion of the Block I evaluation for the E-6A Mercury, providing critical aerial refueling support of the Joint Strike Fighter, conducting alternate fuel testing on the T-6A and a multi-phase evaluation of the T-6B, integrated test and characterization of the Harvest Hawk (High Altitude Weapons Kit) on the KC-130J and conducting the first carrier suitability trials of the E-2D aircraft.  • Responsible for the research and procurement of T-2C and C-130 aircraft components in support of their life cycle sustainment for aircraft chase and fueling capabilities in support of Joint Strike Fighter (JSF).  • Originated and reviewed reports, plans, procedures, and briefings for senior leadership for decision making in the management of product support, manpower/personnel, facilities, logistics support, and training.  • Drafted and reviewed documents such as Planner and Estimator (P&E) Request, Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&M).  • Coordinated with Class Desk, depot-level maintenance facilities, Fleet Support Team (FST), and contract project managers the transfer of nine aircraft for depot-level maintenance and on-site repair of three aircraft, including a mishap-damaged aircraft.  • Reviewed Technical Directives, Engineering Change Proposals (ECP) and Project Configuration Memorandum (PCM) for applicability and compliance with configuration management. Coordinated weapon systems modifications with the Configuration Management Office (CMO).  • Reviewed prospective changes to aircraft/weapon/support equipment (SE) quantities, Aviation and Shore Consolidated Allowance List (AVCAL/SHORCAL), Individual Material Readiness List (IMRL), operating aircraft per squadron, squadron manning, and analyze the effect these elements have on logistics support and capability requirements.  • Coordinated with DynCorp and Northrop Grumman Corporation managers in establishing the type and quantity of operator and maintenance training for operation and maintenance of aircraft systems and equipment throughout their life cycle.  • Collected and analyzed Aviation Maintenance and Material Management (AV3M) data that provided maintenance efficiencies and resolutions to long-standing discrepancies.  • Coordinated with Fleet Readiness Center (FRC) the uninterrupted availability of ground support and test equipment in support of test and evaluation flights.  • Compiled data for AMSRR (Aircraft Maintenance Supply and Maintenance Reporting) to Commander Naval Air Forces (CNAF) reflecting accurate aircraft configuration/status.  • Qualified as a Ground Government Flight Representative, oversaw all Administrative and Logistic audits, as well as Project Configuration completions.  • Qualified Maintenance Control representative within VX-20 coordinating with both DynCorp and Northrop Grumman Maintenance Control for completed maintenance, maintenance planning, extended periods of aircraft unavailability. Prepared nightly/weekend Passdown for VX-20 Navy Maintenance Control for morning briefing of squadron Maintenance Officer.  • Upgraded VX-20 from Nalcomis Gen 3 server to Nalcomis OOMA Gen 5 server.  • Rebuild Nalcomis OOMA Gen 5 server on 3 separate occasions due to system failure.  • Draft / Submit / Publish VX-20 3M Summary for the squadron Maintenance Material Control Officer.  • Draft / Submit / Publish VX-20 Monthly Maintenance Plan each month for squadron Maintenance Officer. Education Associates of Science Degree in Business Marketing College of Southern Maryland