Founder, Owner, 3d Artist Founder, Owner, 3d Artist Founder, Owner, 3d Artist - Figured Vision, LLC Bowie, MD Work Experience Founder, Owner, 3d Artist Figured Vision, LLC - Bowie, MD December 2016 to Present • Conducted economic, industry, and market research, analyzing the $240.5 billion global industry utilizing regression models and market positioning systems on 3 strategic levels (global, regional, domestic), deriving key data insights to guide an actionable business plan.  • Established and outlined business processes in preparation for possible technical patents, adapting them into an effective means of communicating business functions to external stakeholders without compromising the security of patentable processes.  • Negotiated with Stratasys Ltd. to obtain a cost-free product benchmark and future, discounted supplies and 3d print services. Directed an outline with Stratsys Ltd.'s business development manager to outline a synergistic crowdfunding and marketing campaign to obtain seed funding for Figured Vision, LLC and sales growth for Stratasys Ltd.  • Strategically identified, engineered, and implemented 2 brand lines that exploit Figured Vision, LLC's differentiation strategy while capitalizing on shifting market trends in the character merchandising industry. Conducted SWOT and economic forecasting analysis to identify and develop a third line of products which covers a weakness in the business's market position.  • Maximized the utility of existing capital to create a prototype, saving $21,000 for the early stage of the business. Marketing Coordinator University of New Mexico - Veterans' Resource Center - Albuquerque, NM August 2014 to January 2015 • Devised, presented, and executed low-cost guerrilla marketing strategies to effectively convey information to targeted market segments, resulting in a 47% decrease in spending on marketing objectives.  • Reworked existing marketing efforts to improve efficiency and precision, preventing burn-out of market segments from low-impact advertisements. This increased student-veteran participation and awareness of benefits by an additional 900+ student-veterans.  • Developed long-term, integrative partnerships with 4 external organizations and coordinated the planning and marketing of veterans' events and benefits, stimulating the community's involvement with student-veterans by 33%.  • Partnered with local news agencies in support of the University of New Mexico's communications strategy, producing official comments, press releases, and interviews concerning the student-veteran population.  • Expanded outreach to over 1500 local veterans concerning education benefits, retraining opportunities, and effective transitioning from the military to civilian careers. Database Administrator University of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM August 2011 to January 2013 Consolidated medical education data with medical case study and grand rounds data to formulate usable statistical information concerning growing medical trends. Medical directors utilized this information to adapt the continuing education of New Mexico physicians to address public health concerns. Company Communications Chief Marines Special Operations Company K 2007 to 2011 • Maintained $87 million of communications and technical suites. Additionally fostered an environment of technical creativity, guiding team communicators to anticipate future operational requirements and designing information systems and communications hardware to meet these projected use cases. 1 new cross-platform system and 2 new devices were created and successfully launched across MARSOC. These systems were then adopted by other units in the fleet marine force. Created the technical documentation to fabricate and integrate the products.  • Analyzed, evaluated, and field-tested 5 new technologies for special operations, adapting on-hand technical suites to exploit new equipment and creating technical manuals for every operator. Designed testing protocol to account for austere environments and a wide array of operational scenarios.  • Directed a team of 24 technical specialists and assistant communicators to deploy, operate, and maintain communications and technical suites, resulting in a 98% success rate of communications uptime. . During combat operations, led a cross-functional team of 7 marines in accomplishing objectives and capitalizing on targets of opportunity.  • Operated in austere, ambiguous environments while methodically executing the senior command's strategic vision. This included making command decisions with no direct guidance due to the high op tempo of USSOCOM (United States Special Operations Command).  • Engaged in the planning of over 9 strategic operations, identifying core objectives, translating objectives into capability requirements for the technical subject-matter experts, and designing information systems to meet those requirements. As a result, every capability requirement was met through a combination of innovative adaptations of existing systems and the integration of newly-acquired gear. Additionally, field adaptations were successfully rigged to meet capability requirements discovered during operations.  • Trained and evaluated 13 operators to become technical subject-matter experts and backup communicators for their teams. Authored the course materials and field guides for 19 information systems, resulting in a This documentation reduced the number of of support calls from deployed marines by 38%.  • Authored standard operating procedures and policies for technical maintenance and the effective decrease of replacement parts acquisition and repairs by $21 million during CY 2008 to CY 2010. Additionally, there were no breaches in communications security or operations security.  • Scaled small-unit tactics to company-wide strategic operations, utilizing lessons learned through after action reviews.  • Coordinated joint operations with foreign, allied forces abroad, effectively communicating strategic objectives, force mobilization, and intelligence analysis. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management of Information Systems, Entrepreneurial Studies, Economics Minor University of New Mexico - Anderson School of Management - Albuquerque, NM August 2011 to December 2016 Additional Information Strategic Planning Strategic Analysis Brand Management  Leadership / Mentorship Technical Writing Policy Development  Market / Industry Research Digital Communications AGILE Development