Financial Analyst Financial Analyst Financial Analyst Waldorf, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Financial Analyst XLA, Inc - Washington, DC June 2019 to Present Work as a Financial Analyst for US Attorneys office.  Review all Resource Management and Planning (RMP) managed obligations for the proper amount and delivery status quarterly, and develop/recommend corrective action plans as needed; • Develop or revise current monitoring tools to better identify obligations which may be closed;  • Prepare quarterly status reports of RMP managed obligations;   • Prepare and update invoice tracker;  • Update RMP commitment/obligation logs;  • Prepare payment corrections and reconciliations;  • Document minutes of financial management meetings;  • Assist with preparation of the leasehold improvement report;  • Assist budget analysts with generating reports required for execution reviews;   • Conduct a burn/usage analysis in March and June of RMP obligations to identify obligation balances that may be overstated or understated;   • Prepare pertinent financial documents within established due dates as required by JMD Finance/Budget Staffs;   • Generate specific program-related reports as needed;   • Preparation of written training material for presentation purposes as well as examples used for discussion purpose in training classes;   • Preparing quarterly open obligation summary;   • Ensure all supporting documentation for obligation files are uploaded into UFMS and are audit complaint;   • Review payment transactions for obligations to ensure billings received and charges recorded in UFMS are accurate, complete, and documented;   • Update UFMS or provide a written documented accrual methodology to be used to update UFMS accurately and timely;   • The contractor will work to resolve discrepancies in amounts provided, if needed;  • All current and prior year reimbursement agreements, DOJ -216s (and similar documents including but not limited to Interagency Agreement(IAA), Military Interdepartmental Purchase Requests(MIPRS), Memorandum of Agreements(MOAs), etc.) including modifications to such documents;   • Statements of Anticipated Reimbursements, as well as provide updates to line 3 of the Apportionment Schedules;  • Advisory notices on agreements with expiring periods of performance; Database Administrator (UFMS Specialist) CACI, Inc - Washington, DC May 2018 to Present UFMS specialist with DOJ- Environment and Natural Resources Division, providing direct support to senior experts in budgeting and procurement. Analyzing financial data and preparing financial reports. Managing the full invoice payment process to successfully cut down interest penalties occurred for late payments.    • Manages 50-100 vendor payments in UFMS weekly, ensuring transactions ranging in value from $100-$600,000 each are properly processed for all of ENRD expert witness contracts.  • Preparing and managing the internal and external audit preparations and the final submission for all of the expert witness contracts.  • De-obligating prior year expert witness contracts out of SAFARI (Expert Witness Contract Management System) and UFMS to move funding to current year contracts.  • Creating new obligations in SAFARI for expert witness contracts to be updated and funded in UFMS.  • Provide open obligation UFMS reports to the Contracting Officer to provide insight of all unliquidated obligations  • Assist procurement and budget staff with any processing issues in UFMS. Financial Management Specialist CGI Federal - Falls Church, VA March 2016 to May 2018 Provided direct support to senior experts in budgeting and procurement for DOJ-Executive Office of Immigration Review. Analyzing financial data and preparing financial reports. Track record of internal promotion, currently entrusted with tracking budgets with a sum total in excess of $84 million and providing technical advice with regard to complex financial issues  • Works collaboratively across 12 departments, including the Office of Management and Programs and Office of Communication and Legislative Affairs, with hands-on management of four simultaneous budget tracking projects, including the $25 million "reimbursable work authorization contract" and $20 million "security work authorization contract" with GSA for Office of Management and Planning.  • Developed and delivered UMFS training to approximately 30 colleagues over the course of a two-day workshop, assisting in the agency's new accounting software to improving efficiency and compliance with best practices and policies and empowering fellow analysts with the latest in UFMS vendor payment and accrual processes.  • Provide monthly briefings on the current state of the agency budget and financial transactions to management.  • Manages 20-40 vendor payments in UFMS each week, ensuring transactions ranging in value from $10,000-$200,000 each are properly processed across all 12 departments.  • Review and research documents for the Intra-Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) payments in UFMS.  • Generating/interpreting UFMS budget execution reports (e.g. A/P, E&A, aging, open obligation reports)  • Review accounting data to clear unliquidated obligation balances; de-obligate funds and/or close contracts (e.g. Procurement and Non-Procurement Contracts)  • Responsible for processing and recording financial transactions in UFMS for all 8 components within EOIR.  • Assisting the Budget and Finance Department with internal and external audit preparations  • Prepares and submit agencies contracts and review checklists to ensure accuracy and  • completeness of the contract review process Budget Technician Department of Public Works and the Department of Motor Vehicles - Washington, DC July 2014 to May 2016 Financial project manager in the Government Service Cluster, providing direct support to the Department of Public Works and the Department of Motor Vehicles. Focused on reporting, reconciliation, and process analysis.  • Worked directly with the Assistant Budget Director to analyze complex quarterly financial reviews for four agencies in the Government Service Cluster, with budgets up to $350 million.  • Synchronized multiple financial databases to collect more than $5000 a month, over the course of eight months, in previously lost revenue for DMV services.  • Entrusted with transaction reconciliation on receipts up to $500,000 for approximately six Department of Motor Vehicles service centers in the greater D.C. area.  • Provided written memorandums to Office of Budget and Planning(OBP) on the status of why an Agency for the Government Service Cluster either has a spending pressure or under spending for each quarter of the Fiscal year  • Performed routine database management duties such as storing and retrieving data for new ways to show all Government Service Clusters budget to the public. Budget Analyst Assistant SJ Dependable, LLC - Oxon Hill, MD June 2010 to December 2013 Worked directly with the CEO to formulate budget forecasts, including creating of reports and metrics, and regular team collaboration on mechanisms to enhance the bottom line.  • Lowered expenses and decreased overhead by migrating to electronic bid submission, eliminating paper workload, and paying invoices early to receive vendor discounts.  • Directly involved in management of a $150,000 small business account.  • Trusted agent who personally delivered payroll data and payment to ten employees. Education BS in Business Management / Finance Delaware State University - Dover, DE 2014 Skills ACCOUNTING (6 years), FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (3 years), Financial Analysis, Budgeting, Financial Reporting Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  SOAR (System of Accounting and Reporting)  CFO$olve  PeopleSoft  UFMS (Unified Financial Management System)  eRETA (GSA RWA customer portal)  FMIS (Financial Management Information System)  JEDI (Justice Department Enterprise Data Integration)  Microsoft Office Productivity Suite - Advanced Application in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook  SAFARI (Expert Witness Contract Management System)