Oracle Database Administrator (contractor) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (contractor) Oracle Database Administrator (contractor) Fairfax, VA I am an accomplished Oracle Database Administrator with over 8 years of professional IT experience. I have worked with  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c and SQL Server 2008, 2012 databases on various platforms (Linux, UNIX, and Windows) in  development and test, and production environments. I am an enthusiastic professional who is fast at picking up new  technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication & documentation abilities. My experience  consists of performing database backup and recovery measures, implementing security and access controls, configuring  database encryption, maintenance, monitoring, and performance tuning of databases. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator (contractor) FedEx - Washington, DC August 2013 to Present I am an accomplished Oracle  Database  Administrator with over 8 years of professional IT experience. I have worked with Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c and SQL Server 2008, 2012 databases on various platforms (Linux, UNIX, and Windows) in development and test, and production environments. I am an enthusiastic professional who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication & documentation abilities. My experience consists of performing database backup and recovery measures, implementing security and access controls, configuring database encryption, maintenance, monitoring, and performance tuning of databases DBA Database Patching - Silver Spring, MD May 2011 to August 2013 and Upgrades.  • Support Oracle 11g and 12c databases on UNIX and Linux platforms in development, test, and production  environments.  • Work with the application team on supporting OLTP and OLAP (Data Warehouse) databases- table, index, column  creation and management  • Monitor databases for database performance analysis and SQL Optimization using native tools such as AWS, ADDM  and OEM other metrics: including PL/SQL and complex Queries.  • Database Refreshes between Production and Non-productions; and between Non-productions using Data Pump.  • Perform encryption of data at rest using Transparent Data Encryption for Oracle databases.  • Create and manage user accounts using assigned roles and privileges.  • Capacity Planning and Health Checks for the databases such as free storage, used and adding capacity.  • Backup and recovery of Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Assist QA testers and developers with database related issues and production issues in ticketing system.  • Provide status reports to management on databases.  Discovery Channel, Silver Spring MD May 2011 - Aug 2013  Database Administrator (contractor) Education BS in Information Technology George Mason University 2018 to Present Skills DBA, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, Oracle Dba Additional Information SKILLS AND TOOLS    OS/Platform Linux, UNIX, Windows    Database Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL Server 2008, 2012    Database tools RMAN, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Data Pump, AWR/ADDM, Explain Plan,  SQL Tuning Advisor, OEM, SQL Developer, SQL Plus