Operations and Branding Consultant Operations and Branding Consultant Florence, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operations and Branding Consultant Tennessee Valley ENT Clinic - Sheffield, AL August 2014 to April 2019 • Operations Consulting: Audited current systems, including EMR, HR practices, and sta roles. Developed new workflow in oce, reallocated and reoriented sta, and have thoroughly researched new streams of income.   • Rebranded Practice: Created new logo and implemented new signage and uniforms. Assisted in bringing a new physician into the practice in order to achieve the objective of reducing the work of the primary doctor.  Senior Administrative Assistant/ Database Administrator University of North Alabama - Florence, AL November 2017 to June 2018 •   TK20 Assessment System/ Database Administrator: Responsible for Assessment Management System to the College of Education. Composed and built interface between students and teachers, while ensuring timely compliance with all government requirements.   •  Maintained office files, budget, inventory, and handled all correspondence and event planning.   •  Trained all faculty and staff on the assessment system.   •  Acted as the point person and “help desk” for all students and Professors within the Department.  Senior Administrative Assistant Weill Cornell Medical College - New York, NY October 2010 to June 2014 • Implementation of EPIC system. Responsible for coordinating training for all employees, including in-house training and travel. Served as a liaison between EPIC and the University. Proctored all certification exams.   • Analyzed employee growth and team size, and subsequently spearheaded the project to plan, renovate, and completely prepare new work areas to accommodate a rapidly growing organization and a demanding schedule.   • Office Manager Education Bachelor's in Dual Major in Spanish and Philosophy University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2003 to May 2008 Skills Microsoft Suite Including Excel and Access, impeccable attention to detail, fast and self-starting learner, excellent interpersonal and communicative skills, functions well in a stressful environment.