SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Crowe Chicago, IL • A certified SQL Server DBA with over 5+ years of experience in Database Administration, Design, Development and Support of MS SQL Server, R2, and Production, UAT and  • Development Environments. Hold strong knowledge of database security including data encryption and decryption. Experience in Performance Tuning, Index Tuning, Execution Plan,  • database Optimization, Producing Reports, Backup and Disaster Recovery. Solid experience in SQL Server high availability solutions, including Always-On Availability Groups, and SQL Server  • Clustering (Active-Active, Active-Passive). Proficient in SQL/T-SQL, indexes, stored procedures,  • triggers and functions. Proven ability to identify root cause of database issues with expertise to  • troubleshoot and resolve issues promptly. Performed of SQL server and database upgrades and migrate on different versions and third-party tools like ERWin, Toad Data Modeler, SQL  • Sentry/SentryOne, SolarWinds, Idera and Redgate. Cloud Computing (Azure Services), migrating on-premises from Legacy databases to Azure Services and setup production, development and UAT environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Crowe - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed performance tuning of SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard  • Created stored procedures, functions, Queries, views and other database objects  • ETL/SSIS:  • Developed SSIS packages using Lookup Transformations, Merge Joins, and Derived Columns with Multiple Data Flow tasks  • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to Validate, Extract, Transform and Load data to Data Warehouse and Data Mart Databases  • Involved in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data from Excel, Flat file to MS SQL Server by using SSIS services  • Deployed and Debugged SSIS packages for import, export and bulk insert data with transformations from various data sources  • SSRS:  • Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Developed periodical SSRS reports in BIDS used to generate daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly reports.  • Created Ad-Hoc Reports, Summary Reports, Sub Reports, and Drill-down Reports using SSRS  • Installation and Configuration:  • Installed, Configured and Managed and applied Service pack to SQL Server and in development, test and production environments  • Backup/Recovery:  • Performed different daily routine backup jobs by using maintenance plan  • Performed manual and automation schedule backup job  • Performed tail log backup for point in time recovery based on the disaster recovery.  • Restored Database from backup file Server to production  • Database Upgraded/Migrated (development, testing and production environment):  • Created documentations for upgrade and migrate databases  • Solid hands-on skills in migrating/upgrading SQL Server 2005 to 2008/2008R2 & SQL Server 2005, 2008/2008R2 to 2012 and 2014, and applying service packs.  • INDEX:  • Created, modified tables, Index (Clustered/Non-Clustered), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring  • Created maintenance plan for Automatic Backup, Job setup, indexes rebuild and re-Organize, Automatic History Remove and cheek data Integrity  • Used DBCC to check database Integrity and Consistency, monitoring error logs and DMV command to Check Database and Server health.  • Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning:  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, and backup verification  • Monitoring Server and databases Health (Disks space, lock block  • Deadlock and why query is running slow)  • Monitor SQL Temp DB, Server Error Log, and Usage space  • High Availability:  • Configure and Maintained AlwaysOn in 2012 on Virtual machine  • Configure, Manage and maintain Transactional Replication  • Manage and maintain two NODE Active Passive Clusters  • OTHERS:  • Expert in analyzing the Execution Plan and index management for better Query Optimization.  • Applied SP (Service Pack), Hot Fixes on SQL Server 2008 (SP4), 2012(SP3)  • Create Trace file using SQL Profiler then review it for further steps  • Tuning queries which are running slow using PerfMon, Profiler and Statistics I/O by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications  • Work with windows team to failover the cluster when needed after windows patching  • Create jobs, Scheduling jobs, Alerts using SQL Server agent and handle error logs for troubleshoots  • Created DB master key, symmetric keys, asymmetric keys and certificates for TDE  • Performing partition for efficient management of database tables  • Troubleshoot performance issues such as locking, blocking and deadlocks on production database using tools like SQL Server profiler    Environment: SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, Windows server 2012, 2008 R2 64-bit, SQL Profiler, PerfMon, Execution Plan, Event handler, Activity Monitor, ASP.NET, HTML, SSIS, T-SQL, & SQL Server Agent SQL Server Database Administrator,DBA Fairfax Consulting - Fairfax, VA July 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, and Maintained SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, in development, test, and production environments  • Configured Backups, involved in restoring database to point in time in case of issues, and optimization jobs for various purposes and DBA notifications like job failures, disk issues, critical events  • Support day-to-day operational activities for the database platform like service requests and tickets, monitoring, performance tuning, troubleshooting locks, deadlocks and performance issues  • Implementing high availability with AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Mirroring, Replication and Failover Clustering  • Upgraded SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2012  • Applied SP (Service Pack) and Hot Fixes on SQL Server 2008 R2, and 2012  • Installed, Configured, and Administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) using SSRS, Crystal Reports and Report Builder  • Involved in complete database modeling and designing  • Created and managed schema objects. such as tables, views, indexes, stored procedures, and triggers and maintained referential integrity.  • Import data from multiple sources such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, MySQL, Access, ODBC/OLEDB data sources to SQL Server  • Exported data from SQL Server to multiple destination/format such as Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, MySQL, Access, ODBC/OLEDB data sources  • Migrated database from various platforms like Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL 5.1/5.5 to SQL Server.  • Conducted Performance Monitoring, and troubleshooting using SQL Profiler, Execution Plan, Database Tuning Advisor and tracing and optimizing long running queries  • Wrote T-SQL scripts including Stored Procedures, triggers, and functions  • Installed, Configured, Developed and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Created and Deployed Scripts like tables, views, Stored Procedures, triggers, and functions  • Created and Managed Jobs, Setup Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and scheduling SSIS Packages SQL Database Engineer Donlen Corporation - Northbrook, IL March 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Coordinate technical approaches with Software Engineering teams.  • Coordinate implementations while maintaining a high level of accountability and transparency in order to safeguard the platform and customers.  • Enhance and drive existing database development practices and processes towards best practices.  • Create stored procedures  • Work with programmers to tune SQL code  • Assess and develop long-term strategic goals for production databases in conjunction with data owners and department managers  • Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems  • Design and implement redundant systems, policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and data archiving to ensure effective protection and integrity of data assets  • Assist production support and DBA teams for operational issues by occasional on-call duties  • Create scripts and SSIS packages for data integration, data maintenance, projects  • Design, develop and implement complex database systems, programs and applications  • Work with IT, PMO and users to identify and develop system requirements taking into account desired results, hardware limitations and operating requirements. Write and maintain functional and technical specifications  • LI-KR1 SQL Database Administrator CentralSquare Technologies - Lake Mary, FL May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Experience with designing, implementing, and maintaining Microsoft SQL Server  • Experience working in a Microsoft shop  • You consistently stay on top of new technologies and are often found pursuing certifications and additional education (we have Pluralsight memberships and provide tuition reimbursement!)  • You have a troubleshooting mindset - you love solving problems and aren't afraid to take ownership of them  • Team oriented and not afraid to ask for help - we're an Agile/Scrum environment, so being a team player is crucial  • Able to work in either our Decorah, IA or High Point, NC office SQL Database Administrator Spirit Airlines - Miramar, FL March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Ensure that all production DBAs are available per SLAs.  • Monitor Performance of Databases to ensure that databases are performing optimally.  • Ensure database implementation follows standards and meets technical requirements from data architect.  • Ensure that space allocation is sufficient and optimized for all databases.  • Assess and develop long-term strategic goals for production databases in conjunction with Solutions Delivery team.  • Implement models for new database development and/or changes to existing ones.  • Respond to and resolve database access and performance issues.  • Monitor database system details within the database, including stored procedures and execution time, and implement efficiency improvements.  • Design and implement redundant systems, policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and data archiving to ensure effective protection and integrity of data assets.  • Monitor, optimize and allocate physical data storage for database systems.  • Develop, implement, and maintain change control and testing processes for modifications to databases.  • Perform database transaction and security audits.  • Establish appropriate end-user database access control levels.  • Manage and/or provide guidance to other members of the team Work with developers to construct SQL queries, table structures and stored procedures.  • May perform other responsibilities as assigned. Responsibilities and duties may change due to operational needs. Education Bachelor's Skills Database (6 years), Databases (5 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:  Operating Systems Windows Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2003 R2  Virtualization VMWare, and V-sphere, Hyper-V, Virtual Box Managed Database Servers and Databases in Virtual Environment  Database MS SQL Server 2016, 2014/2012 R2/2008R2/2005, MS Excel, MS Access, Oracle, MySQL and No-SQL. Azure database  SQL Server Tools SSMS, Query Analyzer, PerfMon, Windows Event Viewer, Resource Monitor, SQL Server Profiler, BIDS/Data Tools, Database Tuning Advisor, Index Tuning Advisor, SSIS, SQL Server Configuration Manager, Activity Monitor, Job Activity Monitor, Event Handler, Execution Plan, DMVs, DMFs, DBCC  Data Modeling ERWin, Toad Data Modeler  Tools  Reporting Tools SSRS, Report Builder, third Party Tools Tableau  Data Migration In-Place, Side by Side SQL Server Upgrade Advisor, SSIS, SSMA, SSMS  Tools  ETL SSIS, DTS, Third party Tools Informatica  Hardware/Storage SAN, RAID  Third Party Tools ERWin, SolarWinds, Redgate, Toad Data Modeler  Cloud Environment 1. To Installation, Configure and manage Azure SQL Database, Virtual Machine.2. Strong experience to migrate Data and Database from On- Premises SQL server to MS Azure SQL Database And Azure Virtual machine (VM).