Marketing and IT Coordinator Marketing and IT Coordinator Apex, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marketing and IT Coordinator Habitat for Humanity Vail Valley - Vail, CO October 2018 to June 2019 Database and Systems Administrator. Assisted Development Coordinator in all aspects of the most successful Carpenters’ Ball to date, raising $450,000. Project Coordinator for “Vail Valley Playhouse Project” marketing initiative. Created and issued weekly newsletter to over 10,000 subscribers. Managed marketing for the Habitat ReStore and Habitat Affiliate (Advertisements, social media, and Constant Contact). Assisted with in-store customer service at ReStore. AmeriCorps VISTA - Database Administrator Habitat for Humanity Vail Valley - Vail, CO October 2017 to October 2018 Researched and consulted employees on existing databases and systems in place. Explored pos- sible CRM vendors and demoed CRM solutions. Conferred with management team on best possi- ble option with recommendation for which CRM solution to purchase. Implemented the CRM “CharityProud” to take over operations of all donor and volunteer database needs. Created eighty-page user manual on all of the CRM’s capabilities for the Habitat affiliate. NPDES Inspector Pollution Monitoring Systems - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to October 2017 Performed inspections of construction, commercial, industrial, and municipal sites to ensure compliance with discharge permits and requirements. Recommended corrections to clients, maintained a database, and responded to complaints, reported violations, and emergency spills. Performed a variety of skilled inspection and office work related to the enforcement of local, State, and Federal regulations pertaining to City’s mandated storm water management pro- gram. Conducted compliance tracking; prepared detailed project inspection reports; and per- formed related duties as assigned. Subsurface Utility Engineering Tech KCI Technologies Inc - Raleigh, NC August 2016 to February 2017 Located and designated underground utility lines; Interpreted utility and highway design plans, atlases and record drawings; Performed daily maintenance on tools and vehicles; Made field measurements, performing prospecting, and accurately designated complex underground utility layouts; Performed vehicle maintenance; Operated ground penetrating radar equipment and other locating devices; Maintained relationships with subcontractors. Marketing Intern Triangle Visions Optometry - Cary, NC June 2015 to August 2015 Collected and analyzed data on customer demographics, preferences, needs, and purchasing habits to identify potential markets and factors affecting product demand; Prepared reports of findings; Provided information to help Triangle Visions determine their position in the marketplace; Evaluated methods and procedures for collecting data, such as surveys and questionnaires; Prepared corporate marketing packets for patients; Supported the marketing manager doing various office tasks. Maintenance Group Leader Royal Oaks Building Group - Cary, NC July 2013 to August 2015 Planned weekly schedule for maintenance team; Maintained appearance of neighborhoods while in the construction phase; Assisted project managers with miscellaneous tasks; Relayed information from prospective homeowners to the project managers; Performed landscaping duties to ensure the overall look of the neighborhoods. Cashier Harris Teeter - Cary, NC July 2012 to December 2012 Received payment by cash, check, credit cards and debit cards; Issued change and provided receipts to customers; Operated cash register; Assisted customers when needed in delivery of groceries to their vehicles; Bagged groceries for customers; Greeted customers entering the store.    Corey Walker (919) 924-2002 Coreywalker55@yahoo.com    Resume |  Employment Experience 'd.) Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC May 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/corey-walker/a1/293/7a6 Additional Information Major Concentration: IT  Minor: Accounting