SQL DBA/Azure Cloud Data Engineer SQL DBA/Azure Cloud Data Engineer SQL DBA/Azure Cloud Data Engineer - DXC. Technology Alexandria, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL DBA/Azure Cloud Data Engineer DXC. Technology - New Orleans, LA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Installed and configure SQL SERVER, Navigating the all SQL SERVER Objectives. Setup VM machine.  • Supports Design data structures, Azure data catalog, Databricks, Notebook, Azure data Factory, Data lack, Blob storage, HDinsight, Data Warehouse, create and administer instance, assign users, revoke privileges.  • Connect Azure data stores, remote databases, remote devices. Administer identity and access control for all others.  • Supports database platform like service requests and tickets, monitoring, performance tuning, troubleshooting long running queries, Installed and Configured SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Developed, Deployed and Managed SSIS Packages. Data clinging, Data mapping, Upgraded and Migrated SSIS ETL Packages and SSIS Instance.  • For data visualization use WhamTech SDF (smart data fabric) EIQ Tool. Automated Network, Device and Data Discovery, creating indexes, configuring adapters, configuring a federation server.  • Support application projects including modification of database objects, database creation, data migration. Support digital transformation scrum teams as the database Subject Matter Expert.  • Supports day to day Agile team operational activities for the Cloud Bees Jenkins open source, GitHub, Mavens, Dockers, tools to integrate and deployed to the project. SQL Database Administrator/SQL DBA Aetna Health Insurance - Washington, DC March 2016 to January 2019 Major Responsibilities:    • Installed, Configured, and Maintained SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2 in development, test, and production environment  • Worked on Database refresh in Dev, UAT/Test servers with PROD data and reinstate the server.  • Supports day to day operational activities for the database platform like service requests and tickets, monitoring, performance tuning, troubleshooting long running queries, locks, blocks, deadlocks and performance issue like CPU, I/O, Memory bottlenecks.  • Assisted Database Developers to optimize and troubleshoot SQL Server slow running queries/Stored Procedures/index/Function/Views  • Optimized the performance of queries with modification in T-SQL queries, removed unnecessary columns, eliminate redundant and inconsistent data, normalized tables, established joins and created indexes as needed  • Regularly inspected SQL Server Error Logs, Space Usage, Disk Utilization, Backup status, Jobs, Customer Complaints, Windows Event Viewer for information, errors and warnings and Daily routine works  • Extensive work experience in TempDB configuration, partitioning, shrinking, compression, and database optimization  • Upgrade and Migrate: Upgraded SQL Older versions to higher Versions like SQL Server 2005, and 2008 R2 Database to SQL Server 2012 and 2014, Migrated MS Access databases to SQL Server 2012.  • Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server as routine maintenance work  • Implemented & Managed HA (High Availability): Database Mirroring, Replications, Log Shipping, AlwaysOn and Clustering  • Implemented & Managed DR (Disaster Recovery) Solutions: Designed and Implemented RPO, RTO and SLA, Setup Retention Policy, Backup Verification, Designed and Implemented Backup Strategies for Development, UAT, & Production Instances and Databases, Developed, & implemented database maintain plans  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting: Used different tools Native and Third-Party tool for Performance Related Troubleshooting purposes like Execution Plan, Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, SolarWinds, Idera, RedGate, Monitoring and Troubleshooting jobs, backups, database health, disk space, Memory, and CPU, index rebuild, statistics updates, Monitor Server Activity, Error Log, space usage  • Hands-on experience data migration from on premises server to SQL Azure virtual Machine and SQL server on Virtual machine.  • ETL Development and Deployment: Installed and Configured SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Developed, Deployed and Managed SSIS Packages, Upgraded and Migrated SSIS ETL Packages and SSIS Instance, Setup jobs from SSIS Packages, Used Imp/Exp Tool to Export & Import data from different  sources like SQL Server Database, Flat file, CSV, Excel and many other data sources  • SQL/TSQL Programming: Wrote SQL Joins, Stored-Procedures, Functions, Views, Table, indexes  • Performed database and SQL/TSQL Performance Tuning  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification  • Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring  • Setup Jobs, Maintenance plans for backups, Rebuilding/Reorganized indexes, check server health, alert, notification  • Created and managed different types of Indexes (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check)  • Deployed and Restored database including Point in Time Recovery  • Monitor Server Activity, Error Log, space usage and solving problem as needed    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012r2, 2008, IIS 8.5, SQL Server, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008r2, 2008, AD. JavaScript, ASP.net, In-house Application, TFS, SharePoint, ServiceNow, NetBackup, Solarwind Etc. SQL Database Administrator/SQL DBA Jet Blue Airways - Long Island City, NY February 2014 to December 2015 Major Responsibilities:  • Database Migration, Installation, Upgrades and Patching.  • Working with application development team to review and deploy changes during database object release include with system upgrade.  • Setup HA Solution Log shipping Automated Migration from On-premises to Microsoft Azure Virtual Machine Instances.  • Have hands-on experience IASS, PASS, SASS Microsoft Azure Environment.    • Implemented & Managed Database Security: Users and Application Security, TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), Row Level Security, Dynamic Data Encryption, Role based Security Policy, and Object Level Fine Grained Security  • Performed database/infrastructure physical design, database upgrades & applied software patches to databases as per application/client requirements.  • Performed acceptance testing to verify that database changes perform without adverse consequences.  • Customized support for Client's Applications and provided client will won the responsibility of creating and maintaining database objects and structures such as tables, indexes, views, triggers, functions, procedures.  • Developed & maintained scripts, utility jobs or implement needed software for database maintenance.  • Developed, tested & implemented a robust database backup and recovery strategy with client assistance.  • Monitored data activities such as database status, logs, space utilization, extents, Checkpoints, locks and long transactions.  • Suggested Application level tuning changes for code, queries, SQL objects that may not be performing up to the optimum database performance standards.  • Handled Logical Data and Index partitioning for large tables in SQL Server 2005, 2008 & 2008 R2.  • Handled Fine Tuning Operating System in co-ordination with Server and Network Administrator to utilize the maximum resources for Database and Applications.  • Monitored the database server performance and if required go for tuning of the T-SQL queries, Stored procedures.  • Working individually, as a member of a team, and lead small teams to collaboratively design and model systems at a high level prior to construction AWS-RDS 2008 to 2008 EC2 instances, AD, JavaScript, ASP.net. Service-Now, TFS, SQL, ServiceNow, Red Gate, Oracle.  Security Clearance: Clearable Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Database Expertise: SQL Server 2018, 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2005, MS Access  Database Migration: SQL Server to SQL Server, Oracle to SQL Server, MySQL to SQL Server, and MS Access/Excel to SQL Server  Operating System: Windows Server 2012, 2008 R2, 2003 R2  Database Languages: SQL, & T-SQL  ETL/Data Warehouse Tools: SSIS/DTS  Reporting: SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)- Enterprise Reporting  Data Modeling Tools: Toad Data Modeler, ERwin, SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram)  Third Party Tools: SolarWinds, RedGate, SpotLite, ERWin, Idera  Networking: Active Directory, DNS, TCP/IP  Hardware/Storage: SAN, RAID, ISCSI, NAS  Virtualization VMware, Hyper-V, Virtual Box  Cloud Environment Microsoft Azure, AWS, RDS, EC2