Senior SQL SERVER/ORACLE DBA/ETL Engineer Senior SQL SERVER/ORACLE DBA/ETL Engineer Senior SQL SERVER/ORACLE DBA/ETL Engineer - CAPGEMINI US An accomplished and seasoned professional SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 and ETL Database Administrator with 8+ years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle, SQL Server database administration. Specialized training, and experience in using PUTTY, DATA GUARD, RMAN, DATA PUMP, OEM, RAC, SSMS, INFORMATICA POWER CENTER, CAWA, HOST ON DEMAND etc. I have worked on numerous databases from Oracle10g, 12c, SQL Server 2008,2012,2016.2017 and DB2 performing various DBA services and across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, UNIX, and Windows) in production, development and test environments. I am an enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication skills. With my strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems, I have a well-honed ability to adapt and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and challenging work environment. Work Experience Senior SQL SERVER/ORACLE DBA/ETL Engineer CAPGEMINI - Golden Valley, MN January 2019 to Present Responsibilities;  • Experience in Installing, Upgrading and Migrating databases in and from SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2 and Oracle 11R1/11gR2/12c. Expert in tuning the long running Queries and Store Procedures by examining the execution plans in Oracle/SQL Server and Db2.  • Involved in Fine Tuning and Performance and Query optimization of the Database as required by the application.  • Successfully restored 22 TB database having thousands of data files and shrink back to 6 TB of size.  • Design and develop database backup and recovery procedures across SQL Server and Oracle.  • 24 X 7 On-call support rotation for SQL Server database, Oracle and DB2 systems, products and services.  • Expert in raising Service Requests and keep tracking of requests.  • Excellent skills in database Back Up, Restore, Recovery, updating statistics, Rebuilding and Reorganizing indexes, Defrag Tables, Replication, Linked Servers and Database Maintenance Plan across SQL Server, Oracle and DB2 databases.  • Documented Disaster recovery plans and participated in Disaster Recovery Drills by implementing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for troubleshooting and resolving the issues.  • Expertise in SQL Server and Oracle Replication, Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery and planning.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, managing and troubleshooting Oracle and SQL Servers.  Experience in database development, for creating complex database queries, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server.  • Strong Communication & Management skills and Excellent Team player.  • Authorized to work in United States for any employer  • Engaged in Troubleshooting of Oracle Database; and Performance Tuning using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM).  • Perform several import / exports using Data Pump, WinSCP and ETL batch jobs.  • Tuned ETL jobs/procedures/scripts, SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures to improve the system performance  • Use Data centric technologies like Technical Testing, Business testing and Reconciliation testing for Validating the Data view • Wrote SQL and PL/SQL scripts to perform database testing and to verify data integrity.  • Strong in performing backend testing using SQL on Informatica,  • Involved in extensive Data validation using SQL queries and back-end testing while responsible for leading and coordinating with offshore team.  • Experienced in data analysis using SQL, PL/SQL and many other queries-based applications.  • Used ETL methodology in testing for supporting data extraction, transformations and loading processing, in a corporate-wide-ETL solution using ETL tools like Informatica and CAWA.  • Planning, coordinating and minimally executing Test Data and Test Environment Management activities including environment booking & scheduling, Event management, Data refresh coordination, reporting and metrics, environment design, configuration management, environment monitoring, environment defect management, build & deployment and Batch set-up.  • Strong expertise in system development, installation, configuration specification, solution implementation, testing, bug analysis and resolution in infrastructure related technologies (like Server & Database).  • Monitoring IT system / Infrastructure for equipment failure or errors in performance.  • Database management (MS SQL Server, Oracle and DB2) and computer systems backup requirements and procedures.  • Database Performance Tuning and Query tuning Senior Oracle/SQL Server Database Administrator Boston Scientific - Maple Grove, MN December 2014 to December 2018 Responsibilities  • Responsible for architecting, deploying and managing multiple 24 x7 databases for business-critical applications using RAC, Data Guard (physical and logical standby) and RMAN.  • Improved the performance of queries by 98% - execution time drastically reduced from 12 hours to 13 mins using various methods such as hints, sql profiles and indexes.  • Scheduled change implementation activity and performed regular random drills to test disaster recovery scenarios on both SQL Server and Oracle databases.  • Implemented the high availability and disaster protection for all the production databases using the Oracle Data Guard feature.  • Installed and configured SQL Server SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 and SQL SERVER 2016 managed multiple instances and large-scale databases.  • upgrading databases from SQL Server 2008 R2 /2012/2014 and Applying Patches, Cumulative update and service packs  • Troubleshoot and resolved issues including system failures, user/application errors to provide optimal experience for end users.  • Built and maintained security and integrity controls in coordination with security team using the VPD, user privileges, roles, TDE and Oracle Wallets to ensure highly controlled and audited user access.  • Grant roles and Privileges to end users.  • Implement optimal space utilization in tablespaces by avoiding fragmentation.  • Load data into database using SQL Loader.  • Perform Data Guard switchover/failover as per requirements.  • Successfully designed and implemented MS SQL Server maintenance plans, Performance Tuning, troubleshooting and Query Optimization using native tools like extended events sql server profiler, activity monitor, performance monitor, database tuning advisor (DTA), Dynamic Management views (DMV).  • Carry out quarterly patches, maintaining, monitoring and upgrading the production, development and test databases  • Implement recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recover databases in case database crashes, media/disk failures using RMAN, data pump and automated the same using shell scripts.  • Responsible for developing needed SQL queries for data extractions, and for optimizing and tuning the performance of SQL/Oracle databases on daily basis and monitored the same via OEM using the ASH, AWR and ADDM reports  • Performed Point in time recovery in situations where backup is corrupt and cannot be used for database recovery/restore.  • Restore and Recover databases from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Tablespace monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement and to avoid a database hang.  • Perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports and Active Session History (ASH).  • Technical database support in 24/7 environment to ensure system performance and stability. Oracle Database Administrator The Home Depot - Secaucus, NJ April 2010 to October 2014 Responsibilities  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g/11g/12c servers and creation of databases in UNIX, Linux and windows environments.  • Responsible for migration/upgrade of the 10g databases to 11g.  • Planned and scheduled Backup/Recovery Strategy using OEM, RMAN and took Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) to help application developers with the application design.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, ASH, AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using sql tuning adviser and ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility  • Identified and evaluated industry trends in database systems to serve as a source of information and advice for upper management. Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects  • Performed database security and user administration via roles, profile, privilege, synonyms and auditing.  • Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Data pump.  • Provided capacity planning, tuning and administration support to application development efforts in Broad vision and PeopleSoft. Goals achieved ranged from I/O minimization, improved hit ratios and contention.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import and migration utilities.  • Used Tablespace Manager and Oracle Expert to monitor performance bottlenecks, database response time, instance workload and operating system resource usage.  • Maintained record of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial action taken, and installation activities, reduction, high database availability etc. Education Bachelor of Science in Instrument Design and Maintenance Wintech Professional Institute Accra-Ghana - Accra, GH Associate of Applied Science in Cyber Security and Forensics Century College - Saint Paul, MN Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, RMAN, ETL, INFORMATICA, LINUX, RED HAT, UNIX, VIRTUAL MACHINE, DATAWAREHOUSE, PERFORMANCE TUNING, OEM Links http://linkedin.com/in/bruno-njowir-46068616a Additional Information Core Competencies  • Database creation, configuration, upgrade, patching and migration across SQL Server and Oracle.  • Oracle Virtual Machine (OVM) for testing.  • Backup and Recovery using Data Pump and RMAN, Commvault and Lite Speed.  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Grid Control, SSMS,  • Database integrity and advance security implementations like TDE and Triple A's  • Database upgrade and Migration using RMAN, Export/Import and Exddp/Impdp  • High availability using flashback and Data Guard  • Proficiency in Unix, Red Hat Linux 5.2, Red Hat Linux 6.  • ETL expert using Informatica and CAWA tools to move from Upstream to Datawarehouse.