Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Preston IT Consulting LLC Saint Paul, MN An ambitious Database Administrator with over 7 years of IT and related experiences, 6+ years as Oracle DBA and 4 years as MS SQL Server DBA.  Extensive knowledge and proficiency in Database Design and Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, Database Migration, Database Upgrades, Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Troubleshooting, Cloning, Capacity Planning, Application Support, and the ability to write and maintain high quality documentation.  Extensive background in an assortment of technologies, including 10g, 11g, 12c running on Linux, Unix and Windows platforms.  AREAS OF EXPERTISE, SKILLS AND TOOLS INCLUDE:  • Installation, Migration, and Upgrades  • Security, Configuration and Capacity planning  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Backup/Recovery and Database Migration using Data Pump utility  • Oracle RAC, ASM, and Oracle Data Guard  • Installation, configuration and upgrade of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c using manual methods and GUI  • Work with various operating systems including UNIX (Solaris8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat) and MS Windows Servers 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016  • Monitoring and performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, OEM, Grid Control, SQL Developer,  • Database security including TDE  • MS SQL Server Management Studio, and MS SQL Server Configuration Manager  • SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, UNIX Shell scripting Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Preston IT Consulting LLC - Saint Paul, MN June 2017 to Present Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, materialized views and referential integrity constraints.  ? Identify long-running database queries, refine queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes.  ? Participated and supported Oracle server installations and standalone installations  ? Involve in session management and monitored the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database.  ? Worked on various types of system units monitoring and fixing technical problems that might possibly prevent the database instances from their daily run.  ? Restoration and Recovery of database from offline, online using RMAN and Data Pump backup.  ? Troubleshoot and fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Experience in database upgrade using both DBUA and manual method, and database patching.  ? Successfully configure and manage Data Guard for disaster recovery, data protection and high availability.  ? Performed Data Guard failover as required for maintenance. This includes coordinating with application owners and sys admins to when the failover can be performed.  ? Perform data and metadata migration to newly installed servers using Data Pump Expdp/Impdp.  ? Experience in data replication using snapshot, materialized views and dblinks.  ? Plan and perform Backup/Recovery using RMAN base on SLAs, test backup for corruption, Work with Flash Recovery Area as well.  ? Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including  ? Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  ? Clone production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN.  ? Work on database security including Auditing (standard auditing, fine grain, valued based and statement auditing), Encrypting (Transparent Table Encryption).  ? Apply Oracle quarterly patches and Interim patches to databases using Opatch utility.  ? Experience in monitoring oracle instances and maintaining databases performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c).  ? Use SQL Developer to connect to databases, navigate tables inside databases, create tables and other databases objects with GUI, insert data into tables and create reports.  ? Involved in each phase of the lifecycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development, and production support activities.  ? Part of the 24/7 on call production support team. SQL Server Production Support DBA Oracle Database Admin Boston Scientific - Maple Grove, MN March 2013 to February 2017 Experience in applying patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches as per the oracle recommendations.  ? Good knowledge in setting parameter files (both Pfile & Spfile).  ? Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespaces and data files management.  ? Performed administration activities like user creation and administration, profiles, privileges and roles administration, space and schema management.  ? Strong in analyzing how Oracle resources are being used during SQL executions.  ? Performed Database Backup using RMAN utilities for physical backup and Data Pump utilities for logical backup.  ? Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant (NETCA)  ? Monitored the state of the listener by checking the status of listener and restarting listener.  ? Constantly monitored data files, control files, redo log files for space and availability.  ? Refreshed databases from Production to Test environments using a hot backup and data pump.  ? Cloned databases in Test, Dev, QA environment  ? Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports for turning database performance issues and applying recommendations.  ? Automated the processes using CRONTAB.  ? Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, materialized views and referential integrity constraints.  ? Interacted with users and troubleshoot problems related to privileges and resources.  ? Monitored databases activities and files usage, ensured databases function properly by removing or deleting old or obsolete files. SQL Server Agent 2014 to 2016 Install, configure and maintain Standard and Enterprise editions of SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2016.  ? Successfully apply Service Packs on various software versions, migrate and update SQL Server databases from older to newer versions.  ? Experience in using SQL Server Configuration Manager to set up job scheduler SQL Server Agent.  ? Perform day to day database security tasks such as login issues, access privileges, installing client software on pc, creating and managing tables and indexes.  ? Manage records capture for auditing including C2 audit tracing (for US Government Agencies).  ? Use a varied range of backup optimization techniques including incremental backup, back-up stripping, backup resilient or mirror, compressed back-up and back-up with checksum.  ? Use SQL Server Maintenance Plan Wizard to check database integrity, perform index maintenance, update database statistics, and perform backup job scheduling.  ? Proficient in Data Movement (Import & Export) while performing partial backup of database objects such as full table, multiple tables, entire schema or entire databases using both Generate and Publish Script Wizard and Command Line based.  ? Experience in managing Oracle RAC databases high availability.  ? Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  ? Hands on experience with analyzing query plan, using extended procedures, managing indexes, statistics and locks to troubleshoot and resolve database issues.  ? Monitored databases activities and files usage, ensured databases function properly by removing or deleting old or obsolete files. Education Master's in Development and International Relations in Development and International Relations Aalborg University Copenhagen Skills DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Oracle Database, RAC, Rman, Sql Database