Pricing Analyst Pricing Analyst Pricing Analyst - PetroChoice Norristown, PA Work Experience Pricing Analyst PetroChoice 2019 to Present As a pricing analyst, I am responsible for ensuring accuracy of vendor and customer pricing via timely execution and assessment of pricing changes; this requires coordinating with PetroChoice Sales and Procurement team members, as  well as with key vendor representatives. I also work closely with various members of the Leadership Team to support ad- hoc strategic initiatives via quantitatively-oriented data analysis, generally related to margin assessment.    Specific tasks include, but are not limited to, the following:    * Update vendor prices in the Company's ERP systems as per announced vendor schedules and conduct impact analysis against contract pricing, rebates (coordinating with the Rebates team, as required), etc.  * Develop contract pricing recommendations based on broad-scale vendor pricing changes, targeting opportunities to increase margins; work with Sales leaders to evaluate and implement final customer prices, including development of customer-specific collateral  * Conduct periodic assessments of system costs and prices in item records and pricing libraries to evaluate accuracy and identify opportunities to increase margin, working with both Sales and Procurement team leaders  * Review and assess data feeds provided by external partners, as they pertain to pricing  * Develop and evaluate data queries/ reports to support standing and ad-hoc strategic requests Data Analyst Cyber Security 2018 to 2018 TEKsystems  * I stepped into this role as the first data analyst on a team of cyber security analysts. Within two months of starting this position, one team had the capability to no longer rely on locally stored spreadsheets. Working with this team and a PowerBI user, I analyzed what information was available and what was necessary. Using python scripts, I created SQL database tables which could then be used by the PowerBI user to create the reports automatically rather than as they had been, manually using Excel. These tables then also allowed for trending analysis, which is of great value in cyber security, in terms of remediation, triage, and performance metrics.  * I was hired as a data analyst but was informed upon starting the position that I would also need to act as the DBA. I began meeting with the three team members who used the existing SQL database the most and we began brainstorming as to what the new, normalized database would look like. We are planning to use numerous views for PowerBI users. I also added numerous indexes to existing tables, to enhance performance in the interim. The new database is architected and ready for structuring, what remains is determining how to transition the existing data with minimum impact.  * I have been asked to enhance reporting metrics and assist in updating existing Dashboards. In order to accomplish this, I have created numerous tables which will become views in the new database. I analyzed, calculated, and created a table which averages the median and closest values on either side over a given week (7 days of values) of scan totals. This number is then stored as the week's reporting figure, for trending reporting.  * I created a table of scanning detail for efficiency purposes. Many millions of scanning detail records are created each day, when really only a few hundred thousand need to be created for the current reporting needs. This new, abbreviated, table has been created for daily scan records. Then this table is used to generate our 30-day scan summary records and any other investigative reporting we want to do. This has increased efficiency substantially.  * I created a report which determines for both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, how successfully it was scanned over the last 30 days. What percentage of the time did we scan it successfully? Out of those successful scans, did it have open ports or no open ports, or did it flap? There are similar reports for Class C subnets.  * Using pattern matching, I supplied a list of approximately 57 million IPv6 addresses for the scanning operations team to search for on our perimeter. Using R's machine learning capabilities, the next step would be to automate this process. Data Analyst/Data Steward Presidio Corporation 2016 to 2018 * Responsible for maintenance of item inventory, catalog and manufacturer data  * Analyzed approximately 10,000 manually categorized items in order to create 1400+ rules to automate categorization of new inventory items. Previously less than 15 rules were being used.  * Initiated re-design project which has drastically eliminated duplicate inventory items and allowed for SOX alignment of inventory classification process  * Created approximately twenty Alteryx workflows to automate daily processes  * Completely re-designed Cisco rebate process to reduce/eliminate manual work and more easily align with SOX regulations  * Working closely with VPs of Strategic Tech Group and Finance to align financial (Great Plains) and inventory ERP systems Architecture & Application Analyst Unisys Corporation 2015 to 2016 Architect for global corporate Hyperion accounting software Functional Area Expert Unisys Corporation 2013 to 2015 * Standardized and automated KMR (Knowledge Management and Reporting) team's scheduled reports within 3 months of undertaking position  * Primary developer transitioning Cognos reports to SSRS format  * Wrote numerous sql queries upon request; investigating contract maintenance, order entry, general ledger, enterprise diversity, service level agreements Database Administrator HMIS 2012 to 2013 North Dakota Coalition for Homeless People  * Responsible for completing federally required reports  * Responsible for maintenance and upgrade of HMIS software system and interfacing with software vendor  * Monitored work of all software users and administered training  * Maintained and update user, agency, coalition policies, procedures, charters as required by HUD  * Proposed and implemented different approach to point-in-time ND homeless count. Analyzed all data, prepared study for ND legislative testimony and Associated Press article Director of Institutional Research & Data Management University of Mary 2009 to 2012 * Responsible for completing federally required student, program information reports and numerous college surveys  * Analyzed data for trends and patterns in order to make recommendations  * Normalized graduate and undergraduate course evaluations  * Took it upon myself to perform analysis of undergraduate student success - presentation lead to implementation of higher admission standards  * Wrote complex SQL script which calculated undergraduate and graduate student GPAs - the University had been forced to repay over $2 million in loan dollars and penalties to the federal government because their software application did not calculate student academic probation/suspension correctly. My script made it possible for the financial aid office to stop manually calculating GPAs. The vendor requested my script.  * Formed committee to discuss and implement data standards  * Configured and wrote audit reports to inform users of critical missing or incomplete data  * Co-chair of accreditation and assessment committees Information Technology Manager Northland Healthcare Alliance 2008 to 2009 * Lead for materials management software conversion at St Alexius Medical Center  * Configured NHA network including several remote sites  * Proposed & implemented security protocols and hardware updates  * Ownership of all IT functions for NHA's 30 employees  * Updated Cisco security appliances  * Primary IT support for a rural networking grant as well as a program of all-inclusive care for the elderly grant Education Master of Science in Applied Mathematics in Applied Mathematics Colorado State University doctoral in dissertation Moorhead State University Skills Small business server, Unix, Mainframe, Windows server 2008 Additional Information Operating Systems:  UNIX  Windows, Macintosh  Mainframe  Windows Server 2008  Windows Small Business Server