Full-Stack Web Developer, freelance Full-Stack Web Developer, freelance Full-Stack Web Developer, freelance - TameYourWallet I strive to build high performance applications using the web. I am a full-stack software developer with a background in fundraising,  database management, and music. At an early age, I discovered my passion for computers and have relied on a developer mindset through  several career iterations.    Specialties include JavaScript, React, Express, MongoDB, MySQL, Node.js; RESTful API design, development, and testing; third-party app  integration; enterprise systems development, implementation, and customization; responsive design, object-oriented programming, CRM  database management; relational database management; Salesforce.com; web design; audio/video live streaming; and audio engineering.  Please see my developer page for a view of my recent technical projects. Work Experience Full-Stack Web Developer, freelance TameYourWallet - New York, NY June 2019 to Present * Develop custom solutions from start to finish; enterprise system implementation, app development, CRM and more.  * Envision and build a full-stack application for TameYourWallet, a personal finance blog. Technology and Fundraising Consultant New York, NY January 2013 to January 2019 * Contract based and full-time fundraising and sales services for NYC-based nonprofit organizations and small business clients.  * Designed static websites with JavaScript, HTML and CSS; developed ETL processes to establish institutional memory; built inventory  trackers; managed SQL databases, implemented and customized Salesforce.com instances, and served as a webmaster.  * Business development for Color + Information, a creative design agency. Developed pitches for software, graphic design, and video  production projects. Worked with principal ownership to adopt sales methodology and implement a CRM cloud database. Development  work yielded a significant increase in new business and residual revenue; ownership tripled staff within three years.  * Co-authored "Why Every Nonprofit Needs CRM and How to Get it Right", a guide for nonprofits to better understand the value of CRM  databases.  * Guided major gift fundraising efforts for the Correctional Association of New York; managed database; oversaw email and direct mail  campaigns targeted toward donors in support of criminal justice reform. Audio Engineer Dreams Records - New York, NY June 2014 to July 2018 * Designed all front-end digital, web, and graphic assets for https://www.99centradio.com  * Audio/video live performances streamed to YouTube and social media channels in 720p (here is one such example).  * Produced and distributed vinyl and cassette releases to international audiences; featured original music on Seth Troxler's Essential Mix  for BBC Radio 1 recorded at Output, NY ("The Rent"). Development Associate to Executive Office Amnesty International USA - New York, NY June 2012 to January 2013 * Led donor database module implementation; developed technical requirements with consulting developers.  * Designed, tested, and implemented major donor telemarketing database.  * Drafted donor and VIP correspondence for Executive Director Suzanne Nossel, a well-known voice in U.S. foreign policy. Database Administrator Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights - New York, NY May 2011 to June 2012 Oversaw database migration from Raiser's Edge to Salesforce.com database. Implemented, customized and administered Salesforce;  achieved enterprise cloud application suite, replacing legacy systems dating to the 1980s.  * Coordinated fundraising in support of leading human rights activist Kerry Kennedy.  * Co-launched RFK Young Leaders, a young professionals' network to empower human rights activists and defenders; managed outreach, volunteer, and fundraising activities. Grant Writer and Database Analyst AmeriCorps VISTA - Austin, TX April 2009 to May 2011 Education Certificate in Software Development Columbia University in the City of New York - New York, NY January 2019 to June 2019 B.A. in American Culture/Music University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI 2004 to 2008 Links https://hubenschmidt.github.io