SQL Server Business Data Analyst SQL Server Business Data Analyst SQL Server Business Data Analyst Dallas, TX Work Experience SQL Server Business Data Analyst BECKSAN Management - Alpharetta, GA January 2018 to July 2019 • Built and presented tableau stories to clients.  • Built clusters from surveys with the use of SPSS.  • Connected Tableau to SQL server to access databases and create data visualization dashboards.  • Created jobs to monitor resources on various servers.  • Data mining big data from multidimensional OLAP.  • Developed and modified Key Performance Indicators (KPI's).  • Engaged in disaster recovery efforts with the use of database mirroring and Always-ON availability groups.  • Generated SSRS reports on a monthly basis.  • Interpreted result from SSRS to top management.  • Machine learning with the use of Neural Networks  • Optimized production database by working with developers to optimize problem queries (Stored procedures, AD-HOC queries).  • Planned and engaged in quality assurance testing efforts.  • Provided input into the developing and modifying system to meet and develop business specifications to support the requirement.  • Tested and implemented point in time recovery of the production database.  • Used Master Data Management to standardize data from different servers.  • Used SSIS to extract, transform and load data from different servers to relational and multidimensional. OLAP.  • Used SSIS to load data into excel to ease report writing for Microsoft office savvy employees.  • Writing reports with the use of report builder.  • Variable reduction through factor analysis with the use of SPSS. SQL Database Administrator Cumulus Media - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to January 2018 • Documented and monitored transitions for producing BI solutions.  • Helped prioritize the product backlog according to business value.  • Performed data migration with the use of SSIS.  • Performed DBA duties including database backups, restoration, performance monitoring and tuning, as well as capacity analysis with the use of TSQL.  • Performed disaster Recovery Performance Tuning.  • Provided data solutions such as one-time data pulls, iterative report design and visualizations.  • Query databases with the use of TSQL  • Set up virtualization with the use of VMWare.  • Set up Windows Clustering and Always ON Availability groups.  • Supported the creation, grooming and maintenance of product backlog with Scrum Master.  • Upgraded SQL 2005 and 2008 databases to SQL 2012 and 2014.  • Used DMVs, DMFs, SQL profiler and TSQL for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL server and SQL code. Data Analyst Taylor Nelson and Sofres Research Marketing Services (Cameroon) October 2013 to May 2016 • Created pivot tables to ease data visualization and research presentations.  • Forecasted sales based on available data.  • Processed data with the use of Microsoft excel and stat tools.  • Ran regression analysis to determine the significance of independent variables.  • Served as administrative liaison between customers and management.  • Sorted primary data and determined admissible and inadmissible observations.  • Used R- R Commander to run statistical analysis. Education Harvard Business Analytics Harvard Business School - Boston, MA July 2019 to Present MBA in Business Administration Northern Michigan University - Marquette, MI August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Economics in Economics Catholic University of Cameroon August 2013 to December 2016 Links http://linkedin.com/in/fesefuledataanalyst Additional Information Reliable team player who recently completed a graduate degree (Master's in Business Administration (MBA) - gaining proficiency in leveraging data analysis skills in responding to market dynamics by providing timely and comprehensive analysis from participating in project-related and ad-hoc data analyses. Outstanding knowledge in statistics, mathematics, and analytics with strong analytical and quantitative skills. Expertise in Data Modeling, Data Mining, SQL, and Data Warehousing. Experience in handling multiple projects and meeting deadlines.