Database Specialist and User Support Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist and User Support Analyst Database Specialist and User Support Analyst - Medtronic Broomfield, CO Results driven Data Analyst and motivated IT professional with a knack for turning data into information for real people and keeping that data safe. Skilled in data analytics with report and dashboard design, presentations, and scenario modeling. Combining my experience in Finance, IT, and Data Analytics to generate superior answers and new ideas to data questions. Resourceful problem-solver with superior conflict resolution skills. Work Experience Database Specialist and User Support Analyst Medtronic - Boulder, CO 2018 to Present Analyzing and troubleshooting SQL databases to identify issues and fine tune for optimal performance. Administering & deploying Windows Servers and administering virtual environments with vSphere. Engage Product Development by submitting requests for new features and security patches. Load data from database to data warehouse using SSIS. Clinical Systems Administrator Western Nephrology - Wheat Ridge, CO 2017 to 2018 Delivered reports and data analytics using Excel, Tableau and SSRS to medical providers for patient treatment options. Designed and configured templates, workflows, testing and implementation of EMR-related solutions. Responsible for design/redesign of building, testing and validating application functionality as appropriate. Provided technical and analytical support for the cloud based Electronic Medical Records application and company HIPAA privacy and security oversight.  Key Achievements:  * Appointed by Providers to develop statistical reports from patient test results culminating in patient care strategy  * Successfully transitioned Electronic Medical Record system to new datacenter with minimal downtime and zero loss of patient data. IT Analyst Kaiser Permanente - Denver, CO 2009 to 2017 Provided support for pre- and post-release of critical system applications. Delivered operational support for new patient-facing education and entertainment system; partnered with product management, vendors, and end users to elicit requirements and implement system. Engaged Change Management by submitting change requests for new features and security patches.  Key Achievements:  * Successfully implemented & supported a new patient monitoring system across hospitals by developing and executing test plans plus change requests.  * Contributed to saving circa $700K in lease purchase fees for Kaiser Permanente by leading deployment of thousands of new PCs during region-wide technical refresh; enabled smooth project while leading support teams.  * Transitioned hospital's existing patient-facing systems to new authentication infrastructure; adapted all patient-facing systems to new vendor infrastructure for issue reporting. Education Certificate in Data Analysis University of Denver - Denver, CO Master's in Management of Information Systems Oakland University - Rochester, MI Bachelor's in Finance St. John's University - Queens, NY Skills Data Manipulation (1 year), databases (3 years), Excel (10+ years), HTML (2 years), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT ACCESS (1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), MS Access (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), mySQL (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), SQL (3 years), SQL server (3 years), Visualization (1 year), DBA, ETL, Tableau, XML, T-SQL, VBA, SSRS (2 years), SSIS (1 year), Sql Dba Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gldinolfo http://github.com/gdinolfo Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a46nm2y8idqb288c Problem Solving — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tkk0gbdk5mnifjsj Research — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cnms3jgdey3o3-va Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bw9uyzyffw6iw2w Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  Databases: SQL Server, mySQL, Tools: Tableau, Excel, MS Access Languages: Python, SQL, VBA, JavaScript Data Manipulation & Visualization: Pandas, Matplotlib, HTML