Development Associate, Corporate & Foundation Relations Development Associate, Corporate &amp; Foundation Relations Development Associate, Corporate & Foundation Relations - The University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA Media and Technology  Advanced technology skills and experience in a wide variety of programs and platforms. Background and training in multimedia journalism, as well as office and database administration.    Database: Blackbaud Raiser's Edge, Blackbaud NetCommunity, Ellucian Advance  Microsoft Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Visio Adobe InDesign, Photoshop, Dreamweaver  Internet: Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Tumblr, Wordpress Work Experience Development Associate, Corporate & Foundation Relations The University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA May 2016 to Present Write and edit grant proposals on behalf of faculty ? Support the Director of Corporate & Foundation Relations in the School of Arts & Sciences ? Pursuing a profession certificate in Diversity & Inclusion, expected completion Summer 2019 Office Manager & Database Administrator The Coca-Cola Scholars Foundation - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to May 2016 Assist and support team of nine professionals through annual program cycle ? Maintain relationships with U.S. based Coca-Cola Bottlers ? Help plan and organize annual Scholars Banquet, and strategically seat and register about 900 Coca-Cola Company stakeholders, including suppliers, high-level executives and other employees Senior Writer Hercampus.com - Elon, NC September 2010 to March 2014 Wrote articles and blog posts to advise and entertain college women ? Assisted in managing publication calendar using Adobe InDesign, and distribution Church Mobilizations Intern World Vision US - Federal Way, WA June 2013 to August 2013 Launched a new blog platform for church leaders ? Curated, wrote, and refined content for blog ? Managed Twitter and Blog, cultivating social media followers ? Strategic development of Facebook presence including content development and long-term planning Content Creation Intern Hot Press Magazine - Dublin September 2012 to November 2012 Curated, wrote, and published relevant news articles for a popular website ? Researched and wrote articles for Hot Press Magazine and partner publication, GoRail Education Certificate in Creative Writing Coursework Emory University - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2016 Bachelor of Arts in Journalism Elon University - Elon, NC May 2014 Skills Organizational Skills, Photoshop, Written and Verbal Communication, Microsoft Office, Grant Writing, Scheduling Assessments Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iafjwmlpdmxhlvrc Written Communication — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/83tcpubagg55fdb Customer Service Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xy1kvvnaqu8gcusg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.