IT Officer IT Officer IT Officer - RTI International US Highly motivated individual with vast experience in configuring, maintaining and troubleshooting  handled/mobile devices, laptops, desktops and networks. Has ability in system design, development &  implementation in both mobile and desktop applications, report extraction using MySQL queries and VB  scripts, database design and maintenance in MySQL and MS access, maintenance of Microsoft Server operating  systems, ICT support in level 1, 2 and 3, data interpretation & analysis using SPSS and reconciliation of data  obtained from a variety of sources.    Dec, 2014- IT Officer  Date RTI International -Tusome Early Grade Reading Program  Currently I'm working with RTI International on USAID funded program known as  Tusome in Mombasa Region covering 6 counties. I closely work with Curriculum Support  Officers (CSOs), Quality Assurance Officers, County Directors of Education at the county  and sub-county levels to support Tusome Early Grade Reading Program. In terms of ICT  integration, Tusome had provided over 2500 tablets to aforementioned education officers to  supervise and support teachers during classroom support visits. The tablets contains  applications that enhances teachers support. As an IT officer I'm mandated to perform  quality testing of the applications and also train the officers on how to make use of the  applications i.e. Tangerine, Papaya, Adobe reader and MX player. My duties and  responsibilities includes:-  • Maintain proper inventory of IT equipment for the project in the field offices. Work Experience IT Officer RTI International December 2014 to Present Currently I'm working with RTI International on USAID funded program known as  Tusome in Mombasa Region covering 6 counties. I closely work with Curriculum Support  Officers (CSOs), Quality Assurance Officers, County Directors of Education at the county and sub-county levels to support Tusome Early Grade Reading Program. In terms of ICT  integration, Tusome had provided over 2500 tablets to aforementioned education officers to supervise and support teachers during classroom support visits. The tablets contains  applications that enhances teachers support. As an IT officer I'm mandated to perform  quality testing of the applications and also train the officers on how to make use of the applications i.e. Tangerine, Papaya, Adobe reader and MX player. My duties and  responsibilities includes:-  • Maintain proper inventory of IT equipment for the project in the field offices.  • Training; Provide training on hardware and software usage to end users in Mombasa  Region  • Provide timely 1st tier response to end users on software and hardware issues,  Communicate known bugs or issues effectively with end users and provide a short  term solution to the bugs.  • Manage end user expectations of response time and issue resolution  • Work collaboratively with end users to understand and gather bugs and enhancements on the software and hardware and communicate the same to the ICT for education specialist.  • Troubleshoot and reproduce problems and provide support for workarounds  • Share best practices and workarounds with ICT Officers in other regions  • Perform user acceptance testing on the applications developed before deployments and effectively communicate issues raised in testing before the end user deployment  • Deployment Support: Support the ICT for Education Specialist and ICT Officers in the roll-out of new hardware and software to end users in Mombasa region, and  deliver software and hardware patches and upgrades to resolve issues  • Provide timely communication of change and release notices to end users and perform  any other support role as shall be assigned by the ICT for Education Specialist  • Office IT support work: ensure Windows and other software is maintained and that  patches are promptly applied on computers in the project field offices.  • Ensure anti-virus software is kept current for all the project staff in the field office.  • Ensure information is backed up and maintained in accordance with RTI policies and procedures for all the project staff in the field office.  • Provide user support on hardware, networking and software related issues.  • Configuring and troubleshooting laptops / desktops / printers/ scanners that are in the field office.  • Maintain network infrastructure including Internet connections, perimeter  equipment, Network switches, Wireless access points, Printers and other equipment  that are in the field office.  • Supervise the performance of any local IT firms or staff hired to support the field  offices. Assistant Programmer KEMRI -RCTP April 2013 to November 2014 Participate actively in the systems team. Offer advice on software issues. When  requested, evaluate software for suitability to FACES.  • Meet with the data quality team and participate actively in defining and achieving  data quality objectives. Write software as required to assure data quality and other  duties as may be assigned.  • Training/mentorship of Data Clerks on OpenMRS data entry  •  IT support to fellow Staff Members.  •  Repair and Maintenance of the organization network  •  Routine and timely data entry of monthly program reports from sites into various  databases  • Develop input forms, reports and data extracts for the Open Medical Records System  (OpenMRS) and other software that may be in use.  • Provide software as needed to transfer and transform data between various data  stores such as MySQL, Excel spreadsheets and Access databases.  • Develop software as necessary to support or extend the OpenMRS database and system and any other software packages that may be in use.  • Develop databases and systems as may be required, in the technology best suited for the particular need, e.g., MySQL, Excel, and MS.  • Access.  • Provide support and advice to system administrators when they encounter software  issues that require a more advanced understanding of the software. M&E Officer - Nyatike District KEMRI -RCTP June 2012 to March 2013 Routine and timely data entry of monthly program reports from sites into various  databases  • Verify and ensure that the submitted reports are entered into the District Health  Information System (DHIS)  • Carry out Routine Data Quality Assurance (RDQA) at select sites each month  • Train and mentor sites on Ministry of Health registers, Blue Card completion and other MOH tools  • Work with sites to improve their data accuracy  • Train and mentor sites on the MOH731/MOH711 reporting tools  • Work with sites to continuously generate cohort findings  • Mentor sites on how to track and post their own performance based on their monthly  reports (Data Ownership).  • Collaborate with District Health Records and Information Officer (DHRIO) on site and district report development and presentations  • Knowledge of working with OpenMRS system for patient records.  • Prepare data for the bi-monthly coordinators' meeting.  • Carry out program evaluations as needed e.g. patient survey satisfaction  • Prepare, write and submit monthly M&E reports to the M&E/Data Manager.  • Conduct other monitoring and evaluation activities as required.  • Data analysis using SPSS and STATA.  • Assistance in computer troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Carry out all other duties as assigned by my supervisor. Data clerk and database administrator Impact Research and Development organization January 2011 to May 2012 IRDO)  • Data entry  • Data cleaning/auditing  • Database designing for various programs in the organization using MS Access, Epi  info and CS Pro.  • Data analysis using SPSS and STATA.  • Assistance in computer troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Filing of Data forms after entry.  • Filling of relevant Ministry of health tools (MOH 711, MOH 731 forms) by 5th of every month in an assisting capacity.  • Carry out all other duties as assigned by my supervisor. field engineer Cotec software limited August 2010 to December 2010 Network Design and implementation.  • Web design using Dreamweaver, Joomla PHP and MYSQL  • Software design using VBA  • Computer repair and maintenance.  • Backup of clients' data and ensuring confidentiality of the same. Tutor at St, Anns college Kisii Sepr 2009 to 2009 Aug, 2010 • Taught students on computer programming; Visual basic, C++ and JAVA  • Instructed students on computer networking and configuration  • Instructed students on MS office applications    Education Network Associate Institution and Dates 2009 to 2009 Area covered  CCNA (Cisco Certified Makerere university - 2009 Networking for home and small  Network Associate) business, working at a small-medium  business or ISP, Introducing routing and switching in the enterprise and  Designing and supporting computer  networks  Google scholarships Google Africa by through Andela HTML and JavaScript  mobile web specialist Learning Community    Complete Android and Udemy.com Building android apps using Java,  Java Developer course android app marketing and use of play  store. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Kampala University 2006 Dates Skills TRAINING (6 years), DATABASE (3 years), DATA ANALYSIS (2 years), MARKETING ANALYSIS (2 years), SPSS (2 years) Additional Information Skills & Abilities  • Ability to monitor and maintain computer systems and networks of an organization.  • Ability to troubleshoot, configure and maintain android mobile devices; flashing the devices with  recommended firmware, upgrading and downgrading and advise on recommended applications  • Ability to build android applications under java platform  • Ability to develop training materials and perform a quality training  • Ability to work or interpret data independently.  • Excellent skills in client service and teamwork.  • Proficient with the data management policies, procedures and common technical tools.  • Ability to exercise control on executed tasks with the planned activities  • Perform analysis of the given data and draw accurate inferences, in accordance with the objectives  of the analysis.  • Database design using MS access, CS pro, MySQL and Epi info Gather data required to conduct  analysis from several sources, compile it together in prescribed format and enter the data in several  data analysis software (SPSS, STATA & Epi info)  • Evaluate the given problem, situation and crisis; investigate for solutions using data analysis  practices and prepare analysis reports  • Determine the methodologies and procedures for carrying out effective data analysis