SQL 2008 MS Access Data and Reporting Analyst / Database Programmer DBA SQL 2008 MS Access Data and Reporting Analyst / <span class="hl">Database</span> Programmer DBA SQL 2008 MS Access Data and Reporting Analyst / Database Programmer DBA North Versailles, PA MS Access Database Developer and Reporting Specialist with 10 years of current experience using Access versions 2000 - 2010, Excel, MS/SQL 2005 - 2008, SSRS (SQL Reporting Services), VBA and Visual Basic. Work Experience SQL 2008 MS Access Data and Reporting Analyst / Database Programmer DBA Specializing in Real State and Foreclosure Mortgage Sales - Carrollton, TX January 2011 to July 2011 10+ years  10+ years  10+ years  10+ years  8+ years  4 years    EXPERIENCE  Vendor Resource Management, Carrollton, TX  Specializing in Real State and Foreclosure Mortgage Sales  January 2011 to July 2011  SQL 2008 MS Access Data and Reporting Analyst / Database Programmer DBA    Provided daily sales and inventory reporting statistics on real estate inventory, trends and sales from some of the top mortgage companies. Presented the benefits of upgrading to SSRS to high-level upper management and provided demonstrations of it's reporting capabilities.  Designed and developed SQL reports using SQL Server 2008, MS Access 2007-2010 and Tableau. Provided necessary documentation and training to end-users during development, testing and deployment. Monitored and developed reporting procedures and project management plans. Worked closely with SQL server in a assisted DBA role maintaining multiple Access databases connected to a SQL Server back-end database.    Extracted and analyzed data from internal databases/excel spreadsheet to make informed business decisions and actions. Worked closely with colleagues to mine internal data sources for unprecedented insights, and presented findings to all levels of VRM leadership on a frequent basis. Generated standard and ad hoc reports on a regular basis. Became the group's internal data warehouse expert by coordinating the migration or SQL data for reporting purposes. Translate business questions into precise queries. Questioned and validated data. Developed critical reports to help determine the level of inventory and helped to significantly reduce errors. SQL MS Access and ASP Reports Writer / Database Programmer DBA/LMS Administrator/Analyst SunTrust Banks - University Division - Atlanta, GA January 2010 to September 2010 Atlanta, GA  January 2010 to September 2010  SQL MS Access and ASP Reports Writer / Database Programmer DBA/LMS Administrator/Analyst    Designed and developed SQL reports using Pathlore SQL Server MS Access and Crystal Reports.  Attended weekly status conference calls and provided updates to development of existing and new projects. Provided necessary documentation and training to end-users during development, testing and deployment. MS Visual Basic 6.0, VBA. Monitored and developed reporting procedures and project management plans.  Assisted in migration from old LMS to Future State LMS (Learning Management System). Worked in a DBA role maintaining multiple Access databases connected to a SQL Server back-end database. SQL ASP Reports Writer / Database Programmer/Analyst Avery Partners, LLC - Atlanta, GA September 2008 to September 2009 Designed and developed SQL reports using SQL Server 2005 and ASP and worked within the SQL database in a DBA role assisting the IT director. Modified and created stored procedures. Provided on-site and off-site testing, training, and documentation. Met with President and Senior Level Management regarding all aspects of the project during end-user testing, trouble-shooting and release to production environment. Worked 100% remotely off-site. Attended weekly status conference calls and provided updates to development of existing and new projects. Advised management on development strategies and efficient ways to streamline processes by system optimizations. Provided necessary documentation and training to end-users during development, testing and deployment. Database Programmer/Analyst Staffing Technologies, Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2008 to September 2008 - (For CheckFree Fiserv - Norcross, GA)    Developed and created IT Cost Basline Financial Database report tool from the ground up using Microsoft Access, Excel, VBA and SQL.    Designed and developed reports for the purpose of tracking IT Spend from almost 100 separate business units reporting Financial Data for 2007 and 2008. Created Project Plan, Participated in Design and Enhancement Meetings. Provided on-site and off-site testing, training, and documentation. Met with Senior Level Management regarding all aspects of the project during end-user testing, trouble-shooting and release to production environment. In this role I worked as the DBA for an Access database that I built from the ground up and documented the code and SQL.    Provided necessary documentation and training to end-users during development, testing and deployment. Database Programmer/Analyst MDI, Inc/NetServ Applications, Inc - Atlanta, GA October 2007 to February 2008 - (For Coca Cola - Atlanta)    Performed development enhancements to MRPS Volume reporting tool, which was used to forecast Hot or Cold beverages. Report writing using Microsoft Access, Excel, VBA, SQL and Oracle. Worked as a DBA for a very large Access database that was connected to an Oracle back-end database.    Created procedures to convert bottler data to the correct calendar from Gregorian allowing users to input forecasts and performing the necessary calculations using procedures and subroutines.    Provided necessary documentation and training to end-users during development, testing and deployment. Business Analyst MODIS IT - Atlanta, GA April 2007 to September 2007 - (For AIG - Auto)    Report writing using Microsoft Access, Crystal Reports, VBA and Oracle. Gathered requirements, reviewed and analyzed data. Coordinated the training and documentation. Worked as the lead DBA for an MS Access database which contained over 6 million records. Improved performance significantly by adding indexing to rows. As a result the report query speed was improved from taking 15 minutes to 15 seconds.    Developed daily automated and ADHOC reporting systems, which enables the company to monitor error policy reports on a daily basis and documented the process.    Responsible for creating automated tools using MS Access to simplify the reporting process enabling users to work locally and remotely from home, which has significantly streamlined their reporting operation more efficiently. Access Developer / Business Data Analyst Westminster Ceramics - Stone Mountain, GA June 2006 to March 2007 • Used MS Access, MS Excel and SQL Server for the reporting requirements.  • Performed complex Statistical Analysis data extracts using MS Access/SQL, VBA and SYSPRO ERP System.  • Gathered requirements, reviewed and analyzed data, and performed Quality Assurance of reports. Created reporting tools for customer service department, warehouse and shipping processes which eliminated overall 95% of late shipment issues, improving customer confidence and satisfaction. Responsible for training the staff on the use of Forecast Pro. Created all documentation for the system.  • Responsible for developing several reporting tools created in MS Access and ADHOC reports.  • Worked as the SQL Server DBA and closely with an outside consulting firm to make enhancements to the database and improve performance. Also worked with DTS packages. Access Developer / Data Analyst, Procurement Alltell Communications - Alpharetta, GA April 2002 to March 2006 - Alpharetta, GA April 2002 - March 2006  Access Developer / Data Analyst, Procurement    • Used MS Access, MS Excel and SQL for forecast planning procurement database.  • Performed complex Statistical Analysis data extracts using MS Access/SQL, VBA and AS 400/DB2 JD Edwards, Purchasing Systems, Data Warehouse and Internal Resources. Gathered requirements, reviewed and analyzed data. Performed quality assurance of all reports. Reorganized and revamped team to produce an overall 90% process improvement through various means including motivation, instruction on various analytical methodologies (Reports Analysis, Data, Statistical, Business, Design), project ownership, documentation, and service-level geared toward adding value to the business community. Created databases and also worked as the sole DBA for each project.  • Conducted data analysis and initial business analysis with a team of Purchasing Analysts and Sales Managers and then completed a re-design of the JD Edwards sales information, which resulted in a savings of $45 million in inventory costs while increasing logistic support to affiliate stores. Developed an automated reporting system, which enables the company to receive, on average, over $150,000.00 in rebates from vendors monthly. Previously the reporting system was done manually by management and would take several hours. The new system generates the report in approximately ten minutes.  • Responsible for several reporting tools created in MS Access  • Lead Coordinator, Administrator and Trainer for an MS Access database project that is heavily used by Analyst and Buyers to make million dollar decisions daily.  • Contributed to and maintained Backend Rebate/Contra-Rebate Reports throughout 2004. Saved the company a net total of claims for the year in excess of $6,188,908.48.  • Received 3 merit raises and 1 promotion Education A.S. in Information Technology Herzing College 2002 Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Database: SQL Server 2005-2008, MS Access 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010, RDMS, Oracle, JD Edwards, Data Modeling, Data Extraction, Data Warehousing    Reporting: MS Access 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010, SQL Reporting Services SSRS, Excel, MicroStrategy, Crystal Reports, PowerPoint, Design Documentation, Process Manuals, Visio, Requirements Gathering and Best Practices.    Programming/Development: MS Visual Web Developer 2008, MS SQL Management Studio Express 2008, MS Access 2007, MS Visual Basic 6.0, VBA, SQL, ADO.Net, VB.Net, JavaScript, Visual Basic Script, ADO, HTML, NTier Development, MS IIS, JD Edwards Reporting, Visio, EDI and XML    Systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP Professional, Windows Vista, Windows 7, MS Office 2007 and 2010.    Professional: Process Innovation, Design Analysis, Business Analysis, Statistical Analysis, Training, Negotiation, Project Planning, and Business Communication  KEY SKILLS  Data Analysis  Statistical Analysis  SQL Server 2005 - 2008  MS Access  MS Excel  Reporting  Project Coordinator  MS Access / SQL DBA  Business Objects w/ Crystal Reports