Ramp Lead RSE Ramp Lead RSE Elizabeth, NJ Work Experience Ramp Lead RSE United Airlines - Newark, NJ April 2019 to Present • Responsible for the safe and timely loading and unloading of aircraft baggage and cargo.   • load planning.   • team coordination.   • Ensure the safety of the team. Database Administrator New Jersey Door Works - Hillside, NJ January 2019 to Present • Responsible for the creation, maintenance, backups, querying, and tuning.   • user rights assignment and security of the organization's databases. Marketing Intern GHOS fitness - Kenilworth, NJ May 2018 to Present • Assisting physical trainers with their social media marketing.   • Building the social media accounts for the facilities.   • Assist trainers in their personal projects as well as their pages for the facility. Transportation Driver/ Dispatcher/ Tower coordinator (full-time) United Airlines - Newark, NJ October 2016 to September 2018 • As transportation drivers we are responsible for gathering all supplies needed to cater aircrafts properly.  • Our main responsibilities include being in charge of all out-bound flights.   • Assuring that all aircrafts are catered leaving from EWR.   • Assuring that our drivers meet all in-bound international aircrafts to strip them as soon as customs clears the aircrafts.   • As well as sending missing items to the aircrafts in a timely and safe manor to assure an on-time departure.    • Communications personnel responsible for receiving and transmitting pure and reliable messages.   • Tracking vehicles and equipment, and recording other important information. Duty manager PrimeFlight Aviation - Newark, NJ August 2016 to October 2016 • Job included following teams to assure that the aircrafts were being cleaned properly.   • Assuring the operation was running smoothly.   • Answer call backs for missing items were priority. Dispatcher (full-time) PrimeFlight Aviation Services - Newark, NJ March 2016 to October 2016 • Communications personnel responsible for receiving and transmitting pure and reliable messages.   • Tracking vehicles and equipment, and recording other important information.  • Responsable for the servicing of all United Airlines aircrafts. Swim Instructor/Lifeguard (part-time) Lifetime Fitness - Florham Park, NJ May 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities  • Teach children water safety, how to swim all four, improving techniques. I have taught children of different levels.    • As a lifeguard I had to make sure the people in and around the pool deck are safe at all times. Checking the chemical levels of the pools.    Skills Used  • teaching skills, people skills, communication skills, the skill to build relationships with students and parents. Canvasser (part-time) Arkady - Rahway, NJ April 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities  I have to walk around the city going to certain people houses that are on my list which is updated and expanded everyday. When I go to a persons house I have to read a script that i have memorized and either convince them to vote for the current mayor or write down whether they already are going to vote for him, against him, or undecided.     Accomplishments  I convinced many people to vote for who I was campaigning for.    Skills Used  Navigation, communication, and persuasion. Canvasser Arkady - Elizabeth, NJ April 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities  I have to walk around the city going to certain people houses that are on my list which is updated and expanded everyday. When I go to a persons house I have to read a script that i have memorized and either convince them to vote for the current mayor or write down whether they already are going to vote for him, against him, or undecided. Also had to do phone banking.    Accomplishments  I convinced many people to vote for who I was campaigning for.    Skills Used  Navigation, communication, and persuasion. Education Associate Degree in Mechanical Engineering Union County College - Cranford, NJ September 2015 to May 2019 High school Elizabeth High School - Elizabeth, NJ September 2011 to June 2015 Skills Microsoft Ofice (8 years), Communications (1 year), Autocad inventor (2 years), Microsoft excel (8 years), Gate view (3 years), shares (3 years), Unimatic (3 years), United operation systems (3 years), Digital Marketing, Social Media Marketing, SEO, Marketing Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED April 2016 to April 2018 Lifeguarding/First Aid/CPR/AED April 2016 to April 2018