Founder, Network and Systems Administrator Founder, Network and Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/Systems Administrator & Technical Support San Jose, CA - system applications, server software, Operating systems; installation, upgrade,imaging and back up, configuration and troubleshooting skills.  - Computers, pripherals, LAN & WLAN networks setup, configuration and maintenance experience.  - Expertise in various enterprise and personal computer software packages.  - Hands on: JavaScript,XAML with C# for Universal Windows Apps development, HTML, CSS, PHP, C++ ,VB.net, Asp.net, Java.  Databases Management: MySQL, Sql Sever, Oracle.  - Computer animation Graphic Design and editing experience with TV channels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Founder, Network and Systems Administrator Z-Cyberzone (Gamers Cafe) - Kabul March 2012 to July 2017 -         Front-end and back-end designing and developing of PHP and MYSQL based website (Multiplayer game battle-log for end users).  -         Maintenance and back-up of diskless network system using CCboot 3.0 Diskless systems.  -         Computers and Consoles Firmware(OS), Software, Games; installations, updates, upgrades, applying patches and configurations.  -         Computers and Consoles hardware upgrade and maintenance.  -         Instructing MS Windows, MS Office products, Internet usage (browsers, messengers, emailing) to customers and end users.  -         Troubleshooting and diagnosing customer’s personal desktops, laptops and Smart phones.  -         Organizing and marketing events on social Media.  -         Banners, billboards, Website, Café and lounge interior; design decoration and modernization.  -         Lounge environment and employee management, Dealing and interacting with 40 to 60 customers daily. System and Database Administrator Technologists Inc - Kabul August 2010 to April 2012 -         WASP Inventory Control Systems setup, configuration and usage training to inventory officers.  -         ReqLogic eProcurement, web application implementation, configuration and daily data entry and administrating.  -         ReqLogic web application workflow training and assisting division civil engineers.  -         Daily processing 30-40 requisitions from construction division to procurement division and at end to finance division.  -         Requisition Initiation, assigning to 25-35 purchase officers and weekly reporting procurement-division progress to company’s top-management.  -         Contract department’s data management for Primavera Contract Management System.  -         Designing and updating work-flow and organization charts for procurement division and its various departments. IT Engineer Areeble Engineering and Logistics - Kabul May 2009 to May 2010 -         Installation, configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance of programs, operating systems, network hardware and devices, laptop and desktop computers and printers. Assist and educate end users.  -         Remotely solving and assisting site employee problem using Remote Control applications.  -         Assist logistics department with purchasing and office administration functions.  -         Assist and processed foreign employee’s permits from Ministry of foreign affairs and arranged their travel and accommodations. IT Administrator Technologists Inc - HCU Unit - Kabul August 2008 to May 2009 -         Troubleshoot, Installation, configuration, Organizing, and maintenance of programs, operating systems, network hardware and devices, Laptop and desktop computers and peripherals . Assist and educate end users. Graphic and Animation Designer Noor TV - Kabul, Afghanistan September 2007 to August 2008 -         Advertisement, promotions and animation design for TV Channel and Media Production.  -         Designing graphic elements and animations for editor’s team  -         Instructing and Editing video clips to assist editors team. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kardan University - Kabul December 2008 to December 2012 Skills IT Management (8 years), Desktop Support (6 years), Help Desk (6 years), It Specialist (6 years), Network Support (6 years), Information Technology (9 years), Computer Repair (6 years), Database Administration (2 years) Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/koet76wvjplgi-yf Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/infwlypy9vekmath Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jkknawaqmukwhpc7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.