Tech Lead/Developer Tech Lead/Developer Full Stack Web Developer Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tech Lead/Developer A&M Digital Technologies, LLC - Holland, OH August 2015 to Present Manage teams of up to 8 developers while overseeing up to 10 concurrent client projects with budgets up to $200K.   • Assess stakeholder needs, determine technical objectives, create project plan, scope, schedule and budget, acquire and subcontract developers and manage product lifecycle and application development projects.  • Design and execute company infrastructure for development, remote collaboration and client support, develop bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  • Consistently deliver client value, saved customer $25K per week in non-productive hours after creating application tool that better tracked employee hours and productivity.  Database Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Drum, NY May 2015 to Present Maintain, monitor and troubleshoot network systems and databases supporting 600-person organization.     • Provide technical support, monitor and troubleshoot technical errors and maintain specialized maintenance software and databases used by 350+ technicians, mechanics and pilots.   • Maintain intranet and web applications that ensure accountability of up to $5M of critical equipment, improve equipment tracking capability more than 50% and eliminate the use of paper records.  • Plan and manage new software/hardware roll-outs, upgrades and revisions for up to 100 devices and 350 end-users.   • Enforce data integrity, protect information security and control network and computer systems access. Full-stack Web Developer Freelance/Self employed - Watertown, NY Present Develop, configure and troubleshoot web applications, websites and web servers for 20+ major projects for various clients.  • Develop front-end and back-end web applications for individual clients and companies using PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript/jQuery in collaboration with clients from concept through final delivery of product or service.  • Audit hosting platforms and web applications for security vulnerabilities, recently uncovered mortgage loan vendor’s security vulnerability that could have exposed customer's accounts and PII, recommended corrective measures.  • Manage projects of varying scope and schedule, up to $40K budgets and multi-year project schedule for software products ranging from maintenance management to hotel booking and resume writing software. Helicopter Technician U.S. Army - Fort Drum, NY January 2014 to May 2015 Education Master's in Computer Science University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL August 2015 to May 2019 Master's in Computer Science Loyola University Maryland - Timonium, MD August 2012 to January 2014 Bachelor's in Nursing University of Maryland-Baltimore - Baltimore, MD January 2011 to May 2013 Skills PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), SQL Server & Database (4 years), CSS (10+ years), React (1 year), Python (3 years), Linux (7 years), NoSQL Databases (1 year), Laravel (4 years), DBA, Sql Database, Sql Server, Sql Dba, Front End, Wordpress, HTML5 Links https://johnmuchiri.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-g-muchiri/ https://github.com/jgmuchiri Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist