SUPPLY CONTROL & PRODUCTION ANALYST SUPPLY CONTROL &amp; PRODUCTION ANALYST SUPPLY CONTROL & PRODUCTION ANALYST - Praxair Spring, TX Work Experience SUPPLY CONTROL & PRODUCTION ANALYST Praxair - Houston, TX 2019 to Present Maintain all administration and analysis for the Cylinder Tracking program by resolving all data discrepancies and accounting adjustments within the program; along the ERP and JD Edwards systems.  Key Achievements:  * Create and provide operations with key performance metrics regarding compliance to the cylinder tracking program.  * Manage and resolve cylinder balances in JD Edwards and the cylinder tracking program.  * Identify opportunities to improve the cylinder tracking process. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR, CONTRACTOR SERVICES Manpower - The Woodlands, TX 2017 to 2018 Maintain client contractor database by handling administration and conducting testing on issues that have occurred. Ensure accuracy of all tables within database by conducting international contractors.    Key Achievements:  * Enhanced staff performance by developing/delivering EMCS database training for both Engagement Managers and Coordinators across beginner, intermediate, and "quick reference" levels. Created "how-to" videos.    * Optimized internal/external supplier request process by overhauling procedures to generate tracking of requests for all data, transferring data to a SharePoint site.  * Conducted audits within the database by running Pivot Tables and V-Lookups for accuracy within each of the tables in Access; along with running SSRS & Crystal reports to compare the contract information (number, expiration date, areas, etc.) in SAP to the database.  * Responsible for all maintenance, data extraction, transformation and loading into the SQL Server; as well back up and recover and security of the server.    * Transformed manual, email-based request process into automated SharePoint site that logged request, provided status updates, and notified requesters of completed projects. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR OF MAINTENANCE & ENGINEERING TPI Staffing - Houston, TX 2016 to 2017 Managed $50-150K/month in service contracts by monitoring budget and expense records and submitting monthly event expense summaries to finance department. Coordinated cross-functionally to generate up to $100K in purchase orders, reconciling invoices and event utility billing with other departments. Generated bid summaries after proposals were received.    Key Achievements:  * Spearheaded HR processes by scheduling and maintaining temporary labor requests, as well as reconciling associate invoices, and completing reports for hourly staff to submit to Director.    * Assisted Director on special projects, including Super Bowl LI, by contacting/obtaining quotes from each supplier, setting up security access, creating schedules, and maintaining attendance logs.  - - Spring, TX 77379 (832) 512-0134 skrsunflower@yahoo.com BUSINESS ANALYST Colombia Pipeline Group - Houston, TX 2015 to 2016 Compiled all equipment, cost and monthly fees for all compression and meter stations throughout the U.S. Generated budgets and forecasting for all sites. Standardized all equipment requirements for each type of site.  Key Achievements:  * Created database for all department's outstanding RITs (contracts) with milestones for payments.  * Examined all departments projects within the TSA Roadmap system, identified and separated data into the correct divisions with total charges expected and what had been billed. DATA & BUSINESS ANALYST Weatherford International - Houston, TX 2011 to 2015 Streamlined audit process to nine months from start to finish, including upper management in all revenue decisions involving their product line throughout process. Acted as liaison between sales, product line managers, and auditors on pricing and clarification issues. Generated ad hoc reports and analyses for sales, product line, and e-commerce teams by running queries. Provided recommendations to settle audits by evaluating findings and communicating with upper management as well as identifying and acquiring data for product line catalogue for customers. Analyzed accuracy and quality of data in JDE, SAP, and cross-functional ERP systems while resolving data integrity with all stakeholders to avoid potential data reconciliation issues.    Key Achievements:  * Oversaw external audit department for United States, deploying processes in SharePoint; setting criteria in audit; and executing new audit language for all contracts, proposals, and master service agreements.  * Extracted all data used in audits from SAP and JD Edwards into Excel; completed data scrub through Pivot Tables and V-Lookups to compile data for auditors.    * Closed 15 out of 17 outstanding audits in first year, collecting $1.5M in debt, of which $606K was applied to outstanding A/R accounts. ACCOUNTING MANAGER Bearing Solutions, Inc - Tomball, TX 2009 to 2011 Produced report for forecasting annual sales based on target data inquiries. Organized and documented finances by completing bill cycle; preparing accounts receivable, accounts payable, gross margin, and EBDA reports; and filing financial statements. Communicated purchasing, receiving, and logistics of inventory to customers.    Key Achievements:  * Reduced uncontrolled payment activity by 40% by establishing client payment program to monitor payment compliance and progress for accounts payables, receivables, and collections.    * Oversaw human resources for 15 employees and payroll for two separate payroll entities.    * Led successful opening of second location by generating business plan and overview, accounting procedures training manual, employee handbook, and new hire packets. Education Business Administration Texas Lutheran University Certification North Harris County College - Houston, TX Skills Peoplesoft, ERP, access, SQL, Excel, testing, Business Intelligence