Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Tata Consultancy Services Phoenix, AZ Provide database administration and support services to clients and business partners  implementing database technologies on distributed client server open systems platforms with DB2  UDB for Linux, UNIX, and Windows (LUW), Mongo DB and Oracle Work Experience Database Administrator Tata Consultancy Services December 2011 to Present Information Management:-  IM (Information Management) Group for American Express is based in Phoenix. It is responsible for design, development and administration/maintenance of all American Express databases. The TCS  DBA team, which is part of AMEX IM group, provides DBA services to American Express  Technologies. The project involves database design and development, creation of new databases,  support for application development teams for database maintenance, data migration, data refresh,  production database monitoring for size, estimating their growth and taking necessary action to prevent the database from filling up, ensuring regular backups are being taken on all databases,  performance tuning of the databases and also SQL queries of the applications, fixing database  related issues in production and constantly looking at ways to improve the database availability and to optimize performance.    • Understanding the Physical design model and data flow of the project.  • Creation of primary database objects (tables, indexes, views) in dev, environments as per  enterprise naming standards and migrating the same to the higher environment.  • Understanding the functional aspect of Stored Procedure code and migrating the same to higher environment after doing the cost analysis and SQL/Index tuning for the same using  db2 tools like db2expln and db2advis tools  • Managing User access control on Database level and DB objects.  • Working on Change activities according to the request and project requirement.  • Involved in version/platform migration of database using redirected restore and manual  methods  • Involved schema migration using advanced utilities like db2move.admin_copy_schema,  admin_move_tab and MS SQL import/export utility.  • Scheduling the housekeeping scripts like runstats, reorg, daily backup, rebind on LINUX, and AIX environments in DB2 and scheduling jobs in MS SQL server and provisioning mail  profile for the same.  • Configuring federation setup in DB2 UDB LUW.  • Responsible for DB backup and logging, recovery. Involving in capacity planning and space  management.  • Involving in HADR setup and failover testing, Replication issues. Resolving the deadlock and Log full issues.  • Health checks monitoring and turnover evaluation of instances from E1/E2 to E3  environments.  • Maintained standby databases, in both local and remote locations, for fail-over purposes.    ! !  • Reorganizing data using logical backup-export and import.  • Volume Data Analysis - Production Database growth forecasting and capacity estimation  • Identifying and Resolving critical production issue on bridge call for tier1 application.  • Maintenance - Perform database maintenance on a weekly basis tasks such as Update  statistics, re-org, rebuild etc  • Storage - Validating disk space to have sufficient storage on drives to support databases,  backups, batch processes, etc. in daily setup basis  • Capacity Planning - Performing capacity planning to ensure disk will have sufficient storage for a specific period of time say about 1-3 years.    • Installation and Setting up replication of MongoDB 3.0.5  • Setting up Ops Manager and configuring monitoring agent on the OpsManager Web URL  • Installation of Munin packages for doing FS level and I/O monitoring via OpsManager  • Troubleshoot replication lag and other data level issue in production and test env.  • Identifying and resolving bottleneck in JSON queries using profiler and modifying queries.  • Migrating mongo DB instances to version 3.2 using mongodump and restore.  • Developing backup and DR strategy for mongo DB cluster using ops manager  • configuring automated installation using MMS services and Ops Manager  • Creating database objects and partitioned table in oracle and migrating the same to higher  env.  • Performance tuning of queries using explain plan utility in oracle  • Data cloning and migration from higher env to lower env. and from other dbms platform to oracle using IMPDP/EXPDP and sql loader  • Set up oracle Golden gate on a bi-directional mode for active-active server configuration  • Set up CDR rules and exception table in GG for data discrepancy resolution and logging for the same  • Performed failover testing between active-active server to ensure seamless application  connectivity taking DR into consideration  • Monitoring Jobs and Housekeeping script and performance bottleneck using OEM and providing resolution of same. Software Engineer Tata Consultancy Services - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2011 to Present Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering Guru Nanak Dev University 2011 Skills Db2 (5 years), Mongo DB (4 years), Oracle (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate August 2014 to Present Oracle 11g certified associate Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/7, IBM AIX, Linux  Tools Putty, Quest Central, Toad, Er Studio, IBM DataStudio, Cygwin    Big Data Hadoop, MapReduce, PIG, Hive  Languages SQL, SQL/PL