CRM Database Administrator CRM <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> CRM Database Administrator New York, NY Work Experience CRM Database Administrator Kelley Drye & Warren LLP - New York, NY November 2018 to Present CRM: OnePlace on the Salesforce platform     • Manage and provide effective ongoing support of the daily, weekly and monthly administrative activities of maintaining Salesforce CRM platform.  • Manage workflow rules, triggers, action items, approval processes, security validations  • Manage data quality & integrity, de-duplication, error logs, user administration.  • Helping users develop or fine-tune reports and dashboards to yield meaningful metrics.  • Generate pipeline reports and tracking opportunity changes, leads, and contacts.  • Create and maintain user roles, profiles, campaigns, and record types  • Support testing cycles, UAT, regression  • Create training material and documents for users  • Monitor upcoming OnePlace/Salesforce updates and release testing product updates in the sandbox  • Ensure and audit data making sure it is compliant with CASL, C-SPAM, & GDPR et al  • Coordinate with IT team ensuring that the system is up to date and integrating with company systems smoothly  • Ad hoc competitive research  • Developed data quality standard and data governance practices in collaboration with department director and practice development managers  • Administrator of Gwabbit  • Liaising with vendors: Gwabbit, OnePlace & Vuture  • Leading group and 1:1 training Constituent (CRM) Manager Trinity Church Wall Street - New York, NY March 2016 to May 2018 CRM: MS Dynamics 2013, 2016, 365  • Trained and on-boarded CRM end users, tracked institutional usage and user services, and measured system impact through metrics.  • Developed and scheduled training courses for new employees and existing employees including writing customized quick reference guides. This included group sessions as well as 1:1 training sessions.  • CRM and ESP system administrator  • Monitored user adoption rates and made appropriate recommendations  • Was key point of contact for all CRM and email operations issues  • Managed e-mail operations for Marketo and Click Dimensions  • Project management: upgrades, deliverables, customization, system enhancements  • Advised on strategic use of lists and other CRM features including the incorporation of multi-media content into CRM messaging/distribution.  • With CRM team, monitored CRM effectiveness, integrity, capacity and security.  • Maintained and updated quality control procedures to provide clean and highly accurate constituent data.  • Assisted in the design of organizational strategy for effective outreach for group members, parishioners, prospective members and visitors to the parish through policy creation on Data Integrity and Technical Support.  • Maintained and documented schedules for CRM workflow and usage, reports, solicitations and acknowledgements.  • Provided recommendations for opportunities to integrate CRM other systems (i.e. website and social media)  • Led a team of data entry and CRM clean up support staff.  • Created/built dashboards and within the CRM for data analysis  • Created/built reports within the CRM and ESP applications and worked with vendor to create SSRS based reporting CRM Coordinator Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCoy June 2015 to March 2016 CRM: InterAction  • Assisted with all aspects of the firm's CRM system, training and its integration domestically and internationally.  • Assisted with data clean up and maintenance: added, removed, and edited contact data and information for people and company records to maintain accuracy; merged duplicate contacts; researched and input missing information such as email addresses, job titles, and mailing addresses.  • Provided support for firm-wide and section-specific marketing and business development projects and initiatives  • Supported business development managers and coordinators with marketing lists and events and implementing partner use of InterAction  • Worked with Marketing Technology Manager and Specialist as InterAction back-up administrator  • Helped implement and develop strategies best practices for data cleansing, enrichment and enhancement including but not limited to processing data change management tickets, association clean-up and other regular processes that are required to maintain the quality of the data Practice Development InterAction Data Steward Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP December 2013 to May 2015 CRM: InterAction  • Served as LexisNexis InterAction CRM database administrator and performed essential functions related to maintaining the data integrity and supporting users with firm wide roll-out.  • Managed an average of 250+ data change management (DCM) tickets daily.  • Created best practices document for data research and integrity.  • Managed data migration from Outlook into InterAction personal and firm list.  • Handled data research and data quality control.  • Maintained mailing lists as well as generate searches and reports for targeted mailings.  • Processed bounceback e-mail from Concep campaigner. Various Temporary Staffing Agencies March 2013 to October 2013 Administrative Assistant/ Executive Assistant/ Executive Receptionist  • Supported high level executives.  • Data entry assistant (CRM: Salesforce).  • Executive reception C-level executive front office.  • Executive assistant to C-level executive. InterAction Data Steward Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz June 2011 to April 2012 • Verified new entries to database for proper formatting as per firm data standards, resolved duplicate entries and performed quality control checks.  • Updated, maintained and document department guidelines, processes and best practices.  • Maintained mailing lists as well as generate searches and reports for targeted mailings  • Provided user support and troubleshooting when necessary  • Amended existing records.  • Other projects related to InterAction as assigned. Receptionist Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz October 2008 to April 2012 Evening Receptionist Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz October 2008 to May 2011 to Data Steward) Education Diploma in History University of Warwick B.A. in Self-Determined Studies City University of New York - Lehman College Skills Salesforce