SQL Server DBA Production Support SQL Server DBA Production Support SQL Server DBA Production Support - DEMATIC CORP Lansing, MI • Having Extensive experience working with Microsoft SQL Server Databases in Production, Development and Testing in Clustered and Stand-alone Server Environments...  • Experience in installing MS SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 ,2017 and updating with hot fix and service packs.  • Experience in implementing AlwaysOn Availability Groups in SQL Server 2014 & 2016.  • Extensive experience in implementing high availability and Disaster recovery concepts like AlwaysOn, Clustering, Mirroring and Replication (Snap Shot and Transactional).  • Expert in Data Integrity, Performance Tuning and Query Optimization.  • Expert level skills in creating objects like Tables, Views, Normalization, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and other SQL joins and query writing using T- SQL statements.  • Experience in Database design (Logical and Physical), Performance Analysis and Production Support for very large (VLDB) and Complex Databases.  • Experience in Microsoft Azure Cloud for creation and configuration of VMs.  • Experience working with Windows Server Active Directory.  • Have hands on experience with PowerShell for backups, DBCC DB checks, post installation setups (security (user & logins), and automating some jobs.  • Experience in analyzing Locks, Deadlock's and handling the Isolation Levels and Concurrency Effects.  • Extensively used the native tools like index tuning wizard, database tuning advisor, SQL Server Profiler, Performance Monitor, Activity Monitor, and Event viewer for performance analysis.  • Experience configuring and working with Microsoft SQL server 2008/R2, 2012, 2014 on VMware/Hyper-V Environment.  • Experience in Backing up, restoring the database manually and also by scheduling the jobs and Maintenance Plans.  • Handled multiple SQL Instances on Cluster environment for Server Consolidation projects built on SAN using RAID levels.  • Experience in using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer.  • Extensive experience in the development of Reports using SQLServer2008/2012 Reporting Services (SSRS) and MS Access and developed Custom Report and different types of Tabular Reports, Matrix Reports, and drilldown reports.  • Extensive experience and proficiency and implementation of Business Intelligence tools, ETL process.  (Data Extraction, Transformation and Load) with DTS/SSIS, Data Cleansing MSSQL Databases, Analysis Services (SSAS), Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Experience with maintaining databases on MySQL and IBM DB2.  • Strong experience in mentoring team members, documentation and 24/7 on call production support Work Experience SQL Server DBA Production Support DEMATIC CORP - Grand Rapids, MI March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Worked on around 10 to 15 migration of databases from On-Premise databases to Azure Cloud.  • Created SQL ServerAlwaysOn Clusteron Azure cloud environment and setup geo replications for databases in Azure • I have built and managed many SQL Server based environments with latest SQL Server 2016 to SQL Server 2012 environments using different High Availability supported BCP and DR process like (AlwaysON, HA/AG, Transactional replication & Database mirroring).  • Built, managed and maintained2 clients facing SQL Server OLTP database production environments for critical applications supporting 999 SLA's model with High Availability, Backup & Recovery.  • Worked to configure, monitor, troubleshoot and support 3 nodes HA environments working with SQL Server AlwaysOn High Availability in between two data Centers.  • Developed, managed and maintained several daily database operation SQL Server jobs.  • Worked on over 5 to 10 critical systems patching, upgrade and migration projects.  • Worked on Transparent Data Encryption.  • Install, configure and use third party backup and monitoring tools such as CommVault and SolarWinds.  • Performed day to day DBA operations, managed users and security, worked on performance & tunings as well as capacity planning activities.  • Configure DB mail and Created database operator for alerting in case of SQL Server agent job failure and other SQL related issue, such as low disk, high CPU and database status.  • Designed ETL process to move Change Data Capture Data for reporting purpose as per business needs.  • Worked with Visual Studio 2017, Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Code Repository, Deployment and Version Control.  • Worked on connecting application to database using ADO.NET, Entity Framework and LINQ.  • Worked with SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to map and transform the data from various sources to multiple destinations as per the requirement.  • Performed data transformation between servers using Export/Import, SQL Loader, BCP, SSIS, Xcopy and Robocop.  Environment: AzureCloud, TDE, CommVault, SolarWinds, SQL Server 2016 Enterprise Edition, TFS, Change data capture. Sr.MS SQL Server DBA STATE OF MICHIGAN - Lansing, MI August 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Installed and configured MS SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 on Windows Server 2012 R2 and applied service packs.  • Setting up AlwaysOn Availability Groups(AG) with 4 Replicas and manage them.  • Installed and configured SQL Server Failover cluster for both active-passive and active-active for multiple instances on multiple nodes.  • Perform database migration from SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014 to SQL 2012/2014/2016.  • Responsible for creating and troubleshooting stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes.  • Regularly checking database integrity for consistency and validate the disk space proactively.  • Created database maintenance plan job to Rebuild the Indexes and update statistics on regular intervals for better performance.  • Configure various Replication, Log shipping and Mirroring and maintain them using native monitoring tools and alerting system.  • Verify and analyze SQL Server error logs on the servers by using SQL log and windows event viewer.  • Involved in creating Logical & Physical Database using data model tool Erwin.  • Involve in Change Management and Incident Management process and using JIRA.  • Involved in improving database performance using SQL profiler, Trace Flags, Execution Plan and Engine Tuning Advisor, Extended Event mechanism and DMV.  • Monitored Server Performance and Pulling out performance reports using Quest Foglight tool.  • Working with installation and configuration SQL Server Integration Service.  • Working on creating complex SSIS packages for data transportation.  Environment: MSSQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014, Windows 2005/2008/2012, SSSIS, Database Tuning Advisor, Profiler, Erwin, Migration, Replication, Database mirroring, T-SQL, AlwaysOn, Clustering, Foglight Database Administrator COMCAST CORPORATION - West Chester, PA September 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities: • Implemented Always-On Availability groups (AAG) and HA/DR setup and configuration.  • Installed and administered Four-Node cluster Active/Passive on Microsoft windows server 2012 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  • Experience of handling 5+ TB Database.  • Migrated SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports from 2008R2 to 2012.  • Prepared documentation step by step procedure for the migration in Microsoft One Note.  • Assist with verification of data integrity, database performance (deadlock, locking, blocking, etc.) and validate the data migration completion.  • Designed and developed data migration strategy between on premise SQL databases to Azure SQL.  • Administrating and Monitoring Database Mirroring and Replication(Transactional) on SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012 • Managing the VERITAS NetBackup for SQL Backup and Restore.  • Checking the SQL error logs for any errors that may have occurred over Migration night.  • Work on day-day tasks like backup failure tickets, daily disk free space reports and application related supported work.  • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS.  • Experience with Cluster Configuration in SAN environment.  • Schedule and conduct project Update/Status meetings.  • Experienced working under agile project management and Service Now ticketing tool.  Environment: SQL Server2008R2/2012/2014/2016, SSRS, Windows 2012/2008, Veritas NetBackup, VMAX, Service Now. DBA ACCENTURE - Murray Hill, NJ June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities: • Installed, configured, designed, created, managed security and maintained customized database -driven reports using SSRS 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016.  • Implemented Always-ON (AAG) on SQL Server 2012 SP2.  • Responsible for maintaining the production and non-production databases for Duck Creek Suite hosted in the cloud and database maintenance activities like (Reorganize and Rebuild Indexes) • Moving databases from on premise servers to Microsoft Cloud platform (SQL Azure) as part of application migrations.  • Implemented the restores of SQL Azure databases with a clear understanding of the backup retention periods of the Azure databases as per their service tiers.  • Implemented a SQL purging process for Old claim data as per business requirement.  • Troubleshooting and resolving database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues, Connectivity issues and Security issues etc.  • Implemented SQL server security best practices and transparent data encryption (TDE).  • Developed and automated daily, weekly and monthly counts of Claims by Scheduling the SQL Job.  • Responsible for ensuring that production SLAs are met, upgrades are delivered without disruption ofclaims service and monitoring Claims in case of any failures.  • Monitoring the data files, log file space issues, blockings, Tempdb space issues and disk space issues.  • Applying data fixes into production as necessary, and triaging data-related tickets raised in production.  • Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server reporting services (SSRS).  • Providing monthly metrics regarding database usage and Contributed to Technical Documentation and Run Book updates.  • Provided 24/7 support by actively monitoring the job history, alerts.  Environment:SQL Server 2014/2012 with Clustering, Windows 2012 Server, SSRS, T-SQL, Microsoft Azure, Profiler, SQL Server tuning advisor, Putty, TDE (Transparent Data encryption), Always-ON, Failover Cluster Manager, Configuration Management, .NET Framework. DBA TRANSAMERICAN AUTO PARTS - Compton, CA January 2014 to June 2015 with Level II Support  Responsibilities: • Installed stand-alone and clustered SQL Server 2012 and 2008 R2 on 64 bit systems.  • Performed in-place upgrade from SQL Server 2008 to 2008R2 • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 includingSSIS packages • Implemented and maintained Database Mirroring, Log shipping and Transactional Replication as Disaster Recovery solution.  • Implemented the new SQL Server 2012 mechanisms like data compressions, online indexing, Contained Databases, security principals • Handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2008 on Windows 2008 • Performed Failover drill tests to check the High Availability during disasters.  • Used Lite Speed for backups and maintenance jobs which includes updating statistics, database integrity checks.  • Worked in setting up the SQL Server configuration settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory issues for SQL Server databases and to setup ideal memory, min/max server options.  • Involved in Database design, Logical and Physical Data modeling using Erwin. Transformed logical model into Physical SQL Server Database. Created SQL tables using scripts and Erwin Forward Engineering Utility.  • Modified Stored Procedures and complex T-SQL queries to improve query execution process.  • Created Logins, Roles and Proxy accounts with appropriate permissions and maintaining Database Maintenance Plans.  • Monitored alerts using Fog Light and Spotlight and also looked into Event Viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for software and hardware related errors.  Environment:MS SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/05,Windows 2008/2003 Server, Lite Speed, MS Visio, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2005, MS Business Intelligence Development Studio 2008, Fog light, Spot light, SQLBase, Oracle 11g/10g. SQL Server Developer/DBA Sprint Mobile Services - Overland Park, KS June 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities: • Installed and configured MS SQL Server and Clients.  • Created Database Objects like Tables, Views, Constraints, Functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Rules, Defaults and user defined data types • Identified Relationships between tables and enforced referential integrity using Foreign key constraints • Created Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes to improve data access performance • Tuned the SQL queries using SQL Profiler • Wrote and test Stored Procedures to create Database Roles and grant permission to roles and adding logins to specified roles.  • Scheduled Full and Differential Database backups to disks, remote servers, using batch scripts, TSQL and Maintenance Plan Wizard and configure appropriate Recovery Model for the databases • Managed Disk space, memory and User connections.  • Generated Script files of the databases whenever changes were made to stored procedures.  • Designed new schema for data partition and creating Partition views for better performance.  • Programmed in T-SQL to implement Stored Procedures and Functions for different tasks  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/20008R2, Windows 2005/2008 Server, SQL Profiler. Education Bachelor's Skills databases (6 years), MS SQL Server (7 years), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), T-SQL (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages T-SQL, My SQL, ADO.NET,.NET, C/C++, Visual Basic 6  Operating Systems Windows 2005/2008/2012/2014, LINUX, VMware ESX servers  Databases MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2, MYSQL, DB2  ETL &Reporting Tools SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Crystal Reports  DB Utilities SQL Server Management Utility, Query Analyzer  Application Software Visual Studio 2017, Team Foundation Server, MS Office Suite  Third party Tools CommVault, Symantec NetBackup, Erwin, Lite Speed, Red gate, SolarWinds, Foglight  Cloud Computing Azure