Technical Support Technical Support Technical Support - SentryOne Matthews, NC Work Experience Technical Support SentryOne 2018 to Present • Act as entry level BI consultant for customers utilizing the SentryOne components.  • Demo and develop BI packages for team members to instruct them on how to create and deploy SSIS packages.  • Utilized SQL Server experience to successfully integrate SentryOne monitoring application on production and development servers  • Worked with customers to allow software access across non-trust domains, reduce monitoring gaps between servers with wide geographical separation, and provide guidance on performance tuning techniques utilizing the SentryOne application  • Created and developed custom SQL queries for unique environments to maximize SentryOne reporting services.  • Basic C# programing for Script Tasks within Visual Studio  • Assisted customers in SSIS productions and development utilizing Task Factory components Captain Army National Guard - Charlotte, NC 2011 to Present • Leader in the military. Expert in the field of risk management, leadership, logistics, and equipment.  • Plans Officer responsible for future operations planning as far out as up to 120 days  • Expert in public speaking and documentation productions with details instructions and guidance  • Always ready to protect and serve my country at a moment's notice.  • Logistics coordination: in transit visibility, Shore to Shore logistical management, and IF bar readings. Product Specialist Wells Fargo 2017 to 2018 • Working with SQL Server 2014 to ensure that account balances are set up correctly  • Utilize the Intellimatch application to swiftly update SQL Server information including users, logins, and account information  • Working in a highly regulated environment to update account balances, account information, and delete general ledger information.  • Apply a publication application to update end-of-day and end-of-month account information. Jr Database Administrator Remote Database Experts 2016 to 2017 • Tasks include RDP/VPM/SSH methods to log into client servers and troubleshoot/resolve operating systems and database related issues  • Installation and scheduling of monitoring services through batch files.  • Direct interaction with various clients through e-mail and phone for 24/7 remote support using Big Brother and Solarwinds monitoring services.  • Troubleshooting MSSQL issues which include coding backups, SQL scrips, batch files, network issues, data mining, T-SQL, high availability and disaster recovery, and monitoring CPU and memory usage levels.  • Monitoring and addressing AlwaysOn, Mirroring, and Log Shipping  • Experience working inner/outer joins  • Perform server/instance reporting through client requested assessments IT/Engineering Technical Recruiter ATR International 2015 to 2016 • Nationwide professional placement of both IT and Engineer professionals.  • Process direct hires, contract work, and contract to permanent placement.  • Responsible for interviews, pay negotiations, and contractual compliance.  • Work with potential employees for full cycle Team Lead Recruiter Carolina Construction Solutions - Charlotte, NC 2013 to 2015 • Recruiter that specializes in construction.  • Responsible for managing hundreds of workers across several states, organization of personal documents for processing, and parsing resumes.  • Negotiated pay, organizing travel, preform background checks and process drug screenings. Education MS in Information Systems Liberty University 2020 BA degree in Political Science University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 2013 Skills Sql, Batch files, Scripting, Security, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Windows 2000, Windows 7, Mac, Osha