Sr. Database Administrator Sr.<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Dohmen Life Science Services, WI Milwaukee, WI • Over 6+ years of IT experience including Oracle Database Administration and MS SQL database administration along with significant expertise in the golden gate.  • Comprehensive experience as Oracle DBA, especially in Multitenant in 12c.  • Good knowledge on Facets upgrade through Framework.  • Goldengate proficient in Oracle 11g/12c software installations, migrations, database capacity planning, automated backup implementation, performance tuning on Linux/Unix and Windows platform.  • Analyze and determine the feasibility of leverage the Oracle Enterprise Manager solution to report on performance, provide metrics, and become the centralized proactive maintenance solution for Exadata distributions.  • Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, Flash Cache, etc.  • Experience in Healthcare, telecom domains.  • Experience in FACETS upgrade (using Facets upgrade framework).  • Good experience in handling onshore-offshore teams.  • Well versed with Incident management, Problem management and Change management.  • Good knowledge of MongoDB.  • Result oriented, self-driven, highly motivated and keen to learn new technologies.  • Well versed with Incident management, Problem management and Change management.  MS SQL DBA:  • Created new database and tables using scripts.  • Maintained User Databases and System Databases.  • Performed Tuning of Stored Procedures, SQL Queries and User Defined Functions  • Implemented Trigger to maintain data integrity and consistency.  • Planned and scheduled automated backups & performed recovery.  • Created user logins and add users to respective databases.  • Actively involved in hardware and network specification, installation and configuration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Dohmen Life Science Services, WI May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Upgrading and Migration of Production databases from SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012\2014\2016.  • Applied service packs to Non-Prod, PROD servers in both stand alone and clustered environments to ensure database servers are secure and stable.  • Setting up High Availability such as Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication and Always On for newly provisioned productiondatabases based on the requirement to meet RPO\RTO.  • Worked with Monitoring Teams to Set Up alerting for Database Space issues, Storage Issues and Cluster Failover Alerts.  • Performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO), using native monitoring and troubleshooting tools.  • Implemented and configured Central Management Servers to centralize and manage instances of SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014\2016.  • Monitored to remediate the performance bottlenecks such asBlockings, Deadlocks, CPU, Memory and Disk IO on SQL Server Instances using Perfmon and Database Performance Analyzer.  • Identified and analyzed deadlocks in databases using SQL Server Profiler and Monitored database performance and optimize via query tuning/indexing.  • Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users.  • Designed Always on Availability Groups and Database Recovery plan, Implemented Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 and participated in Disaster Recovery Drill processes.  • Extensively used Redgate SQL Compare and Data Compare tools tocompare and synchronize SQL Database Schemas.  • Deployed and managed reports in SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS). Sr. Database administrator CDPHP - Albany, NY October 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Install, Configure, Customize and Maintain Development and Production Database for Facets application  • Configuring Data Guard (Physical Standby database)  • Perform Quarterly Database PSU Patches.  • Monitoring database space requirements and adjustment for future needs.  • Involve in increasing performance of database through reversing and rebuilding index, tuning query, indexing etc.  • Renaming Adding, resizing Data files.  • Taking Differential backups of the database using Recovery Manager (RMAN) regularly on to disk.  • Performed different File recoveries in the database.  • Configured Listeners on server side and TNS Aliases on the clients' side.  • Avoid Raw Migration/Chainning after analyzing the table.  • Memory tuning by using ASMM (Automatic shared Memory Management). Sort area size, Buffer cache, Shared pool size, Different pool like Recycle pool, Keep pool.  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Indexes.  • Generated AWR report manually and by scripts.  • Cloning pluggable databases from one container to other.  • Prepare Proof of Concept (POC) for enhanced database performance recommendations, including new tools/technologies required.  • Provide Tier 2 Technical support on production servers.  • Identify, escalate and document production issues.  • Perform troubleshooting and system maintenance, backup and disaster recovery;  • RAC administration and ASM 18C on 2 node production nodes. Sr. Database administrator British telecom - Pune, Maharashtra February 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Install, Configure, Customize and Maintain Development and Production Database for Facets application  • Troubleshooting and patching of RAC and Standby system.  • Exadata patching, monitoring, space management, tuning Queries using Smart Scan, HCC, Flash Cache and Storage Indexes.  • Perform Storage Maintenance.  • Grid Infrastructure Administration include clusterware, ASM disk group.  • Provided Security, consistency, efficiency, track state etc.  • Planned and coordinated data migration between systems.  • Up gradation of cluster and RAC databases, applying critical PSU/listener patches on RAC/non RAC databases.  • Supporting 5 node RAC warehouse size ranging 47 Terabytes.  • Work closely with Informatics /BO team to identify Performance issue and tune SQL statement to boost performance and minimize timeline to complete ETL loads related jobs.  • Upgrading database from 11.2.0.2/3 to 11.2.0.4 and 11.2.04 to 12C.  • Configuration of Grid control and manage Grid agent (addition/deletion/configuration).  • Administer and Manage / Patch / Backup / Production RAC Instances.  • Identify and apply Critical Patch Updates security patches.  • Management of other legacy application connecting to oracle applications.  • Work with change control management team to study and implement changes as per the requirement of the company.  • 24/7 Support for Oracle Application server and other Databases.  • On call support co-ordination and management.  • Co-ordinate Project related Technical Issues.  • Interact with Build / Project Managers for smooth DBA / Technical support.  • Project planning for New Projects - (Technical requirements, capacity planning, Identify DBA Leads and Point of Contact Assignments for the build from DBA team, Timelines for completion and release of instances).  • Knowledge sharing and process documentation.  • Consolidated and submit Status Reports to Management on weekly/Monthly activities. Database administrator Sabre airlines solutions - Pune, Maharashtra December 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and maintain physical standby database.  • Successfully conducted the DR Drills for different critical financial databases.  • Migrated database on Amazon/Hosting.com Cloud.  • RMAN and manual cloning.  • Monitor alert logs, space and object growth related problems in the databases.  • Create and maintain documentation of database installations and other DBMS processes.  • Installing, configuring, patches and upgrading of oracle server software.  • Exposure to manual backup and recovery techniques.  • Exposure to RMAN backup and recovery techniques  • Experience with supporting reporting database warehouses.  • Providing the day-to-day administration of production databases  • Back-up and recovery of databases using RMAN.  • OS space usage management, job scheduling etc.  • Perform database tuning and performance monitoring.  • Creating and Managing RMAN Catalog  • Perform on-call activities for both day and night times support.  • Proactive monitoring of the database instances and takes preventive steps to ensure high availability. Education Bachelor's