Analyst Analyst Silver Spring, MD Work Experience Analyst Latin America and the Caribbean - Washington, DC April 2019 to Present • Research and identify blindspots about jihadist terrorist presence in Latin America and the Caribbean. Coordinate with think tanks, policy decision makers, and experts to shed light on prior attacks and covert operations in the region.  • Exercise regional expertise on matters related to illegal cultivation, transnational organizations, ex-criminal and ISIS combatants reintegration challenges; and other high-level matters related to U.S. foreign policy/assistance.  • Draft investigative action plans based on collected data. Mine data by using advanced excel/google suite functions to input and assemble plans into spreadsheet for Senate-confirmed, Bureau Assistant Administrator  • Perform quality control and oversight to operational functions (e.g., executing tasks and briefings. Provide technical, computer-related support to senior leaders. Implement program information and data in spreadsheets. Graduate Teaching Assistant American University, School of Public Affairs (SPA) - Washington, DC June 2018 to Present • Apply subject-matter knowledge, expertise, and support to the Transnational Dimensions of Political Violence hybrid course-graduate and undergraduate students.  • Identify gaps in course structure. Implement foundational and technical material to contribute to the mission of the course - understanding political violence, foreign fighters, radicalization/recruitment and counter terrorism.  • Reduce professor's workload by grading weekly reaction papers, providing concise feedback to student in writing, and ensure assignments comply with rubric.  • Invited to lecture Recruitment and Returnees courses and course on the basis terrorism and counterterrorism. Counterterrorism Intelligence Analyst/Watch Officer IntelCenter - Alexandria, VA January 2019 to April 2019 • Performed concrete, visual analysis of terrorist and rebel group operations, targeting methodologies, tactics, and online messaging from correlated and incoming data. Focus regions: Africa, Central Asia, and Eastern Europe.  • Evaluated facial and body recognition using recognition software. Identified familiar voices in group videos and audio releases; captured sound patterns for threat assessment and analysis reports.  • Collected primary data from terrorist and rebel group social, visual, and news media. Produced more than 200 daily/weekly threat assessment reports and disemminated to US IC and think-tank clients. Included individual and group identity information, video releases, and threat analysis.  • Monitored intelligence sources and open source data. Interpreted data into summaries and written reports. Translated French, minimal Arabic and Somali sources.  Strengthened company data visuals-charted group structures and movements. Provided guide on ICD writing. Regional Security Researcher National Defense University - Washington, DC May 2018 to December 2018 • Created and presented material using data collected from the open source on nuclear/energy security; religious minorities; terrorist and paramilitary groups in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East to support the College of International Security Affairs' Regional and Analytical Studies department  • Improved document visibility using charts and highlights. Developed tracking system in Microsoft Office. Shared research and advised draftees on source collection, document structure and grammar.  • Engaged with students and faculty ranging from senior executive service members (e.g., DOE) and high-level foreign and U.S. military officers (LTC, Col., Gen.) at secured events. Open Source/Research Analyst U.S. Department of State - Washington, DC September 2017 to November 2018 • Tracked the VEO attacks and foreign partner disruptions, social media, threats and operational activities of ISIS using open source intelligence for the Special Presidential Envoy' Global Coalition.  • Drafted summary reports displaying trends and status updates on ISIS operational acts at the height of the counter-ISIS campaign in the Core, Europe, and Southeast Asia.  • Created charts, graphs, and organized the Microsoft Excel Incident Tracker. Information processed, evaluated and corroborated with INR analysts, then used in high-level Meetings at the international Foreign Ministry level and the White House. Research Analyst International Center for Religion & Diplomacy - Washington, DC September 2017 to November 2017 • Evaluated domestic and international sources, specifically foreign policy materials for current security developments, including counterterrorism in North America, Asia, Africa, and Europe.  • Constructed summaries about countering violent extremism and ameliorating partnerships with countries saturated with terrorist activity. Produced/edited group weekly reports; presentations and daily summaries to brief senior leaders.  • Created publication materials. Designed community and social media outreach to addressing armed conflicts in Yemen and Libya, including ISIS usurping activities in North Africa and the Middle East.  • Represented ICRD at events and interacted with featured academic and government leaders (e.g., Pakistan's Former Foreign Minister Asif). Database Administrator City of Raleigh - Raleigh, NC November 2015 to August 2016 • Led organization database and activities; daily center operations and functions for Barwell Road Community Center  • Assembled patron information into database for processing and registering for events.  • Identified gaps in database pertaining to patron sensitive information by examining attendance sheets, spreadsheets, financial material, and applications collected from various sources.  • Voluntarily supported sporting events for Barwell and the Laurel Hills community center as the basketball scorekeeper and after-school care functions. Adult Probation/Parole Intern Division of Adult Corrections & Juvenile Justice - Raleigh, NC August 2013 to January 2014 • Conducted interviews with offenders during visits to central prison, jail cell;, and home-site visits of offenders.  • Entered and formatted offender profile into database and Excel. Attended probation and sentence hearings; interacted with high-level.  • Collated offender information, bureau statistics and secondary sources to chart and perform research analysis. Intake Specialist Legal Aid of North Carolina, Central Intake Unit - Raleigh, NC March 2011 to August 2013 • Gathered client demographics, assessed their financial resources. Applied subject-matter knowledge and investigative analysis to evaluate client finances and purpose.  • Drafted and edited attorney letters. Prepared and filed legal requests after gathering client needs.  • Identified gaps for organization improvement. Trained intake specialists and conducted senior meetings. Education M.S. in Terrorism/Counterterrorism American University, School of Public Affairs - Washington, DC August 2016 to May 2018 Skills Network analysis, Security, Data mining, Drafting, Collection, training, Excel, Management, database