Senior Distribution Manager - Warehouse Management System Senior Distribution Manager - Warehouse Management System EXPERIENCED SUPPLY CHAIN AND DISTRIBUTION PROFESSIONAL Appleton, WI A Record of Success in Distribution Center Management with Expertise in Improving Systems and Processes Work Experience Senior Distribution Manager - Warehouse Management System Kimberly-Clark - Neenah, WI June 2017 to Present Recruited to lead Consumer Distribution project activities and initiatives to improve systems, processes, and flows.  • Lead and participate on project teams on development and implementation of distribution systems and processes.  • Develop, implement and update program strategies to drive new capability and continuous improvement.  • Provide strategic and tactical support for consumer business plans and strategies.  • Provide operational support and project coordination to ensure the achievement of Distribution objectives.  • Build relationships with NACP Business units, company professionals, staff distribution, supply chain strategies, third-party logistics providers, planning, mill/plant personnel, procurement, external customers.  • Serve as key contact and functional expert for mills and DCS to assess materials handling and system problems and implementation of corrective action.  • Demonstrate knowledge in safety, quality, and materials handling expertise investigating and driving innovative solutions.  • Support cost improvement programs to facilitate the achievement of Consumer sector cost objectives.  • Create new tools or perform ad hoc analysis, as needed, to support various customer group needs. Distribution Center Site Manager Anheuser-Busch - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to September 2018 Promoted and relocated to start-up and oversee daily operations of a new 3PL-managed distribution center.  • Developed and implemented strategy to successfully start-up a new distribution center from scratch in Montclair, California to supply 1,600 SKU's of beer product to 41 ABI wholesalers in the states of California, Nevada, and Arizona.  • Cultivated and continued to strengthen relationships with Biagi Bros., a full-service third-party logistics provider (3PL) handling day-to-day operations of the distribution center including loading and unloading trucks and maintaining inventory.  • Managed a $3 million annual budget, handled all financial details, invoices, inventory; ensured Biagi Bros. and their team of 30, fulfilled terms of the agreement with ABI; handled relationship and business with Allied Universal Security with staff of 5.  • Oversaw all details to ensure the successful operation of the 130,000 s.f. distribution center, maintaining an inventory of 580,000 cases of beer in a 60° controlled environment warehouse, and 9,000 kegs in a cold room maintained at 36°.  • Designed and executed strategy to ship 16 to 18 SKUs per load to wholesalers throughout the three state service area.  • Served as single point of contact with 12 ABI breweries, multiple craft breweries, all zone & brewery groups, 3PL, wholesalers, solutions, transport, and Business Service Center to ensure overall success of inventory management, order management, transport management, and fleet management.  • Assisted as needed in a pseudo Operations Manager role to ensure adequate scheduling and efficient shipping. Railroad Coordinator, Transportation Anheuser-Busch - St. Louis, MO June 2015 to June 2017 Promoted to oversee all day-to-day rail operations for inbound raw materials and outbound beer shipments in North America.  • Cultivated and strengthened relationships and managed business with North America's largest railroads including Union Pacific, CSX, C&W, FURL, BNSF, California Southern, CP, and Norfolk Southern.  • Served as the sole ABI employee to manage the daily transportation of raw materials to all breweries located in the United States, Canada and Mexico to ensure safe inventory levels and continued production.  • Accurately maintained and ordered empty railcar supplies for outbound beer shipments originating from the Ft. Collins, CO, Saint Louis, MO and Fairfield, CA breweries within an annual $15 million budget.  • Communicated with multiple supply chain areas (suppliers, warehouses, inventory management, railroads, carriers, etc.) to resolve issues in a timely manner and prevent operational downtime. Senior Analyst II, Transportation Anheuser-Busch - St. Louis, MO September 2014 to June 2015 Promoted into a full-time position to identify cost savings opportunities from transportation management systems.  • Analyzed transportation cost data for movement of beer from breweries in the Northeast U.S. to wholesalers in the assigned territory to save cost and improve processes; researched and benchmarked best practices within the industry.  • Served as Transportation Coordinator at breweries in Newark, NJ, Baldwinsville, NY, Columbus, OH, and Merrimack, NH.  • Properly extracted and analyzed data from various transportation management systems.  • Provided recommendations as necessary to increase success of customer supply chains.  • Proactively and professionally communicated opportunities to increase performance of customers' accounts. Logistics Analyst Anheuser-Busch - St. Louis, MO December 2013 to September 2014 Recruited into a contract position to analyze daily supply requirements for Metal Container Corporation subsidiary.  • Supported Service Level Agreements (direct shipments and accurate order management) to supply cans to customer Pepsi bottling locations by proper schedule synchronization and order configuration for 20 to 50 SKU's per location.  • Forecasted and analyzed daily supply requirements to ensure safe inventory and operating levels, coordinated planned and unplanned events such as new product roll outs, graphic changes, product holds, special events, and natural disasters.  • Trained and managed two new Logistics Analysts to perform at a high level. Job Developer / Employment Specialist MERS Goodwill - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to December 2013 Provided outreach services to at-risk youth, including job readiness training, job placement services, and college planning.  • Assisted low income individuals to enter or re-enter the workforce by overcoming barriers to employment.  • Demonstrated ability to communicate with diverse group of people with a wide variety of backgrounds and educational levels. Parking Meter Collector City of St. Louis, Missouri Parking Division - St. Louis, MO December 2011 to April 2013 Dec. 2011 to Apr. 2013  A division of the City of St. Louis Treasurer's Office charged with collecting revenue from parking operations.  Parking Meter Collector - St. Louis, Missouri  Retrieved parking meter coin revenue along designated routes; reported out-of-service meters; assisted public as needed. Campaign Coordinator United Way of St. Louis - St. Louis, MO August 2011 to November 2011 Hired into a seasonal position to encourage employees at local companies to donate to the United Way.  • Coordinated campaign planning, supporting and/or managing accounts ranging from $1,000 to $500,000+.  • Supported data gathering, research, and analysis for account management and projections.  • Evaluated campaigns and made recommendations for improvement; maintained accurate and timely project progress notes.  • Maintained account management tool (Andar/360), filing, and other instruments as necessary. Database Administrator / Recruiter Indoff Inc - St. Louis, MO June 2010 to September 2010 Logged information and managed GoldMine database, and coordinated recruiting for sales positions.  • Contacted 80+ prospects per day, seeking qualified candidates for new sales positions; improved recruiting processes. Retail Sales Representative Nestlé U.S.A - St. Louis, MO August 2008 to January 2010 Tulsa, Oklahoma (Aug. 2007 to Aug. 2008)  Recruited to drive in-store retail sale execution to achieve sales objectives for a diverse product portfolio.  • Sold-in proper plan-o-gram execution at chain stores and share of distribution at independent stores for products including Nestlé Purina Petcare cat and dog food, Gerber baby foods, Tombstone frozen pizza, Dreyer's ice cream and Coffee-mate.  • Serviced chain and independent stores in the state of Oklahoma, Western Arkansas, Southwestern Missouri, and Southern Kansas; following relocation to St. Louis, called on 17 Walmart stores in the Midwest territory.  • Consistently achieved sales volume, profit, brand share, speed of shelf, and share of shelf goals; created in-store displays to maximize product marketability and appeal; managed adjustment of voids and perpetual inventory. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration in Business Administration Lindenwood University - Saint Charles, MO 2006 Skills Logistics, Logistics management, Supply chain, Continuous improvement, Cost analysis, Operations, Sap, Budget, Six sigma, Budget management, Human resources, Sales operations, Customer service, Organizational development, Coaching, Training, Relationship building, Belt certified, Microsoft office, Site management, Loyalty Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-r-perry Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma White Belt Certified Present Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Supply Chain • Logistics • Distribution Center Site Management • Transportation • Team Leadership • Customer Service  Third-Party Logistics Management • Sales Operations • Budget Management • Service & Cost Analysis  Continuous Improvement • Issue Resolution • Organizational Development • Human Resources • Training & Coaching Relationship Building • Microsoft Office Suite • SAP • Toolbox • 12 • Six Sigma White Belt Certified • Public Speaking