ETL Developer ETL Developer ETL Developer Work Experience ETL Developer SSIS - Rosemont, IL November 2016 to June 2019 US    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in gathering User Requirement and System Specification.  • Created new data controls flows with store procedures, table partitions, views, constraints, indexes.  • Implemented business rules depending on the financial plan that involves running rules engines, commission calculations.  • Designed ETL packages using proper Loggings and Checkpoints, secured packages with Encryption in conjunction with passwords.  • Created Indexes, Views, Index views, Constraints, Stored Procedure, User-Defined functions, CTEs, and effective DDL/DML Triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation and data consistency.  • Involved to planning and designing SSAS 2012 Cubes and building attribute relationships, aggregation KPIS's for optimal MDX query performance of Hierarchies and Fact Dimensions.  • Created and managed schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, store procedures, triggers and maintaining Referential Integrity.  • Created table partitions to improve database performance on some critical data tables.  • Created SSIS packages to transform data from daily feed file systems to staging database server and then to development database.  • Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages and notified process results to various user communities.  • Created checkpoints, configuration files in SSIS packages and Deployed SSIS packages with minimal changes using XML configuration file.  • Extensively used Derived Column, Lookup, Conditional Split, Merge Join, Sort, execute SQL Task as part of SSIS packages to load data from one system to another.  • Designed and build the OLAP cubes using Star schema and Snow Flake Schema using native OLAP Service Manager.  • Developed SSRS 2012 reports for SOX compliance, audit, operational controls on data marts and transactional data.  • Helped in developing Tableau reports as part of the compliance project requirement.  • Designed and created Report templates, bar graphs, pie charts based on the financial data.  • Actively involved in change management process to deploy database objects to QA/UAT/Production servers.  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  • Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  • Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  • Troubleshooting, on call production support once every two weeks.  • Maintained the physical database by monitoring and optimizing performance, data integrity and SQL queries for maximum efficiency using SQL Profiler.  • Created and maintained daily SQL jobs to monitor the health of SSIS packages.  Environment: SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, Windows Server 2008/2012/2014, Query Analyzer, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, SQL profiler, Performance Monitor, Teradata, Query Optimizer, T-SQL, Agile, XML, MS Visual Studio, Tableau, Spotlight, Team Foundation Server (TFS). SQL/BI Developer TD Bank - New York, NY July 2015 to October 2016 USA    Responsibilities:  • Collected business requirements from users and translated them as technical specs and design docs for development.  • Implemented Master/Child Packages so only the Master Package has to be scheduled which will in turn fire the other packages.  • Involved in ER diagrams and mapping the data into database objects, design of the Database and the Tables.  • Build table relationships and wrote stored procedures to clean the existing data.  • Created cover indexes and applied various work around methods to help improve processing time of ETL.  • Identified various data sources, designed and developed data models (physical/logical data models) based on the given specs and requirements.  • Performance tuning on database Objects to achieve optimal data retrieval/updates using SQL Profiler, Execution plan.  • Worked as a developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T-SQL code and SQL joins for applications.  • Extensively used T-SQL in constructing user functions, views, indexes, user profiles, relational database models, data dictionaries, and data integrity.  • SSIS packages are created to transform and load data from Mainframe system to SQL Server.  • For Loop container, For Each Loop container, Execute SQL Task and Data Flow Tasks were used extensively as part of ETL packages.  • Error handling, SMTP emails, package scheduling is done as part of SSIS tasks.  • Fine-tuned the logic in Procedures, Functions and Triggers for optimum performance.  • Extensively used Pentaho to move data from text files to SQL Server.  • Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2008.  • Created SSIS packages for new projects utilizing Business Intelligence Development.  • Writing complex Stored Procedures to meet the business requirements.  • Using SQL Profiler to estimate the Slow Running queries and performance tuning purpose.  • Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension, Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional Split, Derived column etc.  • Created data sources, connection strings and defined the datasets for generating the report.  • Worked on all types of report types like tables, charts, sub reports.  • Created Linked reports, Ad-hoc reports based on the requirement. Linked reports are created in the Report Server to reduce the repetition the reports.  • Developed, monitored and deployed SSIS packages.  • Implemented Change Data Capture (CDC) on dynamic tables to capture DDL changes.  • Created logging for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS.  • Responsible for Scheduling Jobs, Alerting and Maintaining SSIS packages through Active Batch Job Scheduler.  • Windows Azure (Website, webrole and worker roles).  • Azure API Management, Security, Cloud-to-Cloud Integration (Public, Private).  • Define cloud network architecture using Azure virtual networks, VPN and express route to establish connectivity between on premise and cloud.  • Solid understanding of ASP.NET/ASP.NET 2.0, C#/VB.NET, .NET Framework.  • Designed individual physical structure of the business using .NET Framework and OLAP.  • Implemented assemblies such as VB.Net and C# to be able to respond to critical issues.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2014, Excel, TSQL, Microsoft Visual Studio (BIDS), SQL Reporting Services, Cosmos, SQL integration services, Teradata, Pentaho,.Net, MS Azure, Sentry, Jira, PowerBI, Erwin, SharePoint, Import Export Wizard SQL Database Administrator/BI Developer Metal & Engineering Corporation - Addis Ababa, ET September 2010 to June 2014 Ethiopia  Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in gathering business requirements that will facilitate the planning and the implementation phase of OLTP database.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  • Managed SQL Servers in 32/64bit Clustered environments. Implemented Database Mirroring on SQL Server 2008 environments.  • Designed ETL packages dealing with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, Web Services) and loaded the data into target data sources by performing different kinds of transformations using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Troubleshoot database performance issues and tune database objects. Set up traces and Profiler to troubleshoot performance.  • To set up SQL Server configuration settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory issues for SQL Server databases and to setup ideal memory, min/max server options.  • Created complex stored procedures with parameters and generated multi parameterized SSRS reports from them, where the user has a choice to select the parameters.  • Created and optimized database objects such as views, functions and stored procedures as per requirement.  • Performed optimization of TSQL stored procedures by analyzing execution plans, creating proper indexes and employing SQL profiler and Database engine tuning advisor in OLTP environment.  • Maintained existing Power BI reports and dashboards and made changes onto the same as per new and changing business requirements.  • Filtered bad data from legacy system using T-SQL and implemented constraints and triggers into new system for data consistency.  • Designed and developed the ETL data flow to populate the CER Cube Analysis Database using the SSIS packages (SQL Server Integration Services). Scheduled and automated the packages to populate the data in the cube daily up to date for business reporting.  • Identified the field/column level data quality issues of the source systems to drive the data quality, data cleansing and error checking in the SSIS packages. Identify and document the source to target packages.  • Created SQL server configurations for SSIS packages and XML & Windows event logs.  • Design and document the error-handling strategy in the ETL load process using Event handlers.  • Used Notification services to generate error messages and send them to the user through e-mails.    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008R2, T- SQL, Microsoft Access, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio, Idera, Litespeed, Star Team Version Control tool, TFS, Tableau 8.1, MS Azure, C#, .Net, Erwin, MS Visio 2010. Skills Data transformation, Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Pl/sql, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Pentaho, T-sql, Data mining, Etl, Sql server analysis services, Visual studio, Analysis services, Html, Javascript, Reporting tools