Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Payable Manager Brooklyn, NY Highly trained financial accountant & analyst; efficient, detail oriented, and multilingual.   I've worked at a wide range of organizations, from a non-profit athletics club, a multinational bank. My experience includes financial analysis and all aspects of accounting, in both supporting and leading positions.     • Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledger  • Financial Reporting  • Financial Analysis, Data Analysis    Skills & Software  • Accounting principles such as GAAP, Sarbanes Oxley, 3-way Matching  • High volume data entry    • Skilled in working with MS Word & Excel, including PivotTables and VLookUp  • Accounting programs such as Workday, SAP, QuickBooks Audition and Exact Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Accounts Payable Manager PineBridge Investments - New York, NY May 2017 to July 2019 Managing of all Accounts Payable input of multiple entities, from both US and several European countries. Including VAT & Sales Taxes.  Putting together and sending out 1099's.   Correspondence with both internal and external stakeholders. Staying in contact with vendors.   Bank Reconciliations as well as for Accounts Payable.  HIghly proficient with Workday accounting system. Freelance Research Analyst The Wall Street Analyzer - Brooklyn, NY December 2015 to April 2017 • Research companies, using recently published company results. Volunteer Treasurer & Board Member Atletiek Vereniging Nijkerk (Athletics Club) - Nijkerk November 2013 to May 2015 • Responsible for all finances within the organization.  • Accounts payable by matching and coding invoices.  • Bank and petty cash reconciliations with the general ledger.  • Making payments to our suppliers.  • Accounts receivable and invoicing membership fees.  • Year-end reporting, financial planning and budgeting.  • Setting up new membership-registration software. Database Analyst Rabobank International - Utrecht October 2013 to February 2015 • Gathered, interpreted and entered large amounts of financial data using PivotTables in Excel.   • In working with the North American offices we significantly improved the quality of the data-stream. Insurance Premium Administrator De Amersfoortse Verzekeringen - Amersfoort February 2013 to July 2013 • Calculating the final insurance fees by gathering and matching financial data.   • Communicating with clients for additional information. Interim Financial Accountant E.A.A.M. Car Garage - Zeist May 2012 to August 2012 • Running the entire financial department and office.  • Stock management and ordering parts.   • Accounts Payable by 3-way matching and coding invoices.   • Bank and petty cash reconciliations. Setting up payment batches.  • Accounts receivable and creating invoices. Following up with clients.  • Producing statistics and documentation to assist the company transitioning to new ownership. Project-Assistant Solvency II team Eureko/Achmea - Zeist October 2010 to March 2011 • Building an Excel database for all rules and regulations surrounding Solvency II law.  • Creating graphs and tables for management. Financial Accountant Scouting Nederland - Leusden February 2010 to February 2010 • Accounts payable and reconciliation of vendor statements .  • Accounts receivable.  • Assisting with year-end reporting. Financial Accountant University Utrecht - Utrecht January 2009 to October 2009 • Accounts payable.  • Accounts receivable.  • Calculating prices and documenting it into SAP.   • Creating invoices for both internal and external clients. Internship Ernst & Young - Amersfoort September 2008 to February 2009 • Mostly working in the small business department, some experience as an auditor. Education Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Financial Accounting Hogeschool van Amsterdam (College of Amsterdam) - Amsterdam, NY 2005 to 2011 Skills microsoft excel (10+ years), Pivot Tables (5 years), Accounting (5 years), Accounts Payable (5 years), Accounts Receivable (2 years), Banking (3 years), Microsoft word (10+ years), Sap (3 years), Financial Analysis (5 years), bank reconciliation (5 years), Accountview (1 year), Social Media (8 years), Dutch (10+ years), English (10+ years), GAAP, IFRS, Financial Analysis (4 years), VLOOKUP (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michielmeerleveld Additional Information Highly trained financial administrator, with 8 years of experience. Detail oriented, multi-lingual and efficient. Worked in both supporting as well as leading roles in accounting departments from local businesses to multinational banks. Skilled in working with Excel, including PivotTables and in high volume data entry.  For the last few years I worked jobs that were more data than accounting oriented, I would love to return to accounting, where my passion lies.