Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Maricopa, AZ Plumbing professional with high degree of computer experience and sharply honed customer service skill seeks to leverage talents and abilities in a stable field while pursuing a degree in computer sciences. Work Experience Database Administrator ESquared Communications - Tempe, AZ March 2019 to Present Responsible for the accuracy and timely updating of central database used in tracking various data points related to devices that utilize cellular data. Further responsibilities include communicating with cellular carriers to troubleshoot, activate and deactivate, and gather reports for assets belonging to eSquared's customers.    Have also created Excel sheet macros that have reduced audit times by up to 75%. 3D Camera Operator, Account Manager Captis - Maricopa, AZ December 2018 to March 2019 Performed reality capture photography utilizing the Matterport Pro2 3D camera. Managed existing 3D models for customers and facilitated data uploads to assist in precision documentation within the architectural community. Service Plumber - Lead Technician Simply Better Plumbing - Mesa, AZ March 2018 to January 2019 In addition to performing general service plumbing, served as lead technician on large projects such as full sewer replacements or whole house repiping. This position meant being in charge of the project from start to finish, overseeing two to five employees, and ensuring customer satisfaction.    Was also lead tech and trainer for Picote cast iron pipe descaling and epoxy coating machine. Industrial Plumber Harder Mechanical - Chandler, AZ May 2017 to March 2018 As part of a team, installed pipe and tubing that carried a variety of volatile liquids and gasses to and from tools that were used in the production of silicon wafers for computer processors at Intel. Water Treatment Technician Parker and Sons - Phoenix, AZ March 2016 to May 2017 Installed, repaired, and maintained water treatment equipment such as water softeners, reverse osmosis systems, and basic filtration for up to 10 customers a day. Sales Solution Support Avnet - Tempe, AZ October 2014 to March 2016 In support of the Cisco sales team, input orders into the Cisco system, ensured compatibility and availability of parts, monitored shipments and enacted return processes when needed. Cavalry Scout, Supply Sergeant, Armorer United States Army - Fort Riley, KS April 2010 to September 2014 Initially enlisted as a 19D Cavalry Scout. Showed great aptitude within logistics and was made interim supply sergeant three weeks prior to a combat deployment when current supply sergeant and clerk were unable to deploy.    Performance in this role was positively recognized multiple times at the brigade level, leading to multiple awards. Education High school Skills Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Leadership Ability (6 years), Plumbing (8 years), Comptia, Information Technology, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Network Support, Computer Repair Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist April 2010 to September 2014 Enlisted as a 19D Cavalry Scout but was placed as interim 92Y Supply Sergeant just prior to deployment in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Iraq. After returning, served as interim logistics NCO at the squadron level. Once replacement was found, moved to unit armorer for remainder of enlistment. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2019 to June 2022