Customer Support Expert Tier II Customer Support Expert Tier II Support Lead/ Sr. Technical Support Consultant / Sr. Technical Product Support Analyst Bothell, WA • Technical Support Professional with 7+ years of industry experience in Administration, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Databases and Clinical Application.  • Monitoring day-to-day health of production applications and systems, providing support to internal and external customers and Providing customers with competitive advantage  • Coordinating efforts with internal groups to ensure systems changes are successful and application support includes first level contact for client issues, verbal and written  • Assist in testing and other responsibilities include working with clients to initiate new transmissions, providing on-call support  • General problem resolution includes - gathering complete information from clients, documenting steps taken, analyzing the issue by researching it troubleshooting, replicating, isolating issues and taking restorative action to successfully resolve problems while minimizing disruption to the client's business operation.  • Using remote access utilities and other resources to assist  • Handling critical issues and resolve them as early as possible  • Communicating complex procedures or diverse information to resolve customer issues. Follow up with customers to ensure satisfaction with results.  • Active participation to Perform activities like User Management, Backup & Recovery. Performance tuning.  • Determined storage growth and implemented measures to maintain it  • Utilize support tools and resources necessary to get the job done, including e-mail, chat, telephone, Salesforce, IAC, SQL, Kusto and Jira.  • Assist with training sessions  • Working as Point of contact  • Experience in supporting developers and end-users.  • Have experience to work in 24X7 environment.  • Was best performer and received awards like "Star of the month", "Ferocious Case Closure", "Service Award" for best performance. Work Experience Customer Support Expert Tier II DocuSign June 2019 to Present Customer Support Expert Tier II DocuSign Seattle WA USA 06-2019 - till date    Responsibilities:  • Provide well-thought out and reliable direction, both in technical and non-technical terms, to help customers using DocuSign products, including integrations, setting up templates, transaction workflow education, etc.  • Take end-to-end ownership of customer issues, including initial troubleshooting, identification of root cause and issue resolution. Meet or exceed customer expectations on response quality, timeliness of responses and overall customer experience. Serve as internal and external point of contact on customer matters and ensure customer issues are resolved as expediently as possible.  • Collect information and document bugs with Engineering for product issues that are impacting customers. Provide feedback to the training and documentation organizations so that common or emerging issues can be addressed before they become serious or widespread. Build process or troubleshooting documentation in the support knowledge base. Deliver against customer experience and efficiency targets.  • Push creative thinking beyond the boundaries of existing industry standard practices to come up with process improvements and new ways to delight customers.  • Achieve ~ 90% or higher on closed case surveys and quality assessments.  • Utilize support tools and resources necessary to get the job done, including e-mail, chat, telephone, Salesforce, IAC, SQL, Kusto and Jira.  • Deliver informal product training to prospects, customers and fellow employees. Customer Service Associate Home Depot April 2019 to May 2019 Customer Service Associate Home Depot Bothell WA USA 04 2019 - 05/2019    Responsibilities:  • Review the CTC tab and contact customers as needed  • Release orders to customers using order up or FIRST Phone  • Opening associate reviews all SO returns/Cancellations from previous day to determine what action should be taken to move items to final disposition  • Promote Customer awareness and involvement in HomeDepot Programs such as Home Depot Credit Card, Pro Xtra, and HDPP  • Promote use of HD.com for items available online or out of stock  • Discuss Weekly Focus and action items with service department lead  • Monthly log on to Knowledge Depot and complete all assigned training as Scheduled Senior Technical Support Consultants Allscripts India Pvt. Ltd November 2012 to November 2013 Sr. Technical Support Consultant Hospitals in USA April 2011 to November 2013 Projects Profile  3. Project Name: Sunrise Clinical Manager  Client Hospitals in USA  Role Sr. Technical Support Consultant  Organization Allscripts India Pvt. Ltd  Duration (04/2011) - (11/2013)  Environment (With skill versions)  Database: MS-SQL 2012, Intersystem Cache  Tools: Hyper-V, Salesforce, Go to Assist, Enexity, VSTS  O/s: Windows Server 2008R2/2003    Project Description  Internal Environments Team. IET is responsible for creating and maintaining the environments for the teams in Allscripts Corporation.    Contribution  • Provided L2 (Problem Resolution) and L3 (Product Expertise) support.  • Acted as a central point of contact and liaison between the customer and the Programming Support to communicate basic issues involving the product application (e.g. report changes, application issues).  • Records all issues/requests in the computerized case management system (Salesforce) using standard terminology, verifying accuracy of customer information, prioritizing the issue/request, determining an initial diagnosis, and communicating expected resolution time.  • Determined storage growth and implemented measures to maintain it  • Backup of each environment on repeated time interval  • Backup of database on repeated time intervals  • Loading Hotfix  • Kept track of available memory on Physical servers.  • Participated in the development of departmental goals and objectives, and identify opportunities for process improvement.  • Participated in knowledge transfer and group problem solving activities.  • Member of SAAS team of analysts.  • Generated team-based reports using Salesforce for management review.    2. Project Name: Sunrise Patient Financials Manager(SPFM)    Client Hospitals in USA  Role Sr. Technical Support Consultant, Previously Technical Support Consultant  Organization Allscripts India Pvt. Ltd  Duration (04/2011) - (11/2013)  Environment (with skill versions) Database: Intersystem Cache Tools: Hyper-V, Salesforce, Go to Assist, Enexity, VSTS O/s: IBM-AIX, Windows    Project Description  Sunrise Patient Financial Manager provides centralized business office capabilities that help healthcare organizations improve financial workflows and more effectively helps them reduce costs. The Sunrise Access and Patient Financial Managers together, integrate the front-end of the care process with back-end billing processes for improved revenue cycles.    Contribution    • Provided L2 (Problem Resolution) and L3 (Product Expertise) support.  • Acted as a central point of contact and liaison between the customer and the Programming Support to communicate basic issues involving the product application (e.g. report changes, application issues).  • Recorded all issues/requests in the computerized case management system (Salesforce) using standard terminology, verifying accuracy of customer information, prioritizing the issue/request, determining an initial diagnosis, and communicating expected resolution time.  • Escalation of defects/bugs to development team and recommend fixes where appropriate  • Read log files to locate error messages  • Troubleshooting various problems that arise in a day-to-day work and fix the issues.  • Backup of each environment on repeated time interval  • Backup of database on repeated time intervals  • Loading HotFix  • Kept track of available memory on Physical servers.  • Active participation in setting up internal Test, Dev Environments using Hyper-V.  • Participated in the development of departmental goals and objectives, and identify opportunities for process improvement.  • Participated in knowledge transfer and group problem solving activities.  • Generated team based reports using Salesforce for management review.  • Active participation in developing training materials and training interns on system functionality.  • Assisted in documenting business and system processes and procedures through the use of industry standard process flow and flow charting techniques.  • Active participation in installation of maintenance/patches and software upgrades.  • Assisted in developing test scripts and executes test scripts in a timely fashion.  • Support for on-call coverage whenever required.  • Create Users and assign permissions based on the level of database access the user would need.  • From time to time recover the databases to a specific point of time, as per the requests.  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning; Physical Server Level, Database level ( Database settings and options) and query tuning.    1. Project Name: Sunrise Record Manager Sr. Technical Support Consultant Allscripts India Pvt Ltd India May 2008 to November 2013 Responsibilities: Allscripts India Pvt. Ltd June 2011 to November 2012 Product Support Analyst April 2010 to June 2011 Product Support Analyst Hospitals in USA May 2008 to April 2011 Organization Eclipsys Corporation, Currently known as Allscripts Corporation  Duration (05/2008) - (04/2011)  Environment (with skill versions) Database: Oracle 10g Tools: Clarify, Oracle CRMOD, Go to Assist, Enexity, VSTS, Telnet O/s: IBM-AIX    Project Description  • Sunrise Record Manager(TM) is a health information management (HIM) solution that automates the workflow associated with the collection, maintenance and distribution of information to maximize the benefits of inpatient Electronic Health Record (EHR).  • The solution reduces the countless delays that clinical staff encounter as they search for paper charts, and helps HIM departments save time and reduce necessary resources. All information about a patient, including consent forms, ID cards, insurance cards and forms, can be captured electronically and stored in the EHR, ensuring that complete, accurate information is available in one place.  • Sunrise Record Manager helps hospitals better meet regulatory reporting requirements by making data centrally, electronically accessible for easier, faster information gathering and compilation in the enterprise health information system.    Contribution  • Provided L2 (Problem Resolution) support.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle database.  • Active participation to Perform activities like User Management, Backup & Recovery. Performance tuning.  • Troubleshooting various problems that arise in a day-to-day work and fix the issues.  • Acted as a central point of contact and liaison between the customer and the Development team to communicate basic issues involving the product application (e.g. report changes, application issues).  • Recorded all issues/requests in the computerized case management system (Clarify, Oracle CRMOD) using standard terminology, verifying accuracy of customer information, prioritizing the issue/request, determining an initial diagnosis, and communicating expected resolution time.  • Loading Hotfix  • Participated in knowledge transfer and group problem solving activities.  • Generated team based reports using Oracle CRMOD for management review. Associate Product Support Analyst May 2008 to April 2010 Jr Database Administrator Passion Infotech Pvt Ltd November 2005 to May 2008 *Eclipsys Corporation and Allscripts had merger in 2011 and formed entity Allscripts India Pvt Ltd.    1. Project Name: Network Associate  Client Multiple clients worldwide  Role Jr Database Administrator  Organization Passion Infotech Pvt Ltd.  Duration (11/2005) - (05/2008)  Environment (with skill versions) Database: Oracle O/s: Unix    Contribution  • Troubleshoot various problems that arise in a day-to-day work and fix the issues.  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning  • Read log files to locate error messages  • Create Users and assign permissions based on the level of database access the user would need.  • Backup and Restoration of database using Cold/Hot Backup.  • Recover the databases to a specific point of time, as per the requests. Education Master's Skills CACHE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000