Mongodb Admin/Oracle Database Admin Mongodb Admin/Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin Mongodb Admin/Oracle Database Admin New York, NY • Over 8 years of IT experience which includes 7 years as an Oracle database Administrator, 1year Experience as a MongoDB DBA working on Oracle 10G R2, 11GR2 RAC,12c, MongoDB v3.0, v3.2 and v3.6 in managing Development, Test and production environment on Linux, Solaris, Aix and Windows Platforms.  • Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  • Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 10g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  • Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine-tuning those SQL's for better performance.  • Experience in using 10g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfil the storage needs.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers; evaluate and implement latest database technology and new Oracle 12c features.  • Perform database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.    Technical Skill Summary:    RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MongoDB v3.0, v3.2, Goldengate 11g and 12c  O/S: AIX 5.2, 5.3 Linux 3x, 4x, 5x, Sun Solaris 8,9 Windows NT/2000,2003,  Languages: C, SQL, PL/SQL, AWK Scripting, Perl.  Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR, SQL Tuning Advisor.  Ticketing Tools Web Portals, BMC Remedy, HP Quality Center, HP Java ITO (OVO) console, GIRA  TOOLS: SQL*PLUS, SQL*Loader, Oracle, Oracle Export/Import, RMAN, BR Tools  OBACKTRACK, Toad, Golden gate, SQL Developer, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM), XML, XML, Mongo Ops Manager.  ERP: Oracle Applications 11i & R12 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mongodb Admin/Oracle Database Admin Tachyon LLC Technologies - Sacramento, CA August 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  Database Implementations:  • Building VMware with12c GRID, 11.2 RDBMS, Latest Patch and Deploying OEM agent in 12c.  • Extensive knowledge on Virtualization and setting up Huge pages for recursive performance.  • RMAN restore and recovery using Full, Cold and incremental backups.  • VM server validation and working with server admin team for configuration changes.  • Migrating the Oracle database to new VM's through RMAN and data pump.  • Planning, Configuring, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 10gR2& 11g R1 and R2 upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test and Production)..  • Configured ASM environment and migrated NON-ASM databases to ASM.  • Applying PSU Patches on quarterly basis on Solaris and Aix environments.  • Upgraded oracle database from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 to 12.2.0.1 on Linux Env.  • Wrote Unix shell scripts for system administration.  • Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams.  • Installed and configured plug-ins for OEM 12c and 13c(OCC) for monitoring runtime statistics on Oracle databases.  • Backup & High Availability:  • Actively involved in strategic Backup, Restore and Recovery using RMAN for complete recoverability.  • Used Flashback Technology-Query on Database to undo specific transactions, provided point-in-time recovery of database objects, recovered database objects and 'rewind' entire database to a particular time.  • Configured DATA GUARD to provide high availability by implementing physical stand-by database and worked with various Oracle 11g features: 11g Grid Control and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures using RMAN, Hot/Cold Backups.  • good knowledge with Oracle Streams and Golden Gate.  • Migrated ASM Disk groups to another SAN without downtime.  • Day-to-day activities like monitoring Daily backup report and taking the necessary action on failed backup.  • Backup/Restoration of Database through Mongo dump/Mongorestore utility.  • Hands on experience on MongoDB Replica Set and Sharding.  • Installed and configured NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Having experience on managing life cycle of MongoDB including sizing, automation, monitoring and tuning.  • Installed MongoDB, Created setup replica sets, Sharding and clusters.  • Upgraded Mongo database server from MongoDB v3.0 to v3.2 and v3.2 to v3.4.  • Configured security for mongo instances and replica members using openSSL rand, client certificates, server certificates and IP tables for external authentication.  • Having experience on MongoStat, Mongotop, serverStats, dbstats, collStats for diagnosing databases statistics.  • Monitoring Service now ticketing tool on daily basis, dispatching and resolving tickets within SLA.  • Managed the databases of various sizes ranging from 50GB to 7 TB  • Pulling Morning coffee report and resolving backup issues, monitoring scheduled batch jobs.  • Monitoring and administering RAC databases and node elements using srvctl & crsctl utilities.  • Coordinated with Application team and SQL developers to design the flow of operations to ensure proper synchronization between the database and the front end in both connected and disconnected modes.  • Creating, monitoring and managing locally Managed & Dictionary managed tablespaces for distributed databases.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database, RAC and applications issues.  • Performing the daily Maintenance tasks and interacting with Oracle Customer service when required.  • Expertise in implementing Cron jobs and task schedulers.  • Supporting and Handling Scheduled System & Database Maintenance.  • Created database objects and managed the permission access on the objects with necessary security.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD.  • Performed Database Administration of all database objects including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences packages and procedures.  • Using Golden Gate data selection and filtering for replication and making use of SQLEXEC to interact with database.  • Start Replicat process, Configure Replicate to handle collisions between changes and the Initial Load data.  • Regular Health Check of the Database.  • Physical Db Backup & Recovery (hot and cold backups), Logical Backup and Recovery using Import & Export.  • Establish Standards for Implementing and Maintaining Database Security.  • Performed database refreshes from production to UAT environments.  • Created Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  • Database Query tuning and Implementation. Oracle Database Administrator Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare November 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  Project Infrastructure:  • Conduct internal audits periodically in conjunction with security to ensure compliance with internal security policies and industry regulations  • Involved in the process of tuning and refining queries of various applications.  • Involved in administration of Oracle instances  • Worked on OLTP and OLAP database systems  • Manage passwords for default accounts including default Oracle Database Vault Accounts Administrator and Security Administrator  • Oracle Database 11.0.1.6 Installation and Patch Set Installation.    • Backup & High Availability:  • RMAN full backup and Incremental Backups using offload server and BR tools  • Database Cloning using RMAN full backup.  • Logical Backups like Export and Import or Data Pump.  • Performing role transition as required and troubleshooting dataguard/standby issues.  • Executing application scripts in databases as requested application team.  • Restore and Recovery of databases using BR tools.  • Killing prole and reset password for prole with the help of TSM Team  • Configuring Listener and TNS Configuration in Oracle Client, Oracle databases    Day to Day Activity:  • 24x7 Oracle Production Database Administration.  • Audit table and aud files in OS level purging.  • Implementation of Daily DBA Checklists for each environment.  • Created Streams environment in unidirectional and table level for replication of data.  • Implemented Oracle streams for replication and configured tablespaces for streams administration at database and table level.  • Setup the Streams Replication at schema level to capture, propagate and apply the DML, DDL changes to the replicated database.  • Sizing the SGA, dB buffers, shared SQL area, log buffer based on the requirements.  • Review alert logs and dump files to check for any problems related to the database.  • Renaming Databases by using nid utility in non-production databases.  • Involved in discussions with the management regarding the advantages/disadvantages and upgrade plans.  • Implement and maintain database security (Create and maintains Users, roles and assign privileges)  • Data file movement from one File system to other in different storage level.  • Perform Space Management & Troubleshooting the database issues.  • Regular Health Check of the Database.  • Maintaining, Building and optimizing Data Marts for efficient usage by applications and users for such tasks as reporting.  • Monitoring Production databases OLTP and OLAP.  • Analyzing AWR reports and Sql query Plans, Sql query tuning.  • Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE.  • Actively involved in monitoring the lock processes, releasing locks in case of resource blockage and gathering statistics.  • Creating tables, procedures, functions as per the requirement.  • Defragmenting tables, indexes and database storage areas.  • Tables and Indexes stats gathering in production databases on weekly basis.  • Performed Cloning Activity for databases from production to testing environment.  • Plan database space needs and growth analysis, and future disk need analysis by adding or resizing Data files in the tablespaces.  • Setting up new users managing/ user responsibilities Oracle Database Administrator RSA Insurance Group plc - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Install, upgrade and maintain Oracle software products/versions on Linux, Sun Solaris and HP-UX.  • Backup of Database (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc).  • Configured and Maintained oracle 10g 2 node RAC, Standby database.  • Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability.  • Implemented Database Security, Management of role-based security  • Implemented Oracle 11g Data guard for high availability.  • Applied Oracle DST Patches on Oracle database.  • Maintenance of database security using Data Vault, VPD and Oracle Label Security  • Performed day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Wrote a number of UNIX shell scripts and Perl scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Problem analysis involving interactions/dependencies between UNIX and Oracle.  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • User creation and enforcing security using privileges and roles.  • Database performance tuning using STATPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, ASH.  • Installation, setup and configuration of Data Guard Education Bachelors in business management SOA University