Student Feedback Mining System Student Feedback Mining System Student Feedback Mining System Work Experience Student Feedback Mining System April 2019 to April 2019 To develop a student feedback mining system (SFMS) which applies text analytics and sentiment analysis approach to provide instructors a quantified and deeper analysis of the qualitative feedback from students that will improve the students learning experience. Computer Science Research Assistant Lamar University - Beaumont, TX June 2018 to April 2019 • Entry student data into college department database.  • Perform regular database maintenance tasks and report its health check results to supervisor.  • Sorted and filtered the list of students dynamically and ranking was assigned to the new students for their admission into the department based on their GPA and GRE scores.  • Updating the admitted and rejected list in the database.  • Writing SQL queries for getting the information of the student.  • Performed SQL Joins to get the students information who took same course from different semesters joined students.  • Developed a Course Evaluation for students to evaluate the professor/course and store this assessment dynamically into our internal database. Teaching Assistant Lamar University - Beaumont, TX October 2017 to May 2018 • Grading the assignments and exam papers of undergraduates.    • Supervise students during the lab time working on MSSQL server.    • Assist with classroom instructions and provide support and guidance to students. Jr. Database Administrator Mega Soft Ltd - Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh June 2013 to November 2014 • Supported IMEI project by maintaining the status of IMEI numbers in the IMEI Database.  • Dealt with various issues regarding granting or revoking the access permissions to the people in the blacklist.  • Worked with data controls like Grid view, Repeater and Details View to display data collections that are retrieved from the database.  • Database Recovery, Table space Recovery, Data file Recovery.  • Worked on stored procedures and SQL Queries.  • User Creation and Tablespaces Allocation to appropriate users.  • Database space monitoring.  • Monitor objects growths (table space, tables, and roll back segments). Education Master's in Computer Science Lamar University - Beaumont, TX May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2013 Skills MYSQL, SQL, DATA VISUALIZATION, TABLEAU, T-SQL, PHP, PYTHON, XML, HTML5, LINUX, JAVA, MS OFFICE, PIVOT TABLES, EXCEL, WINDOWS XP, VISUALIZATION Additional Information SKILLS   • Programming Languages: C, Java, Python, SQL, T-SQL  • Web Designing: HTML5, XML, PHP  • Databases: MSSQL, MySQL  • Data Visualization: Tableau, RapidMiner  • Operating Systems: Windows XP, 7,8,10, Linux  • MS office: Excel, power point, Excel Pivot Tables