CARNEY | BUSINESS DATA ANALYST CARNEY | BUSINESS DATA ANALYST CARNEY | DATA ANALYST New York, NY Work Experience CARNEY | BUSINESS DATA ANALYST VMWARE & CITRIX December 2018 to Present Key Responsibilities and Achievements:  • Ensured data accuracy through the creation and implementation of data integrity queries.  • Assist customers and corporate with inquiries regarding accounts.  • Managed end-to-end process for updating and verifying special orders data.  • Audited transactions according to corporate standards and conducted investigative analysis to provide the appropriate  resolutions.  • Monitor and update tickets in ticketing system as necessary.  • Conduct research and provide resolutions, report to company leadership.  • Utilized VMWare & Citrix application deployment solutions.  • Develop processes and procedures for data mapping, compliance and statement validation. System Analyst/ Database Administrator 2015 to 2017 ·      Assist IT Manager in troubleshooting, troubleshooting and implementation of Desktop systems.  ·      Moderated online support forums.  · Remote access via Team Viewer to perform troubleshooting, virus removal, software installation. Utilized SAP Database software.  ·      Monitor performance levels of software and hardware.  ATTENDANT & INVENTORY AGENT STELLAR Key Responsibilities and Achievements:  • Built and established strong vendor relationships, integral to promoting high quality and accuracy.  • Processing inventory orders, logging items that have been received and items that have been taken from inventory,  and physically moving product within the inventory room to the sales floor and vice versa.  • Prepare and apply shipping and mailing labels to items that are being shipped out of the company to fulfill orders or replace damaged stock.  • Double-check all prices to ensure that the amount charged for each item matches the amount paid. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems,Communications 2011 to 2015 Skills Arcgis (Less than 1 year), Database (8 years), databases (Less than 1 year), Sap (8 years), Vpn (8 years), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Linux, Comptia, Tech Support, Active Directory, Service Desk, Microsoft Office, SQL, HTML, Business Intelligence, Excel, testing, access, Powerpoint, Visio, MS Office Additional Information GENERAL SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  • Achieving goals, creative/strategic thinking and problem solving.  • Proficient in use of Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint), Apple iWork, Adobe Photoshop,  FrontPage/Dreamweaver, and an in-depth knowledge of filing systems and their associated software.  • Working knowledge of Adobe suite including Premiere, as well as Apple Final Cut Pro.  • Working knowledge of SAP, SQL & Oracle & Salesforce database software.  • Working knowledge of Wordpress, pMachine, SEO practices    • Customer focused, experience with troubleshooting and solving problems in PC (Windows 2000 - Windows 10) and  Macintosh environments.  • Troubleshooting and maintenance of network and computer operating systems and problems.  • Knowledge of network protocols, technologies, and VPN configurations concerning WAN & LAN type networks.  • Excellent written and verbal communications skills.  • Team player capable of working independently with minimal direction.  • Repair, test and troubleshoot electronic equipment.  • Manage databases (queries using Pivot Tables, Vlookups, in Excel) and crafting maps utilizing ArcGIS.  • Excellent ethics; hardworking, focused, and sound organizational ability.  • Excellent analytical, decision-making, problem solving and time management skills.  • Developing and implementing quality management systems and procedures.  • Possesses a positive, mature and professional attitude. Excellent sense of initiative, tidiness, adaptability and  networking. Ability to communicate effectively and build relationships with clients and colleagues.  • Excellent interpersonal skills. Highly motivated to learn more.    References are available upon request