Business Data Analyst Business Data Analyst Business Data Analyst - Sterling NYC Inc Queens, NY Work Experience Business Data Analyst Sterling NYC Inc - New York, NY May 2019 to Present • Designed Use Cases, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Activity diagrams and Sequence diagrams in UML methodology.  • Extracted SKU level data from different sources to create streamline reports on regular, weekly, monthly and quarterly basis  • Identified and analysed customer buying patterns on negotiated pricing and segmented customers who are cherry pickers, unprofitable, resellers or wholesalers or those having produce margin less than 5%  • Collaborated with cross-functional team such as Analytics to develop interactive dashboards using Tableau to analyse various trends Business Data Analyst- Tableau Reporting Intern Sterling NYC Inc - New York, NY September 2018 to November 2018 • Created data marts using star schema to provide information that supported sales team  • Established project plan baseline helped in defining project scope, securing the necessary resources and planning and monitoring activities using MS Project  • Created interactive and dynamic dashboards using Tableau to present analysis and audience usage  • Conducted reports for implementation of marketing strategies, leading to 30% growth in customer engagement  • Interacting with clients to gather requirements to help compose monthly reviews of operational and financial performance of the division.  • Developed various dashboards in areas like Category Planning, Sales and Pricing etc.  • Developing packages for ETL process like extracting raw data from Text files, Excel files and CSV files and perform SQL operations to find data quality issues.  • Monitored, analysed and evaluated complex organizational data with statistical tools to identify trends, variances and problem areas. Database Administrator EnliTen IT India - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2015 to November 2016 • Utilized R to update and remove errors from database and to monitor and provide different levels of security access.  • Involved in analysing PL/SQL Program units like Packages, Procedures and functions for loading data from CSV/ Excel files  • Develop the PL/SQL objects (Tables, Views, Procedures etc.) for the business requirements.  • Installed latest SQL server versions to increase compatibility as well as upgraded the older version.  • Analysed and visualized data sets to determine trends and to present the results to stakeholders using Tableau and pivot tables in MS Excel.  • Wrote database scripts & PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Created, managed, and maintained Data Flow Diagrams, Software and Network architecture using StarUML and Visio.  • Designed and upheld documentation to adhere to DBA standard operating procedures. Software Developer Intern Nectar Globe Technology Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 to July 2014 • Collect data information  • Utilize data to create queries for Tableau development  • Utilize Tableau to create visual charts and diagrams based upon data collected  • Research existing data and Tableau charts/graphs for further development  Assisted in pricing of securities including bonds and mortgages in programming domain such as MTLAB and R programming Education Master of Science (M.S.) in Information Systems in Science and Information Systems Pace University Seidenberg School of Computer Science and Information Systems - New York, NY December 2018 Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science NMIMS Mukesh Patel School of Technology & Management Engineering - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2015 Skills Sas, Tableau, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Excel, SQL, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, MS Office Links http://linkedin.com/in/drashti-patel-a2a874122 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: R, Python, SAS, SQL, C, C++, HTML, CSS, PHP  Tools: Tableau, R Markdown & R Studio, PHPstorm, MATLAB, MS Excel, Eclipse IDE, Microsoft Office, IBM Blue Mix: Data Science, NetBeans IDE, GitHub.  Statistics: Probability, Statistical Inference, Statistical Tests, Hypothesis Testing  Databases: MySQL, Oracle RDBMS, MongoDB, Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access  Disciples: SDLC, Agile, Waterfall