Business Data Analyst Business Data Analyst Business Data Analyst Plano, TX Work Experience Business Data Analyst Verizon - Plano, TX November 2018 to May 2019 Contract)  • Coordinated with engineering teams and project managers to deliver reporting requirements.  • Initiated project to convert Excel reports to Tableau and PowerBI dashboard for visualizations.  • Developed complex SQL queries to retrieve data for analytical purposes.  • Utilized SQL CASE statements to categorize and classify unorganized data.  • Regularly audited database to check for data integrity and standardization.  • Identified various data anomalies, inconsistencies, and errors for improved data quality and developed action plans for remediation.  • Developed dashboards presented to senior management and executive leadership.  • Designed regularly scheduled reports in OBIEE 11g and 12c for project management initiatives.  • Developed stored procedures to extract data from SQL Server and Oracle SQL databases to transform in SSIS and load into reports.  • Extremely knowledgeable in Agile values and principles using Scrum and Kanaban frameworks.  • Generated reports using Microsoft Workplace Analytics to identify trends in business operations and facilitate process improvements.  • Developed Excel reports integrating ODBC sources for project managers to track project updates.  • Collaborated with budget management team to streamline manual reporting efforts. Database Administrator / Reporting Analyst vPromos Inc - Dallas, TX October 2017 to October 2018 Contract)  • Maintained and monitored database instances to ensure performance stability.  • Led multiple aspects in defining and implementing data management and data governance standards.  • Developed data quality rules and thresholds to measure monthly data quality report.  • Responsible for executing data management standards defined by Chief Technical Officer.  • Oversaw the monitoring of data quality efforts within the organization and provided a central authority for resolution on data quality issues.  • Coordinated with Product Owners and Scrum Master to ensure clear definition of user stories.  • Participated in Agile ceremonies for Agile application of requirement delivery.  • Routinely monitored server usage and resource consumption using IIS 6.0 and 7.0.  • Devised ad-hoc reports using SSRS for Business Analyst and operations purposes.  • Facilitated database migration and deployment through comparison tools and SQL scripts.  • Coordinated with developers to check for necessary changes to databases.  • Performed analysis of sales data using SSAS and developed reports based on data with Tableau.  • Interpreted and visualized data from database instances using Tableau.  • Devised ad-hoc Tableau and SSRS reports for Business Analysis and operations.  • Created routinely scheduled report e-mails sent to clients and business team.  • Updated reporting database routinely to meet needs of clients.  • Utilitzed .dacpac and .bacpac files to perform database changes and create backups.  • Handled job monitoring through SQL Server Agent.  • Created various database objects such as tables, views, triggers, stored procedures, and functions.  • Manipulated data using hierarchyid data-type based on client organizational changes.  • Deployed Project Deployment and Package Deployment files to Integration Services Server.  • Worked with data-driven SSRS subscriptions on a wide-scale to distribute reporting e-mails to 20K+ clients.  • Used Visual Studio Team Foundation Services as Git-based VCS as necessary after making changes to Reporting or Integration Services projects.  • Administered and configured user accounts on Linux server environment using command-line interface with BASH commands/scripts.  • Utilized BASH with cron to tail monitor Linux system logs for usage of various components such as I/O, Memory, and CPU. Business Intelligence Developer First Republic Bank - Boston, MA October 2016 to September 2017 • Identified requirements and implemented BI solutions in conjunction with Business Analysts and Developers.  • Ensured project requirement fulfillment and delivery with active end-user interaction.  • Redesigned and tuned stored procedures, triggers, tables, UDF, views, recursive CTEs, and indexes to increase performance of queries.  • Created complex stored procedures for data profiling process to define structure of pre-staging and staging areas.  • Developed ETL packages to extract, transform and load data from OLTP database into campaign database.  • Developed Tableau reports integrated with Data Warehouse to provide overviews to Business Analysts.  • Routinely provided financial information in Tableau reports and Excel spreadsheets to business team using database tables.  • Developed dynamic Tableau report visualizations using SQL Server database instances.  • Used Excel to produce analytical reports with graphs and pivot tables.  • Created Excel macros to perform various automated tasks.  • Collaborated with team to develop ER diagrams and dimensional models.  • Utilized SSIS control flow task and analysis service processing task to individually process partitions and update cube in underlying Data Warehouse.  • Designed SSIS Packages to transfer data from various sources including .txt, .csv, OLE DB, Excel, and Access files to SQL Server using Business Intelligence Development Studio.  • Designed and developed ad-hoc reports and complex enterprise reports (drill down, drill through, parameterized, and cascading reports) using SQL Server Reporting Services and Report Manager.  • Used notification services to generate error messages sent through e-mails. SQL Developer Texas Health Resources - Arlington, TX April 2015 to September 2016 Contract)  • Tested stored procedures and triggers for use in production.  • Helped plan, define, and design data flow processes for data migration to Data Warehouse using SSIS.  • Integrated SNOW and Salesforce tickets into JIRA to manage workflow and create single source for operations performance reporting.  • Assisted in development of database objects such as tables, indexes, views, user defined functions, cursors, triggers, and stored procedures.  • Utilized various SSIS components and features such as for-loops, for-each loops, lookup transformations, variables, error-handling and package configurations in ETL package creation.  • Tuned performance of database and T-SQL queries using SQL Server Profiler and Tuning Advisor.  • Assisted in migration of SQL Server 2008 R2 databases to SQL Server 2012.  • Used lookup, join, and merge stages to join information from various sources.  • Generated drill-down, drill-through, and matrix reports based on statistical analysis of data using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) according to client requirements. SQL Developer Avaya - Coppell, TX October 2014 to March 2015 • Participated in creating reports delivering data-driven stored procedures.  • Created custom report templates using SSRS following organizational reporting standards.  • Designed and developed SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources such as Access databases, Excel spreadsheets, and flat files into SQL Server for further analysis and reports.  • Created functions and procedures at the database level to simplify complex business logic in reports.  • Helped modify existing reports based upon change requests by users. Education Bachelors in Business Administration in Management Information Systems University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2016 Skills MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, ORACLE, PL/SQL Additional Information • 5 years of experience in design, development, and testing of business/commercial applications using T-SQL and PL/SQL technology.  • Strong Relational Database Management Systems skills including understanding of Entity-Relationship diagramming and data normalization.  • Expertise developing databases, data warehouses/data-marts, tables, and various database objects such as stored procedures, views, and indexes.  • Comprehensive knowledge of query optimization/SQL Performance Tuning using MS SQL Server technology.  • Solid understanding of data management, data quality, and metadata processes and standards.  • Highly skilled in working with OLTP and OLAP systems and relevant logical models such as star and snowflake schemas.  • Proficient with PowerBI and Tableau for data visualizations, dashboards and reports.  • Expert in custom dynamic report creation using SQL Server Reporting Services, Tableau and PowerBI.  • Skilled in ETL development using Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services and Informatica.  • Extremely knowledgeable in Agile values and principles using Scrum and Kanaban frameworks.  • Efficient time-management skills for leveraging tasks and achieving goals.  • Excellent interpersonal communication skills for collaborating and presenting to others.    Technical Skills:    Operating systems: Windows Server 2008 R2 & 2012, Ubuntu Linux Server 18.04  RDBMS: SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2012, Oracle SQL Developer, MS Access  Languages: T-SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Python, C++, HTML, CSS, Javascript, BASH  Software/Tools:  PowerBI, Tableau, OBIEE 11g, OBIEE 12c, Salesforce, ServiceNow, JIRA, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) SQL Profiler, SQL Server Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Job Agent, SQL Server Management Studio, Cron, Visual Studio 2016, MS Office Suite, IIS 6.0+    ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Informatica