Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Software Engineer Brunswick, OH Knowledgeable computer scientist looking to utilize current education in a field that will encourage problem solving. Strong understanding of the workplace and the conduct expected in and outside of the work environment. Previous work experience includes web app development, database application development and customer service. Proven ability to independently learn and develop skills to complete the job at hand. Positive team member with an excellent ability to build relationships. Skilled in the following areas:    • Software engineering • Software architecture  • Web development and UX design fundamentals • Database systems and development  • Software lifecycle engineering • Operating systems Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Sherwin Williams - Cleveland, OH 2015 to 2017 Developed database webapps by planning and executing design, maintaining and upgrading service for clients.  • Planned data analysis applications by clarifying goals, designing functionality to be user friendly.  • Collaborated with team members to correctly categorize content, funneling traffic more efficiently.  • Created and maintained underlying database schemas for the optimal data analytics.  • Deliberated and documented application structures to lower overhead for support. Mobile Phone Sales Consultant Best Buy - Strongsville, OH 2014 to 2015 Assisted customers in choosing a phone and price plan that best fits their lifestyle, along with their budget.  • Kept current with the rapidly changing phone plans, along with current technology, informing customers of changes and encouraging upgrades.  • Created and sustained customer relationships as they maintained and upgraded their electronics.  • Maintained an organized store, along with preventing theft of merchandise, minimizing loss. Education Bachelors of engineering in Computer Science CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY - Cleveland, OH December 2018 Skills Oracle Dba (2 years), Sql Server (2 years), Sql Dba (2 years), DBA (2 years), MYSQL (3 years), Web Development (5 years), Database Management (2 years), Python (2 years), Sql Database (4 years), Oracle Database, Java (4 years), Javascript (4 years), HTML 5 (7 years), CSS (7 years), Linux (4 years) Links https://www.artman.io