Database Administrator & Web Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Web Developer Software Developer Oakland, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator & Web Developer United Parcel Service - Mahwah, NJ June 2017 to April 2018 Performed DBA tasks such as the installation, update, backup, and restore of IBM DB2 databases. Developed monitoring tools which queried, recorded and visualized performance metrics from supported databases. Front End Runner ShopRite of Oakland - Oakland, NJ November 2013 to January 2017 Earned the leadership role of front end runner shortly after being hired as a cashier. Responsible for managing, scheduling, and assisting dozens of cashiers, including those with special needs, as well as training new hires. Ensured customers' satisfaction and appropriately handled any questions or problems arising from employees and customers. Snow Tubing Attendant Campgaw Mountain - Mahwah, NJ November 2012 to April 2013 Ensured customers' safety while snow tubing. Worked within a team to quickly and safely move tubers down and up the mountain, as well as handle potentially hazardous problems when they arose. Education B.S. in Computer Science Ramapo College of New Jersey January 2019 Skills SQL (2 years), Android (1 year), Arduino (1 year), C# (2 years), C++ (5 years), Javascript (3 years), Perl (1 year), Python (3 years), CSS (3 years), ASP.NET (1 year), Java (2 years), jQuery (3 years), X86 Assembly (Less than 1 year), Bash (2 years), Networking, DBA, Git (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Machine Learning, Node JS (3 years), VMWare LogInsight, Linux (3 years), Elastic Stack, Unity Game Engine (2 years) Additional Information Relevant Projects:    Performance Data Collection and Portal for DB2 Databases, United Parcel Service, June 2017 - April 2018  ? Enhanced & expanded existing data collection scripts used to monitor the performance of DB2 databases.  ? Visualized trends such as database size & CPU time spent on database fetches for mission critical software, especially around the peak holiday shipping season. This information was used to more accurately predict and provision resources for the future.  ? Developed a basic web portal using ASP.NET to view real-time performance data. Included support for executing and filtering queries via a GUI, with plans to support other common DBA tasks using stored procedures.    Kono (Korean Strategy Game), Ramapo College of New Jersey, Fall 2018  ? Developed an implementation of Kono, a Korean strategy game, from the ground up in C++, Java Android, and JavaScript. The Android and Javascript versions feature a full GUI for game and menu screens, and all variants implement custom serialization to save and load game and tournament state.    Arduino Pulse Width Modulated Function Generator for Guitar Effect Pedal, Spring 2019  ? Developed an Arduino application in C, capable of outputting the normalized sum of up to three unique waveforms as an analog voltage using pulse width modulation and simple RC filtering. Waveforms can independently oscillate between .1 and 105 Hz. Direct manipulation of timer registers was necessary to achieve frequency, sample rate, and efficiency requirements.  ? Software is currently being used in the development of a guitar tremolo effect pedal, using the filtered analog output to modulate guitar volume.    unLink (Original Strategy Game), Ramapo College of New Jersey, Spring 2019  ? Developed a two player, top-down shooter style game using C# and the Unity framework. Never before seen game mechanics required unique solutions. For example, a custom game recording and playback system was developed to carry players from previous rounds forward into later ones. 