Quality Assurance Associate Quality Assurance Associate Quality Assurance Associate Maricopa, AZ Work Experience Quality Assurance Associate Himalayan Corporation - Mukilteo, WA 2017 to 2019 Description: updating QA database; verifying all traceability forms and HAACP logs;  writing and updating SOPs; performing microbiological tests of products to detect E-Coli, Salmonella and other pathogens; testing moisture and water activity of products and advising production department on product condition; verifying customer returns for proper disposition or storage; inspecting equipment for allergen free surfaces and cleanliness; preparing samples and sending analysis request to a third party lab for guaranteed analysis (GA) and other tests; ensuring that all manufacturing processes comply with standards at both national and international levels. Agent Database Administrator "Western Union", Balcikonio st. 3 - Vilnius, LT 2016 to 2017 Description: maintaining multiple databases (AS400, SalesForce); making sure all information is  up-to-date and in accordance with legal regulations; helping to set up new agents in company's system; troubleshooting and reporting errors to tech support; detecting and defining improvements on departmental procedures and tools; providing high quality support to other departments and customers. Analyst of Inside Communication Quality ESTA "SALTES" - Vilnius, LT April 2016 to June 2016 Gedimino pr. 26-412, Vilnius; Lithuania  Type of company: Non-governmental Organization, +370 670 17813  Position: Analyst of Inside Communication Quality  Activities: Determining the core problem of organization; organizing the qualitative research; performing in-depth interviews; presenting the report and recommendations for problem solving. Pearl Insurance Broker Olimpieciu - Vilnius, LT 2014 to 2015 Lithuania  Type of company: Insurance Broker  Position: Active Sales Manager (part-time)  Description: working with CRM database; extending contracts for present clients; finding insurance products that meet customers' needs, selling insurance products via inbound/outbound calls and email; assisting colleagues in solving problems; assessing customer service quality during call revisions; Social Work Professional "Pal. J. Matulaicio Family Help Center", Seskines - Vilnius, LT February 2013 to June 2013 st. 65, Vilnius; Lithuania  Type of company: Public Institution, +370 5 240 0590  Position: Social Work Professional  Activities: Organizing events and charity benefits; consulting clients; performing a case study; moderating a group; taking a part in writing EU projects; assisting the moderator in supervision activities. Education Master's degree in Sociology in education Vilnius University - Vilnius, LT 2014 to 2016 Bachelor's degree in Social Work in Social Work Vilnius University - Vilnius, LT 2010 to 2014 Skills Ms access, Crm, As400, Ms project, Sharepoint, Coding, Visio, Workday, Adobe acrobat, Excel, Ms excel, Ms outlook, Outlook, Ms powerpoint, Powerpoint, Ms word, Word, Ms visio, Spss, Quantitative Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Fluent in Lithuanian (Native) and English;  ? Basics of German, Russian & Spanish;  ? 10+ years computer experience: MS Word, MS Excel (Vlookup), MS Access, MS Visio, MS Project, MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, Adobe acrobat;  ? 2-3 years experience working with SPSS, CRM, MAXQDA, NOLDUS, etc.;  ? AS400, 10-key, QuickBooks, SalesForce, SharePoint, OneNote, Macros, Workday, R-keeper;  ? Strong skills in data collecting, coding, processing, managing and analysis;  ? Able to organize and perform qualitative or/and quantitative research;  ? Able to perform ATP, Salmonella, E-Coli, Listeria and allergen tests;  ? Driver's license (since August 8, 2011);