QUALITY ASSURANCE/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR QUALITY ASSURANCE/<span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> QUALITY ASSURANCE/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Mansfield Center, CT Work Experience QUALITY ASSURANCE/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR iSeries Navigator 2008 to 2013 for extracting data through ODBC table / SQL scripts  ? RDP to remote servers for maintenance, update installation and system monitoring.  ? Use of Active Directory in user configuration / deploying security policies in our domain, composed of a variety of Windows server types, 2008/2013 & MS Exchange Server 2010.  ? Network installation / configuration / running wiring / patch panel / switch configuration.  ? Responsible for the day to day operations of 100+ users in VM environment.  ? Configuration / deployment and maintenance of Wyse P25 Zero client workstations.  ? Multiple networked printer types throughout agency. Responsible for installation, network configuration and day to day maintenance.  ? MS Access dbase creation / maintenance / reporting to senior management critical data elements.  ? Responsible for onboarding / training of new employees in the agency on day to day use of network / system resources & protocols. EMR training across multiple user types and interfaces.  ? Responsible for building / deploying and day to day maintenance of multiple video servers comprised of 100+ cameras.  ? Responsible for monitoring / site & user maintenance of agency alarm systems.  ? Closely interact with end users for assistance resolving multiple user type issues in the agency, from senior management to front line employees and the need to be detail oriented when assisting in resolving any issues encountered.  ? Due to nature of clients and HIPAA compliance requirements, extremely sensitive to nature client confidentiality.    QUALITY ASSURANCE/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - 12 Years  GERBER SCIENTIFIC, INC. Tolland, CT    ? Developed and maintained databases using MS Access for assessment and tracking all quality processes. These included databases to track defective materials, corrective actions, and shipping/receiving issues.  ? Responsible for system and data analysis by collecting and summarizing data gathered through databases and spreadsheets and reporting to engineering, management, and manufacturing.  ? Created engineering change orders based on manufacturing / customer needs.  ? Prepared critical data queries and reports for Senior Management using, MS PowerPoint, Project, Word, Excel, and Access.  ? Analyzed critical defect reporting and made recommendations on actions necessary to improve workflow  ? Tracked project team accomplishments by communicating essential information; coordinating actions; tracking open issues and action items.  ? Extensive vendor base contact to review parts issues and make recommendations to Engineering / Management to resolve issues.  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite applications through Windows platforms, data applications, application support, client management and OS installation, file management. Created interactive Adobe documents for use by database applications and manufacturing / engineering personnel.  ? Traveled to customer sites both domestically and internationally to evaluate and review product installations to better determine customers needs and satisfaction levels with products.  ? Make recommendations to Senior Management and Engineering on product line improvements generated from customer visits. Resolved customer support issues and provided follow-up.    CELL COORDINATOR - ELECTRO - MECHANICAL ASSEMBLER "A" - 10 Years  GERBER SCIENTIFIC, INC. Tolland, CT    ? Consistently met or exceeded production goals.  ? Instructed and trained new and temporary personnel in assembly processes for cellular manufacturing.  ? Maintained high standards of excellence.  ? Identified bill of material issues for multiple product lines, diagnosed and determined corrective actions.  ? Restructured and improved assembly processes in place prior to implementation of cellular manufacturing.  ? Maintained inventory production stock critical to our daily needs.  ? Created multiple databases to track production labor, material rejection rates, and attendance and work assignments.  ? Actively participated on the NAFTA implementation team, responsible for bringing the company up to current treaty regulations.  ? Thorough knowledge of AMAPS/MRP & SAP systems.  ? Determined accurate assembly times for each product and implemented them into the production schedule.  ? Performed electrical and mechanical tests on all final assemblies. Education General Studies Eastern Connecticut State University - Willimantic, CT E-Business and Information Technology University of Phoenix Online - Phoenix, AZ