Database Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist Cambridge, MN Over twenty years administrative experience including report writing, database creation and maintenance, PDF creation, spreadsheet creation, budgeting, and email.     Over ten years experience in the IT industry including analysis, design, development, testing, documentation, project management, and desktop support.    Three years experience managing teams of four to seven members and operations of a service-based retail establishment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Specialist Independent Contactor - Ham Lake, MN November 2017 to April 2019 Provide guidance and structure definition support for development of a new Azure-based database application. Create SQL queries to produce efficiency data reporting. Create active links from MS Excel and Power BI to Azure data for daily, weekly and monthly data analysis and reporting. IT Solutions Architect OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY - Oxford November 2016 to July 2017 Define project scope, goals and deliverables that support business needs in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders. Ensure IT projects are delivered on budget including effective monitoring and management of external consultancy project costs. Contribute to effective staff management across the Information Systems department. Responsible for line management of business analysts and application developers. Ensure robust quality assurance processes and appropriate project documentation. Business Analyst OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY - Oxford November 2015 to November 2016 Collaborate with staff throughout the university to gather requirements for new computer systems (or changes to existing systems). Translate user requirements into appropriate business case, business analysis and development documentation. Provide guidance to application developers for development and maintenance of various systems written in multiple programming languages to include Oracle PL/SQL, Java, COBOL II, JavaScript, and shell scripts. Analyze and define the mechanism for data migration and data integrity within Oracle databases, as well as a data warehouse.    I applied for, as was awarded, a grant to travel to a university in Virginia to discuss their lessons learned regarding upgrading from an in-house student records system to an off-the-shelf product. Our university was in the early stages of deciding which new system to use and the insight gleaned from a team who had already been through the process was invaluable. Application Developer OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY - Oxford May 2015 to November 2015 Develop, support and maintain computer applications using a wide variety of programming languages, to include Oracle PL/SQL, COBOL II and shell scripts, based on requirements provided by business analysts. Comply with defined change management procedures. Communicate verbally and in writing with application users. Ensure deadlines are met according to agreed project plans. Develop and maintain documentation for applications development, maintenance and configuration, change control etc. Programme Administrator OXFORD BROOKES UNIVERSITY - Oxford February 2015 to May 2015 Provide administrative support to faculty, staff and students. Respond to student and applicant inquiries. Maintain documentation and databases for programs and student records. Schedule and coordinate meetings, interviews and informational days. Assist with maintenance of a MS Access database. Consular Clerk US Consulate - Milan September 2013 to June 2014 Support the American Citizen Services Unit with passport applications, reports of birth abroad, and other citizen services. Support the Non-Immigrant Visa Unit with biometrics collection by digitally scanning applicant fingerprints. Assist the Non-Immigrant Visa Chief with validation studies including data collection, trend analysis, and detailed reporting to include graphs and charts.    I was tasked with installing new secure public-use computers. These computers were set up in a way that only allowed access to sites and documents required for the services provided by the consular section. I converted previously hand-completed forms to fillable PDF forms to standardize applications, as well as reduce clerical errors caused by poor penmanship. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Phoenix-Online Campus June 2012 Skills SQL (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), MS Access (5 years), Visio (6 years) Additional Information • Held clearances as high as Top Secret with US State Department  • Lived in several locations overseas providing experience communicating and interacting with many cultures and personalities, as well as adapting to a wide variety of jobs and work environments