On-Call Technical Support On-Call Technical Support Independent Administrator Chula Vista, CA Professional administrator with extensive experience in compliance, leadership, teamwork, boosting productivity, and problem solving. Proficient in project management, communications management, knowledgeable in business principles, and information technology solutions. Ability to quickly adapt and career experience in a defense contractor setting. Recent transition from Honolulu, Hawaii to San Diego, California. Work Experience On-Call Technical Support SPECTRUM - San Diego, CA October 2017 to April 2018 Provide technical support for Spectrum Cable, Internet and Cable Cards products and services. Expertise in advanced troubleshooting, engaged with customers in technological subject matter areas of high speed internet. Contract was for a limited term.    ? Respond to customer issues in a professional manner. Attempt to resolve issues successfully in accordance with established guidelines.    ? Inform management of all unresolved issues. Work with a diverse team to investigate, assess, and resolve issues.    ? Engaged and interfaced with customers about all Spectrum products and services. Retain customers through great customer service. Project Coordinator TRENDSOURCE - San Diego, CA September 2017 to October 2017 Project managed a high volume of projects at once and must adhere to strict deadline making sure that the site visits/projects get completed. Served as a temporary contract.    ? Recruiting and assigning new reliable field agents to projects. Ensuring assigned site visits are scheduled and executed on scheduled dates. Following up with field agents for status. Providing feedback and coaching to field agents.    ? Negotiation and persuasion skills Keeping open, clear, and respectful communication with co-workers, clients, customers, and field agents.    ? Problem solving while embracing change, personal and professional growth. Project Coordinator Administrator AEROTEK - Honolulu, HI May 2016 to August 2017 After taking extended leave due to family matters, served in multiple project coordination and management roles that supported overall project efforts and successful completion of deliverables. Notable projects:    ? Spearheaded the coordination of a public utilities initiative, the Hawaii Department of Education - Heat Abatement project. Served as a primary contact and managed diverse public, private, and government stakeholder relationships to ensure effective rollout and public education of the project.    ? Served as a project administrator with American Electric LLC on Hawaii's first 200 acre Wai'anae Solar Farm Project. Managed and interfaced with general management, contractors, and Electrical Workers IBEW Local 1186 regarding coordination of efforts and communication.    ? Project coordinated with SSFM International Civil Engineering for a statewide political contractual assignment. Served in liaising and interfacing with government officials, project stakeholders, third party consultants and internal teams. Margin Project Analyst PRICESMART, Corporate Headquarters - San Diego, CA May 2017 to June 2017 As a contactor, responsible for the analysis, reporting and execution of the pricing strategies in support of both Regional and Corporate financial goals and objectives.    ? Maintained the customer stratification and pricing models, supporting pricing integrity, across the entire pricing lifecycle including initial pricing, price adjustments due to cost changes, and promotional pricing.    ? Support the Regional Sales Managers by maintaining and updating the company's pricing database, data mining, and aggregating competitive pricing information.    ? Evaluated data and recommends pricing strategies, presenting those findings to the sales team for bids, projects, and the establishment of pricing contracts with new and existing customers. Director Assistant of Japan Hilton Hawaiian Village Hotel & Grand Vacations - Honolulu, HI October 2012 to May 2013 Managed daily interaction and relationships of corporate clients and individual customers to the resort. Later promoted to assist the regional director of Far East/Japan corporate sales, interacting and engaging with Japanese company counterparts and corporate clients/customers.    ? Assisted in the management of resort customer relations, coordinated with different departments to ensure quality customer experience that adheres to the Hilton company brand.    ? Utilized interpersonal and professional discretion skills with handling sensitive information with various corporate clients, customers, and internal teams.    ? Worked cross-functionally with Far East/Japan Hilton teams and staff to ensure quality customer interaction and service. Database Management Specialist Lockheed Martin - Coronado, CA October 2001 to January 2004 Coronado, California  October, 2001 - January, 2004  Served in the information technology unit as a database management specialist under Global System Technologies at Lockheed Martin  ? Liaison to clients supplying crucial information necessary to maintain naval inventory, executing monthly reports for clients.    ? Mastered programs to effectively train and assist personnel, training military personnel on new software device and inventory.    ? Obtained security clearances and familiarize self with protocol necessary to work within a military environment, conducting regular software testing to ensure effortless business operations. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology National University - San Diego, CA Skills PROBLEM SOLVING, RISK MANAGEMENT, EVENT PLANNING, BUDGET ANALYSIS, BUDGET Additional Information Skills  ? Administrative & Project Management  ? Budget Analysis & Compliance  ? Communication Skills and Discretion (multi-tier company)  ? Cross Functional Team Coordination  ? Customer/Client Service  ? Event Planning and Logistical Management  ? Knowledge of Compliance  ? Personnel Management and Evaluation  ? Problem Solving & Risk Management