Student Program Administrator Student Program <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Student Program Administrator - Georgetown University Alexandria, VA Work Experience Student Program Administrator Georgetown University - Washington, DC July 2016 to Present Develop education materials based on college preparation requirements to assist  students in transitioning from middle school and high school tp universities.    • Create and oversee a weekly initiative, Saturday Academy, to provide  participants with tutoring and mentorship materials.  • Co-host leadership development and educational improvement workshops and events with middle school teachers and administrators.  • Supervise student academic progress, biographical information, and personal challenges to develop individualized student curriculums.    LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE    Volunteer Teacher Kids 2 College, Cesar Chavez Middle School    February 2016 - Present Washington, DC  • Provided individualized tutoring support for primary and secondary s  school students.    • Implemented and lead college preparation classes for low-income, first  generation students.    • Supported students and facilities in adapting to new environments.    • Created an education curriculum based on college processes and requirements in order to train students to tap into available resources for  college admittance. Student Dedicated Aide Close Up Foundation - Washington, DC January 2019 to June 2019 Overseen and was responsible medically from anywhere to 25-300  students a week.  • Maintained and kept track of students medical records.  • Responded and reported on sight to any medical emergencies. Membership database/Office Assistant Washington, DC August 2018 to January 2019 • Updated, managed, cleaned, and organized membership database of about  50-100 thousand members.  • Printed, packaged, sorted and mailed out membership materials.  • Researched and analyzed potential members (high profile personnel and companies)    • Managed daily office administrative tasks Project Development Designer Young Wild Genius Company - Washington, DC July 2016 to May 2017 • Devise target lists and procedures for external clients to develop solutions and increase program efficiency.    • Manage data analytical projects identifying market and production needs to improve strategies for partnerships.  • Prepare research material for product design development to gain a competitive  edge in the market.    • Create and maintain internal hiring, payroll, and compliance structure for program staff, interns, and volunteers.  • Plan and execute major product showcases and events in collaboration with corporations and organizations. Student Engagement Specialist GOODPartners - Washington, DC January 2016 to July 2016 • Devise target lists and procedures for external clients to develop solutions and increase program efficiency.    • Manage data analytical projects identifying market and production needs to improve strategies for partnerships. Logistics Coordinator Hoya Saxa Weekend Planning Committee, Georgetown University - Washington, DC November 2015 to April 2016 • Coordinated catering services, office materials, and administrative tasks with department administrators and outside vendors and businesses.  • Regulated reservation requests and planned approaches for event strategy  and efficiency.    • Supervised logistical needs for conference groups, students, and family  members.    • Administered transitional services, training materials, and instruction for new students. Dedicated Aide KIPP DC Quest Academy - Washington, DC January 2016 to February 2016 • Provide individualized support to 21 primary school students in order to improve children's achievements of individual academic and behavioral goals.    • Consistently implement behavioral and academic strategies outlined in children's IEP goals.  • Support classroom teacher in monitoring student progress and using a variety of instructional materials, resources, and experiences to enrich student leaning,    • Regularly observe students and establish positive relationships to inform  planning in the arrangement of small groups, classroom set up, intentions of students' interests in learning activities, and subsequent assessments. Skills Quantitative, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Word, Cpr, Cpr/, Cpr/aed, Qualitative analysis Additional Information SKILLS    • Languages: Advanced - English, Basic Knowledge of Spanish  • Microsoft Office: Advanced - Word, PowerPoint, Excel    • Quantitative and Qualitative Analysis    • Restorative Justice and Conflict Resolution  • CPR/AED Certified