Financial Resolution Specialist Financial Resolution Specialist Financial Resolution Specialist - Merchant Link Bethesda, MD * Dynamic and motivated database administrator with solid experience optimizing organizational processes.  * Leadership and analytical skills, multitasker, able to plan and direct complex operations in a fast paced, customer service driven work environment.  * Proactive and results oriented with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.  * Bilingual English-Spanish.  * Proven experience working with diverse, multicultural teams.  CORE & TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES    Organizational leadership I Problem solving I Team player I Relationship building I Detail oriented I Client focus I Website maintenance I Operations management Work Experience Financial Resolution Specialist Merchant Link March 2019 to Present * Verify with the processor, bank and card associations that transactions truly duplicated or failed to settle, and confirm all parties agree.  * Research to determine where the batch or transaction failed in the transaction flow.  * Recover funds when only certain transactions within a batch fail or duplicate. Database Administrator Inter-American Development Bank - Washington, DC June 2016 to January 2019 * Identify, retrieve and analyze data from bank data systems on the overall dimensions of grant financing operations.  * Prepare data for reporting exercises and automate reports.  * Turn large data sets into progressive ideas through the creation of clear, compelling infographics, maps and data visualizations.  * Develop and implement best practices to ensure accuracy, cleanliness and completeness of data.  * Automate Excel reports and create dashboards in Salesforce. Web Start-up Founder and Manager Fitting Children's Shoes - Bethesda, MD December 2015 to January 2019 * Launched retail children's footwear website focused on affiliate marketing.  * Create and manage content including 350 pages related to appropriate shoe fit and the latest research on child foot health, helping customers make informed decisions when purchasing footwear.  * Research and write 290 articles on infant, toddler, and child shoe fit and foot health.  * Provide direct customer outreach and support to 2,000 users via responses to 2,500 comments on-line, direct email marketing to 1,100 registered users, social media posts, and video tutorials. Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland 2009 to 2013 Skills Microsoft dynamics, Dynamics, Ms office, Html, Css, Wordpress