IT Support Specialist, Software Engineer IT Support Specialist, Software Engineer Fair Lawn, NJ • 5 years of experience in software development and IT-support.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming and verity of languages.  • Excellent in problem solving and adapting to business needs.  • Detail-oriented with a commitment to high standards. Work Experience IT Support Specialist, Software Engineer Infotek Solutions And Support - New York, NY June 2016 to Present Performing support functions for clients remotely and on site.  • Create scripts to perform automatic actions, created software for remote script execution using C#, Visual Studio and Batch.  It increased the ability to remotely manage computers and perform needed tasks and settings.  • Creating web-based client management system with REST API (Python, JavaScript, Django)  The system contains information about all clients, hardware and domain. It decreased the time to getting back to clients and the time needed to set up new computers.  • Install, configure and test hardware and software.  • Identify and resolve hardware and software issues.  • Update existing knowledge base with any new incident resolution. Software engineer, data analysis specialist InVEx September 2018 to June 2019 Creating a web-based interactive visual analytics platform, performing analysis of various data.  • Developed the client-side visualization library using JavaScript and Threejs. Allowed to see and analyze data using interactive visual interfaces.  • Developed the analytical back-end tool using python and scikit learn library. Allowed performing backend clustering and statistical analysis tasks.  • Developed the database scheme. This potentially improved the time to retrieve information and previous tasks. Software Engineer, database administrator, Editor Scientific Visualization Journal - Moscow, RU September 2014 to January 2018 Developed an internal system for processing articles using PHP, Webmatrix, MySQL, and JavaScript.  The system allowed the processing of more than 250 articles and also helped to release periodical issues for the Scopus indexed journal.  • Prepared and released 17 issues of the journal  Scientific visualization laboratory of National Research Nuclear University MEPhI Software Engineer Moscow Engineering Physics Institute - Moscow, RU September 2014 to August 2015 • Designed, developed and implemented an educational system for the laboratory that allowed to educate more than 500 students at the university.  • Designed and developed scientific visualization software using Visual C++, Visual Studio 2013, .Net, WinAPI, VTK, MS Office API (Microsoft Excel, Word). Education Master of science in Mathematics and Computer Science in Mathematics and Computer Science National Research Nuclear University MEPhI - Moscow, RU 2015 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Git, PHP, HTML 5, MYSQL, CSS, Javascript, ASP, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/igal-milman-137bb017 https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Igal_Milman https://github.com/igalmilman Additional Information • 5 years of experience in software development and IT-support.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming and verity of languages.  • Excellent in problem solving and adapting to business needs.  • Detail-oriented with a commitment to high standards.    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  • Experienced in C#, .Net Framework  • Experienced in Python  • Proficient in HTML/CSS  • Advanced knowledge of math and optimization methods  • Experienced in UML modeling    • Experienced in PHP and JavaScript  • Advanced knowledge in data analysis, cluster analysis  • Experienced in Visual Studio Visual Studio code, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server  • Working knowledge in C++