Graduate Assistant Graduate Assistant Athens, GA To obtain a position that will give me the opportunity to employ my strong computational, Programming and organizational skills to contribute towards technological advancements of the company. Work Experience Graduate Assistant Center for Applied Isotope Studies CAIS September 2011 to Present UGA, Graduate Assistantship Fall 2011 - Present  • Developed role based web application for the department with advanced security features.  • Application includes three sections office: for handling invoices, lab: for handling sample information and related data processing and administrator panel for creating lab profiles and managing users.  • Responsibilities: Setting up Database server, Test server, Creating Database, Coding and Testing.  • Technology Used: MySQL server, Redhat Linux server, PHP, Java Scripts, HTML, CSS, jquery Software Engineer Intern University of Miami - Miami, FL June 2012 to August 2012 9 weeks) June 2012 - 10 August 2012  Software Engineer Intern  • Developed first prototype for free text based search system for LINCS data Harvard university  • Responsibility: Set up Apache Solr search platform on server, Wrote algorithms for Indexing the data coming from varied sources, Prototype web pages to perform search using RESTFUL services of Solr on the indexed data and represent statistics using heat maps generated through processing.js  • Technology Used: MySQL, Ontology, Java, Javascript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Apache Solr, Hibernate, Processing.js Database Administrator Technical Lead EITS - Enterprise Information Technology Services UGA - Athens, GA March 2011 to June 2011 Maintained work on different database administrating modules like backup management and maintenance. Work on Data flows and BPM of all the database systems.  Team Work Experience Lecturer G.H.Raisoni College of Engineering - Nagpur, Maharashtra December 2009 to April 2010 Subjects taught: Database management for sixth semester i.e. Third year Lab sessions handled: Computer Networks for Eighth semester i.e. Final year Software Engineering and project Management for sixth semester i.e. Final year. Also, Developed and administered website of Digital library for computer science department. Software Engineer Integra Systems June 2009 to November 2009 Worked on application development project which was being designed to assess the credit risk of loan application for bank.  • Using historical data of prices of cities for which Time series model are built using trend analysis and seasonal analysis. The categorization of customers is done using cluster analysis and used for assessing credit risk.  • Responsibilities: Creating Algorithms, Design and create test database, set up test server and coding algorithms. Technologies used: Java, Oracle 10g, Three tier architecture, RDBMS Intern, Nagpur, MH, India Trust Systems and software Pvt. Ltd July 2008 to March 2009 Developed application 'share module' which was exclusively for cooperative banks Share transaction.  • Application was role based and handled customer registration Data editing and data retrieval for receipts, dividend calculations, annual reporting, sundry account and mailing list. Also had additional feature for Database recovery.  • Responsibilities: Meeting Clients, Gathering System Specific Requirements, design and create databases, coding and testing. Education Master of Science in Computer Science The University of Georgia - Athens, GA 2013 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering St. Vincent - Nagpur, Maharashtra July 2009 Skills Programming Languages & App: C, C++, Java; Database Techniques: PL/SQL, Oracle, D2K, DBA, MySQL, Ontology, RDF/OWL Operating Systems: Linux, Ubuntu, Mac OS X Lion, Windows 7 Web and Network Technologies: PHP, Java Script, Servlets, HTML, CSS, XML, Processing.js Parallel Processing Techniques: Cuda Programming, MPI, OpenMP Links http://www.cs.uga.edu/~murugkar Groups Indian Society for Technical Education August 2005 to June 2009 Former member of ISTE [Indian Society for Technical Education] 2005-09 and lead different committees for it. Additional Information RELATED PROJECT EXPERIENCE  Event Planner Application [ongoing]  Very sophisticated event planning application with various ready options. It is web Application for now and would be extending it for Android App.    Indian[South Asian] Arranged Marriage website with Social Graph [ongoing]  A role based sophisticated Indian matrimonial website which tries to match people according to their preferences and also with added feature of mutual matching either one to one or using social graph. Used Tech.: PHP, Java Script, Mysql, Jquery    - Web Application for University administration   This is web application for university administration. It facilitates creating new department, managing database, add and drop subjects, online testing and many other facilities that are required for online administration of university.  Technology used : Java servlet, Java script, html, css, jquery, MySql workbench    -- Reliable Data Transfer Protocol  Traditionally UDP Data Transfer is non-reliable. In this project I implemented a reliable data transfer protocol using UDP. Technology used: C.    -- Linux based Home group system for Windows 7  Traditionally UDP Data Transfer is non-reliable. In this project I implemented a reliable data transfer protocol using protocols like PNRP, PGRPH, HGRP,PPSEC, DPWS. Technology used : c, python,     -- Http Fast downloader   In this project the speed of downloading is increased using multithreading on client side. Technology Used : C, UDP    -- Fourier Transform Calculator  This project targets on calculating one-dimensional and multi-dimensional transforms, Arbitrary-size transforms and Fast transforms using parallel processing which is done with the help of Cuda programming Technology Used : Cuda and C    PAPERS & AWARDS  • Paper presented at the state level technical event ‘TRYST’ on Multimedia and Virtual Reality was awarded second best paper in the State.  • Presented paper on Artificial Intelligence at the technical event ‘Tech Cognitio’ sponsored by ISTE, Delhi.    REFERENCES  Available upon request