Data Analyst Intern Data Analyst Intern Data Analyst Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Intern City of Los Angeles - ITA Department - Los Angeles, CA June 2018 to May 2019 Skills: SQL, Python, Power BI, Tableau, Google Analytics, SSRS, Drupal 8, Excel, Power Pivot, Agile Methodology, MS Office Tools, etc.  • Created visually impactful Custom Reports and Dashboards for the Mayor of LA to review the services provided by the different organizations tied up to the City Of LA using Python Pandas Data framework, Power BI, Google Analytics, SSRS and MySQL.  • Conducted Statistical Analysis and Predictive Analysis on Different services provided by lacity to trading data 2013-2019 Using MS Excel, Tableau, Power BI and SSRS.  • Linked DART Application to Python pandas, Microsoft Power BI and Google Analytics using MySQL server and analyzed the effectiveness of different organizations working with the City Of LA by framing the Visualizations Database Administrator California State University, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to July 2018 SKILLS: Microsoft SQL Server, SQL, Tableau, MicroStrategy, Google Analytics, MS Excel (VLOOKUP, Pivot Tables).  • Developed SQL script extract data from flat files and excel file, for automating the refresh process of DB data, which includes data validation.  • Extracted, Interpreted and Analyzed data to identify key metrics and transform raw data into meaningful, actionable information.  • Performed data analysis using pivot tables by extracting significance from a detailed data set.  • Analyzing data into keep and purge categories and also use CRUD functionality. Data Analyst Anmol Group Of Comapny - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2016 to May 2017 Skills: MS Excel, MySQL, Tableau, Microsoft PowerBI, Microsoft Visio, Python, Power Pivot, Agile Methodology.  • Evaluated, tested, compared and validated those different models before selecting the best model for prediction by using SQL.  • Successfully interpreted data performed Data Analysis, Data Profiling, Data Migration, Data Conversion using MS Excel (VLOOKUP, Pivot Tables), Tableau, SSRS, MS SQL server to draw a conclusion for managerial action and strategy.  • Presented findings and data to the team to improve strategies and operations. Proposed solutions to improve system efficiencies and reduce total expenses and finding the latest trends and forecasting the future trends of the market using Python with Agile Methodologies.  • Evaluated, tested, compared and validated those different models before selecting the best model for prediction by using Power BI, SSRS & SQL. Education Master's in Information Technology California State University-Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad June 2013 to May 2017 Skills Power BI, SQL, Tableau, Python, Google Analytics, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, AWS, Excel, SAP, CRM, ERP, Business Intelligence, Mathematics (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/panktiparikh