Business Administrator Business <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Business Administrator Seattle, WA Proven track record of working independently but also acting as a successful team player. A team player, willing to lead or follow, eager to learn and self-motivated. Enthusiastic and personable, my passion is to contribute, support, and make a difference.    SKILLS:   • Ability to work both independently and collaboratively with others.  • Ability to work happily in a fast-paced and complex organization.  • Ability to adhere to strict confidentiality standards.   • Ability to react with appropriate levels of urgency to situations and events that require quick response or turnaround.  • Ability to solve problems in ambiguous situations  • Adept at coordinating multiple efforts simultaneously. Proven ability to stay focused, efficient and effective in managing multiple competing priorities under pressure.  • Balanced and not easily overwhelmed with competing demands.  • Detail oriented, highly organized, self-starter.  • Excellent oral, written and interpersonal communication and ability to communicate effectively with all levels of employees, management and outside contacts.  • Executes and delivers consistent results.  • Exhibits an authentic, positive spirit that radiates sunshine.  • Experience with setting priorities, meeting deadlines, and balancing the needs of multiple individuals  • Highly proficient with MS Office Suite (emphasis on Microsoft Outlook calendar management and Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Teams, Access, Visio), SharePoint and Concur.  • Possesses good judgment, maturity, discretion, tact and a sense of humor  • Proactively escalate issues that need the immediate attention of the executives.  • Proactively gathers information and makes recommendations to address complex business issues.  • Resourceful. Quick to learn and master new technology. Open to learning new tools.  • Service-oriented team player who has a positive attitude; flexible, responsive, proactive, and self-motivated. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Administrator Microsoft - Bellevue, WA September 2017 to March 2019 Provide a variety of complex administrative, facility, and operational functions for an energetic AI team. Administrative support to Director Product Research and Partner - Director Artificial Intelligence managing globally dispersed teams of account managers and alliance directors.     • Knowledge of corporate organization and ability to navigate it and knowledge of departmental business practices and tools as required. Ensured compliance of the company’s operational policies and procedures.  • Manage all aspects of the administrative tools. Procurement of goods and services including equipment, office supplies, reference materials, and asset tracking.  • Manage team communications and distribution lists, as well as communication with external business partners  • Organize complex domestic and international travel arrangements for multiple executives  • Organize and manage calendars, across many time zones for multiple executives.   • Organize team meetings and conferences. Organize logistics for various off-sites, team functions and morale events.   • Partnered with Director to coordinate budget planning. Completing quarterly budgets review.   • Prepare, submit and track expense reports for multiple executives.   • Primary point-of-contact, responsible for driving the recruiting team’s activities. Manage department headcount information, space coordination, end-to-end set-up and on-boarding for new Employees & External Staff  • Project Management: Setting up new business suppliers, contract processing, invoice reconciliation and non-standard equipment purchases. Primary point of contact for business supplier payment and billing issues.  • Provide Administrative Support and backup to Executive Assistant to cover vacations, etc. for Beijing, China Partner Director as needed   • Space management for the team, international business visitors, interns and external staff.   • Support day-to-day needs of teams of varying sizes Business Administrator Microsoft - Redmond, WA January 2017 to March 2017 Office move requests, On-boarding New Hires, Purchase Order Requests, laptops refreshes, tracking and ordering. equipment, invoice reconciliation, team morale events & catering. HR heavy; creating HeadTrax, managing the hiring process, and on-boarding.    • Act as interim approver on all expense reports for the team.  • Assist business management with calendaring, setup team meetings, morale events, and projects as needed.  • Create and maintain org charts, team distribution lists, and office space maps.  • Manage headcount, recruiting and on-boarding process including assisting with opening positions, hardware ordering, and office space set up.  • Manage team hardware and supplies ordering, request, and budget.  • Provide backup support to Executive Assistant, as needed. Program Administrator Microsoft - Redmond, WA November 2014 to May 2016 Program Administration Offices (PAO) & Data Center Development for Cloud Infrastructure Operations (DCD). Provided Administrative Business Support for Global Software Corporation in a $10B program. Provide contract project management support to managers, team, and business suppliers; provide monthly commitment tracking reports; researches commitments for information regarding invoicing, change orders, and requirements of the contracts; identify upcoming account expiration for contract planning; identify account coding; identify invoice accuracy with respect to matching, coding, basic math formulas; assist with accruals as needed; and maintain current SharePoint Web Page identifying all deliverables.    • Ability to receive and work with necessary information in various formats (i.e. via reports, spreadsheets, emails, in-person meetings, project schedules)  • Administering contracts from initialization to close-out. Assist as requested routing or preparation of service contracts.  • Assist PMs with compliance and internal/external project audits  • Manage and maintain invoice and contract archiving for domestic and international projects.   • Process, track and report on Procurement notifications (Bid List, Award Letters).  • Prepare and/or assists in the preparation of contract documents, letters, or reports as assigned  • Responsible for data de-duplication (matching and merging data), data cleansing (matching, linking, updating records, such as organization records, in batch and real time), hierarchy management (identifying, creating, correcting, update, and maintaining complex relationships among parent and child records), and data conversion (changing / transforming the data based on business rules, usually done before the data is integrated into a new system). Website Administrator and Sales Administrator Princeton Antiques and Books - Greater New Jersey Area November 2010 to March 2013 • Analyze the market’s potential, track sales and status reports.  • Checking data accuracy in orders and invoices  • Communicate important feedback from customers internally  • Contacting clients to obtain missing information or answer queries  • Continuously improve through feedback.  • Coordinate payments for billing, invoicing, and product inventory.  • Coordinate sales effort with team members and other departments  • Create monthly sales reports and specialized reports as needed to track sales progress and growth.  • Ensure sales targets are met and report any deviations  • Expedite the resolution of customer problems and complaints to maximize satisfaction  • Handle inbound customer inquiries, needs, and issues in a timely manner by phone and by email, resolving problems, ensuring receipt of merchandise, and following through to ensure customer satisfaction.  • Maintain positive business relationships to ensure future sales  • Maintain and update sales and customer records  • Manage and process orders via phone, mail, fax, email, and web (Ebay, Alibris, ABE Books and other online business accounts).  • Manage and update e-commerce site new products, and troubleshooting any issues.  • Stay up-to-date with new products and features  • Supply management with status reports on customer needs, problems, interests, competitive activities, and potential for new products and services. Research Librarian Princeton Antiques and Books - Greater New Jersey Area November 2010 to March 2013 Research Librarian and Cataloging Assistant: Assist patrons with their information needs, whatever they may be.    • Assist patrons when looking for reading or research materials  • Categorize and classify library materials, including books, CDs, films, newspapers, or other documents.  • Consult with colleagues on improving cataloging process.  • Ensure all material can be retrieved conveniently using standardized methods.  • Follow business standards and guidelines when classifying documents.  • Input details about new material into catalog.  • Locate materials, including periodicals, books, magazines and electronic resources.  • Maintain records of new and used items received, issued, stored and returned, and file according to library system  • Perform clerical duties, such as sorting mail, answering phones, filing, photocopying, word processing and mailing out letters, keep up regular communication with supervisors regarding changes, and seek streamline processes where appropriate  • Perform original and copy cataloging and adapt online records according to guidelines in all subject areas and languages.  • Sort publications, books and other literary items and return them to their proper shelves and storage areas. Leasing Agent Princeton Antiques and Books - Greater New Jersey Area November 2010 to March 2013 • Collect application fees, security deposits and rent payments  • Coordinate property maintenance  • Establish rapport with tenants and provide personalized service  • Follow up with prospective renters  • Inform residents of any changes to the rental agreement or upcoming problems with the property  • Meet with prospective renters and take them on tours of the units that interest them  • Monitor use of community facilities, including laundry, and mail Database Administrator Intern Tacoma Rescue Mission - Tacoma, WA 2013 to 2013 Database Administrator and Donor Services Associate (Paid Internship)    • Data entry of donations received via mail, online, and other sources.  • Ensure proper confirmation of matching gift donations.  • Enter transaction data into donor databases (Raiser’s Edge) by manual and automated processes.  • Partner with Donor Relations staff to ascertain what materials are necessary for upcoming meetings and informational packets.  • Review batches entered by third party vendor for data entry accuracy. Address errors with internal and external parties.  • Review gift information as submitted by chapters or individuals and interpret intent of gift in order to allocate revenue appropriately. Switchboard Operator Authentic Bartending School - Philadelphia, PA 2010 to 2010 • Answer multi-line telephone system, route calls and distribute messages to staff.   • Research billing issues and misapplied payments   • Schedule meetings, trainings and appointments for prospective students. Website Administrator Portland Parking - Portland, OR 2009 to 2009 Publish content, maintain continuity of themes, design layout, streamline navigation and increase online presence to potential customers.    • Coordinate payments for billing, invoicing, and product inventory.  • Create banners, images, promotions etc for display on the website (using products like Adobe Photoshop).  • Create standard and specialized reports as needed to track sales progress and growth.  • Evaluate approaches & strategies to improve website sales conversions & customer engagement  • Handle inbound customer inquiries, needs, and issues in a timely manner by phone and by email, resolving problems, ensuring receipt of merchandise, and following through to ensure customer satisfaction.  • Investigate and report any operational/technical issues arising  • Investigate, evaluate and assess new ways of generating additional traffic/orders  • Manage and process customer orders via phone, mail, fax, email, and web.  • Produce reports to analyze the performance of all online marketing campaigns and promotions (via reports, analytics, surveys etc)  • Understand and develop sources of traffic: SEO, social media, etc.  • Update content managed areas (copy & artwork)  • Update product information and content on the website Education Advance Coursework in Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint) South Seattle College - Seattle, WA 2014 to 2014 High School Diploma John Bartram High - Philadelphia, PA Associates Applied Sciences (Incomplete) - Photography Community College of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA Skills Adobe Acrobat Pro (8 years), HeadTrax (4 years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Sharepoint (5 years), Wordpress (10+ years), MyOrder & Payment Central (5 years), HTML (10+ years), Skype for Business/Lync (5 years), Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, Visio) (10+ years), MS Invoice (5 years), Raiser’s Edge (Less than 1 year), Employee Training (5 years), Marketing Research (7 years), Social Networking (10+ years), Media Relations (5 years), Invoicing (10+ years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), Contract Administration (4 years), Database Management (5 years), SEO (8 years), Vendor Management (5 years), Vendor Relations (10+ years), Domestic & International Travel Arrangements (10+ years), Accounting (8 years), Call Center (5 years), Visio (4 years), Microsoft Teams (1 year), Microsoft Expense (5 years), Microsoft Travel (5 years), Slack (2 years), Informa (2 years), Project Management (5 years), Customer Service Experience (10+ years), Calendar Management (10+ years), Skilled Multi-tasker (10+ years), Event Planning, Event Management (10+ years), Organization Skills (10+ years), Budget Reconciliation (5 years), Executive Support (10+ years), Computer Literacy (10+ years), Inventory Control (10+ years), Clerical Skills (10+ years), Quickbooks (Less than 1 year), Administrative Assistant (10+ years), Marketing (10+ years), Microsoft Outlook (10+ years), Time Management (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Filing, Scheduling, Sales, Microsoft Word (10+ years), Payroll, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Billing (10+ years), Accounts Payable, Data Entry (10+ years), Word, MS Office, Excel, Outlook, Event Planning (5 years), Ability to work both independently and collaboratively with others., Ability to adhere to strict confidentiality standards., Ability to react with appropriate levels of urgency to situations and events that require quick response or turnaround., Exhibits an authentic, positive spirit that radiates sunshine., Service-oriented team player who has a positive attitude; is flexible, responsive, proactive, and self-motivated. Links https://twitter.com/Homelessusa https://twitter.com/anothernygirl https://www.linkedin.com/in/andreacharles1 Certifications/Licenses Certificate - WA State Emerging Advocate Program 2015 to 2015 Social Media Advocate - Washington Low Income Housing Alliance (WLIHA)  Seattle, WA Certificate - Banking Administration Pierce Junior College Philadelphia, PA Publications Dawn of the 21st Century: The Millennium Photo Project Black and White Photograph