Development Operations Steward Development Operations Steward New York, NY I am a detail-oriented and creative team player. I am also a quick learner and excited to take on large database clean-up projects. I am looking for roles where I can assist in strengthening the accuracy and efficiency of a database so as to improve an organization’s relationship with their constituents. I would also like to expand my knowledge of customer relationship management. Work Experience Development Operations Steward Union for Reform Judaism - New York, NY April 2018 to Present SALESFORCE and RAISER'S EDGE DATABASES:   • Salesforce Database Development   • Raiser's Edge Database Administration  • Salesforce Reporting   • Daily Gift Entry and Creating Gift Entry Process  • Salesforce Database Clean-up and De-duplication   • Effectively and Accurately run Analytical Reports and  • Apsona for Salesforce Reporting Queries  • Configuration: Apsona for Salesforce Document   • Database clean-up and de-duplication  • Develop and Enforce Universal Entry Process as well as PCI Compliance  • Execution: Apsona for Salesforce Document Generation   • Migration from Raiser's Edge to Salesforce   • Event Management via Database  • Apsona for Salesforce Batch Gift Entry   • Financial Reconciliation Process and Up-Keep  • Donor Acknowledgements through Raiser's Edge     GENERAL:   • Event Management via Database  • Develop and Enforce Universal Entry Process as well as PCI Compliance  • Financial Reconciliation Process and Up-Keep  • Jira Project Management  • Trello, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Sharepoint  • Microsoft Word Mail Merge and Coding  • Proficiency in Microsoft Excel  • Donor Acknowledgements and Tributes Database Administrator Planned Parenthood of Central and Western New York - Rochester, NY December 2017 to March 2018 RAISER'S EDGE DATABASE:   • Raiser's Edge Database Administration  • Daily Gift Entry and Creating Gift Entry Process  • Effectively and Accurately run Analytical Reports and   • Database clean-up and de-duplication   • Develop and Enforce Universal Entry Process as well as PCI Compliance  • Event Management via Database   • Financial Reconciliation Process and Up-Keep  • Donor Acknowledgements through Raiser's Edge     GENERAL:   • Event Management via Database  • Develop and Enforce Universal Entry Process as well as PCI Compliance  • Financial Reconciliation Process and Up-Keep  • Microsoft Word Mail Merge and Coding  • Proficiency in Microsoft Excel  • Donor Acknowledgements and Tributes See less Prep and Line Cook Genessee Brewery - Rochester, NY December 2016 to December 2017 Ran cold and hot sides of line. Assisted in prep cooking as well. Kitchen Manager The Daily Refresher - Rochester, NY June 2014 to December 2016 Inventory and orders each week for bar, kitchen, and food truck. Organized prep and transportation for events. Food costing. Created specials for summer menu. I manage a staff of  3-5 people. Intern Downstairs Cabaret Theatre - Rochester, NY March 2015 to December 2015 I assisted with some artistic aspects of the theater. I was responsible for maintaining a relationship with donors, maintaining donor database, organizing proof of donations made by the theater and revamping their filing system. Drama Specialist Children's Center of Brighton - Rochester, NY September 2014 to June 2015 Each week I create one half hour lesson plan per group of children ranging in ages 2 - 5. My  program is heavily based on ideas of devising theater and dramatic play. Intern Center for African Cultural Excellence - Kampala February 2014 to August 2014 I have been helping actors to write memoirs from their experience with the Flash Theater  Project. I worked on the Writivism Festival directly in Kampala for June '14. Education Bachelor's in Fine Arts - Dramaturgy Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA August 2010 to August 2014 Kiswahili Institute 2013 United States International School - Nairobi, KE 2013 Skills Scheduling, Excel, Receptionist, Excel (3 years), Microsoft Outlook (3 years), Raiser's Edge (3 years), Salesforce (1 year), Sharepoint (1 year), JIRA (1 year)