Founder & Ceramicist Founder &amp; Ceramicist Founder & Ceramicist - Pottery by Peri Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Founder & Ceramicist Pottery by Peri January 2018 to Present Creator, owner, and sole artist of pottery business; manages  finances, inventory, production, and overall practice. Assistant North Key Community Care March 2013 to Present Care for special needs individual on excursions and involvement into community. Database Administrator Speed Art Museum - Louisville, KY July 2018 to February 2019 Managed part of cash receipts process, performed daily office operations and database tasks, updated website links, pulled lists for invitations and mailings, imported prospective donors and organizations into database, managed interns’ tasks.  Data Entry Clerk Speed Art Museum - Louisville, KY July 2017 to July 2018 Managed part of cash receipts process, performed daily office operations and database tasks, updated website links, pulled lists for invitations and mailings, imported prospective donors and organizations into database, managed interns’ tasks.  Caregiver/Art Instructor Lively Children Childcare Center - Louisville, KY May 2017 to August 2017 Morning caregiver; created, established, and instructed a routine curriculum for the older children.  Donor Relations Intern Speed Art Museum - Louisville, KY January 2017 to July 2017 Managed part of cash receipts process, performed daily office  operations and database tasks, updated website links, pulled  lists for invitations and mailings, imported prospective donors and organizations into database, managed interns' tasks. Office Assistant Hite Art Institute - Louisville, KY January 2016 to December 2016 Assisted with daily office operations, received and distributed office correspondence, assisted in project based tasks focused on recruitment and gallery exhibitions. Painting Instructor Whet Your Palette - Anchorage, KY May 2015 to December 2015 Taught private and group painting lessons, instructed children's summer camps, maintained studio space, tracked inventory. Sales Associate Tuesday Morning - Fort Mitchell, KY April 2014 to February 2015 Maintained accurate sales records, assisted with inventory and display designs.  Sandwich Artist Subway - Fort Mitchell, KY April 2011 to December 2013 Worked register and food line, maintained daily preparations, assisted with weekly inventory.  Education Bachelor's in Fine Arts University of Louisville - Louisville, KY August 2013 to December 2017 Skills Data entry (2 years), Database (2 years), Inventory (2 years), Administrative Support (3 years), Recruitment (1 year), Customer Service (6 years), Quickbooks (1 year), Microsoft Office (3 years), Excel (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CPR/First Aid