Peer Support Specialist Peer Support Specialist Human Services Worker, Database Entry, Advocacy, CAC NYSOH Marketplace Poughkeepsie, NY Work Experience Peer Support Specialist Lexington Center for Recovery, Inc - Poughkeepsie, NY Present Assisting clients with connecting to the necessary services available within their community while aiding in substance abuse recovery. CAC- NY Marketplace Certification for Health Insurance Residential Medication Administrator Atria The Landing of Poughkeepsie - Poughkeepsie, NY February 2019 to July 2019 ADL's, medication administration, updating MARs and contacting pharmacies, answering call bells Referral and Database Specialist Child Care Council of Dutchess and Putnam, Inc - Poughkeepsie, NY November 2016 to November 2017 Completing client intakes via phone, email, and in person  ? Pulling information from the system and running reports  ? Connecting parents with community resources  ? Auditing the referral database  ? Compiling reports for providers and parents  ? Determining eligibility for child care subsidy  ? Emailing clients and parents to determine child care status and needs  ? Organizing outreach events  ? Updating vacancies and child care rates  ? Completing the quarterly data report each quarter  ? Creating queries in order to extract necessary information from our online system Patient Care Assistant Community Home Healthcare - Poughkeepsie, NY June 2016 to November 2016 Documents objective data and routine aspects of patient care  ? Maintained accurate records of patient care, condition, progress and concerns.  ? Responded appropriately to the physical, emotional and developmental needs of patients.  ? Assisted patients with bathing, oral hygiene, grooming, feeding and elimination.  ? Helped patients move in and out of beds, baths, wheelchairs and automobiles.  ? Performed direct patient care aimed at increasing comfort, psycho, social and spiritual well-being by providing assistance with personal hygiene, physical comfort, nutrition, elimination, prevention of skin  breakdown, rehabilitation and safety. Care Coach The Greater Hudson Valley Family Health Center - Newburgh, NY June 2015 to April 2016 Manhattan, NY  ? Skillfully developed departmental goals, objectives, standards of performance, policies and procedures.  ? Establish and maintain systems that safely met residents' needs.  ? Conducted patient intakes and scheduled meetings as needed. Create spreadsheets and input data  ? Served the mentally ill, underserved, and minority population of Newburgh, NY  ? Led a separate resume building initiative for RECAP (a program for those recovering from drug  abuse and recently released from incarceration)  ? Matched patients needs with community services available to them. Technical Support Nexxlinx - Newburgh, NY December 2014 to November 2015 Effectively communicated with and supported sales, marketing and administrative teams on a daily  basis.  ? Investigated and resolved customer inquiries and complaints in a timely and empathetic manner.  ? Managed wide variety of customer service and administrative tasks to resolve customer issues quickly  and efficiently.  ? Promoted to Help Desk, provided support to agents throughout the United States when difficulties arose  and they needed further assistance resolving customer issues Nanny/Personal Assistant Care.com - Newburgh, NY April 2014 to December 2014 Ariyike Diggs (Care.com) - Newburgh, NY  ? Scheduled and made appointments for 10 attorneys.  ? Transcribed legal documents and phone conversations.  ? Conducted daily accounting on all finances, deposits and safe.  ? Organized envelopes, postage and mail correspondence for all clients.  ? Developed and maintained filing and retrieval systems.  ? Promoted good behavior by using the positive reinforcement method.  ? Promoted language development skills through reading and storytelling.  ? Communicated regularly with parents about daily activities and behaviors.  ? Maintained daily records of children's individual activities, behaviors, meals and naps.  ? Engaged with children individually to meet their emotional and physical needs.  ? Sparked imagination by helping children discover new things each day.  ? Managed general housekeeping duties including feeding, diapering, resting, cleanup, etc. Administrative Assistant- Database Entry Tectonic Engineering - Newburgh, NY November 2013 to April 2014 Answered and quickly redirected up to 10 calls per hour.  ? Ordered and distributed office supplies while adhering to a fixed office budget.  ? Managed office supplies, vendors, organization and upkeep.  ? Directed guests and routed deliveries and courier services.  ? Opened and properly distributed incoming mail  ? Completed data entry, tracked resumes and maintained the applicant tracking system.  ? Assessed urgency and priorities before accepting or declining appointments and meetings with the supervisors and property managers. Tutor/ Mentor City Year New York- AmeriCorps - Manhattan, NY August 2011 to June 2012 Implemented reading and writing workshops to increase student literacy and support school reading  programs.  ? Introduced special outreach programs to department chair in effort to increase institution's interest in community service.  ? Assisted in developing student-led after-school tutoring program to teach underprivileged students.  ? Developed program to work with students and increase interest in higher learning.  ? Fostered meaningful relationships among students through student field-trip retreats and team-work  community service projects.  ? Mentoring high school age youth (14-21)  ? Implementing tutoring programs and initiatives to encourage attendance. ?  Behavior management in and out of the classroom Camp Counselor Braeside Camp - Middletown, NY June 2011 to June 2011 Overnight stay with campers  ? Behavior management and help in facilitating art, sport and nature activities  ? Managing a group of 12-18 (7-10 years of age)Transitioning through various activities during the day ?  Keeping campers on a set schedule Camp Counselor Town of Highlands Recreation - Highland Falls - Highland Falls, NY June 2009 to August 2009 Allowed for ample outdoor recreation time.  ? Organized small groups of children while transitioning to and from outdoor play.  ? Maintained a child-friendly environment by allowing frequent access to outdoor activities. Residential advocate Safe Home of Orange County - Newburgh, NY October 2018 Intakes and Discharge  ?Hotline calls and monitoring  ?Client advocacy  ?One on one support  ?Risk reduction response  ?Supervision  ?Incoming and outbound phone calls  ?Client documentation  ?Excel spreadsheet updating  ? Database entry Education Associate of Science in Humsn Services Dutchess Community College - Poughkeepsie, NY September 2018 to Present Regents Diploma James I. O'neill High School - Highland Falls, NY 2006 to 2010 Skills Child Care, Direct Support, Direct Care Additional Information Patient Care Aid certification