Research Projects Specialist Research Projects Specialist Research Projects Specialist Chicago, IL Work Experience Research Projects Specialist Nextions, LLC - Chicago, IL March 2019 to June 2019 Diversity & Inclusion research on workplaces)  • To ensure client confidence, final proofreader of contracts and presentations for (80%) law firm clients.  • To aid clients in research process steps, created and shared project plans, fielded client questions.  • For final client reporting, gathered, summarized and prepared research findings for CEO delivery to client.  • Software: Google Suite - Calendar, Drive, Docs, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Insightly CRM, PandaDoc. Administrative Assistant in Agent Sales School Combined Insurance - Chicago, IL July 2015 to February 2018 • Supported two Directors and 12 Trainers to train approximately 70 new students per week.  • To ensure student satisfaction, arranged hotels for students, per diem allowances, name tags, certificates.  • To ensure student success, continual contact with seven different entities connected to student training.  • Executed the full registration process (data gathering and upload to I-Pad, registration materials production or ordering) including registering or orienting students to classrooms and facility.  • For essential speedy turnaround, executed materials updates, continually ordered and stocked training materials.  • Software: Excel, Word, Outlook e-mail and calendar. Contract Administrative Assistant in Government Affairs Department Abbott Laboratories - Lake Bluff, IL July 2014 to July 2015 • Supported three Directors who monitored regulations affecting patient reimbursement for products and services.  • Ensured travel budgets were adhered to, scheduled travel and meetings, performed timely reimbursements.  • Software: Excel, Word, Outlook e-mail and calendar, PowerPoint, WebEx, SharePoint, Concur. Assistant to CEO & HR Administrator, Office Manager AMI Group - Highland Park, IL July 2012 to March 2013 • Assisted in continual proper functioning of computer network, copiers and phones, swapped backup drive weekly.  • AP/AR - bookkeeping, assigned charges of eight credit cards to LLC's for accountant and proper reporting.  • For quality control and healthcare provider compliance, oversaw and corresponded with healthcare providers.  • Software: Excel, QuickBooks, Word. Organic Certification Specialist Organic Valley - La Farge, WI June 2010 to March 2012 • To maintain organic integrity of all products produced, liaised with 1,700 farmers, 20 organic certifiers, company logistics managers and field coordinators.  • Daily use of Excel, Word, Outlook, database, heavy e-mail and phone use.  • Alerted Managers, voluntarily researched and presented to COO fracking activity impacting farmers. Administrative Assistant KPMG - Chicago, IL November 2007 to June 2010 • Supported two partners and two managers to execute billing, presentations, travel/reimbursement, and meetings.  • Proofed engagement letters, performed for manager client billing reconciliations for compliance.  • Edited PowerPoint presentations, voluntarily assisted associates in smooth delivery of department trainings.  EXPERIENCE (Cont'd)  • Software: Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Outlook e-mail and calendar, WebEx. Temporary Alumni Special Events Assistant; Procurement Database University of Chicago June 2004 to December 2004 Procurement) June - Dec. 2004; 2005  Temporary Alumni Special Events Assistant; Procurement Database cleanup  • Assistance in creating alumni handbook, coordinating London school anniversary, annual reunion, new school dedications, speakers roundtables.  • Reorganization and cleanup for effective querying of minority-owned vendor database (MS Access). Education B.S. in Mass Communication Boston University