DevOps Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer/AWS DevOps Engineer/AWS - Credible Behavioral Health Woodbridge, VA A hardworking and dedicated Systems Administrator with over 5 years' experience in Linux, Windows, and Cloud Administration.    TECHNOLOGIES  •Computing Platforms - Windows Server2008,2012, 2012R2 2016, RHEL 6, 7; CentOS 6, 7; Kali; Metasploitable  •Office Tools - MS Visio, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access and Outlook  •Software - TWS, Symantec NetBackup, Avamar Backup, eVault, CA Wiley, VPN, MySQL, VMware, Ansible and Chef Automation Tools, Work Front, Oracle Data Integrator, Sql Developer, Nessus, Splunk, Wireshark, Nmap, Tortise SVN, Nagios, Zabbix., Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, GitLab, Github. Active Directory, Cloudbess Jenkins, Serena, Pega Rule, Informatica, Graylog, ELK, Kibana, TFS, Build Master, Otter,  •Cloud Technology - Verizon Terremark, AWS (VPC, IAM, EC2, S3 Bucket, CloudWatch, CloudFormation Template, System Manager, Direct Connect, Certificate Manager, Load Balancer, VPC, Security Groups, Site to Site Connection,SQS ) Microsoft Azure  •Hardware -Dell PowerEdge 2950, R720, R910; HP ProLiant DL380 G7, DL580 G8, Sun SPARC Enterprise T5120, M4000 Work Experience DevOps Engineer/AWS Credible Behavioral Health - Rockville, MD October 2018 to Present Work with QA and Development to troubleshoot application and server issues.  ? Creation and implementation of REST API for MongoDB DataSource for new applications  ? Built CI/CD pipelines for several applications with Jenkins and Build Master  ? Conduct and document knowledge sharing to team for adoption of DevOps practices and tools  ? Maintain and perform software updates using Build Master and PowerShell  ? Monitor and respond to alerts and hardware/software issues utilizing Splunk  ? Troubleshooting and investigating application performance with Graylog and Splunk  ? Updating web configs and Connection Strings for various applications for troubleshooting purposes  ? Maintain and troubleshoot issues within Yellowfin Business Intelligence (BI) platform  ? IAM Account management  ? Managed our AWS environment, and the various services we used.  ? Work with SQL to troubleshoot and resolve user reported issues.  ? Work with Yellowfin Support team to troubleshoot software issues  ? Recycling App Pools and Performing IIS resets.  ? Troubleshooting Data Source connectivity issues within Yellowfin  ? Configure and troubleshoot additional server capacity within the Webfarms handling the various applications of the software package  ? Collaborate within the hosting operations team to perform server maintenance and upgrades.  ? Managed updates of www.credibleinc.com  CMS- HIDS Project, DevOps Engineer (Remote)  Ventech Solutions, Manassas, VA  ? Worked collectively on an application deployment team.  ? Strong debugging. root cause analysis and trouble shooting skills of applications and Linux Systems.  ? Continuous Delivery and Continuous Integration of application with Cloudbees Jenkins, for automated deployments  ? Weekly on call Support,  ? Atlassian Suite Configuration and Management (Jira, Confluence and HipChat)  ? WebLogic: Application Deployment for both front end and back end application deployments.  ? Pega Rule Application Deployment  ? Serena Automated Deployments  ? Working closely with developers when issues arises with application/code deployment to resolve issues within a timely manner  ? Verify Dplans against checklist prior to Deployments, to ensure that the meet the requirement for the deployments.  ? Worked with a team of DevOps Engineers to transition from a legacy environment to a Cloud Environment (AWS), implementing AWS tools such as IAM Policy, System Manager, ELB and EC2 Instances. Cloud Systems Administrator/Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - Herndon, VA November 2015 to March 2018 CMS- TCPI, AWS DEVOPS ENGINEER / CODE RELEASE MANAGER (Remote)  ? Maintained a robust patch management cycle around our code release  ? Created users (IAM) and security policies in AWS  ? Updating and adding customer scripts for Chef and Ansible  ? Maintain infrastructure code via chef and ansible  ? Atlassian Suite Management (Jira and Confluence); user creation and documentation  ? Capistrano: Application Deployment (For frontend and backend deployment)  ? Postgres database backup and troubleshooting related database issues  ? Troubleshooting front end and back end Application related issues  ? Vulnerability assessment and Remediation of system vulnerabilities  ? Security controls assessment and compliance for auditing NIST and FedRamp Requirements.  ? Researching ways to improve our systems and infrastructure  ? Splunk for systems logs  ? Nagios for server monitoring  ? Gitlab: granting user access, scripting, and coding.  ? Installing Jenkins for Continuous Integration  ? Configuring CI/CD pipeline.  ? Scheduling Cron jobs for various scripts.  ? Strong debugging. root cause analysis and troubleshooting skills. Database Management SQL Server Agent Job Creation January 2017 to May 2017 Database Backups, Log Shipping, User Management  ? Application Deployment: Developers send updates to application to the System Administrator and we deploy them on our servers in our (Development, Integration and Production) Environments.  ? Daily Monitoring of ODI ETL System Backup  ? Re-run of ODI sql scripts after a failed backup run/  ? Nagios Monitoring: Actively monitoring 30+ servers in our production environment  ? Documentation management, VDD and SOPs  ? OHS Configuration within the WebZone  ? Monthly Patch Management Provide Project Manager and System Administrative Support FDA- OBI INFRASTRUCTURE TEAM January 2017 to May 2017 50% Support, January, 2017 - May, 2017  ? Documentation management of System Maps, VDD and TSDs  ? Administer NFS and NFS Client on Linux Servers  ? Port testing verification and scanning using Nmap and NC  ? Provide Project Manager and System Administrative Support to clients at the Food and Drug Administration  ? Manage Project deliverables by meeting with clients on a daily basis.  ? Manage the integration and installation of new and existing products and services  ? Ensure uninterrupted connectivity and smooth flow of information within the Workfront application  ? Assist development and integration teams with code configuration and application customizations.  ? Application Deployment via Puppet OAI (GUI Interface) VA- MIS O&M CLOUD SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR (Remote) Failover Virtual Machines in VA MIS Verizon Culpepper - Miami, FL November 2015 to December 2016 November, 2015- December, 2016  ? Active Directory Management: Group Policy Creation/Management; Account Creation; LDAP; Kerberos management; DNS, Radius Server management, NIS.  ? Symantec and VA Certificate installation.  ? Zabbix Monitoring: Actively monitoring the MIS environment of 400+ Servers.  ? Manages Patching of Windows and RHEL Server: Windows Tool WUSU Server and RHEL Satellite Server.  ? Disaster Recovery Management: Failover Virtual Machines in VA MIS Verizon Culpepper site to Disaster recovery site in Miami.  ? Two Factor Authentication Migration: SafeNet Integration for Windows and RHEL Servers.  ? Application Deployment: Developers send updates to application to the System Administrator and we deploy them on our servers in our (Development, Integration and Production) Environments.  ? Database Management (SQL 2012): SQL Server Agent Job Creation, Database Backups, Log Shipping, User Management.  ? McAfee EPO Server Management: Manage Security Policies pushed to server in EPO realm  ? Run Nessus Security Scans of environment to meet VA security guidelines  ? VM Creation using VSphere Client with in the Verizon Infinicenter Environment.  ? 24/7 on call Support  ? RHEL Remediation: Active Directory Integration using (Kerberos, SSSD, Samba, LDAP, Keytab)  ? Atlassian Suite Configuration and Management (Jira, Confluence, Stash)  ? WebLogic: Application Deployment (For front end and back end application deployment), User creation.  Systems Administrator Carpathia, a QTS Company - Sterling, VA September 2015 to November 2015 Sterling, VA September, 2015 - November, 2015  ? Tier 1 & 2 Systems Administration/Engineering of Windows, & Linux Server environments  ? Operational support in response to monitoring alerts and resolving incidents  ? Deliver customer-focused support through phone calls and ticket-based communications.  ? System maintenance, hardware & OS upgrades, software & application patching, and server hardening  ? Respond to telephone calls, email & client requests via EM7 ticketing for technical support of Servers  ? Work closely with others to troubleshoot complex customer issues and document solutions  ? Recommend systems modifications to improve network and hardware components as needed.  ? Manage assigned tickets to ensure SLA compliance & customer satisfaction  ? Manage & configure environments using VMWare, and Hyper-V Linux Systems Administrator, (Remote) 9-Solutions, Inc - Upper Marlboro, MD November 2012 to September 2015 Installation, configuration and maintenance of RedHat Linux servers  ? Performed server installation using Network, and DVD on physical servers and VMware  ? System Configuring/hardening by turning off unnecessary services  ? Disk configuration, created and managed File Systems  ? User management, creating and managing user account, groups and access levels  ? Monitoring System Performance of Virtual memory, Disk utilization and CPU utilization  ? Created, managed and troubleshoot LVM  ? Managed system processes and scheduling processes with the Cron utility  ? Checking alert logs, trace files and file System maintenance  ? Installed and maintained Linux and third-party software  ? Performed Servers updates, patching, upgrade and package installations using RPM, YUM and WGET  ? Performed software troubleshooting and resolved network issues  ? Familiarity with Internet Technologies including TCP/IP, HTTP, DNS and DHCP Education B.S in Criminal Justice RADFORD UNIVERSITY July 2012 A.A.S in General Studies/A.A.S Administration of Justice NORTHERN VIRGINIA COMMUNITY COLLEGE August 2011 Skills NETWORKING, TCP/IP, TCP, FIREWALL, VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT, AUDIT, Devops, Linux, Jenkins, AWS, Puppet Additional Information OTHER SKILLS- -Vulnerability Assessment, Penetration Testing, Audit and Assessment, Networking and Firewall, OSI Model, TCP/IP