Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - Thomson Reuters Forest Hills, NY Data Analyst with extensive experience of performing data extraction and complex data analysis. Strong analytical, quantitative and problem-solving skills. Established record of performing careful work with a comprehensive analytical approach; precise communication and instruction-following skills; hard work ethic; and polished and professional demeanor. Work Experience Data Analyst Thomson Reuters - New York, NY July 2014 to Present Project: Contract Data Utility (CDU-Dodd Frank) - Credit Suisse, NY    Description: The primary mission of the Contract Data Utility (CDU) Program is to enable CS to digitize agreement data which will improve trade pricing, collateral, capital and counterparty credit risk management through the establishment of an enterprise golden source for agreements, available for distribution to all consumers on demand. The immediate business imperative is to mitigate the impact of increased capital charges on increased Risk-Weighted Assets (RWA) as CS adheres to Dodd-Frank, Basel 3 regulations and CCAR on Jan 1, 2013. CDU Phase I entails the digitizing of the ISDA, CSA and PSA agreement documentation for an initial set of counterparties, prioritized by RWA held. Project involves data extraction, analysis, refining, migration, document review and loading of data into MDM through ETL process.    Responsibilities:  • Involves in on-boarding counterparty information to Credit Suisse master data management system (EBX5), managing client's Reference data for ISDA, CSA collateral (threshold, minimum transfer amount) for master agreements for OTC derivative transactions and ensures data integrity by providing data accuracy and consistency.  • Analyze, research and resolve data governance issues and escalate appropriately to business partners i.e. Legal and Compliance department, IT, Collateral and exception management through Defect Management tool.  • Process legal documents through Wordsensa OCR corrector tool, review and correct the OCR text and generate XML files for ETL to run.  • Extraction and digitization of counterparty's legal contract information through various legacy systems and map them back to target system. Provide subject matter expertise (SME) to identify data issues and improve data Quality, knowledge of OTC derivatives financial market.  • Involves in performing four-eye check as an approver, work with various global teams to perform query resolution and follow up on aged outstanding defects with legal and compliance department (LCD), IT, FO and CS management.  • Support and perform User Acceptance and Stress Testing for Reference Data conversion, cleansing and integrated solutions. Create cases for stress testing in collaboration with IT using internal bug tracking software as per client's requirements. Financial Data Analyst UnitedLex Corporation - New York, NY September 2012 to June 2014 Project: Contract Data Utility (CDU-Dodd Frank) - Credit Suisse, NY    • Analyze data in various applications, mapping the data between various source systems and ensuring the accurate importing of data to MDM.  • Involves in enhancing and improving internal control processes and create process manual to mitigate risk as part of back office operations.  • Reports daily and monthly metrics using v-looks, pivots on Excel. Provide support to daily reporting status and handles a team of 6 people as per client's request.  • Work with key stakeholders to provide process efficiency and quality to master reference data.  • Calculate Unit Processing Time Analysis used as a base to forecast a capacity model.  • Reconcile records in the new Golden Source (MDM-EBX5) with legacy systems, identify discrepancies, and solve/raise issues to related parties. Database Management Intern Enterprise Consulting Services - Iselin, NJ April 2012 to July 2012 Knowledge of Oracle 10g, 11g database and PL/SQL, SQL language.  • Gained knowledge of writing SQL queries.  • Knowledge of joins, sub queries, partitions, procedures, functions. Technology Intern SLR InfoTech Pvt. Ltd June 2011 to February 2012 Documented, gathered and analyzed business requirements.  • Tested the data integrity of the reports, stored procedures, tested UI.  • Developed systems using rapid software prototyping system with case tools and object oriented design methods. Data Entry Administrator Mix Nouveau Apparel & Logistics - New York, NY April 2010 to April 2011 Worked closely with logistics providers to assure on-time shipments. Maintained shipment data, issues reports, and responded to customer inquiries regarding status of shipments.  • Responsible for uploading weekly and monthly client's data into system and generating financial and inventory reports using Excel.  • Experience in tracking inventory and reviewing current and future orders/inventory. Track flow of goods globally and domestically. Processing EDI from various clients and modify and update data. Education Bachelor of Technology in Engineering R.I.E.T Institute of Technology Punjab June 2005 to July 2009 Additional Information Skills:    Strong knowledge of ISDA Master agreements and OTC derivatives.  Proficient with technology -Frame soft, DMMS, Insight, Wordsensa Vision, IBM Algo Collateral.  Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7, Share Point, Bug Tracking Tool (Zira, HP ALM QC)  Software: MS Office -Word, Excel (V-look ups, Pivot tables, macros), Access, PowerPoint, MS Outlook, MS Visio.  Database: MS SQL Server, Oracle PL/SQL.