Marina Manager, Database Administrator Marina Manager, <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Marina Manager, Database Administrator - Chapman Marine/Lake Travis Marina Austin, TX Work Experience Marina Manager, Database Administrator Chapman Marine/Lake Travis Marina - Austin, TX April 2019 to Present -Built a database for the company to track equipment and maintenance for 8 companies including  commercial diving, marine mechanics, marine construction, custom pond and aquariums, dock building, metal  fabrication and welding.  -Created relational database from model schema implementing various aspects of routine maintenance such as hydrostatic testing, deck slip compliance, and hardhat compliance. The multidimensional relational database  facilitated ordering replacement parts as well as maintaining current records of service and maintenance to more  easily comply with state and national laws and regulations for safety.  -Used Excel and Access to create a template for 310 slip owners re: status of rent, key number and dock location, hydro hoist status for improved customer service.  -Designed and created reports and interactive user interfaces for all levels of management.  -Managed the company's ship store using Shop Keep to track inventory and order supplies.  -Responsible for store's daily operations, high-volume customer service, profit and loss management as well as setting, monitoring, and driving sales goals.  -Managed a team of 5 employees.    B2 Real Estate Management, Brooklyn, New York Project Manager May 2016 to April 2019 -Managed all aspects of the team, including identifying/winning work, budgeting, delivery, performance standards  and risk management in various commercial and residential real estate transactions as well as construction related  analytics for the most effective cost saving approach, using algorithms and finance principles to effectively  achieve the largest profit.  -Applied detailed knowledge of MS Office and various statistical and data-mining software to analyze and report  on a variety of inventory related matters including building materials and labor resources and equipment.  -Analyzed product ordering patterns; inventory record accuracy assessments; receiving accuracy; variety of inventory control and kept an organized flow chart to operate at maximum efficiency.  -Identified and resolve possible OSHA violations in the work sites as well as comply with all DOB sanctions and procedures.  -Monitored long term suppliers' performances in terms of quality, delivery, cost, and functionality. Sales OMG Liquor Corp - Queens, NY May 2015 to May 2016 -Gathered sales leads and executed 85-100 outbound calls to bar and nightclub owners for potential sales.  Interacted with businesses through distributors.  -Developed and maintained customer relations as a representative of the company.  -Provided clear, timely and effective management information to my clients.  -Worked within my clients' team to manage the budget and achieve targets and incentives Caddie Garden City Country Club - Garden City, NY March 2011 to September 2015 Hong Kong Polytechnic University  -Visited various industries in Macau as well as Shenzhen China and Hong Kong.  -Learned about Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation and their influence on the global market and how their  banking and tax system works.  -Met with company executives at companies including WKK technologies, The Hong Kong Productivity Council, City of Dreams Macau under Melco Crown entertainment co. and learned about their operations in Asian Markets  and their relationships with United States banking and industry.    Academic Merit Awards: Long Island Caddie Scholarship award  Key Skills: Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, SQL, NET, HTML, Management, Leadership  Job Description    Growth! That is what matters most to our clients and to our employees! Our U.S. inside sales group (Commercial Acquisition Group) has Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Financial Analysis University at Buffalo, The State University of New York Economics, Banking and industry The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Skills Inside sales, Sales group, Excel, Microsoft excel, Microsoft access