Code Reviewer & Slack Community Moderator Code Reviewer &amp; Slack Community Moderator Front-end Developer | UX Designer - Remote Office Tucson, AZ I'm a Tucson, Arizona-based frontend web developer, and I just expanded my design skills in the Treehouse UX Techdegree program.     I'm knowledgeable in all aspects of maintaining an online presence from design to code to SEO and content creation, and I've been highly regarded for:    • my willingness to learn new skills,  • use creative approaches to solve problems, and  • patience/persistence when faced with challenges    I'm currently a code reviewer and Slack community moderator for the front-end Techdegree program at Treehouse, and I'm open to telecommuting opportunities in web development and UX design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Code Reviewer & Slack Community Moderator Team Treehouse - Remote Office - Tucson, AZ July 2018 to Present • Answer student questions in Slack  • Review student projects and debug code  • Post engaging questions and helpful web development content and resources  • Encourage and motivate student developers  • Serving in a part-time role as an independent contractor HTML & SEO Editor FlexJobs - Remote April 2015 to May 2018 • Served in a part-time role editing job description HTML, categorizing listings in database, and writing SEO descriptions to ensure positive job search experiences for subscribers.  • Consistently exceeded productivity standards through process and workflow automation using macros and text-expansion tools.  • Provided input on service improvement initiatives using knowledge of database management and SEO techniques. Database Specialist TRIMEDX - Indianapolis, IN January 2014 to June 2015 • Promoted from previous position at Trimedx to assist with database management processes and data quality initiatives.  • Validated and maintained database information to meet company needs, customer requests, and regulatory requirements.  • Onboarded, set up, and published new customer accounts in database and assisted with various database quality and performance audits.  • Accepted work-from-home role at another company when spouse was promoted to a position with significant travel required and my 2-hour commute to Indianapolis each day was no longer feasible. Regulatory Affairs Specialist TRIMEDX - Indianapolis, IN February 2013 to January 2014 • Recruited to assist with the implementation of medical device management plans and coordinate alert and recall processes.  • Built processes and structure around the company’s regulatory department. Efforts streamlined alert and recall processes and enhanced database accuracy.  • Applied knowledge of HTML and Microsoft SharePoint to improve department intranet page and set up document repositories, resulting in higher levels of document control and information dissemination Database Administrator Indiana University Health - Fishers, IN September 2011 to February 2013 • Recruited to set up database system at a new hospital and serve as a point of contact for all support requests, questions, and training needs.  • Oversaw database integrity and worked to ensure proper system use to meet department, end-user, and customer needs.  • Managed database processes and worked to maximize performance and reporting capabilities.  • Position eliminated unexpectedly following hospital’s decision to outsource department in an organizational realignment initiative. Education Master in Business Administration in Business Administration Western Governors University - Indianapolis, IN October 2010 to May 2012 Associate in Graphic Design Vincennes University - Vincennes, IN August 2001 to May 2003 Skills PROTOTYPING, WORDPRESS, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WEBPACK, SASS, CSS, WIREFRAMING, SEO, DATABASE MANAGEMENT, Web Design, Web Development, User Experience Design, Front-End, UI, Front End Links http://linkedin.com/in/nicolepdev https://www.medium.com/@nicolepdev https://ux.nicolep.me https://www.github.com/nicolepdev Certifications/Licenses Front-end Web Development Techdegree October 2018 to Present Completed 29 courses, 197 coding challenges, 145 quizzes, and 9 projects to learn HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and web development tools.  UX Design Techdegree June 2019 to Present Critiqued designs, completed user research, and learned how to design, wireframe, and prototype web and mobile applications.