Sr Oracle Database Administrator Sr Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Oracle Database Administrator - SWIFT Inc Delaware, OH • Over 7 years in Oracle Database Administration in very large Production, test and development environments in a diversified domains, on various versions of UNIX/LINUX and Windows operating systems.  • Oracle Golden Gate Replication Expert with knowledge in implementation of Golden Gate on both Standalone and RAC Servers.  • Good experience in installation, configuration and administration of Oracle 12C, RAC, Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Expert in using tools like Veridata for Data comparison which are involved in Golden Gate Replication.  • Oracle DBA proficiency in installation, upgrading, patching, administration of multiple Oracle Enterprise Edition 9i, 10g, 11g, 12C databases on RHEL, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, IBM-AIX and Windows.  • I've involved in migration of Database and up gradation from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Knowledgeable about how to Configure, Migrate and Maintain, manage I/O Resource, Optimizing Database Performance of Exadata Storage Server.  • Knowledge on handling Mongo DB.  • Monitoring Smart Flash Cache Activity on Oracle Exadata.  • Configured various Oracle Exadata Database Machine.  • Experience building and administering databases on Oracle Exadata Database Machines.  • Experience in Physical DB2 Database Analysis, design and implementation including DB2 database administration.  • Exceptional Knowledge of various states of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) i.e. System Analysis, Applications Design, Development, Integration & System Testing Support of Oracle 8i,9i, 10g, 11g in Production, Staging, and Development environments.  • Developed backup and recovery policy and used new features/technologies to optimize system maintenance and extensive knowledge on Partitions and Oracle Streams.  • Proficient in implementation, maintenance of Database Security (Users, Roles, Privileges), space management of logical structures (i.e. table spaces, rollback segments) and auditing of users.  • Proficient in using Oracle utilities like export/import Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, SQL Loader, Data Guard, ASM and OEM.  • Expert in effective troubleshooting of production, development database environments on daily basis with Proactive performance monitoring for better performance in applications database using AWR and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Running ORACHK tools for analyzing the Database.  • Performed backup and recoveries on OLTP database like IBM Informix 7.1, Oracle database.  • Experienced in performance tuning of various aspects of the database by using oracle utilities like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATS PACK, SQL_TRACE, TOAD and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM).  • Experience in implementation of TDE(Transparent Data Encryption).  • Worked on Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Creating AWS Instances and Resources Bills.  • Setup/Managing Linux Servers on Amazon (EC2, EBS).  • Expert in Optimization of SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Database Triggers and Shell scripting and worked with the users to meet business requirements  • Data modeling knowledge designing logical, physical and conceptual database schemas.  • Strong ability to script the database models into SQL to create the database objects including tables, views, triggers, indexes, foreign keys and sequence counters.  • Performed and monitored Hot and cold database backups and implemented backup and recovery using RMAN and Knowledge of storage technologies SAN, NAS.  • Good knowledge about Virtualization i.e Oracle VM, VMWARE.  • Ability to restore and recover databases from file system backup in order to bring to the original state as per the business and user requirement.  • Installing and monitoring database security tools like TIVOLI, BMC PATROL. Escalating the issues as per the severity of database and resolving it immediately without any delay.  • Applying latest versions or releases of database patches to minimize the bug issues which caused by the previous versions of patches. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Oracle Database Administrator SWIFT Inc - Culpeper, VA June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • 24x7 Oracle Production Database Administrations.  • Installed, configured and maintained Golden Gate on Oracle Databases.  • Involved in Migration of the oracle databases from SharePlex to Golden Gate.  • Migrated Oracle databases from Sun Solaris to Linux.  • Building Databases, Standby databases on Oracle 12C, Oracle 11g for both Standalone and RAC Servers.  • Working Knowledge with SOX/GLBA/PCI.  • Created new users, Roles, Profiles and assigning the required privileges to the users.  • Experience using Export/Import and Data pump for migration of databases.  • Table Partitioning, Creating Locally managed Table spaces.  • Knowledge about how to Configure, Migrate and Maintain, manage I/O Resource, Optimizing Database Performance of Exadata Storage Server.  • Experience building and administering databases on Oracle Exadata Database Machines.  • Applying Oracle recommended patches.  • Created Standby Databases using Data Guard for Disaster Recovery.  • Install and configure Oracle Veridata for comparison of Databases involved in Golden Gate Replication.  • An online performance monitor examines information as transactions are processed, and immediately points to trouble spots using OEM Grid Control.  • Proficient in using Oracle utilities i.e. export/import, Data Pump, Data Guard, ASM and OEM.  • Actively involved in Switchover/ failover processes.  • Running ORACHK tools for analyzing the Database.  • Configured and implemented Oracle 11g Active Dataguard for Database Disaster Recovery by using Data Guard broker (DGMDRL).  • Performs Golden Gate replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  • Expert in using tools like Veridata for Data comparison which are involved in Golden Gate Replication.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle Databases and Applications.  • Using EXPDP/IMPDP for export and import.  • Involved in Upgrading of the oracle databases from 10g to 11g.  • Used Diagnostic & tuning packs along with AWR & ADDM reports.  • Implementation of TDE(Transparent Data Encryption).  • Performed Data guard switch over to check the standby database is in SYNC with production as per the business requirement and also operated standby database using Data Guard broker.  • Performed RMAN Backups.  • Installed JAGENT, XAG which supports Monitoring of Processes in OEM and Failover process.  • Automated Archives deletion or Backups using Autosys Jobs.  • Creating new users, assigning the required roles/ privileges.  • Creating new schemas, tables, profiles, required services for application.  • Creating and maintaining Views on Database objects.  • Application of patches and security patches downloaded from Oracle Metalink in lower environments before going to Production.  • Working alongside programmers and contributing to the development process.  • Responsible for continuous database monitoring and reorganization for ensuring performance.  • Proactive monitoring of Oracle Database & Applications, which include Space management, Standard services availability check, quickly identify and resolve database and application level errors.    Environment: Oracle 12C, 11g, OEM (Grid Control), Oracle Data guard, Sun Solaris, ASM, RAC, RMAN, Data pump, Import Export, HP-UX, and Red Hat. Sr Oracle Database Administrator Caliber home loans - Irving, TX November 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Oracle Database software installation, Instance creations, schema creations.  • Upgradation of databases from 10g to 11g.  • Configuring and Maintaining of Physical Standby databases.  • Supported different Databases like Production, Testing, Staging and Training.  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation  • Supported different Databases like Production, Development, Testing, and Data warehouse.  • Troubleshoot databases, provide reports on the database health check, follow up and recommendations.  • Operational Responsibilities - Database refreshes/ backs, security, documenting standards and procedures, data migration, data clean-up, copy data archiving, etc.  • Online and Offline Database backup and Recovery using RMAN.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) and OS methods.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNS Names, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Extensively used SQL* LOADER as a tool for loading data.  • Installed and Configured of Oracle OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) Grid Control and OEM Database Control to monitor database.  • Extensively compressed large tables in Data Warehouse Environment to reduce space usage.  • Created and Managed users, user profiles, tablespaces, data files, archive log.  • Created database links that are required for databases.  • Worked as a member of production DBA team in perfect coordination with seniors and team members.  • Tuning SGA, Rollback segments, Latch contention issues, Optimize sort operations.  • Perform extensive testing on new versions of database products and tools to identify and resolve migration issues before these products are installed in the production environment.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, OEM (Grid Control), Oracle Data guard, Sun Solaris, ASM, RAC, RMAN, Data pump, SQL*Loader, TOAD, HTTP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat. Sr Oracle Database Administrator Infocrossing - Jefferson City, MO September 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Database Administration support (24x7) for large mission critical production databases  • Database Security Management involving managing Users, Roles and Privileges Expert in troubleshooting problems. Providing necessary privileges or roles to users as per the requirement.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Performed Data guard switch over to check the standby database is in SYNC with production as per the business requirement and also operated standby database using Data Guard broker.  • Configured Oracle wallet manager on windows file management system or in the user profile area of the Microsoft Windows system registry storing for better access control and easier management.  • Troubleshooting the database performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager, generating the monthly reports on the database to see how much load has been applied on database constantly.  • Participated in doing schema refresh like taking export of one schema and importing it into another schema using different ways of utility tools like REMAP_SCHEMA, REMAP_TABLESPACE.  • Space management of logical structures (i.e. table spaces, rollback segments) and auditing of users.  • Creating AWS Instances and Resources Bills.  • Creating/Managing AMI/Snapshots/Volumes, Upgrade/downgrade AWS resources.  • Setup/Managing Databases on Amazon RDS. Monitoring servers thorough Amazon CloudWatch.  • Created and maintained DDL for all DB2 databases.  • Provided production support for all DB2 mission critical databases and applications on 24X7 basis.  • Develop and/or optimize automated database administration processes and procedures to reduce overall man-hours needed to support existing DB2 infrastructure.  • Optimization of SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Database Triggers and Shell scripting and worked with the users to meet business requirements.  • Implemented both unidirectional replication as well as bi-directional replicate using Golden Gate.  • Working with High transaction databases (OLAP) using Golden Gate to replicate the data to source.  • Installing and configuration of Golden Gate Validate on production, development and testing.  • Analyzing SOX application for validating business inventory for critical ones and risk assessment.  • Responsible for automation of startup, shutdown of database without the involvement of DBA to start the database manually. Effective knowledge of working with System Administrator's.  • Administration, Optimization, Monitoring, Tuning of Oracle Databases.  • Knowledge of storage technologies like SAN, NAS whenever we have a disk outage or mount point issues due to database growth. Raising a request to SAN or NAS to request for additional storage.  • Table Space management, Database Refreshes, and User Administration. Adding additional data file to table space whenever there is required and also involved in shrinking of table space size.  • Involved in scheduling file system backup using Net backup or FDR/Upstream.  • Proficient in using Oracle utilities i.e. export/import, Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, SQL Loader, Data Guard, ASM and OEM Grid Control.  • Used Data Modeling tools for data message in order to show the output results in different formats using Erwin, Informatics and some other ETL tools.  • Effective implementation of Rational Rose to design schemas and data modeling for business require.  • Ability to restore and recover databases from file system backup in order to bring it to the original state as per the business or user requirement. I have done Point in time Recovery using RMAN.  • Experienced in working with Oracle support to resolve the issues quickly as per the business require.    Environments: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC/9i, DB2, IBM AIX, HP-UX , Red Hat Linux, Sun Solaris, Windows XP, SQL*Plus, MySQL, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Import/Export, Data Pump, TOAD, Oracle Data Guard. Sr Oracle DBA BlueCross BlueShield, Jackson Ville, FL December 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 9i & 10gRAC database and Performed DBA tasks  • Supporting large mission critical databases in a 24x7 environment.  • Migration of database from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  • Working with database Monitoring and Tuning. Lead efforts to develop and improve procedures for automating monitoring.  • Integrated the Backup status reporting for the entire database in the enterprise to enable the web reporting using Oracle SQL, PL/SQL and kern shells, Unix shell Scripting.  • Cloning of databases from production to development and test databases  • Used RMAN for Backup & Recovery.  • Performance Tuning of application by identifying the SQL, which are not written well, providing inputs to the application programmer, correcting and implementing the right components  • Reviewing performance stats and recommended changes for tuning SQL queries, database, server, and storage configurations.  • Responsible for Upgrading the Database from 9i to 10g, 9i, 10g to 11g.  • Responsible for the design, creation and maintenance of all DB2 Objects and database support.  • Responsible for SQL query tuning, optimization. Performance tuning using tools such as SQLTRACE, TKPROOF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR and ADDM.  • Automatic Health Monitoring, security, SQL Performance Analyzer.  • Responsible for using Flashback query mechanism along with automatic undo management.  • Refresh/Cloning of Database from production environment to test environment and application of patches and security patches downloaded from Oracle Meta link.  • Working and good experience in diamond relational tables of SQL server 2005 management studio.  • Participating in periodic backup audits, including test restores ensuring all databases and associated logs are being backed-up  • Actively involved in Backup Management of Disaster Crash recovery supporting 24-7 assurance.  • Performing day-to -day DBA activities like Patching, Performance Tuning, Space Management, Backup and Recovery, Users and Security Management, Query Optimization, testing, implementation and Shell scripting.  • Coordinate interaction with vendors in critical database problem situations.  • Submitting Tickets using remedy communicating with other groups like UNIX, Configuration Team.  • Oracle utilities i.e. export/import Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, SQL Loader, Data Guard, ASM and OEM.  • Actively involved in Backup Management of Disaster Crash recovery supporting 24-7 assurance.    Environment: Oracle 10g RAC/9i, Sun Solaris, AIX, PL/SQL, Oracle Streams, DATAGUARD, Import Export, TOAD, OLTP, LDAP, RMAN, Remedy, Shell Script. Oracle Developer / DBA Mahindra Satyam - IN May 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Supporting large mission critical databases in a 24x7 environment.  • Migration of database from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  • Working with database Monitoring and Tuning. Lead efforts to develop and improve procedures for automating monitoring.  • Integrated the Backup status reporting for the entire database in the enterprise to enable the web reporting using Oracle SQL, PL/SQL and kern shells, Unix shell Scripting.  • Responsible for writing database programming to Store/Retrieve the information from the database using SQL.  • Wrote Stored Procedures according to specs and control files for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database Adfa  • Creating databases, objects, roles and privileges Af  • Partitioned large tables to increase the performance Adf  • Configured scripts to monitor activity with database Daf and Implement Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans  • Used Oracle UTL file features to create flat files and Procedures for Data Extraction Fa  • Worked on Oracle Configuration, oracle Tuning and Oracle Patch Administration Af  • Knowledge experience with Ethernet and mobility systems Adf  • Creation of Table space, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them Fas  • Performed Database Tuning. Performed Database Security and Integrity  • Wrote extensive Sub Queries, PL/SQL procedures, functions, database triggers and packages  • Created partitioning of its types like Range, List & Hash by the specific use    Environment: Oracle 9i,8i , RMAN, SQL*Loader, Sun Solaris, RHEL, Oracle Linux Skills Database (7 years), Databases. (7 years), Oracle (7 years), RMAN (7 years), Solaris (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Databases: Oracle 12C, 11g R2 RAC, 10gR2 RAC, 9i    Operating Systems: HP-UX, Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux and Windows, IBM DB2, Informix on IBM.  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL,Java, C, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Tools: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data Pump, Erwin, TOAD, DB Artisan 4.0.  Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, OEM Grid Control  ETL Tools: Informatics 5.1, Data pump, Share Plex.  Data Modeling: Erwin, DB Artisan, Rational Rose, SOX  Other: EMC, Net App, VERITAS, Golden Gate, Oracle Wallet Manager.