Lead Snr. DBA Lead Snr. DBA Lead Snr. DBA - Great Wolf Lodge Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Snr. DBA Great Wolf Lodge - Chicago, IL February 2018 to Present • Upgraded oracle 10g 4 Rac node database to 11g 4 node Rac database running on window server.  • Configured and installed Dataguard and Data Bronker for disaster recovery and monitor.  • Support on-premises and Cloud (OCI and AWS) databases, modified AWS instance and scaled the storage to increase space, while enhancing productivity  • Migrated Amazon AWS using S3 bucket and importing into MSSQL database  • Monitor incident queues and respond to issues raised by system alerts, end users, or technical teams  • Refreshed and Replicated sql server prod database to staging sql server on a weekly basis.  • Participate in project tasks which might require database support, ranging from architecture and design discussion / project planning to solution development or implementation.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Vendor management as required, serving as the single voice of Great Wolf and holding vendors accountable for delivery of requested services as they pertain to GW databases  • Ensure availability commensurate with the criticality of the application through a variety of techniques, including clustering and replication  • Champion CA and the notion of zero-downtime operations, inclusive of patching and upgrades  • On-call response for critical incidents related to managed applications  • Other tasks as assigned by management    Environment: Oracle 11g/RAC, VMS, Windows Server 2008/2012, MSSQL server, Amazon AWS, TOAD, RMAN, OEM. SSMS Oracle Database Administrator Sapient Corporation - Cary, NC June 2014 to November 2017 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Strong experience in Data warehouse concepts, ETL.  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Conducted discovery analysis and data mapping analysis, formulated and executed scripts for data conversion..  • Familiar with data architecture including data ingestion pipeline design, data modeling and data mining, machine learning and advanced data processing. Experience optimizing ETL workflows.  • Analysis of functional and non-functional categorized data elements for data profiling and mapping from source to target data environment.  • Developed working documents to support findings and assign specific taskstechnologies such as Big Data, SQL, Shell scripting etc.  • Performed conversion of SingleNodeInstance to MultiNodeRAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with EMC Storage for managing data in SAN.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of11g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintaineddata guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Implementing Datapump, conventionalexport/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance..  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, , OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Pacific System Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to June 2014 • Setup and Managing Databases on Amazon RDS. Monitoring servers thorough Amazon CloudWatch, SNS  • Implemented Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) for database security.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's degree in Business Economics St. Cloud State University - Saint Cloud, MN Associate Degree in Business Management North Hennepin Community College - Brooklyn Park, MN Skills auditing (Less than 1 year), AWS (1 year), business continuity. (Less than 1 year), data modeling (3 years), data profiling (3 years), database (6 years), Database Administrator (5 years), databases (6 years), Linux (3 years), Loader (2 years), maintenance (6 years), OEM. (6 years), oracle (6 years), oracle 10g (1 year), replication (3 years), RMAN (6 years), security. (2 years), Solaris (3 years), sql (6 years), Sun (3 years), Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Server Additional Information Technical Skills    Databases: Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, Amazon AWS, MSSQL.  Oracle Database Tools: SQL*Loader, OEM, Toad, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL, Grid Control, Microsoft Studio Manager.    Operating Systems: Solaris 10/9/8, Sun Sparc, RHEL 5.X/4.X, OEL, Windows 2008r2/2012 EE servers    SKILLS    I have over seven years'of in depth experience in applications and Database Administration with duties including Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Oracle Grid Control, MSSQL, Amazon AWS.    • Extensive knowledge in UNIX platforms includes HP, SOLARIS, Window 2008/2012 RDP, and LINUX.  • Provides data analysis and recommendations for the correction, enhancement and/or development of ad-hoc and canned end-user reports  • Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and non Oracle databases  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Experience in doing upgrades including maintenance & monitoring implementation.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing and Data Migrations.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database..  • Experience as 24x7 productions DBA as well the application (development) database administrator.