Development Database Coordinator Development <span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator Development Database Coordinator - Norwood School Rockville, MD Successful and motivated nonprofit professional experienced in database management and many other operational positions. Experienced in donor management and reporting software.  Blackbaud Certified Raiser's Edge Professional. Work Experience Development Database Coordinator Norwood School - Bethesda, MD August 2018 to Present Train and educate all data users to ensure efficient data entry procedures and compliance with best practices. Gift entry and reconciliation. Prepare and mail donor acknowledgement letters, tax receipt letters, and pledge reminders. Reconcile gift entry with Finance cash receipts. Support department special events. Generate data and manage editing process for Annual Report. Information Systems Coordinator The Madeira School - McLean, VA August 2017 to August 2018 Set data policies; established and documented procedures according to best practices.  Provided internal training to staff on all technologies and coordinated external training.  Negotiated and implemented transition to Raiser's Edge NXT. Implemented and supported Moves Management systems for fundraisers. Reconciled gift entry with  Finance cash receipts. Supervised and educated all data users to ensure efficient data entry procedures and compliance with best practices. Collaborated with Business Office to reconcile monthly gifts and pledges. Generated data, and managed editing process for Annual Report. Gift and Acknowledgements Coordinator The Madeira School - McLean, VA September 2016 to July 2017 Processed donations to organization in Raiser's Edge database. Balanced data entry and generate financial reports for reconciliation with business office. Booked pledges and scheduled installments. Generated and edited acknowledgement letters. Development Operations Manager, The Washington Humane Society/Washington Animal Rescue League - Washington, DC March 2016 to September 2016 Supervised and educated all data users to ensure efficient data entry procedures and compliance with best practices. Directly supervised Database Assistants. Processed donations to organization and balanced daily entry. Generated tax receipts for donors, letters, mail merges, and pledge reminders. Supported Moves Management systems for fundraisers. Reconciled gift entry with Finance cash receipts. Ordering and supplies maintenance for department. Gifts Administrator The Madeira School - McLean, VA October 2015 to March 2016 Part-time, temporary. Processed donations to organization in Raiser's Edge database.  Balanced data entry and generate financial reports for reconciliation with business office.  Booked pledges and scheduled installments. Generated and edited acknowledgement letters. Donor Database Administrator Melanoma Research Foundation - Washington, DC May 2014 to May 2015 Set data policies; established and documented procedures according to best practices.  Supervised and educated all data users to ensure efficient data entry procedures and compliance with best practices. Directly supervised Database Assistants. Processed donations to organization and balance daily entry. Generated tax receipts for donors, letters, mail merges, and pledge reminders. Supported Moves Management systems for fundraisers. Reconciled gift entry with Finance cash receipts. Donor Database Administrator The Center for Community Change - Washington, DC January 2013 to April 2014 Set data policies; established and documented procedures according to best practices.  Supervise all data users to ensure compliance with best practices. Implemented and supported Moves Management systems for fundraisers. Implemented reconciliation process for gift entry and Finance cash receipts. Process donations to organization and balance daily entry. Execute grant agreements and schedule grant payments in Raiser's  Edge. Generate tax receipts for donors, letters, mail merges, and pledge reminders. Database Manager Imagination Stage - Bethesda, MD July 2010 to January 2013 Blackbaud database management, including data integrity, imports/exports, backups, patches, software upgrades. Support development, membership, marketing, finance and external communications through custom queries, list pulls, and reporting (Crystal  Reports). MS-SQL server maintenance. Set IT priorities, create organizational usage guidelines, research best practices for data use. Collaborate on equipment assignments, repairs, and purchases. Liaison to IT contractors. Supervise all data users (registration, box office, volunteer, development) to ensure compliance with best practices. Education A.A. in Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts Montgomery College - Rockville, MD 2001 Skills Raiser's Edge (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Raiser's Edge - Pro Present