DBA DBA DBA - WorkForce Logiq Lakeland, FL Skilled Database Administrator/Specialist with strong knowledge and experience with SQL Server 2000 - 2016, Oracle Enterprise 10g-11g, DTS packages, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Profiler/Maintenance Plans, and T-SQL scripts in a variety of industries such as health care and Information Technology. Design, administer, monitor, and manage all aspects of the SQL Server databases ensuring all are backed up. Provide troubleshooting to end users and clientele regarding performance, log shipping, connectivity, and clustering. Present status reports to upper management regarding all projects on-hand while escalating any technical issues on hand effectively in English and Spanish. Work Experience DBA WorkForce Logiq - Orlando, FL August 2017 to Present • Database backups and archiving.  • Maintenance job monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Implemented Extended Events to replace custom scripts for monitoring & troubleshooting issues  • Alert notification routing and handling.  • Script monitoring and troubleshooting.  • Daily health checks on production backups and sanitization processes.  • Job failover monitoring for HA reliability.  • Regular security audits.  • Monitoring setting Availability Groups.  • implementing High Availability using Always ON, Clustering, Replication, Mirroring and Log Shipping  • Setting up and maintaining Master SQL Servers.  • Regular server performance setting audits.  • Troubleshooting of log file space issues, tempDb contention.  • Configuring database instances for Development and Testing purposes.  • Creation and configuration of SQL servers and databases on Microsoft Azure.  • Migrating on-premises SQL Server Database to Microsoft Azure.  • Responsible for schema & Data Migration using replication, Microsoft DMA from Dev, Test, Stagin, UAT, QA and Prod environments.  • Database support queue maintenance and support request responses.  • Configured SSIS in 2012 version using environmental variables.  • Participate in release deployments (these occur outside of business hours) to ensure proper backups prior to deployment. DBA Elutions, Inc - Tampa, FL May 2016 to August 2017 • Securing customers data within the SQL environment.  • Administration and maintenance of Microsoft SQL databases (08-14)  • Profiling and Analyzing SQL databases for performance.  • Input on performance opportunities (both hardware and design optimization).  • Installation of custom .Net application, running as a service and a part of IIS.  • Following a schedule for both pre-production and production deployments.  • Securing customers data within the SQL environment.  • Ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  • Help to analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end.  • Refine and automate regular processes, track issues, and document changes.  • Assist developers with complex query tuning and schema refinement.  • Perform scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities DBA Alpine Technologies, Corp - Guaynabo, PR November 2015 to April 2016 • Participate in development activities.  • Responsible to develop and maintain the databases of the organization.  • Build up the database architecture and models.  • Design the schemes, permissions and tables for database as appropriate for its use.  • Install, configure and upgrade the server to suit the database needs.  • Design automated systems to mine information and make reports.  • Provide inputs for developing newer versions of databases customized to peculiar needs.  • Include objects in database like tables, views, functions, triggers, etc.  • Control the access for database by giving security password and permissions.  • Researched markets for advancements and advocated the use of new database technologies.  • Provided constant online or on-call assistance to end users for handling their queries.  • Maintained a backup or recovery options to retrieve the lost data.  • Performed data cleansing and data migration functions. MIS Analyst Banco Santander, Inc - San Juan, PR February 2015 to October 2015 • Write advanced SQL scripts to create reports using MS Access, Microsoft Excel and Crystal Reports.  • Support in delivering relevant Management Information (MI) reports and Business Dashboards across strategic projects for business and operations to enable decision making.  • Convert data extracts from TOAD SQL and disparate data sources into relevant information with relevant reporting tools (Excel, Power Point, Word, and Oracle OBIEE) that enable reporting as required.  • Compile management information (MI) and any other ad-hoc queries while adhering to agreed deadlines.  • Participate in development activities.  • Perform data validation on enterprise reports.  • Designing and placing data in layers varying to physical, business and presentation.  • Automation of structured or unstructured reports with via SAS, Oracle, MS Access.  • Maintain all existing reports on the system by ensuring relevance for decision.  • Involved in Gathering the Requirements for creating data models for data analysis and reporting.  • Gathered business requirements and converted it into SQL Stored procedures for data specific projects. Database Administrator ITS Systems Integrators Company, Inc - San Juan, PR February 2012 to February 2015 • Design, install, administer, configure, monitor, manage and maintain all aspects of the SQL Server 2000 and 2008 database servers while providing daily reports and progress of completed assignments.  • Work with SQL Profiler, SQL Maintenance Plans, stored procedures and other tools to manage and tune SQL Server databases while offering support and maintenance for internal and external SQL databases.  • Write advanced T-SQL scripts to manage/maintain databases and create reports using Crystal Reports.  • Ensure SQL database servers are backed up and execute tests when needed.  • Troubleshoot and resolve database integrity, performance, blocking, and deadlocking, replication, log shipping, clustering, connectivity, and security issues while managing database backups and restores.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement security measures to ensure appropriate use of data and prevent damage, unauthorized modification, or disclosure.  • Automate maintenance jobs, install services patching.  • Identify problems, find root cause and perform tuning to ensure application performance.  • Automate activities to help ensure the high availability of the Server  • Provide technical support to users (customers) regarding development, installation and maintenance of projects while supporting and monitoring all communication systems within ITS.  • Design, develop, implement and maintain computer systems, programming and networks.  • Assist in the design, development, implementation and maintenance of networking systems, VMWare Virtual Servers.  • MSSQL Server Database Performance Tuning and Monitoring.  • Database Management and Replication Services.  • Support Web applications.  • Design and troubleshoot DTS packages for the business needs  • Used Microsoft Excel to create tables, reports and charts to represent the monthly progress of the QA department while reviewing workflow charts developed by programmer analyst to understand tasks computer will perform, such as updating records.  • Create and run AS/400 applications and jobs with a Roscoe terminal in the Mainframe.  • Analyzed the updating process using CICS/ISPDF, TSO, Control -M and Roscoe.  • Validated and test AS400 and Software applications using Serena Team Track and Version Manager while creating reports as well. Education M.S. in Open Information Systems Universidad Interamericana - San Juan, PR 2014 B.S. in Computer Information Systems Universidad del Turabo - Gurabo, PR, US 2008 Skills databases (6 years), Excel (3 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programing Languages: T-SQL, PL/SQL, VB.Net, C#, C++, HTML, CSS, PHP, ASP.NET  Databases: SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008R2,2012, 2014, 2016  Operating Systems: CICS/ISPF/Mainframe, VMWare VSphere ESXi 5.5, Windows 2012, 2008 R2, Windows 2003  Tools: Red gate SQL Compare, Ignite8, Powershell, SQL Sentry Plan Explorer, Dynatrace, DMVs, DBCC Commands  ETL Tools: SSIS, DTS, Excel