Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - DEPARTMENT OF STATE Silver Spring, MD To obtain a challenging position where my resourceful experience and academic skills will add value to organizational operations.  Personal Qualities  • Ability to learn new technology, methodology, and work routines quickly  • Ability to produce the best result in pressure situation  • Confident interactions with individuals at all levels  • High personal motivation, self-management, dependable, and enthusiastic  • Strong oral and written communication, organization, time management skills, and detail oriented Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator DEPARTMENT OF STATE - Washington, DC April 2013 to Present • Applied patches or upgrades to the database as needed.  • Carried out Performance optimization and Query tuning using Tkprof and OEM.  • Configured and maintain Grid Control Repository.  • Configuring Backup (RAMN) for database and restoring database.  • Creating and managing data files and tablespaces.  • Creating and Rebuilding Indexes, Managing Database Security.  • Database Reorganizations and resource management for efficient resources usage.  • Database Tuning by generating explain plans for long running queries, creating indexes on columns to improve performance.  • Design, document, implement and maintain all disaster recovery procedures which result in no data loss.  • Ensured database security is implemented to safeguard the data.  • Establishing user needs and monitoring user access and security.  • Implement Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans.  • Install and configure Oracle software.  • Install/Upgrade Oracle client and server software  • Installation of Oracle Database 11g and configuration on Red hat Enterprise Linux Platform.  • Installed 12c database  • Installed and configure RAC on VM Virtual Box for test and development purposes.  • Installed and Configured Enterprise Manager for Oracle databases.  • Installed and configured Oracle on VMware for test and development purposes.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures.  • Involved in designing new structures/procedures/views/functions for development and data migration from production to reports.  • Monitored data files, logical data storage and data growth activities  • Perform daily monitor of real time replication as well as detailed reports  • Perform daily operational duties/security for all users of the databases.  • Planned and Performed Daily, Weekly and Monthly Backups. Tested and implemented restore procedures for complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN.  • Provided assistance to Memory Corruption and Dictionary Corruption Errors  • Refresh schema level and full level production to non-production databases.  • Remove unnecessary histograms in highly volatile schemas.  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development and production environments for implementation and maintenance of user security.  • Setting up and testing the backup and recovery strategies.  • Sing Data pump and SQL Loader utilities.  • Troubleshoot and fix replication issues.  • Worked in Tuning OS, Shared Pool, Buffer Cache, and Redo Log Buffer.  • Write monitoring/health check scripts to alert the team of database uptime/downtime status and sizing issues, which ensured availability 99.99% of the time.  • Write monitoring/health check scripts to alert the team of database uptime/downtime status and sizing issues, which ensured availability 99.99% of the time. Education Certification University of North Texas - Greenbelt, MD June 2016 Certifications/Licenses ORACLE DBA April 2013 Additional Information • Database Backup & Recovery  • Database security using Antivirus, firewalls, antispyware, user authentication/strong passwords, encryption, and certificates.  • Databased-Backed Web Solutions  • Enforcing business rules by using integrity constraints & Database triggers  • Networking: TCP/IP, DHCP, PING, Traceroute, Netstat, Nslookup, nbstat, cable tester, probe tester, wireless configuration.  • Oracle 11g/12c  • Oracle Forms and Reports Development  • Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation  • SQL Tuning in an Oracle Environment  • Standby/Failover Administration  • Superior familiarity with LINUX, Unix, Windows & Windows XP  • Tuning & Capacity Monitor  • Virtualization on VMware    Security Clearance  • TOP SECRET    Skills Profile:  • Hardware: Pentium Servers and PC's  • Operating System: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.2  • Tools / Utilities: Server Manager, SQL * Loader, and Oracle Enterprise Manager grid control  • Language: LINUX shell programming, PL/SQL  • Database: ORACLE 12C/11g