AWS Solutions Architect / Cloud Engineer AWS Solutions Architect / Cloud Engineer AWS Solutions Architect / Cloud Engineer Garland, TX Highly Team-oriented AWS Cloud Solutions Architect, with hands-on Oracle Database skill set and more than seven (7) years of IT experience working as a cloud Solutions Architect (5) years /Oracle DBA (5) years for clients, managing server infrastructures, Oracle Database implementation/Migration and data center operations. Implementing upgradable, scalable, Hyper-converged infrastructure and micro-services across multiple platforms (Linux, Windows, AWS, Oracle). Helping clients achieve business agility and flexibility, providing strong AWS ecosystem expertise as a Solutions Architect. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Solutions Architect / Cloud Engineer Walgreens Headquarters - Deerfield, IL January 2017 to April 2019 Participate in deep architectural discussions to build confidence and ensure  customer success when building new and migrating existing applications, software and services on the AWS platform.  Technical liaison between the customer's service engineering & support teams.  Partner with the sales team to design solutions for the customer to drive AWS    adoption and revenue.  Presentation skills with a high degree of comfort speaking with executives, IT  Management, and developers; strong communication skills with an ability to right  level conversations.  Architecting/operating solutions built on AWS Platform.  Experienced with "on-premise to cloud" migrations or IT transformations with the aid of AWS solutions.  Configuring and deploying micro-services and instances for example AMI's, EC2, ECS, Auto-scaling, S3, Security groups using Cloud-formation.  Used Terraform in building infrastructure to host web/applications and RDS  infrastructure; using AWS cloud provider.  Providing expertise to client's early adoption strategy such as end user training, evangelizing cloud solutions, bringing understanding, experience and best-practice in the AWS cloud ecosystem.  Proactively monitor resources and applications using AWS CloudWatch including  creating alarms to monitor metrics such as EBS, EC2, ELB, RDS, S3, SNS and configured notifications for the alarms generated based on events defined.  Established the appropriate monitoring and alerting of solution events related to performance, scalability, availability and reliability.  Experience in deploying and monitoring applications on various platforms using  Elastic Beanstalk, setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier.  AWS - built VPCs from scratch, creating private and public subnets, creating  security groups and network access lists, configuring internet gateways, OpenVPN, creating AMI, understanding of user access management/role based  access/multi factor authentication and API access, configuration of auto scaling and elastic load balancer for scaling services if a configured threshold has been  exceeded, configuration of SNS to send notifications and Cloud Watch to collect  logs and metrics.  Captured and share best-practice knowledge amongst the AWS Solutions Architect  team.  Created business continuity/disaster recovery, fail-over and runbook  documentation.  Ensured security is integrated into all cloud architecture solutions.  Extensive understanding of and ability to solution service offerings across;  Infrastructure (including outsourcing best practices, transition, and ITIL).  Created new VM templates for several Operating Systems with all the recommended and required settings for optimum performance and efficiency.  Configured NACL and security groups, thus limiting malicious attacks from blacklisted range IP addresses.  Understanding of shell scripts (Bash), Perl, Python and PowerShell for automating  tasks.  Setup NAT gateway as a route out to the internet for instances in private subnet.  Setup internet gateway as a route out to the internet for instances in public subnet.  Responsible for creating VPCs for dev/test team, thereby simulating a production    environment for web/application servers and database traditional servers in public and private subnets respectively.  Responsible for creating Auto-scaling groups from launch configurations to either  scale out or shrink back instances depending on traffic and demand, and this  service is been supplemented by SNS notifications from CPU utilization and other  monitoring parameters. AWS Cloud Engineer Amerisourcebergen Corp - Frisco, TX January 2015 to January 2017 Participate in deep architectural discussions to build confidence and ensure  customer success when building new and migrating existing applications, software and services on the AWS platform.  Technical liaison between customers, service engineering & support teams.  Partnered with the sales team to design solutions for customers, drive AWS  adoption and revenue.  Presentation skills with a high degree of comfort speaking with executives, IT  Management, and developers; strong communication skills with an ability to right  level conversations.  Architecting/operating solutions built on the AWS Platform.  Experienced with "on-premise to cloud" migrations or IT transformations with the aid of AWS solutions.  Experience in managing MySQL data backups and restoration.  Proactively involved in graphing data metrics from servers and reporting it using  dashboards.  Designed of clients Cloud environments with a focus on AWS and demonstrate  Technical Cloud Architectural knowledge, playing a vital role in the design of production, staging, QA and development Cloud Infrastructures running in 24x7  environments.  Gathered technical requirements, assess capabilities and provide appropriate cloud  solution recommendations and adoption strategy.  Established the appropriate monitoring and alerting of solution events related to performance, scalability, availability, and reliability.  Captured and share best-practice knowledge amongst the AWS Solutions Architect  team.  Built automated and flexible detection and response programs using tools like CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and AWS Lambda.  Leveraged Identity Access Management features to setup Multi-Factor  Authentication (2FA) for added security layer to root account, enterprises user  account and assigning roles based on lease privilege to users. Oracle Database Administrator Expedia - Bellevue, WA January 2010 to January 2015 • Automated and monitored databases health, backup and recovery activities through Cron jobs and also customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan.  • Performed database, schema & table level Refresh from production to test/development environment Using RMAN and Data pump utilities. Also Implemented Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature (Oracle 11g, 12c) to quickly move Tablespaces across Oracle databases servers.  • Involved in a Client-Server environment using tnsnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Used Oracle Flashback Technology for logical recovery purpose with sometimes the need to create a Guaranteed restore point right after a recovery or during switchover operations.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Handled daily production problems/change requests with Oracle.  • Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import). Education Bachelor of Science Western Governors University 2020 Certificate of Completion in Cloud Security Architecture and Operations The SANS Technology Institute - Orlando, FL 2018 Master of Science in Engineering Management Middlesex University - London 2009 Bachelor of Science in Industrial and Labor Relations Olabisi Onabanjo University 2003 to 2007 Associate Degree in Law Olabisi Onabanjo University 2003 Skills SQL (7 years), Linux (3 years), Sql Server (3 years), Cloud Computing (5 years), EC2, S3, BCP & DRP, PKI, (GRC), IAM, AMI, VPC, VPC Peering (5 years), Auto Scaling, ELB, SNS, Cloud Watch (5 years), Project Management (5 years), Team leadership/Security Awareness (5 years), Information Protection and Analysis (5 years), Javascript Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate January 2017 to Present AWS Certified Developer - Associate March 2017 to Present AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner May 2019 to May 2022 ITIL April 2017 to Present Oracle Database 12c Administrator Certified Associate February 2019 to Present Oracle Database 12c SQL Fundamentals February 2019 to Present Scrum Master April 2019 to Present Cloud Security Architecture and Operations April 2018 to Present