Tech Elevator - Technical Projects Tech Elevator - Technical Projects System Completion Lead Engineer and Database Power User Pittsburgh, PA Multilingual professional fluent in French and English with the ability to leverage project engineering experience gained while supporting major capital projects around the globe to transition into a software engineering role. Known for resolving complex problems and quickly learning and adapting to new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tech Elevator - Technical Projects Pittsburgh, PA May 2019 to Present • National Park Weather Service Website – Developed a web application using the MVC architecture in Java, implementing Spring MVC framework, JSP Expression Language, HTML, CSS, PostgreSQL. Testing performed using Unit Testing and Integration Testing with JUnit framework. Functional Testing with Selenium framework.  • National Park Reservation Tool – Developed a CLI application in Java and PostgreSQL, advanced search options. Testing performed using Junit framework for Unit Testing and for Integration Testing.  • Vending Machine Software – Developed a CLI application in Java using Object-Oriented Programming and file input/output fundamentals. Testing of program functionality implemented through JUnit.  • Ongoing Project – Find the perfect box - Developing a web application using the MVC architecture in Java, implementing Spring MVC framework, JSP Expression Language, HTML, CSS, PostgreSQL.  • Ongoing Project – Document Format Standardizer- Developing a software using the Apache POI API in Java. System Completion Lead Engineer and Database Power User Chevron - Richmond, CA December 2016 to December 2018 * Implemented refinery's first system completion management software to support major capital project from engineering to start up.  * Administered the database and defined required inspections and test records (26,000+ multidisciplinary checklists) and trained 100+ users across 12 contracting companies with varied disciplines.  * Collaborated with software developers to enhance software design for ease of use and improved user experience throughout the project duration.  * Analyzed and interpreted data to develop automated reporting system in Excel to support project planning and management.  * Optimized project performance by analyzing and processing data to identify critical paths and bottlenecks. Offshore Commissioning and System Completion Engineer SAIPEM - Luanda, AO December 2014 to July 2016 * Engineered and executed testing scenarios for major equipment and complex systems of offshore facilities.  * Administered and populated database, developed completion strategy and configured automated document generation in the completion software. Maintenance and Operations Assurance Engineer SAIPEM - Paris, FR December 2012 to December 2014 * Performed hook-up and commissioning execution, leak and service tests, and functional tests. Led root cause analysis and troubleshooting to resolve identified problems.  * Purchased hook-up materials required for execution phase, facilitated technical verification with vendors, and procured materials. Developed work packages defining the installation sequence with required materials.    SAIPEM Paris, France Dec 2012 - Dec 2014  Maintenance and Operations Assurance Engineer  * Developed automated preservation planning and reporting system with excel in VBA.  * Populated platform database management system with engineering data.  * Evaluated operability, maintainability, and reliability of offshore and onshore facilities.  * Determined spare parts required and analyzed interchangeability.  * Reviewed vendor technical and engineering technical documentation to develop operating manuals and procedures and maintenance plans. Junior Project Manager and Maintenance database administrator PIERRE FABRE MÉDICAMENT - Pau, FR January 2012 to August 2012 * Led purified water system installation upgrade and preprocessing installation supply strategy change with  $200K+ budget.  * Calculated Return on Investment and presented project to stakeholders for funding. Created specifications,  selected contractors, reviewed engineering and trained maintenance technicians with the new facility.  * Identified and procured needed spare parts, planned preventive maintenance, and managed change,  including shutdown preparation and coordination works to tie in existing system. Education MASTER'S OF SCIENCE IN INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING in Industrial Systems engineering Engineering School of Industrial Systems September 2008 to June 2012 Skills Javascript, MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5, Java, CSS, Spring Web MVC, Jsp EL, JDBC, SQL, JUnit, Git, Eclipse Links https://github.com/jcoleau https://www.linkedin.com/in/coleaujc