Radio Access Network/Transport Engineer Radio Access Network/Transport Engineer INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROFESSIONAL Dallas, TX Self-motivated to succeed in any workplace environment. I have hands on experience with configuration, installation, and operating in mid-sized and large fast paced corporate environments. Direct Wireless Industry experience (preferably working on CDMA/ TDMA and/or 2G/3G/4G/5G Networks), with hands on experience supporting base stations on a live customer network. Proven strong troubleshooting skills in a technical support role vs. deployment. IP knowledge in IP addressing, subnetting, and routing protocols. Technically skilled at system troubleshooting, repair, and resolving simple to complex technical issues. Excellent verbal and communication skills, ethics, and effective collaboration skills, self-driven, extremely organized, highly trainable and coachable, and strong work ethic. Solid self-management skills with sound common sense. Capable of managing multiple tasks simultaneously with the ability to find, organize, manage, evaluate, and use information resources critically and effectively for the solution of professional problems. Understand the need for and use of information in relation to ethical, societal, regulatory, and technological issues. Quick learner, great listener, results oriented, customer service-oriented, detail-oriented, can do winning attitude, drive for success, and a great team player. Desire to learn cutting edge technologies, grow professionally, and engage in lifelong learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Radio Access Network/Transport Engineer T-Mobile June 2019 to Present ·        Supporting RAN/ Transport Technologies and providing NOC support to other Technicians and Engineers.  ·        Troubleshooting Ericsson/ Nokia RAN tier 1-2 tickets.   ·        Responsible for remotely supporting the RAN equipment in the field in a 24X7 environment.  ·        Monitoring network alarms, and performing fault isolation testing on radios, switching networks, and peripherals.  ·        Working with Senior-Level Engineers to solve complex troubleshooting and repair network functions and network problems.   ·        Monitoring the health and status of the Nokia MAD Routers and performing and coordinating hardware swaps with SWOPs and Nokia.   ·        Responsible for monitoring critical alarms on facilities and equipment at MSO (Main Switching Office) and Data Centers Nationwide on a national level 24/7.   ·        Responsible for surveillance and ticketing of all SS7 and Lucent and Ericsson MSS/MGW network? elements.   ·        Troubleshooting to resolution switch and SS7 related issues.   ·        Creating and responding to work orders and trouble tickets and executing switch related work orders, and pro-active review of switch element performance.   ·        Dispatching Field Engineers in the field to resolve hardware issues, power outages, transport issues, etc.  ·        Quarterbacking major outages (Fiber cuts, AAV outages, weather-related outages, etc.)  • Requesting RFO's for IP Hits and Outages.  ·        Providing support during large scale outages and disaster recovery efforts.   ·        Confirming services restored on returned tickets from the Escalations team and conducting routine remote surveillance and tier 1-2 maintenance activities for all network nodes in area of responsibility.  ·        Working closely with product vendors for product maintenance, testing, upgrades, etc.   ·        Escalating trouble tickets with third party vendors such as Power and Telco Companies, as well as second tier organizations within T-Mobile.   ·        Identifying, researching, and developing process improvements to management for implementation.  Remote Integration Test Center Engineer Tier 2 Nokia April 2019 to July 2019 ·        Performing FL19 Software upgrades for Verizon RAN environment.  ·        Working in a 24x7 environment in the NOC; providing support for deployment and Integration Functions.   ·        Supporting, understanding, troubleshooting, and resolving the customer CDMA, UMTS, and LTE RAN network.   • Responding directly to calls and requests from integration engineers to the call center; troubleshooting problems as well as supporting internal teams with maintenance activities.  • Interface directly with deployment and development teams which include installation, RITC Teams, RF Engineers, and PM's, to resolve site, systems or network problems.  ·        Mitigate outage risk and execute network restoration contingency plans in response to network failure.  • Ensuring base stations are operational (links are up, alarms clear, etc., sites ready for RF teams, and live traffic).  • Providing operations support to the RF teams in their optimization activities by creating and executing work orders to make parameter changes when needed.  • Escalating quality issues to improve products and services delivered to the customer.  • Exercising strong analytical skills to debug, troubleshoot, and isolate complex problems. Commissioning & Integration Engineer Samsung August 2018 to December 2018 ·        Aided assistance to NOC (Network Operations Center) and supported 3G/4G/5G networks.  ·        Provided support to multi-functional team of R&D, Program Management, Core Networking, RF Engineering, Transport    and Technical/Training Support to fulfill multi-technology wireless network deployment across customer markets.  ·        Lead various market interfaces toward internal and external customers.  ·        Identified improvements in markets and addressed customer concerns in a timely fashion.  ·        Supported routing protocols (DHCP, DNS, ARP, VLAN, STP, IPV4, and VPN).  • Worked with Ethernet switching, IP forwarding, class of service and services, firewall and access control, and server load balancing.   ·        Implemented OSS solutions of system integration, automation, and migration.   ·        Conducted Root Cause Analysis to drive improvements.  ·        Participated and determined innovation initiatives for continuous improvement in deployment ways of working.  ·        Planned the implementation of the product configuration and integration work.  ·        Analyzed, prepared, implemented and verified the configuration and integration of nodes, networks, and systems.  ·        Generated periodic reports on equipment deployed to determine performance and relate the same to other teams within the organization.  ·        Supported the Sprint Tier I and Tier II NOC by answering questions on the Samsung equipment, assisting during trouble shooting, and identifying root cause.  ·        Performed cell site commissioning and integration, cell site acceptance testing, cell site equipment layout, and parameter         definitions.  ·        Troubleshooted alarms and complex alarms/performance issues.   ·        Troubleshooted network connectivity issues between the core and cell-site routers and their configuration.  ·        Provided Core Network support and support investigations on high severe issues.   ·         Assisted in the Network Deployment team in the integration of new CDMA sites and migration of legacy CDMA sites of the    RAN equipment into the existing network.  ·         Provisioned CDMA RAN equipment with parameters provided by RF Engineering.  ·         Ensured the latest software and the correct cellular configurations were loaded into the CDU30 equipment.   •  Ensured the cell site was connected to the network and integrated to become a functional part of network.   ·         Ensured that all new hardware was connected to the network and integrated into the cell site.  ·         Single point-of-contact for integration, commissioning and acceptance issues.  ·         Supported the knowledge transfer of commissioning and integration to other engineers.  ·         Manage post migration issues including issue resolution and rescheduling the event. Remote Integration Test Center Engineer Tier 2 Nokia October 2017 to August 2018 • Supported Field Engineers with Verizon FSM4 Airscale Migrations, Commissioning, Parameters Changes, Clearing Alarms, and Integrations.  • Assisted Field Engineers with onsite and remote commissioning of CDMA/LTE RAN equipment.  • Responded directly to calls and requests from integration engineers to the call center; troubleshooted problems as well as support internal teams with maintenance activities.  • Detected and responded to alarms, opened tickets, and assisted with troubleshooting as required.  • Troubleshooted network components and supported to Field Engineers as required.  • Used network protocols, networking software, and hardware to correct system faults.  • Coordinated with Customer and confirmed site firmware and data loads.  • Ensured base stations were operational (links up, alarms clear, etc., sites ready for RF teams, and live traffic).  • Responsible for monitoring the customer equipment in a CDMA and LTE based wireless telecommunications network.  • Troubleshooted and resolved CDMA and LTE cell site alarms.  • Contributed to a daily activity report and supported troubleshooting activities as required. Associate Network Technician Contractor Texas Instruments Incorporated April 2017 to September 2017 • Upgraded existing phones to new Cisco VOIP phones.  • Installed CAT5E structured cabling onsite.  • Terminated drop boxes.  • Supported project rollout of analog to digital lines.  • Worked office moves throughout the company.  • Documented network-related activities or tasks for management. Facility Deployment Technician Contractor GTS Technology Solutions February 2017 to March 2017 • Imaged, asset tags, configured, and prepared computers, servers, and/or peripherals for shipment to customer locations.  • Labeled and stored products in an organized manner that coordinated with the inventory system and facilitated relocation of products when required;  • Deployed and configured computer equipment to customer locations, when necessary;  Provided additional onsite configuration to deployed computer equipment, as necessary;  • Performed general clean-up duties at the Warehouse to maintain an environment suitable for customer tours;  • Assisted in handling, loading/unloading incoming/outgoing shipments, parts and materials maintained at the Warehouse in accordance with proper handling. Fulfillment Associate Amazon September 2016 to March 2017 • Loaded and unloaded items from machines, conveyors, and conveyances.  • Operated machinery used in the production process, and assisted machine operators.  • Placed products in equipment and on work surfaces for further processing, inspecting, or wrapping.  • Examined products to verify conformance to quality standards.  • Started machines and equipment to begin production processes. Database Manager Detroit Metropolitan Bar Association November 2015 to February 2016 • Salesforce Data Entry and Creation of Reports.  • Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This included customer need of assessment and meeting quality standards for services.  • Knowledge of principles and procedures for training other employees. Network Operations Technician Catholic Health Sisters of Charity Hospital June 2014 to September 2014 • Supported the roll out of 1-12 additional wheelie computer systems for the ancillary units across CHS.  • Troubleshooted Windows 7 problems; both hardware and software in a Windows environment.  • Provided Mobile Customer Support to end users. Imaged new PCs/Laptops, installed new software, and deployed to users.  • Interacted with doctors and nurses in the ancillary units and helped users through technical wheelie issues and Windows 7 related issues.  • Break/fix support across CHS. Service Desk Analyst PRAXAIR February 2014 to June 2014 ·        Answered telephone calls to assist computer users encountering problems.  ·        Analyzed information to make decisions and solve problems.   ·        Responded to program error messages by finding and correcting problems.  ·        Working with knowledge to resolve at least 80% of issues on first call.   ·        Ability to handle at least 60 or more calls per day in a fast-paced environment.  Field Service Technician Rich Products Corporation April 2013 to January 2014 Provided tech support for 300+ users and ensured proper maintenance of workstations and peripherals. Responded to end user requests, resolved support tickets, and deployed new workstations and peripherals. Installed operating systems, user applications, and maintained active directory administration. Desktop Technician PHILLIPS LYTLE December 2012 to March 2013 Assisted in information technology projects such as project objectives, new technology systems, information specifications, and Windows 7 rollout project. Network Administrator I Rich Products Corporation June 2012 to November 2012 ·        Informed systems and programming personnel of errors or problems with job runs.  ·        Maintained data processing policies such as back-ups and disaster plans.  ·        Prepared status reports for administrative review.  ·        Maintained overall control of Computer Systems.  ·        VPN Trouble Shooting.   ·        Monitored the system for equipment failure or errors in performance using HP Site Scope.  ·        Answered telephone calls to assist computer users encountering problems using Altiris and Novell Console One.  ·        Retrieved, separated, and sorted program output as needed and sent data to specified users when needed.  ·        Overseen the operation of computer hardware systems, including coordinating and scheduling the use of computer terminals and networks to ensure efficient use.  ·        Monitored network performance to determine whether adjustments needed to be made, and to determine where changes would need to be made in the future, in HP Site Scope.  ·        Managed various backups, performed data backups, and disaster recovery operations in HP Data Protector.  ·        Loaded computer tapes and disks inside Data Center.  ·        Solved a wide range of issues remotely in Clean Room Deployment Console. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Management & Technology SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY School of Information Studies - Syracuse, NY May 2011 Skills RF (2 years), WIRELESS (3 years), CDMA (3 years), VERIZON (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), NOC, Operation, Cisco, Ccna, Linux, Nokia, BGP, DWDM, Ethernet Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 7, & Windows 10.     Software: Active Directory, Lotus Notes, Cisco Meeting Time, JDE 900, Service Now Ticketing System, CSMS Ticket System, OneConsole, PIER – (Problem, Incident, Enhancement, Resolution) Ticketing Tool, Zendesk, Call Management System Supervisor, GO-Global, Kollective’s Software Defined Enterprise Content Delivery Network (SD ECDN), Remote OMT (Operation and Maintenance Terminal), WinFIOL, IMNOS Network Visualization, Network viewer, Network Automation, Network Recording Player, WinPcap, Net Analyst, Network Elements, Network-to-Network Interfaces (NNIs), Qualys Cloud Security Agent, Steel Central Aternity Agent, Teoco Secure Access, MS Exchange Server, MS Visual Studio, Virtual Private Networks, Ethernet Virtual Circuit (EVC),  Citrix Applications, MS Outlook, MS OneNote, GroupWise, SAP, Solar winds Dashboard, Synergy Dashboard, Microsoft (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), HP Data Protector, Altiris, Clean Room Deployment Console, HP Site Scope, UC4 Production Job Monitoring, Verizon Wireless, Verizon Trouble Administration Gateway (VTAG), VSWR, VOLTE,  PuTTY, Kitty Configuration,  SAM5620, 2G/3G/4G BTS Site Element  Manager , URSA Tool, RASClient, Nokia Network Services Platform, Nokia Network Functions Manager, Secure Access to Network Elements, AAV NodeB Provisioning Suite, The Wireshark Network Analyzer, Service Access/Aware Manager,  CognitivLSM LTE System Manager, Evolved Packet Core (ePC), Cisco Packet Tracer, Cisco Command Line Interface, Windows-based Networking, Network Management Tools, DNS, TCP/IP, Names Resolution Process, and Network Protocols and Topologies, LTE & 3G CDMA Technologies, TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access), 2G/3G/4G/5G Networks, 5G MIMO, MOS Shell, Base Station Manager, Site Monitor Module, SMM SNMP Management Configuration, SMM External Alarm Configuration , RET Configuration, Remote Connectivity Checks, Logical Cell Mapping, Signaling System 7, e911 Call Testing, Call Processing, GPS Configuration Checks, Advanced Wireless Spectrum 1 & 3, BANDS 2,4,5,12,66,71, PCS, ABLOCK, Cellular 850, Distributed Antenna System, Global System for Mobile Communication, Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service, 5G BTS Element, Web Element Manager, Satellite backhaul, IoT (Internet of Things) Technologies, CPRI Interfaces, Backhaul Interface, RET Interface, RF Modules, RF Calculator, IPV4/IPV6,  and Routing Software Tools.     Hardware: PC /Laptop Computers, HDMI, Network Laser Printers, 9412 eNodeB Indoor, 9763 Metro Cell Indoor, 9764 Metro Cell Outdoor, 9768 Metro Radios, Small Cell In-door/Outdoor, TRDUs (Transmit/Receive Duplex Unit), MCTRDU (multi-carrier and multi-standard TRDU), MC-TRXs (Multi carrier Transceiver), AAs (Active Antenna), Tower Mounted Amplifier (TMA), Power Distribution Panel (PDP),  eAM (enhanced Alarm Module), External Alarm Module, Alarm cables, Circuit Breaker, Dip Switch, DC Terminals, SFP +,  ASIAA & ABIAA Card, AMIA, ALU Radio Heads, Base Band Units, CDU30, 800 MHz Frequency Band, 1.9GHz Frequency Band, 2.5GHz Frequency Band, 1900 MHz PCS, Band 2 (LTE). 700 MHz Lower Block A, Band 12 (LTE). 1700/ 2100 MHz AWS, Band 4 (UMTS/ HSPA+/ LTE), Basic and Extended Cell sets of 5/10/15/20MHz, 5G Cell Towers, Antenna Line Devices, ALU LTE eNodeB, Ericsson, Alcatel 7750s and 7705s, Base Band and RF Cabinet,  Baseband Board (eCEM/bCEM/bCEM2), Controller Board (eCCM/eCCM2/bCAM2), Nokia Airscale System Modules, Rectifiers, Punch Down Block, SFP Modules, SFP Fiber Optic Cable, Dark Fiber, R-6154 Crimpers, CPRI Fibers, RF Coax, FYGM/FYGE GNSS Receiver and Cable, GPS splitter, RJ45/RJ11 Connectors, Conduit Connectors, Terminators, Inkjet Printers, Wireless Devices, Hubs, Access Points, Cisco Switches 2950, 2960, 3550, and 3650, Next Generation Cell Site Router (NG-CSR), Next Gen MSO Aggregating Devices, Metro-Ethernet Aggregating Device (MAD) Cisco Routers 2960, 3945s, 2911, Cisco ASR Routers 5500s, 4511s, 1002, 1004, and  Mobile Devices.    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT   ·        Ongoing training in Information Technology including Networking and Security.  ·        Currently pursuing CompTIA Network +, CompTIA Security +, Cisco CCNA, and Cisco CCNA Security Certifications through ComputerMinds. Inc  ·        MTA: Networking Fundamentals - Certified 2019   ·        MTA: Security Fundamentals - Certified 2019   ·        Cisco Certified Technician: Supporting Cisco Routing and Switching Network Devices - Certified 2019 