Oracle Database Administrator DBA Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DBA Fishers, IN • Over 5+ years of IT experience working as Oracle and MS SQL Database Administrator.  • Experience in database administration, installations, configuration, upgrades, performance tuning, backup & recovery, cloning, space management, & patching.  • Expertise in Oracle Database (9i/10g/11g/12c) Administration.   • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Experienced in ITIL framework like Incident Management and Change management.  • Generate and interpret Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports.  • Exposure to several high-end technologies like Database Migration, Cloning, Standby DB’s, Hot and cold Database Backup & Recovery, RMAN and Disaster Recovery.   • Experience in SQL performance tuning using Cost-Based Optimization (CBO).  • Implemented RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard.  • Extensively coordinated database and OS support with global vendor support team of Oracle, HP-Unix and EMC SAN Storage.  • Creating Disaster Recovery Sites (DR) for production and critical database.  • Experience in SOX Controls, compliance reporting and audit validation.  • Installed and Configured 2 node 11.2.0.1 and 12.0.1 RAC setup on Linux. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator DBA Wipro Technogies November 2011 to March 2016 I worked as SR.Oracle DBA • Over 5+ years of IT experience working as Oracle and MS SQL Database Administrator.  • Experience in database administration, installations, configuration, upgrades, performance tuning, backup & recovery, cloning, space management, & patching.  • Expertise in Oracle Database (9i/10g/11g/12c) Administration.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Experienced in ITIL framework like Incident Management and Change management.  • Generate and interpret Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) reports.  • Exposure to several high-end technologies like Database Migration, Cloning, Standby DB's, Hot and cold Database Backup & Recovery, RMAN and Disaster Recovery.  • Experience in SQL performance tuning using Cost-Based Optimization (CBO).  • Implemented RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard.  • Extensively coordinated database and OS support with global vendor support team of Oracle, HP-Unix and EMC SAN Storage.  • Creating Disaster Recovery Sites (DR) for production and critical database.  • Experience in SOX Controls, compliance reporting and audit validation.  • Installed and Configured 2 node 11.2.0.1 and 12.0.1 RAC setup on Linux.  • Planning, Configuration and Monitoring of Log shipping. Performed Role Reversal of Primary and Secondary servers of the log shipped database.  • Performed logical backup of database, schemas, tables using Export/Import and DATA PUMP utility. DB User Administration and Security management.  • Used SQL * Loaders to load data from flat files into database tables.  • Involved in fine tuning stored procedures by making use of PL/SQL Collections  • Designed and Developed shell scripts to automate the processes and to proactively monitor the database. Worked on AIX, Linux, Solaris and Windows platform.  • Proficient in creating primary database storage structures (Tablespaces) and Managing database using Schemas, Tables, Views, Indexes, synonym, functions and Triggers.  • Controlling and maintaining system security through Profiles, Roles, Privileges and Auditing. Knowledge on using DBMS Packages  • Extensive experience in Database query and Performance tuning (Explain Plan and TKPROF utility) of Reports and troubleshooting Oracle Application issues on OLTP.  • Involved in database design and creation. Good knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Participate in an on-call rotation for Infrastructure support.  • Strong analytical problem solving and good communication skills with ability to work within team environment and independently when needed. Education Master of Science in Information and Technology in Information and Technology Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to July 2015 Bachelor of Science S.P. College June 2006 to June 2010 Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, SQL, java, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba Additional Information Skill Set:  Database Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g R2, Oracle 12c, SQL Server 2008  DB Tuning/Monitoring Tools  RAC, ASM, DATA GUARD, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g, 11g & 12c, TKPROF, SQL Trace, STATSPACK, SAP brtools, EMC Networker, BMC Remedy, TOAD, Golden gate, SQL *Plus, developer    Programming PL SQL, Shell scripting, T-SQL, SQL/PLSQL  Operating Systems Platforms Solaris 5.10, RHEL, AIX, HP-Unix, Microsoft Windows 2003 Server, LINUX, VM Ware 12