ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT Forney, TX Andy Guerra graduated from the University of North Texas at Dallas with a Bachelor's degree in Information Technology. He is constantly updating his knowledge and skills in his rapidly evolving field. He can analyze complex problems in the context of IT and design their best fit solutions. He can work independently but he also has strong interpersonal skills and works well as a leader of a team. He has great communication skills and can communicate very well with a range of audiences. Mr. Guerra is looking for opportunities in database design and administration; software development; security; and systems and network administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE - Dallas, TX March 2018 to Present • Responsible for maintaining data inputs  • Attends to reception duties such as taking phone calls, attending to clients in the lobby, and responding inquiries  • Communicates with court officials, attorneys, clerks, and judges  • Manager of case files in database Game Developer/ Database Administrator MATH ATTACK August 2018 to May 2019 • Designed and developed a video game for children, including the game environment and platform.  • Wrote the scripts that moved our character from lane to lane, shooting of the projectile, and the hit detection of the enemy characters. Also wrote the scripts to our three main scenes in the video game that included the start up scene, upgrade scene, and game scene.  • Designed and implemented a database into our application.  • Learned an entirely new programming language and how to use and implement a database into this language that got our team back on track to meet deadlines. DATA CONTROLLER DALLAS I.S.D - Dallas, TX January 2016 to December 2016 • Prepared source data for computer entry by compiling and sorting information  • Processed source documents by reviewing data for deficiencies  • Maintained confidence and protects operations by keeping information confidential  • Counseled with parents/guardians regarding district programs, student assignment procedures, and enrollment information Maintenance Data Compiler US AIR FORCE - Okinawa, JP May 2014 to October 2015 • Input accurate and correct data in an efficient manner  • Track deadlines and follow up on any unmet commitments.  • Collect, organize, and disseminate information of any significant event within the team.  • Maintain constant communication with personnel in order to consistently provide accurate, pertinent information to supervision.  • Create daily PowerPoint presentations for senior leadership meeting and production purposes. TACTICAL AIRCRAFT MAINTAINER US AIR FORCE - Okinawa, JP October 2011 to May 2014 • Performed aircraft inspections, servicing, refueling, launch, and recovery.  • Reviewed aircraft documents and identified maintenance requirements.  • Ensured proper use of tools, technical orders, and hazardous materials.  • Responsible for the diagnosis and troubleshooting of system malfunctions to restore aircraft flying capabilities. Education BA in Information Technology University of North Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX May 2019 Skills Java (1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Lua (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), C (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Windows (3 years), Military (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/andy-guerra-182815183/ Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Senior Airman October 2011 to October 2015