Village Manager/Case Manager Village Manager/Case Manager Village Manager/Case Manager - Catholic Charities Portland, OR ? Experienced providing strength-based, trauma-informed direct client care to women experiencing houselessness  ? Passionately engaged in the development, execution and evaluation of innovative, sustainable housing pilot projects  ? Liaison of the desires of houseless clients, nonprofit management, service providers and array of project partners Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Village Manager/Case Manager Catholic Charities June 2017 to Present * Continued previous case management duties with added responsibilities: facilitated attendance and agenda of weekly meetings, in which clients draft community agreement to preserve respect, dignity and empowerment  * Oversaw completion of client hours and tasks; supervised volunteer groups, nursing students and MSW interns  * Established and maintained partnerships with donors, neighbors, service providers, local businesses, city representatives; most noteworthy, created partnership with University of Portland instructors & nursing students  * Organized fundraisers under budget; engaged in speaking events and media interviews; led tours to educate public  * Managed facilities in communicating with contractors from the City of Portland  * Identified statistics and provided measurable outcomes for project evaluation; regularly published success stories on social media Volunteer, Jesuit Volunteer Corps/AmeriCorps Volunteer Portland, OR August 2016 to Present Lived in an intentional community with eight other volunteers serving marginalized communities; attended social justice retreats, events and trainings; engaged in political activism in collaboration and/or on behalf of such populations; lived on a small monthly stipend below the poverty line to fully live out the four JVC values of simplicity, community, spirituality and social and ecological justice Housing Case Manager Catholic Charities - Portland, OR August 2016 to June 2017 * Provided individualized case management using Housing First model; provided supportive services for 18 months post housing placement to achieve 100% retention rate  * Advocated to remove housing barriers using appeals, letters of support, reasonable accommodations and landlord/tenant mediation for clients with landlord debt, bad credit, past evictions or a criminal record  * Operated weekday Drop-In center, meeting immediate basic needs of 20-40 clients a day, on average; used conflict resolution mediation, crisis de-escalation and empathetic motivational interviewing skills  * Conducted weekly outreach & engagement services to those living on the streets as Kenton Outreach Coordinator: assigned to identify applicants, maintain waitlist and create a consistent screening tool that met public approval    ? Notable Responsibilities ?    Financial Wellness Workshop Facilitator  * Identified need for financial education classes; delivered workshops tailored for an audience experiencing houselessness; invited and hosted speakers from a bank, credit union and Social Security Administration    Motivational Interviewing Staff Trainer  * Identified capacity for program improvement; developed and led M.I. training for staff to better support clients Conversation Circle Leader English Language Institute - Ann Arbor, MI January 2014 to May 2016 Organized and facilitated weekly English conversation tables for a small group of international students, faculty and visiting scholars at the University of Michigan Violinist Mass at parish - Ann Arbor, MI December 2013 to May 2016 Performed at various local venues throughout college; organized, advertised and performed at fundraisers Copy Desk Editor The Michigan Daily Newspaper - Ann Arbor, MI October 2013 to May 2016 Proofread, edited and fact checked articles before publication in University of Michigan's largest student-run newspaper; instructed potential job candidates and interviewed applicants Author of a Health Intervention Proposal Mental-Health Buddy System - Ann Arbor, MI February 2016 to April 2016 Formulated a grant proposal for a peer support mental health "Buddy system" for college campuses based on University of Michigan's student healthcare system; collaborated with University representatives and student mental health advocates to institute this health initiative Database Administrator Fund for the Public Interest - Ann Arbor, MI January 2014 to January 2015 Entered donor information into Human Rights Campaign system; counted donations, which funded an amend to national law on workplace discrimination HUD Housing Counselor Online Training Aachen - Aachen, DE May 2014 to August 2014 Aachen, Germany) May 2014 - Aug. 2014    * Prepared and presented sensitivity-training lectures in English and German to engineering students; paired current statistics with cultural factors to posit factors contributing to the difference in gender inequality in the STEM fields between U.S. and German universities; published a theoretical analysis of results, including customized methods for each university setting to diversify its student population; received HR-Management Training    Trainings/Certifications    ? HUD Housing Counselor Online Training  ? Catholic Charities Trainings: Case Management Training; HIPAA Standards; Client Confidentiality & ROIs; Client Boundaries; Overcoming Cultural Differences; Financial Empowerment  ? Multnomah County Training for Service Providers Serving Homeless Individuals or Families: Using Trauma-Informed, Culturally-Specific Care  ? Multnomah County Assertive Engagement Training: Motivational Interviewing Skills  ? Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training  ? Financial Coaching Training for Service Providers  ? Secondary Trauma Training for First Responders  ? Certified Mental Health First AID Training  ? Certified Coordinated Access Service Provider  ? Certified TESOL ESL Teacher, Oxford Seminars  ? Certified Spinning Instructor Tutor, Proyecto Avance Latino Mentoring Association - Ann Arbor, MI September 2013 to January 2014 Tutored at-risk, Hispanic middle-school students with English difficulties weekly; acted as a positive role model to encourage students to excel academically and to seek higher education Education Master's in MBA in Nonprofit Management University of Portland - Portland, OR September 2018 to Present B.A. in International Studies University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI September 2012 to May 2016 Skills Microsoft office, Property Management Additional Information Computer Skills    Microsoft Office ? Google Applications ? Canva ? HMIS/Service Point ? Sales Force ? Coordinated Access