Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Cisco Systems Inc San Jose, CA Work Experience Database Administrator Cisco Systems Inc February 2011 to Present Feb 2011 - Present)    Client Description:  Cisco Systems Inc. is the Best Solution and service Provider for Networking Areas in Telecom industry. Cisco is one of the Best Innovative Company in the world for Providing Best software Technologies and its Products. This Company spread around 160 countries and Leading in the Market for Hardware and software services.    ? Responsible for maintenance of Development & Production Databases(10g,11g) and Applications (R12, 11g SOA/WebLogic/ HTTP server).  ? Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and applications issues.  ? Migrated Oracle databases from physical machines to virtual machines and between data centers.  ? Enabled Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using Data Domain Boost.  ? Generated AWR/ASH/ADDM reports from Oracle 10g/11g databases and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries.  ? Applied the 11.2.0.2.12 Patch Set Update (PSU) patch to upgrade database from 11.2.0.2.4.  ? Monitoring of Business critical Databases to proactively identify space issues, performance tuning issues.  ? Worked on Cloning/Refresh of Oracle Databases and applications, converted databases from RAC to Non RAC as part of Server Consolidation.  ? Migrated Oracle databases from physical to virtual machines and moved across the data centers as part of virtualization.  ? Applied CPU/PSU patches to Oracle Databases in order to fix the security vulnerabilities and worked closely with SOX compliance team.  ? Reorganized tables and indexes in order to reclaim free space and improve performance.  ? Upgraded Oracle Reporting Databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12c.  ? Export/Import of tables, schemas using data pump (expdp/impdp) utility.  ? Used TKPROF/SQL Plan Baselines/SQL Tuning Advisor for tuning long running SQL statements.  ? Worked closely with application teams to migrate the changes from UAT to PROD through Change Order (CO) requests.  ? Add/Removes Nodes from Oracle RAC.  ? Resolving Issues on any backup failures  ? Performing database level refresh and Schema level refresh.  ? Attending alerts i.e. Table space create / Space add/Invalid Objects/User Grants  ? Deployed Oracle Management 12c agents on database hosts and added the databases to OEM monitoring list.  ? Installed and configured Oracle RAC 11g and used SCAN names to implement high availability.  ? Worked on the Disaster Recovery (DR) Scenarios for Oracle Databases and Applications.  ? Worked on the setup of R12 I Supplier on external DMZ server.  ? Enabled Parallel Concurrent Processing (PCP) using FNDREVIVER process in R12.1.3.  ? Migrated custom forms and concurrent programs to UAT and PROD using FNDLOAD utility.  ? Fixed OEM Alerts related to alert log errors, file system and table space usage.  ? Applied bug fix patches to Oracle Databases and applications using opatch and adpacth utilities.  ? Troubleshoot issues related to processing of Workflow inbound/outbound mailer notifications.  ? Deployed application jar files to SOA, created new data sources and restart of SOA services as per application team requests.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Maintenance and Support of Oracle Databases and EBiz, Middleware Applications on a 24*7 basis.  • Monitoring databases alert log for any ORA-0600/ORA-07445/ORA-(critical errors)  • Performed dynamic listener configuration and troubleshooting listener issues.  • Applying latest PSU patches to databases.  • Performed 11g GRID installation manually.  • Conversion of Standalone database to RAC.  • Configured oracle wallet (encryption method) using orapki utility for https URLS.  • Adding datafiles to tablespace and user quota issues  • Creating partition tables, indexes and reorganization of tablespace.  • Renaming database name using NID utility or standard method.  • Hands on Experience Expdp/Impdp utilities  • DNFS setup and SCAN listener new feature in 11g.  • Extensively worked on Data guard/standby databases.  • Working on Application issues like Concurrent Manager Issues, Workflow issues, OPMN issues  • Tracking invalid objects, compiling and validating the invalid objects using adadmin.  • Used the AD utilities like ADadmin, ADpatch, ADctrl etc  • Troubleshooting Concurrent manager and Programs issues.  • Using SRVCTL to check the configured services are running fine.  • Checking the status of important services like concurrent manager, form server, web server, application listener and database listeners.  • Fixing spaces issues at host level and tablespace level  • Sysadmin activities like user creation and responsibilities assignment in ERP  • Troubleshooting web/oacore/form issues in 11i/R12  • Database User creation and granting the privileges based on the requirements.  • Enabling trace providing tkprof for performance issues  • Good at Performance Tuning for database issues and oracle application issues using  AWR, ADDM utilities if needed.  • Good at troubleshooting datasource/jms/adapter issues.  • Creation of Datasource/JMS-Queues, Topic.  • Troubleshooting stuck thread issues and taking thread dumps and analyses the dumps.  • Deployment of war/ear files in weblogic console/em.  • Installation of weblogic 11g and deployment of developed tool as well.  • Good at troubleshooting at Managed servers/Admin server go to warning state/down.  • Written shell scripts for the all the complete validation of refresh checks for database/ERP Extensively worked on Data guard ASM and RMAN • Worked on middleware environments like weblogic,SOA  • Performed weblogic 12c installation Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh Skills databases (8 years), HTTP (8 years), OEM (8 years), Oracle (8 years), Oracle 10g (8 years), DBA, Oracle Dba