Group Service Rep Group Service Rep Group Service Rep Reseda, CA A highly motivated individual with over 14 years experience in managing accounts. Possess  excellent communication skills. High degree of flexibility and strong organizational skills to deal  with constantly changing levels of priorities. An effective team player able to work with no supervision, who provides guidance to other team members.    Professional 2004 - 2018 HEALTH NET, INC. Woodland Hills, CA Work Experience Group Service Rep HEALTH NET, INC - Woodland Hills, CA 2002 to 2004 • Under the general direction of Account Managers, coordinates the internal renewals processes by performing and administering designated renewal, open enrollment, Wellness tasks and activities, while adhering to corporate budgetary policies, procedures, and guidelines.  • Prepares "Step 2" requests for open enrollment materials while adhering to corporate policies and guidelines.  • Prepares service agreement requests for approval by Account Manager, and processes.  • Completes the group sales notification input, processing, and tracking.  • Follows up with necessary departments to ensure timely internal implementation. Group Database Rep HEALTH NET, INC - Woodland Hills, CA 2000 to 2002 • Responsible for entering all new group data, as well as maintaining master files, including rate changes, probationary periods and modifying existing groups and DP accounts into ABS (i.e. rate renewals, obtaining Underwriting approval for plans, and other miscellaneous reporting.)  • Work closely with account managers and Underwriting to coordinate approval of Group data changes and updates.  • Maintain department backlog and backup for large group database reps. EBT Customer Service Rep./COBRA Administrator CA MOTOR CAR DEALER SERVICES - Playa del Rey, CA 1995 to 1999 • Knowledge of COBRA, FMLA, PPO, and HMO plans.  • Assist insured with questions about their insurance benefits and entering their information into the system.  • Preparing monthly billing statements, handling Account Receivables for COBRA and processing death claims for life insurance policies. Education Harbor College 1996 to 1997 Saddleback College 1988 to 1989 Long Beach Polytechnic High School 1986 to 1988