Database Administrator/Senior Consultant <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Senior Consultant Database Administrator/Senior Consultant - Oracle Atlanta, GA 8+ years of growth driven and result oriented IT professional as an Oracle Database Administrator (10g, 11g, 12c) in IT Industry.  Dedicated professional with strong work ethic & self-motivation and a very dedicated team player. Also a fast learner, and highly adaptive to new changes within the workplace and the latest technological advancement, Passionate about data security, integrity and high availability.  Proficient in SQL Tuning, Shell scripting in an Oracle Environment, Expertise in Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation.    Technical Skill Sets Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Senior Consultant Oracle America Inc 2017 to Present Environment: Oracle 12c, 11gR1&2, 10g.    Responsibilities:  • Expert in on-prem to cloud migrations using different methodology including Datapump, RMAN, and Transportable tablespace (XTTS) with migration scope of over 80+ Terabytes of data.  • Database migrations from on-perm to on-prem, on-prem to cloud, EXACC(Oracle Cloud at customer), EXACM(Oracle Exadata Cloud Machine)  • Great hands on experience on building 11.2.0.3/4,12C RAC databases on EXADATA X5, X2-2 FULL, HALF and QUARTER RACK servers.  • Experience in ODA(Oracle Data Appliance) Administration using OAKCLI, including configuration, Bundle Patching, Database deployments, ODA Virtualization and storage/disk config.  • Lift N shift migrations, upgrades, consolidations, Database migrations including consolidation to Oracle 12c with container and pluggable database options  • ExaCC and ExaCM Performance optimization, database premigration dry-run, AWR comparison, post migration metadata comparison, stress-tests, SPA Capture and replay  • Oracle Active Dataguard for high availability/disaster recovery setup (implement and test DR plan)  • Replication, Performance Tuning, RMAN, ASM, RAC, OEM and Golden Gate CDC Setup  • Experience in Exadata database machine Storage configuration.  • Experience on installing and administration of Weblogic 11g/12c and deploying Oracle Middleware applications like OBIEE, ODI, J2EE, APEX on Exadata  • Experience EBS R12 application and database migration from on premise to Oracle Cloud environments  • Experience in Exadata Process Familiarization, High Availability, Object Familiarization, Smart Flash Cache Familiarization.  • Experience in Oracle's high performance engineered systems installation and deployment of Oracle Exadata, Exalogic X3-2, X4-2 and X5-2 and Sun ZFS storage systems hosting Oracle 11g databases and Oracle middleware applications, Peoplesoft.  • Configured and designed Disaster Recovery systems and implemented the Oracle active data guard on the oracle 12C on Exadata. Configured and managed the storage space on Exadata ASM configured and monitored the storage performance.  • Provide sizing for database and provided overall architecture layout for database, load balancers, and middle tier Weblogic servers  • EBS Database Refresh, Patching, Data Migration, Concurrent requests, Workflow, and Performance of Oracle E-business Suite 11i thru 12.2.6  • Configure up High Availability Oracle Golden Gate systems on Oracle 11.2.0.4 RAC environments.  • Effectively decrease OGG lag by using various technical methods such as database tuning, OGG parameter tuning, application large table re-design, Linux/Unix kernel performance tuning.  • Upgrade OGG from 11.2.0.3/4 to 12c Containers/Pluggable DBs.  • Experience on tools and new features like Data Replay, Log Miner and Flashback data Archive, Schema Management, Data guard and RMAN in Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Implement OGG 12c new features in mission-critical production environments  • OLTP, Data Warehouse systems using Oracle databases in Solaris/AIX/Linux/Windows.  • PL/SQL and stored procedures and SQL scripting,  • RMAN BACKUP (HOT & COLD) and RESTORE plan (FULL OR PARTIAL POINT IN TIME DATABASE RECOVERY).  • Configured and built Golden Gate Extracts/replicat for multiple databases. Implemented High availability using GoldenGate Replication.  • PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation, validation, and materialized views for remote instances.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages, creating indexes on the tables for faster retrieval of the data to enhance database performance. Database Administrator 2014 to 2017 Environment: Oracle 12c, 11gR1&2, 10g.  Responsibilities:  • Experienced in Installation and configuration of RAC on different nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  • Configuration expertise with Oracle 12c CDB/PDB architecture and setup experience in High Availability environments using RAC with ASM.  • Oracle 12c Data guard experience with Oracle 12c CDB with multiple instances and using ASM  • Oracle Advanced security(ODA) implementing Transparent data encryption on tablespaces, transparent column encryption (ORAPKI, SQLNET.ORA, AES, DES, 3DES, SALT) , data redaction policy creation on sensitive data, grant/restrict user permissions redaction policies.  • Installation and creation of 12c, 11g (R1 &2), and 10g databases for Testing, Development and Production  • Worked on Exadata X5 Super cluster Full rack Storage Server I/O Resource Management (IORM) PLAN to manage workloads across multiple databases and DBRM Plan within a database.  • Implemented and used Exadata Hybrid Columnar Compression (EHCC) for large objects, HCC compression.  • Configuring storage cell disks and Grid Disks on Exadata cell servers, Patching of Exadata Cell Storage servers, Administration of Exadata Machine Using Cellcli & DCLI utility  • Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Skills in SQL* PLUS, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH), Import/Export Server Manager.  • Database Refresh from Production to Test and Development environments using DataPump.  • Extensive knowledge in Database Backup and Recovery concepts using RMAN utilities (scheduling full/incremental/cumulative backups, hot/cold backups writing/editing UNIX Shell Scripts for RMAN).  • Experience in LOGICAL RMAN BACKUPS and Database migration tools with DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable table spaces .Creating and rebuilding RMAN DATABASE CATALOG for Test, Development and Production.  • Experience in applying several patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches, Patch sets as per the oracle recommendations.  • Experience in Logical backup using and full/ partial export/import and Data Pump EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Experience implementing, tuning and maintaining Oracle Database using Oracle enterprise on AWS EC2 , performed Database server builds in EC2 RDS environment and monitoring them using cloud watch.  • Installed and configured Oracle Servers on UNIX, Linux and Windows. Applied Oracle Corporation recommended patches and created development, test and production databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database through Database Tuning; Tuning Applications, Tuning Instance, and Tuning Disk Usage.  • Implemented Data guard in the production environment for high availability, data protection and disaster recovery.  • Excellent experience in various migration techniques like export/import, Data pump, backup restore, cloning, and data guard.  • Proficient in setting up Standby Database supported by ORACLE DATAGUARD for disaster recovery purpose.  • Implementing FSFO (Fast start failover) on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using Dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and Snapshot standby database.  • Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration and troubleshooting GoldenGate issues and worked on migrations of several VLDB across different platforms using GoldenGate with near zero downtime under high performance with low impact.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics, snapshots and reports.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Used Grid Control extensively and set up Rules for alert notification and schedule RMAN backups with Failure notification.  • Wrote shell scripts for purging trace file, alert log and network log files in Linux boxes which is used as standard script across all the databases  • Installed Oracle 10g RAC database on RHEL and applied all current patches, Maintenance and administration of Oracle 11g on Red hat Linux.  • Backups through RMAN, Database Restore using RMAN, Cold Backup and Export/Import, Used Flashback technology to restore Database tables and queries  • Performance Tuning i.e. Tuning RAC, tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms  • Executed Database backups and Using RMAN. Executed complete and incomplete recovery. Logical Database import and Export Using Data Pump. Database/Systems Administrator Multi-Pro Enterprises Ltd 2010 to 2013 Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g SQL, Shell Scripting, UNIX, RHEL 4x, 5x. Windows, Linux. SSH, VMware    Responsibilities:  • Involved in 24x7 support for both Production and Development databases  • Installation, creation of 10g and 11g databases for Testing, Development and Production  • Used Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Enterprise Manager for various maintenance tasks like backing up of database, restoration and recovery of database.  • Provided technical support and assistance to all database end-users and Creating users, allocation to appropriate tablespace quotas with necessary privileges and roles for all databases.  • Identified repeated issues, perform root cause analysis (RCA) and complete documentation of problem and solutions.  • Prepared weekly and monthly reports on database health check and growth  • Created database objects like tables, indexes, synonyms, views etc.  • Tuning Oracle 10g database servers using tools dynamic, dictionary views, Stats pack, ADDM, AWR Diagnostic and tuning packages.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Performed Cloning/Refresh to setup Test and Development database, Installed, configured and administered Standby Database. Cloned databases for testing, Managed Users access control and security by creating appropriate roles and profiles.  • Implemented and configured Oracle Net and resolved connectivity issues, Assisted Application team in Database Installations,  • Troubleshooting and Problem resolution Exports/ Imports, Hot and Cold Backups, Shell Scripting, Restoration Space Management, Tuning Memory, SGA, I/O.  • Objects sizing and strategizing Backups including usage of RMAN Database Recovery, Upgrade and Migration of Database from Oracle 10g to 11g and applying patches when required.  • Perform system upgrades and facilitate installation of new software releases, Maintain data files and monitor system configuration to ensure data integrity.  • Utilize enterprise monitoring platforms to ensure maximum efficiency of all systems, Managing VMware vSphere ESXi 5.5 and VirtualBox 5 and ensuring shared storage availability.  • Administration of RHEL 5, CentOS 6, and Windows servers 2008, Maintain network infrastructure (Configure Firewall, Switches), Managing VPS and shared hosting services, Apache, PHP, PhpMyAdmin, cPanel.  • Remote server configuration, FTP and SFTP protocol, VNC server and X server setup, Perform routine network administration and maintenance, reviews of backups, Acronis, Backup Exec (Veritas).  • Provided customer service support, which always met or exceeded Service Level Agreements (SLA). Education Bachelor of Science University of Benin Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, PostgresSQL (2 years)