Environmental, Health and Safety Manager Environmental, Health and Safety Manager Environmental, Health and Safety Manager - Ardagh Group Bossier City, LA Highly organized Safety Manager with a strong attention to detail who monitors and ensures compliance with OSHA standards, including health and safety statutes and regulations. Oversees organizational health and safety policies, creates programs and communicates guidelines while conducting analyses of current systems and updating as needed. Work Experience Environmental, Health and Safety Manager Ardagh Group - Simsboro, LA August 2017 to Present • Identify and inspect hazards and develop corrective measures for elimination as well as follow up of corrective measures.  • Introduce and monitor concepts, rules and regulations governing occupational health and safety.  • Audit the workplace organization and employee behaviors to ensure training, auditing and scoring methods are accurate and consistent.  • Provide ongoing training and supervision for all facility emergency response teams.  • Plan and monitor accident alerts and rescue services.  • Drive a culture of safety on site to support the delivery of performance metrics.  • Ensure ISO 14001-2015 requirements are maintained in accordance with ISO standards.  • Monitor, analyze, interpret and report on impacts of deficiencies related to operational risk programs and requirements and overall effectiveness of controls; recommend mitigating solutions and actions. Environmental, Health and Safety Specialist Ardagh Group - Simsboro, LA April 2015 to August 2017 • Develop and report key performance metrics to facilitate continuous, ongoing improvement of facility efforts and results.  • Conduct periodic program analysis and provide reports to business leadership, make recommendations to improve safety performance.  • Assist supervisors with determining root cause and corrective actions on all incidents and assist in case management of reported injuries.  • Manage the delivery of New Hire Safety Orientation and Supervisor/Manager Safety Onboarding  • Work with operations management to ensure effective implementation of environmental, health and safety processes, utilizing management framework and scorecard systems.  • Develop strategies to improve safety performance, reduce accident/injury/illness incident rates and control workers' compensation costs. Operations Supervisor / Safety Team Champion Con-way Freight - Shreveport, LA May 2014 to April 2015 • Work directly with operations management to develop and implement an effective site specific safety plan.  • Develop, maintain and communicate safety software utilization content.  • Mentor, coach, and provide safety guidance to supervisors and team members within the organization.  • Enforce all company, FMCSR, OSHA and DOT policies, rules, regulations and laws as required.  • Identify resources, manage daily workloads and, in conjunction with operations management, make staffing adjustments when workload necessitates.  • Monitor loss prevention performance and ensure/assist with the development of corrective/improvement plans to address deficiencies. Database Administrator / Safety Coordinator U.S. Navy - Norfolk, VA May 2009 to January 2014 • Monitor and advise management on unit safety as to working conditions and practices with respect to safe operations and the control of designated substances.  • Develop reward recognition programs for safety performance.  • Perform unit safety performance audits.  • Coordinate the implementation of effective programs for the identification, prevention and control of occupational injuries and illnesses.  • Perform procedures to obtain, update, and validate information; maintain a high accuracy rate through data verification, attention to detail, and regular quality control checks.  • Analyze operational data and equipment performance history; deliver improvements in critical departmental related metrics including: unplanned downtime, schedule compliance, and maintenance related costs. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College 2016 Bachelor of Arts in Sociology West Virginia University 2006 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Training & Development (10+ years), Risk Management (4 years), Incident Management (4 years), EHS Certifications/Licenses OSHA 40 Hour HAZWOPER First Aid CPR AED DOT Hazardous Materials Six-Sigma Green Belt Additional Information SKILLS:    • 10 years safety experience working in a fast-paced development and production environment.  • Highly knowledgeable in federal and state safety regulations, regulatory agency interaction processes, and incident response and investigation.  • Analytical inquisitiveness and problem solving ability, and ability to ask insightful questions, break analytical challenges into workable components and draw meaningful conclusions.  • Versatile, adaptable and willing to accept new responsibilities and multiple tasks.  • Demonstrated ability to prioritize multiple and changing workloads by multi-tasking to meet goals, objectives and deadlines.  • Strong knowledge of DBS tools (Kaizen, Hoshin, Six Sigma, and Lean).  • Proficient knowledge of Microsoft Office to include Word, Excel, Power Point, and Microsoft Project.  • Excellent communication skills with the ability to develop and deliver safety programs and training material.