Job Seeker Work Experience Roche Diagnostics March 2016 to Present Data Consultant Fusion Alliance September 2013 to Present Engagement Database Administrator Garretson Resolution Group September September 2015 to March 2016 2013- September 2015    Key Skills CoaguChekLink LIMS, T-SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, SQL Data Tools, XML, C#, MDX, DMX, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, XML, DAX, Tableau, Python, HL7, R  Responsibilities(Roche Diagnostics)  • ETL Development of complex business processes that saved cost.  • Built a data warehouse that merged CRM, Billing System and Laboratory System.  • Database Administrator ensuring data is up and running (Stat update, backups, index rebuilding and reorganization, preventing locking and blocking).  • LIMS support of a medical testing device.  • Power BI and Tableau desktop professional.  • LIMS to EMR integration (Athena and Practice Fusion)  • Mentor Junior Staffs on Laboratory internal processes.  • SSAS/ Tabular Model Development using MDX and DAX in building visual powerful analytical report.  • SSRS report developer.  • work flow process for tracking, measuring and reporting on business processes.  • Data Governance steward.    Responsibilities(Allison Payment Solution)  • Implemented Data Migration from SQL Server 2005 to 2014.  • Database Administrator ensuring data is up and running (Stat update, backups, index rebuilding and reorganization, preventing locking and blocking).  • ETL Development of complex business processes that enabled quicker payment solution.  • SSAS/ Tabular Model Development using MDX and DAX in building visual powerful analytical report.  • SSRS report developer.  • Power BI and Tableau desktop professional.    Responsibilities(Garretson Resolution Group)  • Developed Business Intelligence / Analytics in a collaborative environment using Business Intelligence, SharePoint and Nintex Technologies for compliance monitoring program for the Laboratory.  • Built Complex ETL processes that made business process faster.  • SSAS/ Tabular Model Development using MDX and DAX in building visual powerful analytical report.  • SSRS report developer.  • Database Administrator ensuring data is up and running (Stat update, backups, index rebuilding and reorganization, preventing locking and blocking).  • Developed a business work flow process for tracking, measuring and reporting on business processes. Data Consultant Allegient Consulting May 2013 to September 2013 Engagement Business Intelligence stack for client training.  Key Skills T-SQL, SQL Server, SQL Data Tools, XML, C#, MDX, DMX, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS  Responsibilities  • Developed a business intelligence stack that covered integration, multidimensional cubes and tabular reports.  • Deployed an SSRS solution to a network of schools via SharePoint. IT Administrator AIT Laboratory May 2010 to May 2013 Engagement Provided support to a 24 hour lab operation that had a highly systematic automated system.  Key Skills C#, VB.Net, CACHE Database, SQL Server, MUMPS, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, SSAS  Responsibilities  • Developed business intelligence solutions on multiple database platforms across the Laboratory using Business Intelligence  • Led a Laboratory Information Management System to Electronic Medical Record system integration.  • SSIS Development.  • Automation of Laboratory processes ( Order entry and compliance monitoring program)  • SSRS Development.  • SSAS Development  • Developed a blood dose correlation automation solution in the laboratory using Cache Mumps code and SQL Server Reporting Services to monitor performance.  • Assisted in the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications.  • Worked directly with customers, analysts and vendors to develop, articulate, and document a business intelligence project approach.  • Developed a productivity tracking map using VB.Net with SSRS. Education MS in Bioinformatics Indiana University 2010 to 2013 BSc in Management Information System Covenant University 2003 to 2007