Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator -Microsoft SQL server San Ramon, CA ? More than 8 years of professional experience in Microsoft SQL server & DB2 Z/OS with emphasis on database architecture, administration, migration, upgrade, business requirement analysis, database design, Data modelling, implementation and production support/maintenance of critical OLTP, OLAP and data warehouse environments.  ? Working as Sr. Database administrator in Microsoft SQL server and DB2 ZOs with extensive experience in logical and physical database design, performance tuning, database utilities, backup and recovery strategies, capacity planning, high availability, disaster recovery, database monitoring, troubleshooting.  ? Highly experienced as a Technical lead not only responsible for end-to-end production support but also providing solutions on multiple technical activities including database project planning and execution in an Onsite-Offshore model.  ? Extensive experience installation, configuring including database setup, backup and recovery strategy planning/implementation with Multiple versions of Microsoft SQL server (2000/2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016).  ? DB2 Z/OS DBA is my secondary skill, having a strong knowledge and extensive experience in DB2 databases administration. Hands on experience in end-to-end RTB and upgrade of Db2 databases in Mainframe platform.  ? Handled production incidents, queries, problems through remedy ticketing system and non -production issues/tasks/incidents through JIRA ticketing system.  ? Actively involved in playing a key role in Level based support (L1/L2/L3) as a L2 Support Engineer interacting with command center/Helpdesk L1 teams and Developers/Architects/ SME from L3 Support  ? Resolved issues related to other applications that connecting SQL server databases.  ? Have led the Database migration and Database upgrade projects at Nissan NA.  ? Actively worked on Disaster Recovery exercises recovering and restoring databases after data center crashes/shutdown.  ? Worked extensively on SSRS reports designed and deployed the reports into the Reporting Server and automating the e-mails to the customer.  ? Created and updated KB articles to help team resolve issues at the L1/L2/L3 level.  ? Worked extensively on Performance Tuning and Query Optimization of TSQL queries/procedures.  ? Individual Contributor and good team player, strong interpersonal and Communication skills combined with self-motivation, initiative and ability to think outside the box. Quick learner and good team player. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Tech-Mahindra Americas Inc - San Ramon, CA February 2019 to Present Period: Feb 2018 to till date.    DBA Tasks and Responsibilities:  Daily Activity:  ? Incident handling  ? Alert handling  ? Transaction log failure  ? Filesystem alerts.    Weekly Activity:  ? Backup failure  ? Critical issues reporting  ? Team meeting    Responsibilities:  ? SQL server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS & SSMS installation  ? SQL server patching  ? Database commissioning & decommissioning  ? Troubleshooting database related critical incidents  ? Working with various vendors on database related activities.  ? Grant & revoke access to the databases  ? Database refresh on various environments.  ? Backup and Restore.  ? Performing various level of testing from database size during project life cycle.  ? SSRS & SSIS configurations.  ? Disaster recovery planning  ? Creating, deletion and configurations of  * Database maintenance jobs  * Logins  * Linked Servers Senior Database Administrator (SQL server & DB2 Zos) Tech-Mahindra Americas Inc May 2014 to January 2019 Work Location: Nissan HQ - Tennessee, USA  Role: Senior Database Administrator (SQL server & DB2 Zos)  Period: May 2014 to Jan 2019 (Tennessee, USA) DBA Tasks and Responsibilities Nissan NA - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2010 to May 2014 Administrating multiple standalone and cluster databases in medium to large-scale environment for Nissan NA 24*7-production support environment.  ? Handling day-to-day Alert and failures.  ? Responsible for database incidents/problem solving, handing SRT calls for critical production issues, Root cause analysis, reporting action item for production incidents and implementing fixes/Long term solutions for resolving issues permanently.  ? Participate in CWT calls/ War Room for database related issues until permanent fix.  ? Closely Work with Microsoft support to resolve high complex issues or product level bug fixes via case.  ? Administrating different version of MS-SQL server database version starting from 2005, 2008 (R2), 2012, 2014 and 2016.  ? Worked on MS SQL server environment setup, which includes installation, configuration, instance setup, database creation, users & profiles configuration, etc  ? Regular Database maintenance planning and scheduling reorg and run stats jobs.  ? Database backup strategy planning and implementation based on environment criticality and capacity, like Full, deferential backups.  ? Database transaction log backup configuration and periodic scheduling.  ? Performed database restoration and point in time recovery for critical application databases.  ? Setting SQL Standards across SQL Servers in the environment.  ? Creation of reports on SSRS as per customer requirements.  ? Creation of packages using SSIS as per customer requirements.  ? Database security & permission management - user accounts set-up, permission granting, revoking.  ? Database performance monitoring, indexing, stats gathering, application sql queries tuning.  ? Database reporting and data processing using SSIS & SSRS packages.  ? Provide support for development and testing team for projects and enhancements, full database level refresh, data refresh using export/import to Dev, QA and Staging environment.  ? SQL server patch installation on regular basis to keep databases out of bugs/known issues.  ? Performed nearly 100+- database environments upgrade from version 2000/2005/2008 to very latest version 2016.  ? Participate in Yearly DR exercises and performed database recovery.  ? Configuring database-monitoring jobs with email notification for Ticketing.    The below are the additional projects worked along with RTB Support.    Additional Projects worked in Nissan North America:  Role: Project Technical Lead  Project Name: SQL 2008 Upgrade & Windows Upgrade  Responsibilities:  • Identification of the application and Database for upgrade.  • Impact analysis and planning on the overall upgrade.  • IRD diagram correction and update.  • Performing Database upgrade.  • Tracking of the project status.  • Coordination with different Stake holders on application configuration and testing  • Resource planning  • Project Status update to the stake holder  • Scheduling of the cutover to new servers or new databases  • Setting up war room for issue troubleshooting.  • Tracking status update on progress from different teams  • Aim of the project is to upgrade all SQL server 2012/2008 to SQL server 2016 and Windows 2008 servers to Windows 2012  • IIS Migrations    Project Name: NNA SQL server upgrade  Responsibilities:  • Getting requirement from Application teams on upgrading the database  • Communicating and planning of upgrade  • Coordinating with different teams about the project input  • Validate availability of permission on target DB servers. Install SQL 2012 on Database servers  • Perform full backup of database on source server  • Restore database into target database server  • Configure database on target database server  • Setup user account similar to source database in new database server  • Configure security similar to source database in new database server  • Configure the database to run as per the new port configuration standard  • Collaborate with application team during application testing  • Create Test Cases and scripts for functional and regression testing  • Perform application functional and regression testing  • Engage 3rd party application vendor as required  • Any effort required for remediation of application code to comply with the migration will be additional effort and will be estimated when such situation occurs  • Participate in final migration  Project Name: NNA DB2 Remediation and Upgrade  Responsibilities:  ? As a team lead, I coordinate with offshore team throughout the project.  ? Understanding the requirement from Infra team  ? Working on analysis on the DB2 V7 to upgrade to DB2 V8 CM  ? Performing testing after the upgrade done by infra team  ? Performing bind on invalid plans and packages as part of prerequisites  ? Perform various activities for prerequisites for DB2 V8 upgrade  ? Cleaning up old and unused databases  ? Helping application team to bind their programs after the DB2 upgrade  ? Running reports for Upgrade of DB2  ? Helping Client Project manager in Schedule planning    Project Name: NNA Zos Upgrade  Responsibilities:  ? Overall Project Management  ? Planning Project planning  ? Coordination with application team, DBA team, Nissan BA and other Infrastructure teams  ? Planning periodic meeting with team members  ? Tracking project tasks and assign task to respective teams  ? Planning Project cutover and coordinating the cutover activities  ? Performing testing after the Zos upgrade and collecting test cases from other teams and submitting to Client  ? Deciding on GO or NO GO during the cut over done    Project Name: NNA AMO COE - DBA  Responsibilities:    ? Providing RTB support for the Nissan North America on SQL Server & DB2 Z/OS.  ? Helping application team to configure database parameters in the application  ? Creating database objects as per application specification  ? Backup and restore activity on databases.  ? Worked on MOCK DRE to ensure the preparation for DRE  ? Configuring Backup jobs for tablespaces in DB2  ? Capacity planning on SQL server Databases  ? Providing Access & revoke access to databases  ? Providing suggestions on index creation  ? Performance tuning of database and application related to database access  ? Planning monthly, weekly & daily database Maintenance activity  ? Performing Reorg and rebuild index on databases.    Project Name: NNA DBA - XIGN EIPP  Responsibilities:  ? Migrate Data from Vendor database to SQL server 2008  ? Understanding the requirement from client  ? Extracting the data from vendor sight, creating database objects based on vendor data model.  ? Loading data from excel to SQL server database based on data mapping  ? Helping application team to extract data for Audit purpose.  ? End of the project period, helped to migrate data from SQL to Oracle. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University Skills Sql Database, Sql Dba, DBA