Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - TransAmerica Life Insurance Co Oakdale, MN An accomplished Oracle Database Administrator with over 8 years expertise and experience in RDBMS on design, development and production environments within different organizations.  Proficient in an assortment of technologies including 10g, 11g and 12c, with proven ability to securely manage sensitive data and ensure high availability. Fluent in both English and French languages, with exceptional verbal, written and organizational abilities. A pro-active team player with problem-solving and troubleshooting skills and result-oriented attitude towards work. Strong work ethics, company-first attitude and dynamism to perform well in geographically and culturally diverse settings. An energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Able to learn new technology quickly, and can work on-call rotations.    Core Skills/Competencies:  ? Advanced Database Security Methods, including Triple A's and TDE.  ? Backup and Recovery strategies, including RMAN, Data Pump, and user-managed backups  ? Creation and Management of Tablespaces and Memory structures  ? Creation and Management of Users/Schemas  ? Database Upgrades using DBUA and others  ? Application of Quarterly Patches (CPU, PSU)  ? Data Migration using Data Pump and others  ? Software Installations and Configurations using DBCA and others  ? High-Availability and Disaster Recovery Systems, including RAC, Data Guard and ASM  ? Shell Scripting, Automation and use of SQL and PL/SQL  ? Database Cloning/Refreshes/Replication  ? Remote Database Support and On-Call Rotation  ? Oracle Golden Gate Exposure  ? Dependable Oracle Database Administration  ? Capacity Planning Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator TransAmerica Life Insurance Co - Rochester, MN September 2015 to Present Working with other I.T. staff to define, refine, and implement strategies and standards for management of data assets within the organization, including platforms, security, high-availability, disaster recovery, automation, auditing and others. Experiences include:  ? Encrypting sensitive database tables/columns/tablespaces using TDE (transparent data encryption) and using Data Masking and Data Redaction to enhance data security.  ? Applied Oracle Quarterly patches (CPU and PSU) to RAC and non-RAC databases using Opatch utility  ? Implementing database security and user management by restricting access to data and database resources via Roles, Privileges, Profiles and enforcing the Triple A's (Authorization, Authentication, and Auditing).  ? Planning and scheduling Backup/Recovery Strategies (both logical and physical backups using RMAN, Expdp/Impdp), and simulating different data loss scenarios to restore and recover with minimal MTTR.  ? Performing hot and cold backups, including full and incremental, based on database sizes and SLAs.  ? Created and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery performance.  ? Creating database clones and refreshes for development and test environments from Production, using RMAN, Data Pump and pre-generated scripts/SOPs, with Implementation of Flashback Technology.  ? Recovery of corrupted or missing critical files (such as Control Files, Datafiles), using RMAN and other GUI and Command Line options.  ? Capacity Planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage, and memory for the databases  ? Performing SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention management and tuning database issues by generating, interpreting and using Optimizer Statistics/Explain Plan, ASH, AWR, ADDM Reports and accessing the Alert Log, SQL Trace, TKPROF and others, recommending the best tuning actions.  ? Suggested modifications on company's SLAs and worked with I.T. team to implement enhancements for performance optimization and reliability of the systems  ? Performing Database Restarts (Shutdown & Startup) when needed for various reasons.  ? Proactive Performance monitoring/tuning of databases and application servers using OEM grid/cloud.  ? Installed, setup and configured Data Guard and Broker for high availability, disaster recovery and seamless Switchover/Failover for single and multiple instances, with Maximum Performance Mode.  ? Configuring, after installing and/or Upgrading Production and non-production Databases to 11.2.0.4, and some to 12.1.0.1, on Linux (RHEL 7.3) using DBCA, DBUA and OUI.  ? Worked in a cross-functional team that oversaw the Oracle 10g & 11g multi-node and RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments using ClusterWare and ASM.  ? Configured Targets and used OEM to do daily tasks regarding database performance and maintenance.  ? Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net, Putty and MobaXterm to access the database across the network  ? Experience with Oracle Support Process for Technical issues or Service Requests, using Oracle Metalink or My Oracle Support and other support procedures.  ? Providing 24/7 (on-call) production support as needed, including troubleshooting hardware and software issues. Oracle Database Administrator Boston Scientific June 2011 to August 2015 Administered development and test databases and worked with team members to resolve production issues in the Oracle and SQL Server databases.  ? Upgrading from Oracle 10g to 11g.  ? Migrated data using traditional exp/imp utilities and other data transfer methods.  ? Performed user-managed backup of the database files (control files, datafiles, redologs files) and used RMAN on some backup and migration projects.  ? Suggested modifications on company's SLAs and worked with I.T. team to implement enhancements for performance optimization and reliability of the systems  ? Established and maintained controls to ensure security and protection of data assets and critical data  ? Proactively monitored databases/servers, utilizing knowledge and critical thinking to resolve incidents  ? Performance tuning and optimization analysis, utilizing TOAD and other native database monitoring and troubleshooting tools  ? Consistently executed tasks and system changes using pre-defined SOPs/SLAs  ? Recovered critical files and restored/recovered databases after media/user failures.  ? Oracle 10g database cloning to create test environments from production  ? Securing the database via privileges, roles, profiles and auditing  ? Perform Database Restarts (Shutdown & Startup) when needed for various reasons.  ? Implemented System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for design, analysis, development and implementation of relational databases.  ? Queried database objects and also used DDLs, DMLs, and other SQL commands to access, insert, modify, and/or delete data/objects from databases.  ? Securely managed and maintained the company's databases on Linux (RHEL 5.6) and Sun SOLARIS platforms.  ? Use of Oracle Virtual Machine (OVM) for testing  ? Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  ? Proactively monitored databases/servers, utilizing knowledge and critical thinking to resolve incidents  ? SQL/Performance tuning, backup and recovery support, installation and configuration of Oracle software, and application of quarterly patches (CPU and PSU).  ? Supported I.T., educational and development teams through design, development, implementation, maintenance, support, and administration of database solutions Education Diploma in Nursing St Louis University Institute of Health July 2011 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, SQL, RMAN, LOADER, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, ETL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/angela-ngu Certifications/Licenses 1z0-062 12C certified Associate March 2019 to Present Additional Information It was with great interest that I read about a recent job posting for an experienced Database Administrator in your esteemed organization. As an accomplished Database administrator, with hands-on experience overseeing design, development and maintenance of various database systems, I believe the requirements and skills listed on your website closely match my background and future career goals.      Over the course of my career thus far, I have designed databases to fit a variety of needs, successfully ensured the security of those databases, problem-solved in order to meet both back-end and front-end needs, installed and tested new versions  of database management systems, customized and installed applications and meticulously monitored performance for the smoothest front-end experience possible. During my 7 plus years working with databases, I have learned that open communication and tireless problem solving is just as important as extensive technical knowledge.    I appreciate the opportunity to bring my passion for It, team leadership skills and ability to problem-solve amongst others to your reputed company.Attached is my resume.  I can be reached anytime at 651-210-5084 or through email at angemonica@yahoo.com.Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to speaking with you about this opportunity further.