Web Applications Developer Web Applications Developer Web Applications Developer - Riverside Research Lafayette, CO • Possess the ability to learn new software languages, packages, and technologies quickly and efficiently.    • Experienced with programming languages such as PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and postgreSQL/mysql    • Security+ Certified    • Code Archeologist: Able to decipher and model older code for updating and feature enhancement.    • Experienced in providing Personnel Training including instruction of data analysis and in-house procedures. Work Experience Web Applications Developer Riverside Research - Aurora, CO February 2017 to Present • Design, develop, maintian, and enhance software solution for NGA Source  • Collaborate with operation personnel to develop innovative approches  • Provide hands-on software assistance to operation teams on varying projects. Software Engineer Braxton Technologies - Colorado Springs, CO November 2015 to February 2017 • Enhance performance and create new abilities for the Ground Based-Electro-Optical Deep Space Surveillance system (GEODSS)  • Design and Development of new Advanced Data Communication Control Procedures (ADCCP) message in the Ada programming language  • Cultivation of new programming language skills - ADA, and new technologies - GEODSS Web Developer - Bi Boulder, CO June 2015 to October 2015 • Wrote back-end functionality for BI company website using PHP, JavaScript, and MySQL  • Updated existing code for smooth operation  • Programs, maintains, documents and administers the Company's internal and external websites.  • Provides technical support for the Company's internal and external websites, including troubleshooting problems and providing timely resolution. Fix problems with code as they have arisen with minimal down time Database Administrator Consistent State - Denver, CO May 2013 to August 2014 • Wrote back-end functionality for a real estate website using PHP, JavaScript, and postgreSQL  • Working remotely, assist in day to day database administration duties.  • Database patch management for a research and software development company that specializes in brain science and enhanced learning.  • Assisted in routine testing, backup and recovery, and basic troubleshooting.  • Experience with basic PostgreSQL queries used to extract, update, and insert data.  • Creating and updating databases, tables, constraints, and sequences. Government Information Analyst Boeing - Englewood, CO November 2011 to April 2013 • Compile, analyze, format and update aeronautical data gathered from various source documents, using established processes and computational tools to create and/or maintain assets.  • Utilize ArcGIS on a daily basis to aid in the creation of geo-spacial intelligence (GEOINT) data including research, extraction, and measurement of aeronautical hazards and aids of navigation.  • Generate geo-spatial maps of electrical energy grids throughout the world to include the United States, Russia, and China. Image Analyst DigitalGlobe - Longmont, CO November 2008 to December 2008 • Participated in the ortho-mosaic of over 1,000,000km2 of satellite imagery data for Microsoft Bing Maps website. Generated basic imagery products from satellite data, performed QC and archived raw satellite data.  • Analyzed satellite imagery to collect tie and control points, ran triangulation, processed orthos and ortho-mosaics with the Product Processor and other COTS software and reviewed the final products for accuracy and quality.  • Evaluated GIS data such as tie and ground control and ground truth points for compliance and accuracy. Performed QC checks and made corrections when necessary. GIS Image Analyst - AT Specialist Microsoft - Boulder, CO October 2006 to September 2008 • Processed photogrammetric data through multi-sensor aerial triangulation including GCP measurement, processing, and final bundle adjustment.  • Managed the orthorectification and QC process of 2,000 aerial image blocks used for Microsoft Bing Maps website. Major cites included New York, Chicago, Miami and Tokyo.  • Conducted troubleshooting exercises of problematic data sets and resolved processing issues and coordinated with operation, test, and development personnel regarding issues impacting production.  • Created, maintained QC of, and modified ortho-rectified mosaics. Education RF Technision Keesler Air Force Base - Biloxi, MS March 2010 to September 2010 BS in University of Colorado CU Boulder - Boulder, CO Skills Arcview (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), PHP (5 years), Python (1 year), Flask (1 year), HTML (5 years), css (5 years), Ada (2 years), DOS (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), MySQL (5 years), PostgresSQL (5 years), SQlite (4 years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: TSgt Present Certifications/Licenses Security+ Additional Information Computer Skills:  Hardware: DOS, Linux, UNIX workstations, Networked PCs, Macintosh equipment  Op. Systems: UNIX, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, Mac OS  Languages: Easi (PCI), HTML, IDL, JavaScript, Perl, PHP, postgreSQL, Unix/DOS shell  Software: AutoCAD 2000, Arcview, Arcmap, Corpscon, DIME, ERMapper, Excel, Freehand, GIT GrafNav, IDL, JavaScript, MapInfo, Microstation, MS Word, PHP, MS Publisher, Orthovista, OrthovistaSE, PCI, PhotoShop, postgresSQL, SocetSet, Terramodel and company created software.