Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer Technical / Software / *PEOPLE* Support Engineer Methuen, MA Experienced Principal Technical Support Specialist skilled at resolving complex internal and customer issues  by troubleshooting in a timely and patient manner. I am polite and very difficult to rattle or intimidate, even my time off work to raise my kids paid off as I had triplets and raisef them through teenagerhood; I have faced everything now! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Engineer SHORE.NET - Lynn, MA March 2003 to June 2004 Developed highly empathetic client relationships with Internet clients at this early internet service provider, serving much of Massachusetts at this point. Earned reputation for being able to calm the most disgruntled  client/senior employee. Cross-trained and provided back-up for other customer service representatives when needed. Managed quality communication, customer support and product representation for each client. Promptly  responded to general inquiries from members, staff, and clients via mail, e-mail and fax. Worked under strict  deadlines and responded to service requests and emergencies. Guaranteed positive customer experiences and resolved all customer complaints. Responsible for staying in touch with customers in a timely manner and  guaranteeing high level of customer service. I only left this company to have my children; triplets, but the job was excellent. Technical Support Engineer CLINICAL NETWORX, INC - Waltham, MA August 2001 to February 2003 Provided first line support for customers via phone, email, or text message for our medical database management  software, used by many doctors' office. This position often received calls that were time-critical for the doctor and thereby the patient; I had to confirm the issue, try to recreate it and offer a solution to the client, all under  tremendous time-pressure. Technical Support Representative NOVASOFT, INC - Burlington, MA November 1999 to August 2001 Provide first line support for this document management software. Was responsible for phone support as well as email or other requests for help; any issues that arose for the customer became my ony priority to troubleshoot, and even if it turned out to be user error, any result that had the customer up and running was a good result! Technical Support Representative BBN - Cambridge, MA September 1997 to November 1999 Was a first-line and then second-line level of support for BBN's internet and DNS management customers. The  phone was always ringing, and I had to learn to juggle several customers and not let any of them down. I began to take pride in my ability to tease out solutions to problems. Assistant Systems and Database Administrator NOBLE - NORTH OF BOSTON LIBRARY EXCHANGE - Beverly, MA January 1996 to September 1997 Was assistant to the Systems Administrator, in a small company of 5 that was responsible for housing and managing the entire North of Boston Library Exchange (NOBLE), at that point in time represented by a UNIX  database (for which I relearned SQL to write scripts with) and terminals for the end users, which often were misused and ended up stuck. My job was to not only print out all of the overdue notices for the libraries but to perform  backups of the main database and answer the phone for any library in the group of 30-35 that might call. Technical Engineer STANFORD UNIVERSITY - Palo Alto, CA July 1994 to January 1996 Directly after college I followed a desire to pursue sleep research out to Stanford, under the tutelage of a prominent  professor in Palo Alto. I learned many aspects of sleep research, although most of my time was spent organizing the database we had, as well as troubleshooting and inventing scripts to work with the data to provide useful  information as a result. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and psychology Tufts University - Medford, MA September 1990 to June 1994 Additional Information I hope to hear from you - despite being fully ready to go back to work I have found it difficult as a woman in her forties to find work especially in technology so I'm looking for a company that doesn't mind or rather embraces inclusiveness. Thank you so much for your time and consideration!