Salesforce User Experience & Database Manager Salesforce User Experience &amp; <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Rockland, MA Work Experience Salesforce User Experience & Database Manager July 2019 to Present • Manage a team with responsibilities of addressing and resolving user issues as well as maintaining data integrity and integration with third party data streams.  • Work with cross-functional teams of department stakeholders to ensure that Salesforce architecture aligns with organizational priorities and strategy.  • Oversee routine data cleaning and data quality checks, including de-duplication, mass upserts and uploads, data  validation, and migration.  • Develop reports and dashboards to continuously monitor data integrity.  • Develop and document Salesforce and other data system protocols and procedures, and lead on-going training of Salesforce users. State Street Corporation - Boston, MA June 2017 to Present Salesforce User Experience Manager June 2018 to July 2019 • Initiated and executed on strategic projects to increase adoption and enhance user experience.  • Collaborated with department heads to discuss business plan mapping to Salesforce capabilities and developed  customized onboarding plans for their teams.  • Oversaw a Sales Cloud instance utilized by over 1,300 users, including a Champion Network, with representation  expanding throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas.  • Managed the enhancement request backlog and carried out configuration tasks for our Sales Cloud, Service Cloud  and Community environments.  • Managed a team with responsibilities of addressing and resolving user issues, as well as leading the training and adoption program. Salesforce Specialist June 2017 to June 2018 • Triaged and resolved end-user cases by providing front-line support and troubleshooting system errors in SF360.  • Facilitated the resolution of month end cases to ensure accurate financial reporting to senior management.  • Lead end-user trainings via WebEx, 1:1 sessions, and in-person group training covering employees company-wide.  • Developed new training presentations, quick guides, and video module training with Camtasia software to increase  confidence and system fluency of end-users.  • Developed, compiled, and managed monthly newsletter providing system updates, new training materials, and upcoming training session dates.  • Participated in UAT sandbox testing to ensure system enhancements are successfully implemented and do not disrupt  the daily use of SF360 company-wide.  6 Indian Head Lane  Rockland, MA 02370  (617) 688-0930 ? KaitlynHeath@gmail.com Salesforce Administrator Symmons Industries February 2017 to April 2017 Maximized efficiency and the full benefits of Salesforce by working with key stakeholders to map out business  processes and identified solutions to improve KPI performance.  • Promoted user adoption through training sessions including webinars, 1:1 training sessions, how-to videos, reference  guide  documents, in-person field training, and Chatter "Tip of the Week".  • Performed ongoing maintenance and customization of the Salesforce system as business strategy evolved.  • Maintained system security through the transfer of ownership of records and creating new user profiles.  • Oversaw data integrity through records management and reinforcing best practices.  • Enhanced the end user experience by learning new release features on Trailhead and through attending Dreamforce  events. Symmons Industries - Braintree, MA November 2013 to April 2017 Sales Operations Coordinator Symmons Industries August 2014 to February 2017 Organized all Symmons Sales Schools - including coordination of travel, agenda, activities, presentations and other  materials required.  • Managed and coordinated all major customer events and activities as required by sales leadership and tied to trade  shows, events and key customer meetings.  • Initiated and collected monthly bulletin topics for sales communication and worked with marketing to develop and distribute bulletin.  • Managed contact distribution list of all direct and indirect sales reps as well as key customers in North America.  • Managed Salesforce database as the Administrator, including making ongoing data updates, data cleansing and upkeep of business process rules.  • Acted as Salesforce Administrator and supported adoption and implementation through training and ongoing support. Assistant Customer Marketing Manager Symmons Industries November 2013 to August 2014 Performed competitive shops in the retail and showroom channels to analyze pricing, promotion and product  opportunities.  • Processed, managed, and prioritized showroom display orders to ensure the appropriate product mix is represented.  • Created and distributed marketing collateral to promote sales programs, product information and industry trends.  • Assisted with managing the creative process for updating and launching new retail packaging.  • Organized and assisted with retail and showroom events to build brand awareness and increase customer partnerships.  • Worked with cross functional teams to launch new products and coordinated changes to existing lines.  • Coordinated new product launch activities including but not limited to replacement parts, displays, launch kits and signage. Marketing Specialist Cambridge Education, LLC - Westwood, MA September 2012 to November 2013 Wrote and edited proposals to match request for proposal requirements and maintained the highest level of quality  and accuracy.  • Introduced and maintained Salesforce.com within Cambridge Education and trained all employees in successful  utilization of the site.  • Wrote, edited, and managed announcements, press releases, award submittals, technical articles and reports, brochures, capability statements, website content, and other communications. Education Master of Business Administration in General Management Bridgewater State University - Bridgewater, MA May 2015 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Marketing Stonehill College - Easton, MA May 2009 Skills Oracle, Salesforce.com, Cognos, Ibm cognos, Sps Additional Information SKILLS  Language: Proficient in Spanish  Computer: Salesforce.com•, Microsoft Office•, Adobe InDesign CS3•, Adobe Photoshop•, Microsoft Publisher •, Oracle JD  Edwards EnterpriseOne•, SPS Commerce•, IBM Cognos Connection•, Camtasia Studio•