Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Hewlett Packard Enterprise San Diego, CA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Hewlett Packard Enterprise - San Diego, CA September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Managed database security in compliance with company policy and specific client requirements.  ? Performed implementation of Oracle Data Masking based on client requirements, which included creating a strategy to mask various data types, creating an Application Data Model for masking, defining Data Masking Definitions and creating the table structure for the masked data while maintaining referential integrity in addition to creating a strategy for identifying additional sensitive data throughout our environment.  ? Utilized my communication skills in working with clients as the liaison for any technical discussions or issues for my database environments.  ? Gave technical presentations to technical and non-technical audiences including management.  ? Worked with customers to design, develop and implement database backup strategies specific to each environment.  ? Facilitated the migration of an Oracle database instance from a physical server to an Azure cloud IAAS.  ? Gathered data, tested performance and ensured data integrity during the Azure migration effort.  ? Migrated Oracle Restart Oracle Databases to AWS Cloud.  ? Backed up and restored Oracle Database in AWS Cloud.  ? Configured Oracle Database performance for AWS Cloud.  ? Managed Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server 2014 & 2016 databases, including patching for security vulnerabilities.  ? Managed user database access in accordance with company security policies.  ? Performed audits of user database access on a regular basis.  ? Mentored new members of our DBA team.  ? Performed full configuration and install of enterprise-wide (web-based) Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c which included; server/OS preparation, installing OMS and OMR software, the setup of up OEM agents across Hewlett Packard Enterprise's local database environment, the setup of user accounts, and the creation of automated jobs for RMAN backup and OMS backups, delegated access, and created/implemented OEM alerting system.  ? Served as the lead DBA in a data center migration from Plano Texas to Tulsa Oklahoma data centers for several Oracle Databases on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Solaris operating systems.  ? Facilitated the redesign of an in-house data replication stored procedure that resulted in 15% time based performance increase for each replication run.  ? Managed ETL databases, including troubleshooting complex ETL replication performance issues/load slowness.  ? Supported Data Warehouse Oracle database housing Informatica ETL data replication process and assisted in the installation of the Informatica replication server.  ? Assisted in diagnosing Informatica performance issues, and performed root cause analysis for Informatica lag.  ? Managed 50 + databases simultaneously in production and development/test environments larger, some larger than two TB in size.  ? Coordinated, and performed Oracle 11g to 12c upgrades in production environments.  ? Performed performance-tuning, load testing, monitoring, and profiling on databases of varying sizes.  ? Created Ad-hoc SQL reports using BI Publisher and Information Publisher for the HPE DBA team. Database Administrator Intern Hewlett Packard Enterprise - San Diego, CA May 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the elicitation, documentation, analysis and validation of business processes, systems, and solution requirements for new database systems.  ? Assisted with the database modifications, managed database user account and roles in adherence with company policy.  ? Developed and enhanced PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Wrote ad-hoc SQL queries to support management report requests.  ? Managed the DBA team's information repository by performing data audits and data extraction for management using SQL.  ? Analyzed performance issues, fine-tuned databases and analyzed indexes. Data Analyst Intern Vsolvit - Ventura, CA May 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Supported data warehouse process writing SQL queries, stored procedures and views.  ? Performed auditing and sanity checks.  ? Worked with systems analysts to gather technical requirements from clients.  ? Supported Team Lead and Management with technical and administrative tasks in support of our project specific analytical requirements. Business Systems Analyst McIntire Real Estate Inc - San Diego, CA January 2014 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Created planning and analysis documentation and recommendations using the SDLC methodology for a revenue tracking system and product services website.  ? Oversaw of the economic portion of the project; which encompassed a cost benefit analysis, and a cost breakdown of all the major system components.  ? Produced a series of project deliverables; including a feasibility study, project plan, data flow diagrams and use cases.  ? Presented the final project proposal to the project sponsor (McIntire Real Estate). Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems San Diego State University - San Diego, CA August 2013 to May 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/garrettfrye Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server (2003, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012), UNIX - Solaris (10 & 11), Linux (RHEL 6 & 7), Oracle Enterprise Linux 7.    Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Java, Visual Basic, R, Shell Scripting (bash), Python.    Oracle RDBMS: Oracle Database 11g (release 1 & 2) Oracle Database 12c (release 1 & 2), RMAN, RMAN Duplicate, ASM, Import/Export, Data Pump, SQL*LDR, Data Guard, High Availability Configurations, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Oracle Restart, Oracle Goldengate, Oracle Enterprise Manager (12c and 13c), Oracle Data Masking and Subsetting, Microsoft SQL Server: 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.0.    Applications: Amazon EC2, Azure IaaS, Information Publisher (Data Visualization), Wireshark, Informatica, SQL Server Management Studio, Hadoop Release 3, Microsoft Office (Microsoft Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access and Outlook), Oracle Virtual Machine, Toad, SQL Developer, SQLPLUS.