Production Designer / Location Scout Production Designer / Location Scout Digital Asset Management, Production Designer, Multi-Media Artist, and Writer Little Rock, AR Entertainment Media Professional currently working in the Little Rock and Los Angeles television and film post-production community for over 24 years. Well organized and task driven with experience in reality television, low budget scripted short and feature films, and documentaries. I have maintained large physical and virtual media libraries and have knowledge of multiple media formats, filing, and distribution skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Designer / Location Scout Haddonfield Films - Los Angeles, CA June 2016 to December 2017 Set designer for Night of the Deceitful Spider directed by John R. Carpenter. Production Supervisor Wiznu Studio and Gallery - Los Angeles, CA December 2016 to January 2017 Assisted celebrity photographer and director Michael Wisnieux at his DTLA art gallery and production studio on various projects. Post Vault Manager (Tape Librarian) / Pilotware Database Administrator Magical Elves, Inc - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to March 2014 Maintained the physical and digital media library and worked various duties as part of the Peabody and Emmy Award winning post production team for the films "The Real L Word: Hate the Sin", "EDC 2013: Under the Electric Sky", "Katy Perry: Part of Me", "Hunger Hits Home", the television programs "Top Chef", "Top Chef Masters", "Top Chef Just Desserts", "Top Chef Estrellas", "Around the World in 80 Plates", "Life After Top Chef", "Work Of Art", "Cold Justice", "Time of Death", "Fashion Star", "XOX Betsey Johnson", "Braxton Family Values", "Tamar and Vince", "The Real L Word", "Gallery Girls", "Best Bars of America", "<3", "Parental Discretion", "Online Dating Rituals of the American Male", "Arranged Marriage", the web series "Top Chef: Last Chance Kitchen","Top Chef: Padma's Picks", "Top Chef Masters: Battle of the Sous Chefs", "Top Chef: Bryan Voltaggio Takes on New Orleans", "Top Chef Masters: Re-mastered Recipes with Art Smith", "Top Chef: Healthy Showdown", "Wells Fargo Works", "Dress To Kill", "Ford/Yahoo: Plugged In", "Vitamin Water Uncapped", the premium YouTube channel "The Stylish", and etc.  Post Production Coordinator Circus Kids - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to March 2014 Supervised media duplication and festival distribution for the Alexandra Lipsitz directed film. Production Assistant Magical Elves, Inc - Los Angeles, CA February 2008 to June 2011 * Post - Worked various duties as part of the post production team for the film "Justin Bieber: Never Say Never", the television programs "Top Chef", "Top Chef Masters", "Top Chef Just Desserts", "Top Chef Reunion Dinner", "Work Of Art", "Christian Siriano: Having a Moment", "Braxton Family Values", "The Real L Word", "Dance Your Ass Off", "America's Next Great Restaurant", "Character Fantasy", "Arranged Marriage", "Kell On Earth", the web series "Bertolli: Into The Heart of Italy", and etc.  * Development - Worked in the executive office on research and media preparation for various upcoming television projects and on personal projects for the company owners and producers.  * Office - Worked various duties in the main production office for "Project Runway", "Top Chef", "Step It Up and Dance", "Top Design", "Character Fantasy", "Character Fantasy Road Trip", "Dance on Sunset", "The A-List Awards", "Top Chef Junior", "Top Chef Masters", "Arranged Marriage", "Kell On Earth", "Work of Art" and etc.  * Set - Worked on location for the programs "Character Fantasy" and "Step It Up and Dance".. Second Assistant Director Glad I Thought Of It Productions - Los Angeles, CA September 2008 to September 2008 Managed backstage actors and extras through make-up and wardrobe to arrive on set on time and be ready for calls during the Archie Gips' produced and directed film "Chloe and Keith's Wedding". Education Radio/TV/Film, Studio Art, and Theatre Arts University of Arkansas at Little Rock (UALR) - Little Rock, AR 2001 Additional Information *Inventory management for 26 years.  *Professional photography for 24 years.   * Database media management for 22 years.  *Fine art design, sales, and management for 21 years.  *Independent publishing for 16 years.  *Information technology services for 11 years.  *I am proficient in using Apple and Windows operating systems and software. Examples include: Adobe Photoshop, Pilotware Digital, Microsoft Office, Alchemy Professional, and Goldmine. 