SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA - Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP Jersey City, NJ Client-focused Database Administrator with more than 5 years proactively working toward achieving high client satisfaction. As an IT professional very much committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge. Deadline-focused with broad skill range including, Database Design Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2005/2000 in Production, UAT, Test, Development and Cluster Server Environments. Strong Skill set in Database Administration using Windows platform. Always eager to acquire knowledge and share with colleagues. I am part of multiple IT Professional groups and participate in blogging like PASS, SQLSaturday, SQLServerCentral and etc.    NOTABLE MILESTONES    * Handled Administration of SQL Server 7.0, SQL 2000, SQL 2005, SQL 2008, SQL 2008R2, SQL 2012,SQL 2016.  * Played major role in rolling one of the major application from starting to finish until production.  * Played major role and were part of a team that implemented and worked on MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active), Multi Node Cluster up to 4-Node and AlwaysOn Availability Groups.  * Planned & executed of any upgrade such as Service Pack, Hot fixes etc.  * Handled Fine Tuning Databases System in-coordination with Application owners to utilize the maximum resources for Database and Applications.  * Member of PASS, SQLSatuday, SQLServerCentral, etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server DBA Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  * Expertise experience in installing new instances of SQL Server 2014 on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 and following best practices.  * Handled multiple SQL Instances on Cluster environment for Server Consolidation projects built on SAN using RAID levels.  * Highly experience on handling VLDB such as 1.0 TB.  * Installed and administered four-Node cluster on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  * Strong experience in Database Normalization, Optimization and Tuning, Backup/Restore, Troubleshooting, and Data Import/Export..  * Expertise in designing and implementing the processes and standards for database systems recovery and back-up checks as well as user performance and data security.  * Updated database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  * Expertise in troubleshooting SQL Server Agent jobs, Error Logs, Windows Logs to resolve failure job component.  * Extensive experience in monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases, this involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics.  * Strong experience using DMVs, DBCCs and SPs from SQL Server 2008R2 to 2014 for checking database health and performance.  * Expertise in monitoring performance using SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, Perfmon in order to find locking, blocking and deadlock issues.  * Expertise in plan and manage database administration projects including data archiving, patching, hot fixes and service pack upgrades.  * Experienced in recovering the databases from disasters and implemented Point-In-Time Recovery solution.  * Automated daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012 native SSMS tools.  * Expertise with High Availability solution such as Always On, Cluster, Mirroring and Log Shipping.  * Experienced in rewriting and restructuring store procedures and views with T-SQL.  * Expertise in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 , T-SQL, SSIS, Asana, Red-gate, LiteSpeed, , SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, BCP, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows Server 2012R2, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, IIS 6.5,7.5, 8.0, SolarWinds, and PAL tool. SQL Server DBA Department of Information Technology and Telecommunication June 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  * Expertise in installing new instances of SQL Server 2012 on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 and following best practices.  * Expertise in supporting a high-availability production Microsoft SQL, experience with NETIQ Monitoring and Symantec Net Backup, knowledge of New York City Government, excellent written and verbal communication skills and the ability to handle multiple tasks under tight deadlines.  * Experience analyzing current database performance and making projections for future growth (CPU usage as well as storage growth) and fix data corruption.  * Upgraded SQL server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2 in Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition and Strong experience on handling VLDB such as 2.0 TB.  * Experience in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, and tracking Performance Counters.  * Expertise in database security and auditing, EMC SAN connected MS SQL  * Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases.  * Perform QA task and strong experience in decommissioning SQL Server 2005.  * Expertise in removing and replacing SSL Certificate, troubleshoot SSL encryption issues in SQL Server.  * Experienced in rewriting and restructuring store procedures and views with T-SQL.  * Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented and Scheduled Replication process for updating parallel servers.  * Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures, function.  * High Availability solution such as Cluster, Mirroring and Always on.  * Expertise in monitoring performance using SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, Perfmon in order to find locking, blocking and deadlock issues.  * Updated database systems by reviewing, managing database administration projects including patching, hot fixes and service pack upgrades.  * Expertise in recovering the databases from disasters and implemented Point-In-Time Recovery solution.  * Creating standard procedure for internal usages for other team members.  * Experience in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Providing production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/2012/2008R2/2005 , T-SQL, SSIS, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Always on, Mirroring, Clustering Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2008R2, PowerShell, MS DOS, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g. SQL Server DBA FCMC (Financial) - Jersey City, NJ March 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  * Expert in installing new instances of SQL Server 2012 on Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 and following best practices.  * Upgraded SQL server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2 in Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition and Strong experience on handling VLDB such as 1.0 TB.  * Administrated and created SSIS packages to move data from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2.  * Installed and administered two-Node cluster Active/Passive on Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  * Expertise in designing and implementing the processes and standards for database systems recovery and back-up checks as well as user performance and data security.  * Experience in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, database snapshots and tracking Performance Counters.  * Rebuild/reorganize indexes and monitor proactively at regular intervals for performance enhancement.  * Monitored and modified Performance by observing execution plans and index tuning.  * Analyze long running slow queries and tuned the same to optimize application and system performance.  * Expertise in monitoring performance using SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, Perfmon in order to find locking, blocking and deadlock issues.  * Expertise in plan and manage database administration projects including data archiving, patching, hot fixes and service pack upgrades.  * Experienced in recovering the databases from disasters and implemented Point-In-Time Recovery solution.  * Expertise in troubleshooting SQL Server Agent jobs, Error Logs, Windows Logs to resolve failure job component.  * Work closely with development team to implement new features added in new edition of SQL Server such as Data partitioning, Error handling using TRY-CATCH, THROW, RaiseError and CTE.  * Strong experience using DMVs, DBCCs and SPs from SQL Server 2000 to 2012 for checking database health and performance.  * Automated daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005/2008R2/2012 native SSMS tools.  * Experience working in SharePoint 2010, creating users, adding links, removing links, assigning users to a group and supporting database in SQL Server.  * Experienced in rewriting and restructuring store procedures and views with T-SQL.  * Expertise in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Prepared the project management and technical documentation.  * Involved in designing disaster recovery architecture.  * Prepared Data Flow Diagram(DFD's) & Entity Relationship(ER) diagrams.  * 24 x 7 Production Database on Call Support    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2005/2000, T-SQL, SSIS, Red-gate, LiteSpeed, BCP, SQL Profiler, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Clustering Windows Server 2008R2 and Windows Server 2003, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, IIS 6.5,7.5, 8.0, SQLDelta, ApexSQL, SolarWinds, and PAL tool. SQL Database Administrator International SOS - Philadelphia, PA April 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  * Highly experienced in installing SQL Server 2008R2 on Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2.  * Installed, configured SQL Server 2005 Clustering on Microsoft Clustering services (MSCS) from Hardware inventory to test environment.  * Experience on SAN and RAID levels and built SQL Cluster servers on SAN Environments.  * Experience in working big environment design backup job using JAMS 7.4.  * Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2000 servers to SQL Server 2005.  * Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using SQL LiteSpeed.  * Worked with customers on Application rollouts and server migrations.  * Troubleshot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases concurrency  * Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  * Reviewed physical and logical database design; promoted the reliability of database design by ensuring appropriate referential data integrity was implemented and appropriate data types were used.  * Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  * Transferred the data (ETL) to Data warehouse by SQL Server 2005 Integration Services.  * Experience in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  * Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2005/2000, T-SQL, SSIS, Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2003, LiteSpeed 4.5, Red-Gate, MSE, JavaScript, .Net Framework, C#, MS Visual Studio 2008/2005, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, Backup Utility, Mirroring, Oracle 8g, MS-Access, BCP, JAMS7.4, PAL tool. Education Bachelor's Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, DBA