Database Administrator III <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Technically skilled, quality-focused, and results-driven Database Administrator with experience in providing high availability Oracle database solutions using Oracle RAC, ASM, Data Guard and experience in administering Netezza Appliances. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator III Fannie Mae - Dallas, TX December 2016 to July 2017 Served as technical lead in maintaining and modifying Oracle 11gR2, 12cR1, and 12cR2 database(s) in production and lower environments.  ? Provided technical and project leadership as well as staff supervision during various phases of development, migration, testing, and acceptance of a large-scale product rollout.  ? Tracked system availability, uptime, and performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager, OEM 12c and 13c.  ? Conferred with application development staff and project management staff regarding project planning, resource allocation, task definitions and schedules for substantial projects involving Oracle database(s).  ? Planned and designed Oracle database changes necessary for data conversion, tool configuration, data refresh or migration or other initiatives related to large application development projects.  ? Troubleshot and conferred with others to resolve errors, production problems involving databases to determine causes and proposed solutions.  ? Set and documented standards for use of Oracle databases with objectives of data integrity, data security, efficient operation, audit requirements, and the like.  ? Communicated to others in development or database administration roles.  ? Conferred with managers in networking, systems operations, applications, and client/user community to maintain stable and efficient operating environment for database(s).  ? Automated Oracle database patches using OPatch by integrating with ServiceNow.  ? Performed Oracle database upgrades from 11gR2 to 12cR1 and from 12cR1 to 12cR2 using Data Guard (logical standby), DBUA and manual methods.  ? Responded to Oracle database requests using Service Now (ServiceNow). Senior Systems Engineer (Sr. Oracle-Netezza DBA) TMX Finance - Carrollton, TX September 2014 to December 2016 Administered Oracle single-instance and RAC databases using Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  ? Built disaster recovery solutions using Oracle Data Guard physical standby databases and Data Guard Broker. Implemented and maintained Oracle Active Data Guard to meet reporting requirements.  ? Established and maintained backup and recovery processes using RMAN.  ? Performed performance tuning using ADDM, AWR and tkprof. Performed SQL & PL/SQL tuning using various tools including explain plans, appropriate indexing and partitioning.  ? Performed database upgrades from 11gR2 to 12cR1 using Data Guard (logical standby), DBUA and manual methods.  ? Maintained appropriate database patch levels using OPatch.  ? Automated DBA tasks using shell scripts scheduled in CRONTAB & Control-M.  ? Performed and automated data migration using Data Pump.  ? Maintained lower environments in vCloud (DEV, QA & UAT) by performing refreshes using RMAN Duplicate.  ? Migrated databases to the cloud, specifically VMWare vCloud solution.  ? Created and maintained database templates in VMWare.  ? Administered and maintained OEM 12c Cloud Control for monitoring database availability and performance. Integrated OEM 12c Cloud Control with MS SCSM for enterprise alerts and Active Directory.  ? Administered and maintained Netezza appliances on NPS versions 7.0x - 7.2x.  ? Performed backup and recovery of Netezza databases using nzbackup and nzrestore.  ? Maintained appropriate NPS release level by performing NPS upgrades.  ? Performed refreshes of Netezza development appliance using nzrestore.  ? Engaged vendor support to identify solutions to issues. IT System DBA Administrator IV Essilor of America - Dallas, TX February 2011 to September 2014 Worked with IT System Administrative group on plans for installation of hardware, SAN disks, hardware upgrades, network components (hardware and software) and bandwidth management to help ensure proper capacity is maintained.  ? Ensured the Oracle and Informix RDMBS were correctly integrated in current software map, middleware framework and global infrastructure the information system relied on.  ? Maintained appropriate system release/patch levels. Performed installation, configuration, integration, tuning and patching of systems.  ? Planned, implemented and forecasted system architecture requirements to support the business needs (in collaboration with IT Architecture).  ? Performed Oracle backup and recovery tasks using RMAN, Data pump and Export/Import.  ? Performed Informix backup and recovery tasks using Ontape.  ? Automated frequent tasks using shell scripts and crontab. Worked with Automation Team to set up jobs in CA AutoSys/Unicenter.  ? Performed required tuning and adjusting of parameters to optimize performance.  ? Worked with Developers to tune SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Performed cloning and refreshing of Oracle and Informix Development, QA and UAT instances from Production.  ? Performed capacity planning in terms of memory and disk usage, establishing benchmarks for performance.    EDUCATION & TECHNICAL SKILL SET Education Bachelor's Skills Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, Oracle 18c, Oracle RAC, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle ASM, Golden Gate, Oracle GRID, Oracle OEM 12c, Oracle OEM 13c, SQL Server, PostgresSQL, Netezza, Informix, RedHat Enterprise Linux, SuSE, CentOS, Linux, IBM AIX, HP UX, Solaris, Oracle Enterprise Linux, UNIX, Windows Server, NAS, SAN, Vmware, AWS, Service Now, Remedy, Java, Javascript, HTML, XML, JSON, JQuery, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, CSS Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional 11g Present Oracle Certified Database Administrator Professional 11g