Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Montgomery County Government, Montgomery County, MD Bryans Road, MD Sheldon Thorne is a seasoned and accomplished, Certified ORACLE Database Administrator, and expert in IT security with over 7 years of experience with extensive knowledge, proficiency, and expertise in Monitoring & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, Security Implementation, Cloning, Migration, Replication, and Database Design. He is also proficient in an assortment of technologies, including Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, 18c, SQL*Loader, MySQL, and MS SQL server. He possesses remarkable verbal, written, analytical and organizational abilities; with Motivational Management style, and a talent for building, and retaining, highly motivated teams and producing innovative solutions. He is a passionate leader, that enjoys learning, who gracefully and successfully manages multiple priorities and performs exceptionally well under pressure. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Montgomery County Government, Montgomery County, MD 2016 to Present • Reengineered database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, roles, and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt tablespaces and tables; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Redesigned and implemented backup strategies in accordance with company SLAs; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Implemented block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 4hrs down to 25mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Lead of the support team that provides 24/7 on-call production support.   • Generated and updated Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ease operational support.  • Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 60% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Applied Oracle’s quarterly Patch Set Updates (CPU/PSU application) using OPATCH utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA respectively.  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  • Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2012 and 2016 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 39TB).  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query. Oracle Database Administrator Office of Unified Communications - Washington, DC 2014 to 2016 • Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) developed by Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  • Expert in User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users; altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  • Experience with Golden Gate migrations, with no down time, from Solaris environment to Linux and Windows environments. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test databases.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery.  • Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using Export/Import scripts.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Tablespace monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Oracle Scheduler for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Perform database tuning by reviewing AWR & ADDM reports, implementing SQL profiles and baselines, designing table and index partitioning and coalescing of database objects for faster query performance. Include memory, I/O, contention, and SQL statement tuning.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle three node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers. Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Experienced with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Business Intelligence. Junior Oracle Database Administrator United Parcel Service - Laurel, MD 2012 to 2014 • Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  • General database administration tasks, including installation of Oracle 10g and 11g, creation of users and roles, managing tablespaces, and ensuring database functionality.  • Tuned poor running SQLs using the EXPLAIN PLAN, HINTS and SQL Tuning Advisor.  • Facilitate a wide range of migrations, upgrades, and conversions adhering to applicable backup and recovery protocol.  • Monitor and maintain the health of architected databases and database server environments.   • Implement and integrate performance tuning and security features to optimize functionality.  • Prepare and maintain database documentation and standards to bolster user management and acceptance activities.  • In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments. Education Associate in General Studies College of Southern Maryland - La Plata, MD May 2013 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DB2, Sql Database, Oracle Database, Performance Tuning, Database Administration, RMAN, Oracle GoldenGate, Oracle 10G, Oracle 11G, Oracle 12c, ETL, RAC, Postgresql, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Linux, JSON, Powershell, Python, Shell Scripting, Javascript Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Security+