Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cheyenne, WY Proven track record in highlighting and resolving issues in a diverse, technical environment and coordi-nating team efforts for installations, upgrades, and problem resolution. Possess excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills, and have proven to be goal-oriented, diligent and resourceful. Results-oriented with a background in help desk operations and customer service operations. Solid ded-icated work ethic with a history of progressively more responsible positions within various operational environments. Proven ability to lead and work in multi-disciplined teams, while inspiring achievement and personal growth. Excellent presentation skills effectively communicating with senior leaders, team members, and customers. Experience conducting and developing education and training programs. Knowledge in the Army education and training policy requirements. Experience managing pro-grams to include developmental education, voluntary education, advanced academic education, promotion testing, and libraries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Wyoming Army National Guard - Cheyenne, WY February 2016 to Present Employment with Wyoming Army National Guard from 2/24/2016 to Present. Database Administrator for United States Property and Fiscal Office. Serves as a technical expert for database administrator in the state on one or more of the systems maintained/administered throughout the state. Adminis-ters multiple Relational Database Management Systems and software packages residing on multiple hardware and software platforms. Troubleshoots problems involved in the input, retrieval or modifi-cation of database information and the general operation and maintenance. 25B Information Technology Specialist US Army / Wyoming Army National Guard - Cheyenne, WY January 2012 to Present Senior technician for the Command Post Node team. Responsible for the combat deployment of Warfighter Information Network-Tactical Com-mand Post Node. Provide SIPRNET and NIPRNET services to Battalion and lower echelons. Ex-tensive skillset in router, switch and call manager configurations, familiarity with audio-visual presentations, educational tests and measurements, along with teaching technique, ed-ucation in performing interviews and how to counsel individuals, training techniques, task analysis, curriculum development, and training evaluations, knowledge in presenting professional courses and briefings, and Skills in the Army education and other training policy requirements. Broadcast Technician III EchoStar - Cheyenne, WY October 2015 to February 2016 Employment with EchoStar from 10/15/2015 to 2/15/2016. Broadcast technician for Master Control. Responsible for monitoring on-air programming of both local and national broadcasters, Performs technical quality control checks on large Digital Broadcast Satellite system to ensure A/V media meets the standard, troubleshoot problems, coordinates with outside providers to determine outag-es, and maintain logs. IT Specialist Wyoming Army National Guard April 2015 to September 2015 IT Specialist for the Department of Information Management. Responsible for providing technical assistance and support for incoming queries and is-sues related to computer systems, software, and hardware, respond to queries either in person or over the phone, train computer users, maintain daily performance of computer systems, respond to email mes-sages for customers seeking help, and walk customer through problem solving process along with clean-ing up computers. Education Associates in Academic Wyoming Technical Institute - Laramie, WY 2011 to 2011 business Wyoming Technical Institute Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC November 2011 to Present Wyoming Army National Guard since 01/2012. Senior technician for the Command Post Node team. Responsible for the combat deployment of Warfighter Information Network-Tactical Command Post Node. Provide SIPRNET and NIPRNET services to Battalion and lower echelons. Extensive skillset in router, switch and call manager configurations. Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2018 to Present Additional Information Qualifications: Project Management / Staff Leadership / Relationship Management/    Proven track record in highlighting and resolving issues in a diverse, technical environment and coordi-  nating team efforts for installations, upgrades, and problem resolution. Possess excellent interpersonal,  organizational, and communication skills, and have proven to be goal-oriented, diligent and resourceful.  Results-oriented with a background in help desk operations and customer service operations. Solid dedi-  cated work ethic with a history of progressively more responsible positions within various operational envi-  ronments. Proven ability to lead and work in multi-disciplined teams, while inspiring achievement and per-  sonal growth.    Core Strengths:  • 4 years of IT technician experience with focus in networking and server administration  • Tactical Network Administration with extensive knowledge in Command Post Nodal Operations  • Familiarity with audio-visual presentations, educational tests and measurements, along with teaching  technique.    Technical Expertise:    • Operating Systems: Windows 2000 - 2008; Windows Server 2003 - 2008  • Hardware: Cisco 3600 series Routers, Cisco 3600 series Switches, and other peripherals