Senior Mongo DB DBA Senior Mongo DB DBA Senior Mongo DB DBA - Wells Fargo, st USA ? Having 6 years of experience in Database design, Administration and development in Mongo DB, Oracle and My SQL.  ? Over 3+ years of experience in Mongo DB Installation, Configuration and Administration.  ? Experienced in NOSQL Database design and principles Mongo DB, Cassandra.  ? Proficient in designing Mongo DB dynamic schemas and Data modelling concepts  ? Experienced in Design, Analysis, Administration and Development and implementation stages of several Client/Server applications using Java/J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, Object Oriented Programming, SQL Server, My SQL and Oracle  ? Experienced in implementation of backup and recovery process for various databases like Mongo DB, Oracle and My SQL.  ? Experienced in Mongo DB document Schema design. Work Experience Senior Mongo DB DBA Wells Fargo, st - Salem, TAMIL NADU, IN January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for administration, maintenance, Performance analysis, and Capacity planning for Mongo db 2.x, 3, 0.x and 3.2 versions.  ? Environment consists of Red Hat Linux servers with replica sets in Dev, Test, Stage, and Production.  ? Created replication and Mongo db Sharding clustering in Azure cloud environment.  ? Managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database clusters across the globe.  ? Working on Azure cloud, Aws cloud and on-prime environments.  ? Be a part of cluster sizing, and machines count.  ? Worked on Multiple data center deployments.  ? SSL encryption, M tools, Analysis of data usage for proper index creation and data modeling.  ? Coordinate and plan with Application teams on Mongo db capacity planning for new applications.  ? Analyze usage of data and work with application teams on implementing collection index strategies, proper use of aggregation/query frameworks, event changes to the document model.  ? Ensured System sizing and Tuning with proper Mongo db use of memory, pre-heating data, and proper configuration of storage read ahead, NUMA, and Huge Pages.  ? Participate in scalability testing to ensure Mongo db high performance  ? Upgrade Mongo db replica set and sharded cluster to multiple versions.  ? Analyze Mongo db log, Op Log file, Mongo Stat, Server Status, and MMS/OPS manager, to determine and validate root cause analysis of outages and performance bottlenecks.  ? Implemented UNIX shell script to automate password changes, gathering performance statistics, collection stat, m log filter and m tools query performance analyzer.  ? Planned and Implemented SSL encryption for Mongo db intra-cluster communications.  ? Knowledge of Configuration Management tools Puppet in developing and Experience with Performance Analysis and Troubleshooting in developing.  ? Analyzed data to determine appropriate Shard key.  ? Analyzed performance activity to determine if data required balancing in sharded cluster.  ? Backed up databases from replication secondary server.  ? Implemented indexing for better performance.  ? Implemented MMS for Mongo db monitoring and backup process.  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  ? Worked on creating indexes on secondary nodes.  Environment: Mongo DB, Cassandra, Ruby, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup Scheduler, Data guard, Sharding, Replication, Python, Shell scripting, Perl, Py Mongo, JavaScript Senior Mongo DB DBA Greensboro, NC October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational Oracle, My SQL and No SQL Mongo DB systems.  ? Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with Mongo DB clusters.  ? Familiar with Mongo DB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  ? Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production Mongo DB instances.  ? Implementation of Mongo DB security mechanism with various Authentications.  ? Applied patches and upgraded from 2.4 to 2.6 and 3.0. Worked with multiple storage engines in Mongo DB.  ? Implemented LVM snapshots and MMS backups for large scale Mongo DB systems. Administering Mongo DB databases using various Mongo utilities.  ? Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  ? Developing Data modelling for data from RDBMS to Mongo DB for optimal reads and writes.  ? Worked on custom map/reduce engine to analyze Mongo DB databases directly using the on-disk format. Faster and more memory-efficient than other solutions. Used for generating metrics to drive business decisions.  ? Complete understanding of Software Development Lifecycle and Core area of experience in to validate end-to-end business scenarios of B2B (Business to Business) applications.  ? Worked on API server and maintained, written using Python Twisted and my own MongoDB driver. Handles data synchronization to millions of mobile devices from a single machine.  ? Scalable data design for Mongo DB and Redis. Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  ? Point in time Backup and recovery in Mongo DB using onsite MMS.  ? Familiar with Mongo DB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  ? Manage and maintain Mongo DB servers across multiple environments.  ? Migrated large amount of data between mongo clusters using mongo dump, mongo restore, mongo export and mongo import.  ? Worked on creating Grid FS collections and loading Grid FS data using Mongo file utilities.  ? Implemented CR Authentication, SHA-1 Authentication across different Mongo DB versions.  ? Worked on restoring rollbacks when primary node is switching in replica set because of system failures.  ? Worked on cloud based Azure, Aws and on-prime environments.  ? Knowledge of Configuration Management tools (Puppet) in developing and Experience with Performance Analysis and Troubleshooting in developing.  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the MVC application Framework.  ? Worked on creating indexes on secondary nodes.  ? Implemented Tag aware sharding depending upon the data requirement and balancing chunks in sharded cluster.  Environment: Mongo DB, Cassandra, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, Py Mongo, Java script. Database Administrator Wal mart - Bentonville, AR May 2015 to September 2016 Description:  Walmart is the world's largest retailer, it takes a lot of really talented people to make this happen. You can join the millions of associates - 2.2 million, to be exact - who are already making a difference in our customers' lives each day.    Responsibilities:  ? Managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational MySQL and No SQL Mongo DB systems  ? Administration and management of the entire development, QA and production environment.  ? Installed and configured My SQL on Linux and Windows environments.  ? Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  ? Increased database performance by utilizing My SQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo DB.  ? Worked on creation of Mongo DB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  ? Responsible for managing Mongo DB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Assisted with sizing, query optimization, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  ? Worked with the engineering team to implement new design systems of databases used by the company.  ? Effectively configured My SQL Replication.  ? Designed databases for referential integrity and involved in logical design plan.  ? Performance Tuning on a daily basis for preventing issues and providing capacity planning using MySQL Enterprise Monitor.  ? Developed stored procedures, triggers in My SQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.  ? Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  ? Proficiency in Unix/Linux shell commands.  ? Created and deleted users, groups and set up restrictive permissions, configuration of the sudo files etc. Configuring/Installing/Troubleshooting PHP.  ? Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff. Performed My SQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  ? Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Supporting management with different database related decisions.  ? Handling Release management and user acceptance.  Environment: My SQL, Mongo DB, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, sharding, replication, python, shell scripting, Pearl, Py Mongo, Java script. developer My SQL - Minneapolis, MN February 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Recognized and fine-tuned the database for its specific behaviors. Monitored running database server and performed tuning techniques.  ? Collaborated with developers, architects, and business stakeholders to create high-performance, cost-effective solutions.  ? Ensured data integrity with good process and detected errors and misuses of data.  ? Administered Mysql database installations and upgrades, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery, space management, capacity planning and resource utilization.  ? Researched new database technologies and methodologies. Enabled required data extract, transform, and load procedures and packages. Involved in creating customer invoice reports.  ? Ability to carry out security tasks at network level such as block/unblock TCP/IP ports through firewall on both Linux and windows and block/unblock remote access to MySQL server.  ? Created data extracts as part of data analysis and exchanged with internal staff.  ? Performed My SQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  ? Shell script is being used for some data migration and backend work management. Version control through SVN.  ? Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  Environment: My SQL, Master-slave replication, HTTP, PHP, Import Export, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat, Data guard, replication, python, shell scripting, Sql, Pearl, Java script. Software developer Mind Infotech - New York, NY June 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Review SQL and PL/SQL for Production and sub-environments to ensure accuracy and optimization.  ? Performed daily monitoring of databases for availability and performance metrics.  ? Reviewed log files from overnight and batch processes for significant events.  ? Created Database tables, views and indexes.  ? Creation of functions using PL/SQL. Creation of DML, DDL, DRL, TCL, DCL using SQL. Creation of Joins, Equijoin, Sub quires in SQL.  ? Invoices are imported from the Excel sheets to the Oracle Database using SQL * LOADER  ? Developed Reports as per client requirement.  ? Involved in creation of SQL and PLSQL scripts. Creation of Packages, Stored Procedures & triggers using PL/SQL and loaded data using SQL*Loader.  ? Created HTML and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and J Query Scripting and framework.  ? Worked and involved in development, enhancement and testing of the application. Defined different media queries for different devices.  ? Got chance to interact with business team on regular basis and gather requirements.  ? Successfully wrote and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures and Triggers in SQL Server  ? Heavily interacted with the end users and stakeholders for design validation.  ? Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of the designs.  ? Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  ? Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  ? Updated the website from time to time for special Requirements.  ? Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  Environment: SQL, JavaScript and windows XP, Oracle 9i, Developer 2000, XML, Windows NT 4.0, MS Access 2000. Education Master's