Data/Business Analyst Data/Business Analyst Business Intelligence Developer | Data Analyst Washington, DC Work Experience Data/Business Analyst Barclays Bank ( Contractor - SwiftLearn IT Solutions, Inc) - Wilmington, DE July 2016 to July 2019 • Responsible for error handling, stored procedure, creating tables, views, triggers etc.  • Created DTS Packages for migration of data between MS SQL Server database and other databases like MS  Access, MS Excel and Flat Files.  • Used DTS to migrate the tables to the Data Warehouse. Handled Different DSS (Decision Support System)  for various applications.  • Configured the Data mapping between Oracle and SQL Server.  • Used Query Analyzer, Execution Plan to optimize SQL Queries.  • Use SQL High for level proficiency in database manipulation.  • Created the SQL scripts for demonstrating the prototypes and for verifying the result sets.  • Created User Interface Specifications and wire frames.  • Use advanced SQL concepts like OLAP, Group By and aggregate functions  • Use complex SQL queries in advance to fetch data from other tools.  • Wrote queries to fetch data from different table by using JOINs, Sub-queries, Correlated sub-queries and derived tables on Teradata platform.  • Work with ETL Process which includes SSAS, SSIS, and SSRS. Worked with Business Intelligent tool like Tableau and Power BI on SQL server mainframe.  • Developed stored procedures, views, triggers, execute test cases and defect management for ETL and BI  systems. Senior BI/Data Analyst Citizens Bank ( Remote Contractor - SwiftLearn IT Solutions, Inc) - New York, NY June 2014 to June 2016 • Wrote complex SQL queries using advanced SQL concepts like aggregate functions, Group By and OLAP (Online Analytical Functions).  • Wrote queries to fetch data from different table by using JOINs, Sub-queries, Correlated sub- queries and derived tables on SQL Server platform.  • Wrote SQL queries that were highly tuned using concepts like Explain, Stats, CAST and volatile  tables.  • Used SAS to import and export data from and into SQL Server tables.  • Planned, analyzed and designed Universes using SAP Business Objects as per Business needs.  • Used Pivot tables to create reports that did dicing and slicing functions on data. This is called  dimensional analysis and gives business a 360 view of what is going on.  • Created numerous permanent tables, Volatile tables and Global Temporary tables.  • Developed dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them in Tableau Server.  • Fulfilled numerous data request for financial profiling.  • Generated Tableau Dashboard with quick/context/global filters, parameters and calculated fields on Tableau reports.  • Created Tableau Dashboards with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security.  2  • Created and developed Parameterized, Drill Down and AD Hoc Reports using SQL Server 2014 Reports  Services (SSRS) Data Analyst United Healthcare ( Contractor - IT Solutions, Inc ) - New York, NY June 2013 to May 2014 • Gather information, analyze data and presented reports.  • Experience with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, health care provider data and online  data submission process.  • Interface with database, data stage ETL and SAS development teams  • Use state-of-the-art decision support and neutral network tools to detect potential fraud and support  investigations organizing case files, research violations and accurately and thoroughly document all steps  taken in project development  • Used SQL Assistant front-end tool to issue SQL commands matching the business requirements to run  reports for data on Providers.  • Provide data analysis support to the fraud investigation team in support of their investigation leads.  • Connected to SQL server sources to create shared data sources in SSRS.  • Created shared data sets in SSRS.  • Created tabular reports and deployed over report server to end-users.  • Troubleshoot client and operational issues timely and appropriately.  • Prepare reports working with database structures and data modeling including working knowledge of SQL.  • Perform on a regular basis ad hoc analysis of data sources for all external and internal customers.  • Generated database reports, presentation and documentation of analytical methods.  • Conduct self-directed research to uncover problems in Medicare payments made to a variety of provider  types including physicians, suppliers, hospital, and rehabilitation facilities.  • Handle Strong healthcare material including experience with transaction standards (e.g. HIPAA). Database Administrator Discover Financial Services - Garden City, NY March 2012 to May 2013 Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application  requirement and defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of Golden Gate sessions at OS level, Database level and GGSCI level  and investigate replication failures using ggserr.log, report files and Log Dump utility.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD  and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (patch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g and 12c to support internal production and test  environments.    3  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing  Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export  to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3  database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Access, MS Excel. Education Bachelor of Science in Geographic Information System Ahmadu Bello University Certificate University of Washington Certificate Digital Marketing Institute Skills SQL (7 years), SAS (7 years), Tableau (7 years), Power BI (5 years), Microstrategy (6 years), SSRS (7 years), SSIS (6 years), ETL (7 years), Data Warehousing (5 years), ERWIN data Modeler (6 years), SDLC Methodologies (7 years), Business Intelligence, access, testing, Excel, SAP, Microsoft Office Assessments Reliability — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be dependable and come to work. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vejrmrxwnwpdklbm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Tableau Public Profile: https://public.tableau.com/profile/joshua.dariya#!/ 