Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - US Department of Health and Human Services Columbia, MD Mr. Nkimih is an accomplished Database Administrator and IT Security Expert with over 8 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring and tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, cloning, replication, security implementations, high availability and disaster recovery solutions. He is also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, UNIX/Linux, MS SQL Server, Windows, and Solaris. Mr. Nkimih has exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational skills. He is a proven leader with a motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and developing innovative solutions. As an energetic achiever, Mr. Nkimih has successfully prioritize and manage multiple projects and perform effectively under pressure. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator US Department of Health and Human Services February 2018 to Present Constructs database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  ? Designs backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  ? Create and manage Pluggable database in the Multitenant container database of the oracle 12c Architecture.  ? Performs database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA respectively.  ? Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA.  ? Works in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers.  ? Configures and manages ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  ? Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate 12c on Unix/Linux platform for Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  ? Supports daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  ? Monitors AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  ? Implements table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  ? Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  ? Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  ? Installed 12c OEM Cloud Control for monitoring; periodically reorganized and resized database objects, created table Partitions, Materialized Views, and indexes, yielding a 35% performance boost.  ? Performs database Refreshes from production environments.  ? Performs PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL.  ? Generates shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  ? Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  ? Part of support team for 24/7 on-call production support Oracle Database Administrator Nestle USA June 2016 to February 2018 Maintained active data guard on physical standby systems to ensure high availability.  ? Implemented business rules and maintained data integrity via the use of constraints using DDL statements.  ? Implemented, tuned and maintained Oracle Database using Oracle Enterprise.  ? Provided and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using ORACLE DATA GUARD.  ? Provided high scalability and availability with Real Application Cluster (RAC)  ? Administered and provided supported for Oracle 10g/11g installations, database creation, database security, database optimization and tuning.  ? Thorough understanding of partitioning, encryption, OEM, grid control, replication  ? Superior oral and written communication skills to collaborate operations with developers, systems administrators and other groups.  ? Performed backup and recovery using RMAN.  ? Extensively using DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups and performed database cloning using RMAN.  ? Maintained access permissions and privileges for database objects.  ? Provided troubleshooting and support for all IT-related issues.  ? Performed queries and provide data analysis and interpretation.  ? Performed and/or conducted slow running queries analysis.  ? Upgraded Oracle 10g database to 11g; upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.4 using patch set.  ? Planned installation configuration managed and troubleshoot Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS.  ? Performed bulk load into the database using SQL Loader.  ? Administered database user accounts.  ? Managed database permissions and setup database roles and enable database auditing for database security. Junior Oracle Database Administrator SunTrust Bank May 2011 to June 2016 Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  ? System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  ? Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talent Administration Suite.  ? Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  ? Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  ? Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  ? Worked with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions and Cursors.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  ? Worked on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  ? Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  ? Migrated database objects from development through test and into production environments  ? Capacity planning (planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education BS in Computer Science University of Bamenda Skills Capacity planning (6 years), data masking. (4 years), Data replication (5 years), Database (8 years), disaster recovery (6 years), Etl (5 years), Extract, transform, and load (5 years), Linux (8 years), Loader. (4 years), Oem (5 years), Oracle (8 years), performance tuning (7 years), Pl/sql (6 years), Red hat (7 years), replication. (3 years), Rman (7 years), security (5 years), Sql (7 years), Switch capacity (6 years), Unix (6 years), DBA (6 years), Sql Database (5 years), Oracle Dba (8 years), Sql Dba (4 years), MYSQL (5 years), ASM (4 years), RAC (4 years), Sql Server (3 years), ZDLRA (4 years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Installation, configuration, capacity planning Oracle RAC, ASM & Grid control  Performance Monitoring & Tuning Oracle Data guard  Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration Oracle Golden Gate  Database Security & Patching    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor, Alert Log, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Cloud control  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu)  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Oracle AMS (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration.  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Database security using TDE, Data masking, patching data redaction.  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader, Transportable Tablespaces (TTS).  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, SQL, PL/SQL