Front Desk Receptionist Front Desk Receptionist Positive person with perseverance! Excello, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front Desk Receptionist Travelier Motel - Macon, MO June 2019 to Present Customer service, reservations, payments, communications with online services, guests services. Computer skills, email communications, invoice services, payroll finalization faxes. Personal Care Assistant Self-Help for the Elderly - Excello, MO July 2018 to Present I care for a gentleman that had to have several surgeries in the past 7 months. I paid bills, transportation, light housekeeping, pet care, lawn care, laundry, Nurses Aide duties and so many other duties. He has recovered well and I am ready to move back into a career of accounting, administration, sales, management, supervision and marketing. Reliability Administrative Assistant• Database Management Craft Pro Energy - Sedalia, MO January 2018 to June 2018 Updated maintenance work orders and created them into files. Uploaded these files into the mainframe database. Helped to eliminated paper work orders and go to hand held tablets for AECI. Operations Administrator• A/P, A/R, Billing and Collections Brownfield Oil Company Inc - Moberly, MO December 2013 to December 2017 I used I-Rely accounting software and was responsible for A/R, A/P and billing. I answered all phone calls, took fuel orders, customer service, and handled any complaints. I was the Operations Administrator, and was in charge of dealing with vendors and Procurement. I did webpage management and handled all of the emails and sales requests from the website. Also, I had to step up and be ready to assist in logistics of the fleet of fuel trucks and handle any issues that may arise at a moments notice. Additionally, I handled most of the communications between all of our terminals and made sure they had all of the paperwork needed for our drivers to load fuel. I also helped manager of our Convenience Store and Car Wash. I did new hire orientation and all of the paperwork for their taxes and drug screens. I have leadership, critical thinking, and decision making skills. Office Manager• Accounting • Payroll Dwiggins Kennel - Macon, MO May 2012 to October 2013 Proficient in Microsoft Office, Quick Books, Excellent Accounting Skills,  Detailed Oriented, Multi-tasker, Talented Written and Oral  Communication Abilities, Marketing Management, Event Planner,  Customer Service, Sales, Human Resources, Education Bachelor's in Accounting, Marketing and Human resources Columbia College - Columbia, MO August 2012 to December 2015 Skills Accounting (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Human Resources (4 years), Sales and Marketing (4 years), Retail Sales (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Retail Management (2 years), Operations Management (4 years), Customer service (10+ years), Office Management (8 years), Scheduling, Receptionist, Billing, Filing, Data Entry