Senior Field Engineer, Texas Senior Field Engineer, Texas Network & Database Administrator - Fresh Plus Plainview, TX Senior Field Engineer / Technical Support Analyst with comprehensive background in end-user support and technical consolidation. Expertise in Point-of-Sale systems and multi-platform workstation development. Success best demonstrated by developing long lasting rapport with every customer, understanding and empathizing with their needs, and resolving their issue in a timely, friendly and professional manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Field Engineer, Texas Field Nation September 2010 to August 2017 ITTS contractual technician for several hundred different clients performing everything from server rack/stacks to full unit replacements in power plants. Specialized in Point-of-sale store setups and installs.  • Worked directly with AT&T, Verizon, and Walmart Engineering teams to trial new store layouts and device implementation.   • Full Point-of-Sale register and scan replacement for Lowes Grocery, Walmart, Target, Michaels, Tractor Supply, etc.   • NMD & Menu/Order Board Installs for Mcdonalds, Wendy's, Taco Bell, Mangold Clinic, Covenant Hospital. Owner/Senior Field Engineer Limitless Technologies - Lubbock, TX January 2010 to December 2016 Performed I.T. forensics and legal investigations for clients with various problems such as harassment, e-discovery, asset protection, and minor securities fraud. In addition, I also provided consults on estimates, management, implementation, deployment, and admission of IT systems for businesses' and private clients. Network & Database Administrator Fresh Plus - Austin, TX February 2015 to June 2015 Managed a 5-store grocery database across both ECRS Catapult and SMS Suite systems performing full inventory maintenance and scan coordination. Also performed network administration tasks such as Active Directory management, hardware & software troubleshooting, TCP/IP config for all devices and equipment installs and replacements. Floor Support Supervisor Convergys - Lubbock, TX September 2009 to March 2013 Took Supervisory calls to correct customer accounts and service problems for Comcast clients. Helped standard call center agents correct minor account problems and add promotions that needed a supervisor's approval. Store Manager/ Corporate Order Puller, Irving/Plainview/Grapevine GameStop September 2007 to September 2009 Pulled inventory orders for every GameStop store in the US at the home office in Grapevine. Store Manager in Irving, Performing money counts, made reservation and subscription sales, managed an average of seven employees while always keeping a fun, professional work environment. Education Game Simulation & Programming DeVry University Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills    Platforms - Windows XP/Vista/Win7/Win8/Server2003/Server 2008/Server2012, Linux, Solaris,  Hardware - Intel & AMD workstations and servers, Point-of-Sale Systems (Ingenico, Verifone, Dell, HP, IBM, )  Applications- Adobe Master Suite, MS Office, WebSpider Extractor, Solar WindsIP,  Network- Network Connectivity & Wiring Infrastructure, Wireless Ethernet (Wi-Fi), TCP / IP, DHCP, DNS,  Hard Skills- End-user Support / Helpdesk, Project Management, Hardware and Software Troubleshooting, Building Workstations and Servers, Malware detection and removal, Website   Soft Skills - Development, Customer relations, Digital Footprinting and Analysis, Technical Consolidation, Rapport Development, Analytical problem solving and creative thinking,