Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - First NBC Bank Lanham, MD Database Administrator with over 6 years' experience. Over the years, I have successfully configured and managed Oracle databases 10g. 11gR1/R2 and 12C multitenant databases. My experience includes but not limited to Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, and performance tuning. Managed Database on AIX, Linux and Windows environments. Experienced in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) 10g/11g, Data Guard and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability. I have supported multiple environments spanning Finance, IT, Insurance and Tech sectors. I have the ability to work both as an individual contributor and as a member of a team.  Professional Summary    ? Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  ? Expertise in Oracle's Data protection, high availability, and performance technologies such as Oracle RAC, Oracle Data Guard, ASM, and Oracle Goldengate.  ? Experience in administration and tuning of Oracle databases running on Windows and all types of UNIX platforms.  ? Experience in Oracle Grid Infrastructure implementation, administration, & performance tuning on ASM and implementing Third party clusterware file systems.  ? Experience in Data guard for different types of Standby Databases such as Active for reporting, Physical, Logical, and Snapshot standby on implementation, administration, & performance tuning.  ? Experience in implementation, configuration, troubleshooting, and performance tuning of Oracle Goldengate replication between  ? Unidirectional, bidirectional, and cascaded Oracle Databases.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning Oracle Databases with respect to all aspects of IT Infrastructure such as Network, OS, Storage, and Application.  ? Experience in using various performance tools or utilities like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ASH, and ADDM, and analyzing reports for tuning recommendations.  ? Experience in implementing Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (11g) and Cloud Control (12c) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  ? Experience in writing/modifying UNIX Shell Scripts for various scenarios and requirements.  ? Experience in upgrading Oracle Databases from 10g & 11g, to 11g & 12c.  ? Knowledge and experience on managing very large Data Warehouse databases.  ? Experience in implementing Oracle Flashback Technology and utilizing it for various rollback purposes such as Critical Application bug fixes, Load Testing, and QA Testing.  ? Experience in Capacity Planning and Benchmarking.  ? Extensively worked on Oracle 12C multitenant databases; creating, migrating, patching and upgrading pluggable databases.  ? Oracle GoldenGate experience with Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle GoldenGate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database servers and ensure data synchronization.  ? Experience in Performance tuning of Oracle GoldenGate Processes to achieve zero lag times.  ? Expert knowledge in maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage  ? Experience with Oracle Data Guard setup, maintenance and troubleshooting for High Availability.  ? Experience in performing Backups/Recovery using RMAN, Datapump and Flashback Technologies.  ? Experience in SQL Tuning using tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, TKPROF and OEM.  ? Effective troubleshooting of Database Performance and tuning using ASH, AWR, ADDM.  ? Experience in Database capacity planning, monitoring object growth and Storage Management.  ? Performed data migration from flat files into an Oracle database using SQL*Loader.  ? Experience in performing Cloning and Refresh using RMAN and Data Pump.  ? Experience in Oracle Advanced Compression techniques.  ? Experience in Online/Offline Re-Organization of database objects.  ? Experience in Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Secure files, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  ? Experience in defining Users, Roles, Privileges, Auditing to ensure database Security.  ? Experience working with database security tools TDE, DB Vault / VPD.  ? Experience in applying CPU/PSU patches to various versions of databases with minimum downtime.  ? Experience in upgrading Oracle Binaries and databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c.    ? Used ServiceNow to report, manage and resolve tickets related to one off Incidences, Problems, Requests and Changes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator First NBC Bank - Charlotte, NC September 2018 to Present Implement backup and recovery procedures using (RMAN) for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations  ? Upgraded database in DEV/PROD databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2 so that business applications can take advantage of the newly enhance oracle features in 12c  ? Implement backup and recovery procedures using (RMAN) for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database  ? Handle all Client Requests, Work closely with Clients for New Projects from Initiation to Production cutover Identify cost saving opportunities & implement innovative DB solutions for clients (collaborate with Infrastructure Delivery team as needed).  ? Involved with installation and maintenance of ORACLE 11g RAC/oracle 12cRAC and Standby databases (Oracle DataGuard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose  ? Good knowledge on all incident, change, problem management process & compliance process  ? Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  ? Superior communication, presentation, analytical and problem solving skill. Work well with all levels of business.  ? Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, Flash Cache, etc  ? Identified and reduced/ eliminated non-idle wait events such as scattered file read, sequential file read wait event, log file completion, in queue, and buffer latch waits.  ? 24X7 support for all the production and development databases    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Data Pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator NuVasiveInc - San Diego, CA April 2014 to May 2018 • DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.2 & 5.3. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  • Backup/Recovery monitoring and reporting using both BMC SQL Backtrack &Oracle RMAN  • Technical documentation of all configurations, installations, implementations, monitoring and testing projects for future utilization.  • Oracle Database up-gradation done in multiple environments from 9i, 10g and 11g to 12c  • Performed capacity planning required for migrating databases/schemas from Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g to Oracle 12c environment  • Extensive experience with Oracle patching, performed multi platform database version UPGRADE, cross-platform migrations and bug fix/interim patch implementations in UNIX platform  • Expert in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle Standby/Data Guard.  • Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures and methods like Data Guard & Standby Database.  • Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c RAC, Standby Database, Clustering and Data Guard Setup, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Configuration and Tuning.  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control. Experience in implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.  • Responsible for analyzing and designing the process to implement the available oracle patch sets  • Installed and configured High Availability Oracle GoldenGate (OGG) systems on Oracle 11gR2  • Configure and build heartbeat monitoring in Golden Gate  • Working extensively on Backup & Recovery online/offline using RMAN, User-Managed physical/logical backups using Import/Export/Datapump, DB refreshes and cloning using RMAN  • Working closely with DEV teams to create database objects (tablespaces, schemas, tables, views, indexes, triggers, stored procedures etc) as per the business needs  • Interacting with Storage team for adding mount points to complete database/schema migration activities  • Work closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.  • Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10g Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3, SunOS 5.8 & HP-UX B.11.11.  • Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10gRAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Designed daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN backups taking periodic Complete, cumulative and differential Incremental Backups.  • Data Refresh/Cloning from Production environment to setup QA/ DEV using RMAN Duplicate.  • Intensively used latest 10g/11g Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitoring (ADDM) reports for the health check of the databases, and used the notification tool to send the alerts in OEM Grid Control.  • Scheduled UNIX scripts in crontab jobs to automate daily tasks like backups, monitoring the alert logs, and backup logs to send notification emails.  • Migrated data to a new ASM Diskgroup to improve the IO performance of the database.  • Export/Import, Datapump, Transportable tablepsaces to migrate databases from one database to another.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot, resolve the issues, monitoring alert log, trace files.  • Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering the tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, recovering from Block Corruption) from previous RMAN backups.  • Performed capacity planning, space monitoring like tablespace growth, ASM disk space.  • Resolve critical issues by raising SR with Oracle Support and Root Cause Analysis (RCA).  • Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.  • AWS EC2 instance creation and management. Including configuration and provisioning of instance for deployment of oracle db's  • Deployed RDS on EC2 instance including oracle and mysql.  • Coordinated maintenance activities including shutdown and start up of db's and ec2 instances  • Completed RDS backups before and after maintenance activities including upgrades and patching    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 10g (9.2.0.8), DBMS STATS, Data pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Junior Oracle Database Administrator AT&T - Chicago, IL March 2013 to April 2014 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.3, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on AIX platforms.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  ? Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  ? Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases. Education Oracle Certified Associate Prince Georges Community College Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Aix, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA, MYSQL