Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Bureau of Labor Statistics Annandale, VA Extensive experience in SQL Server Database Management System in the areas of Database Administration, Reporting, Data  Modeling, Database Design and Development, Advanced Installation, Configuration, Backup and Recovery, Upgrade, Service Pack  (SP), SQL/T-SQL, Stored Procedure, Trigger, DMV, DBCC,Clustering ,  Database Performance Tuning using SQL Server Profiler, Extended event, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, Execution plan,  Performance Monitor and other third party tools like RedGate, and SolarWinds, Commvault.  Configured and managed High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions like Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, SQL Server FCI  clustering and Always On.  Experience entails Azure Services, migrated on premises databases and Legacy databases to Azure, deployed products on Azure, and  setup development and test environment on Azure.  Strong work experience and knowledge in SQL Server Replication, Log shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Performance tuning,  Backup/recovery, Query Optimization, Database and Column Level Encryption, and Security Management.  Experience in creating, supporting and maintaining database administration scripts.  Experienced with SQL/T-SQL scripts including scripts/SQL/TSQL for managing Database and database objects.  Experience in implementing RAID technologies use with the SQL server database technology  ETL: SSIS & DTS Packages: Created, configured, deployed, and managed including Migrate and Upgrade.  Reports: SSRS - Highly proficient in Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), created,  deployed, managed reports including migrating reports. Experienced in Data Movement, data dumping using different tools like Export  & Import utility, Data Tools, BIDS, SSIS, and DTS including Excel File, Flat file, CSV file, SQL Server Database.  Upgrade and Migrate: Upgraded and migrated from SQL Server databases and instances from older version to newer version like  SQL 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2/2012/2014/2016 in different environments. Migrates from MySQL to SQL server 2008, 2012, 2014  and 2016.Add roles, migrate table and related object using SSMA, export import ,map data using SSIS and migrate from MySQL to  Microsoft database and Azure SQL database.  Manage Security Management: Securing SQL Servers and Databases, Manage users, Data encryption, granting/ revoking access.  Extensive work experience in Compression, Database maintenance and Optimization.  Worked on Operating Systems like Windows Server 2003 R2, 2008 R2 and Windows Server 2012 including installation, and  configurations.  Virtualization: Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server in virtual environment using VMware and VSphere.  Ticketing tool: Xira CR and project management, Service Now ticketing tool and Confluence i for documentation  Shahadat Hossain, MCITP, MCSA  Annandale VA, Phone: (571) 477- 6220  Email: shahadatus.dba@gmail.com; Status: US Citizen  Public Trust Security Clearance -Active Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Bureau of Labor Statistics - Washington, DC June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  Cloud/Azure: On premises databases to Azure, and setup production, development and test environment on Azure.  Moving Data in and out of Windows Azure SQL Databases and Blob Storage.  Support disk/encryption and key management with Azure Key Vault.  Managed Database Servers in Development, Test, and Production environment.  Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 in Development, Test, and Production environment.  Database High Availability:  Installed, Configure and Maintained HA/DR Solutions using WFCI to FCI multi-subnet Clustering, Always On migration, Mirroring, and Log Shipping.Installed, Configured monitored and troubleshoots Log Shipping as Standby database from Production database for  Reporting purposes.  Report Development:  Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) & Power BI configuration, integration, visualization, data analysis, cloud based report generation and implementation.  Developed and deployed different type of repot using different data source like SQL Server, Oracle, CSV, and Excel.  Delivered reports to users in variety of format like Report Server (Web Based), Excel, CSV, PDF formats.  Database Upgraded and Migrate (development, testing and production environment):  Upgraded/Migrated SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2012/2008 R2 & 2012 to 2014/2016  Migrated MS Access Database 2000, 2003 into SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012.  Migrated Oracle 10gR2/11gR2 and My SQL 5.1.23 Database to SQL Server 2008 R2/2012.  Data Modeling:  Good understanding on data modeling projects and generated E-R Diagram.  Data modeling tools used: Toad Data Modeler, SQL Server Data Diagram.  Backward & Forward Engineering with data modeling tools mentioned above.  Patch Management:  Applied SP/ Hot Fixes (Service Pack) on SQL Server.  Applied SP/Hot Fixes on SQL server Instances to address Security and upgraded related issues.  TDE and Security:  Enable SSL or IPSEC for connections enable password policy checking. Implement Transparent Data Encryption to protect confidential  data, encrypts SQL Server, Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Data Warehouse data files and encrypting data at rest.  Move a TDE Protected Database to another SQL Server  Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users.  Database Monitoring/Performance Tuning/Troubleshooting:  Strong on database Monitoring and Performance tuning. Monitor SQL Server Error Log, Space usage.  Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, and backup  verification.  Identifying the memory, I/O and bottlenecks, blocking and deadlocks triggered by complex queries where using SQL Server Activity  monitor and profiler and implement better Query Execution plans.  Strong on SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, and Performance Monitor, Activity Monitor, and Execution plan. Native tool used OpNet as a Third Party Tool for monitoring and Performance Tuning.  Annandale VA, Phone: (571) 477- 6220  Email: shahadatus.dba@gmail.com; Status: US Citizen  Public Trust Security Clearance -Active    Database Programming:  Writing T-SQL, Functions, Trigger, Partition, View, and Stored-Procedures, joins, union and writing scripts for job set-up.  Assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  DTS / SSDT/ SSIS/SSRS:  Export & Import data from Excel File, Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using BIDS, SSDT.  Export & Import data from/to databases as My-SQL, and Access to/from SQL Server.  Creating SSIS Packages and deployed from different sources like SQL Server Database, Flat file, CSV, Excel and many other data  sources supports OLEDB Data sources.  Data analysis and migration by transferring and using SSIS packages.  Skilled in creating simple, parameterized and complex reports involving Sub Reports, Matrix/Tabular Reports.  Experience in writing expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports and drill down reports using SSRS.  Developed a Tabular Reports, ad-hoc reports using SSRS Report.  Experience with logical and physical data modeling and database design using Erwin.  Experience in Designing and Building dimensions and cubes using SQL Server Analysis Services  Implemented logical and physical modeling using ERWIN data modeler  Backup/Recovery:  Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery.  Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery and Restored Database from backups.    Environment: Microsoft Cloud/Azure, SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 IIS 7.5, 8.5, Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, ASP, ASP.net, Java, ETL and AD (Active Directory). SQL Server Database Administrator Alarm.com - McLean, VA June 2015 to May 2016 Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2005 in Dev., Test and Production Servers.  Applied SP and HOT Fixes on SQL Server Database Servers in Development, QA and Prod environment  Upgraded from SQL Server 2005/2008 R2 to 2012.  Monitored Database Servers, Databases, Agent, and Jobs log files.  Assisted with SharePoint SQL Server upgrade from 2008 to 2012 in QA and Production  Analyzed the root cause of variety Database performance issues and rectified them accordingly  Utilized DBCC and DMV to monitor Database stats, validity, health and performance periodically  Supported and managed a few production servers and any related issues with direct client  Setup jobs and troubleshoot jobs related to backup, Recovered Database in point in time.  Worked on performance tuning to optimize different applications, SQL/TSQLQuery Execution plan, Database Tuning Advisor, Profiler, and Monitoring Lock/block.  Create, modify or update index constraints, views, and stored procedures in query tuning for better performance.  Exported & Imported data from Flat files SQL Server Databases for adhoc purposes.  Supported and managed production servers and related issues with client  Installed, Configured and Managed Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replications, Always On AG monitoring, on a FCI cluster  environment.  Wrote T-SQL, and Stored-Procedures for reports, and applications  Excellent in loading data, data conversion from Flat file, CSV file, Excel and from other Data Sources like Oracle, MySQL, and Access to SQL Server.  Annandale VA, Phone: (571) 477- 6220  Email: shahadatus.dba@gmail.com; Status: US Citizen  Public Trust Security Clearance -Active    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012, 2008-R2, 2003-R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008-R2, 2008, 2005, 2000, AD  (Active Directory), and applications in JavaScript, ASP.net. SQL Database Administrator African Development Foundation - Washington, DC February 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2, and 2012 in development, test, and production environment.  Installed, Configured database associated tools and performance monitoring Software.  Setup, Configured, monitors and Maintained Database Replications.  Installed, configured, maintain and monitored troubleshoots SQL Server Database Mirroring.  Configured and Maintained Log Shipping as Standby database for Reporting Purposes.  Securing SQL Servers and Databases, Manage users, Data encryption, granting/ revoking access.  Planning, controlling and monitoring the Security and Audit issues as per SLA and Standards.  Data Encryption and Data Decryption for data security in Database & Column level.  Managed Backup/Restore, Point-in-Time Recovery including backup verification, security by native tools and Red Gate tools.  Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012  Expertise in database Performance tuning SQL profiler, Execution Plan, Database tuning Advisor, Activity Monitor, Performance  Monitor.  Monitored data activities such as logs, space utilization, locks, long transaction.  T-SQL, Stored-Procedures, Triggers, Function, Views, Indexes.  Developed and maintained scripts, utility jobs or implement needed software for database maintained.  Created and managed Indexes, Constraints, and Keys (Primary Key, Foreign Key).  Worked on different Data Modeling projects including creating scripts, E-R Diagram, backward/forward engineering  Worked multiple Data Modeling projects for different applications  Processed data dump and Exported & Imported data from Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, My-SQL, and Access to/from SQL Server  Database using DTS, SSIS, and EXP/IMP tool.  Export & Import data from Flat file (CSV, Excel) to SQL Server Database using EXP/Imp and DTS tool.  Setup automated jobs for different purposes including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification and moving  databases from environment to environment including creating test environment.  Developed different maintenance plans such as backups, index management, fragmentation management, cleaning history, deleting  old files.  Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage, and solving problem as needed.    Environment: SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012 IIS Server 6.5, 7.5, Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, ASP.net, Java, ETL and AD (Active  Directory). Education Bachelor's Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, MYSQL