Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Melbourne, FL Seeking Professional Database Administration Position. 10+  years of Oracle Database support with close to 4 years of  Microsoft Sql Server support. Will consider relocation.    KNOWLEDGE SETS:    Database & Database Software:  Oracle Database versions 7 to 12.2.0.1, SQLPlus, Oracle Database Appliance (ODA), PL/SQL, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, Cloud Control 12c/13c, Recovery Manager, Replication, Data Warehousing, RAC, Data Guard, Weblogic Server, MS SQL Server    OS:  HP, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, LINUX, Windows    Utilities:  Veritas NetBackup, Remedy, Exceed, Toad, Avamar, UNIX Shell Scripting,  CSH (C Shell), SH (Bourne Shell), KSH (Korn Shell), MS Office Suite Work Experience Database Administrator SAIC - Kennedy Space Center, FL April 2019 to July 2019 Maintenance and general upkeep of Oracle databases on Linux and Windows platforms, using Oracle 12.1.0.2 and 12.2.0.1    Responsibilities/Accomplishments:  • Installed Oracle Quarterly Patchset Updates on Linux and Windows 2012.  • Applied Oracle Cloud Control 13c Patchsets.  • Performed user Backups and restores on SQL Server 2008 and 2012 databases.  • Specified and installed new server for Oracle Cloud Control 13c Upgrade.  • Performance Tuning of Oracle and SQl Server databases  • Upgrade Oracle Version 12102 databases to 12201,  • Supported and maintained Weblogic Server Database Administrator CSC December 2018 to April 2019 Support, maintenance, development, and general upkeep of both RAC and non RAC Oracle databases on Linux platforms. Administered Oracle Database versions 11.2.0.4 thru 12.2.0.1.    Responsibilities/Accomplishments:  • Worked on/with a team supporting functionality of RAC/Non RAC databases  --production/development/test 24*7  • Performance monitoring and tuning of all databases and corresponding applications.  • Participated in quarterly patching of Oracle software.  • Migration of legacy data into current Oracle databases using import/export and data pump.  • Supported and maintained Weblogic Server  • Worked on Auditing and Security solutions for production databases.  • Maintained user accounts and logical and physical database structures.  • Worked on implementation and support of data warehouse projects.  • Maintenance on database backup and recovery strategie  • Unix Shell Scripting,  • Participated in 24*7 Support pager support.  • Analyzed and resolved Oracle Error Issues  • Worked issues assigned through USD and Remedy Trouble Ticket systems.  • Performed Custom PL/SQL development.  - Maintained Oracle 12C Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control  • Performed Installation/Configuration of Oracle software/upgrades  • Provided problem analysis and development for users and developers using Oracle PL/SQL and TOAD. DBA Liberty Business Associates - Charleston, SC April 2018 to November 2018 Oracle 12.2.0.1  Installation, support, maintenance development, and general upkeep of Oracle databases on Linux servers.    DBA - Oracle database installation and support  Provided technical assistance and support for both Oracle and Linux.  • Created and Installed Oracle 12201 Databases.  • Migrated legacy data into Oracle 12 using import/export and data pump.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of all databases and corresponding applications.  • Implemented Auditing and Security solution for production databases  • Adding, modifying and deleting user accounts, logical and physical database structures  • Planning and implementation of database backup and recovery strategies.  • Updated Test and development database data from Production  • Unix Shell Scripting,  • Analyzed and resolved Oracle Error Issues  • Worked issues assigned thru Remedy Trouble Ticket system  • Installation/Configuration of Oracle software upgrades.  • Problem analysis and development provided for users and developers using Oracle PL/SQL and TOAD.  • Worked in a team environment to co-ordinate all activities/changes to databases Database Administrator CSC March 2009 to March 2018 Support, maintenance, development, and general upkeep of Oracle databases on AIX, Solaris, Linux and Windows platforms. Administered Oracle Database versions 8.1.7.4 through 12.2.0.1.    Responsibilities/Accomplishments:  • Worked on a team which designed, created and implemented an Oracle Database Appliance Network (4 servers - 8 virtual nodes) which housed active Oracle Databases from 11.2.0.4 through 12.1.0.2. Set up Oracle Dataguard for all the production databases on the Oracle Database Appliance.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of all databases and corresponding applications.  • Migration of legacy data into current Oracle databases using import/export and data pump.  • Implemented Auditing and Security solution for production databases  • Maintained user accounts and logical and physical database structures.  • implemented and supported of data warehouse projects.  • Planned and implemented database backup and recovery strategies  • Supported production/development/test 24*7 databases.  • Updated Test and development database data from Production platforms.  • Unix Shell Scripting,  • Provided 24*7 Support  • Analyzed and resolved Oracle Error Issues  • Worked issues assigned through USD and Remedy Trouble Ticket systems.  • Performed Custom PL/SQL development.  - Implemented Oracle 10G Grid Control Enterprise Solution  - Implemented Oracle 12C Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control  • Performed Installation/Configuration of Oracle software/upgrades  • Provided problem analysis and development for users and developers using Oracle PL/SQL and TOAD.  • Performed limited maintenance on SQL Server Databases including backups, restores, and general troubleshooting. Worked in a team environment to co-ordinate all activities/changes to databases. Education BS in Computer Science University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS May 1986 BS in Geology University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS August 1978 Skills DBA Military Service Branch: US. Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sp4 January 1988 to January 1996 Maintained and supported data processing trailers. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Ce April 2018 to April 2018 Additional Information Secret clearance (interim pending final adjudication)