Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Allston, MA • Experienced in SQL Server 2008-2016 Administration. Recent experience includes bigdata database Cassandra 6.0.4 administration also have working knowledge of Oracle RDBMS.  • Expertise in upgrading PROD/NON-PROD database servers from 2005/2008/2008R2 to SQL 2014/2016 by organizing meetings with development team and application leads.  • Performance troubleshooting of issues post migration.  • Implemented and administered SQL Server features like Always on, Multi-node Clustering.  • Skilled in performance and troubleshooting in areas related to Query tuning, rewriting procedural code for optimal performance, tune SQL Server configuration as per application requirement. Nail down performance related issues due to hardware contention by using tools like Performance monitor, DMVs, SQL Profiler, extended events.  • Implemented monitoring using Perfmon to collect periodic data for performance monitoring. Worked on tools like IDERA,SQL Monitor to get system related alerts and performance troubleshooting.  • Managed and executed periodic offsite DR recovery drill test for SQL Server mission critical databases.  • Worked with external and internal auditors for providing reports related to data access by different segment users in production database environment.   • Implemented database designs for OLTP systems. Performed database structure changes as per normalized forms to accommodate new data.  • Performance and tuned SQL Queries and T-SQL procedural code by suggesting optimal index strategies like column stored indexes, clustered & non-clustered indexes, table partitioning etc.  • Worked closely with storage team to implement optimal storage for best performance of data, transaction log and tempdb drives. Implemented best practices for allocating tempdb files.  • Setup and documented database and server security standards, naming conventions. Implemented SQL Server security model using custom database roles/ system roles / database roles by granting only minimal access to application users and end users using SQL Server authentication and AD authentication.  • Evaluated database backup tools and implemented optimized database backup strategy as per database recovery SLA by combining full/differential and transactional backup strategy using third party tools like SQLLitespeed, Netbackup.  • Worked with storage team and engineering team to get optimal storage for the database server for data files, transaction log files and tempdb considering cost factor associated with the RAID arrays.  • Performed SQL Server upgrade of mission critical databases with minimal downtime. Well versed with upgradation of different versions and editions of SQL Server. For cost cutting purposes also performed downgrade of SQL Server edition from Enterprise to Standard. Used tools like SQL Upgrade advisor, SQL Profiler to nail down issues prior to upgrade.  • Supported BI Tools like Informatica-powercenter, SSIS, SSAS and SSRS. Worked on the project to upgrade these tools as well. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator C&S Wholesale Grocers - Keene, NH April 2018 to Present SQL Server  ----------------  §  Designed and setup high availability using Always on 2 node cluster for mission critical databases.   §  Documented and verified current SQL Server security standards and design of Always on setup to help other teams understand SQL Server setup.  §  Troubleshooted issues of frequent deadlocks occurred in the application using SQLMonitor and provided optimal solution using RCSI by documenting its pros and cons to the upper management. Implemented RCSI setup and monitored databases for the impact of this setting. Used SQL Monitoring tools like IDERA for troubleshooting purposes.  §  Provided index tuning strategies for the OLTP application. Redesigned existing indexes to cover additional columns for faster execution of queries.  Datastax Cassandra  ---------------  §  Installed and configured Datastax Cassandra 6.0.4 for 6 node cluster, for couple of new projects. Troubleshooted issues related to configuration of the servers.  §  Upgraded Cassandra from 5.0.14 version to 6.0.7 version.  §  Performed activities like adding/removing node to the existing Cassandra cluster.  §  Troubleshooted tasks like caching of tables, space management in dsefs etc.  §  Extensively worked with development team and datastax team for resolving issues like performance and tuning of the environment for Cassandra datastax for the 6.0.4.  Worked with system admin teams to configure Cent OS Linux parameters for optimized performance of Cassandra. Database Administrator XL Catlin - Stamford, CT May 2011 to December 2017 §  Administered and setup SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/ 2014/2016 and Oracle databases 10g/9i databases on Windows/Linux/HP-UX environments.  §  Worked in collaboration with Infrastructure team WRT Windows Server configuration, AD configuration for SQL Server troubleshooting and setup of new servers.   §  Proficient in performance tuning and troubleshooting DB related issues in each phase of development cycle and postproduction implementation.  §  Evaluated database backup and recovery tools and implemented optimized database backup strategy as per database recovery SLA.  §  Installed and configured various SQL Server multiple node Active Active /Active Passive clusters on Windows servers fro SQL version between SQL 2000 to SQL 2016.  §  Installed and administered Always on High availability setup for multiple node clusters as per project requirement.  §  Skilled in performance tuning of SQL Server databases using tools like SQL 2016 Query store, SQL Activity monitor, Windows perfmon, SQL Profiler, DMVs.  §  Worked closely with applications team for troubleshooting issues related to SSIS/SSRS/ T-SQL Programming.  §  Implemented transaction replication with multi-node subscribers. Provided daily support including patching maintenance of these servers.  §  Worked closely with development team to performance and tune SQL Code, troubleshoot performance issue in procedural code, implementing various database object strategies like defragmentation of tables/indexes, partitioning database objects etc.  §  Share domain and technical expertise, providing technical mentorship and cross-training to other peers and team members.  §  Managed Disaster Recovery of mission critical databases, outlined steps and procedures for DR test from beginning of the test to the end. Database Administrator Leukemia & Lymphoma Society - White Plains, NY July 2010 to April 2011 • Involved in data modeling for the application and created ER diagram using ERWin.  • Played lead role in project to rebuild existing servers, migration to the new hardware, peripherals, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements. Developed and maintained installation and configuration procedures.  • Developed SQL scripts for maintaining DB administration tasks. Tuned the SQL queries using SQL profiler. Provided indexing recommendation. Involved in tuning the database by directly working with the development team.  • Setup and maintain disaster recovery infrastructure for SQL Servers. Played lead role in DR exercise and setup standards and procedures for successful implementation of DR test. Developed Database Backup Scripts and automated this process for OLTP and Data Warehouse systems. Database Administrator Stamford Hospital January 2010 to July 2010 • Configured and maintained database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  • Applied data modeling techniques to ensure development and implementation support efforts meet integration and performance expectations using ERWin tool.  • Independently analyzed, solved, and corrected issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end.  • Refined and automated regular processes like backups/ db maintenance etc, track issues, and document changes  • Assist developers and worked directly with developers with complex query tuning and schema refinement. Database XL Capital - Stamford, CT June 2005 to July 2009 • Involved in installation and patching of SQL 2000 SP4/ 2005 SP4/ 2008 SP3/ 2008R2 SP2 in cluster, stand alone environment.  • Designed the Backup\Recovery methodology, minimizing the data loss and faster recovery of the data with synchronized backup of VLDBs.  • Performed troubleshooting of Stored Procedures and Queries performances using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Management studio and query plans.  • Generated Run Books to handle the recurring issues and failures in the Production Environment and for regular Deployment Processes. Database Administrator Deloitte Consulting - Mumbai, India November 2002 to June 2005 • Awarded as the “Best Performer of the Year” for the dedicated and technically sophisticated performance.  • Handled regular administration of Oracle 8i/9i databases and SQL Server 2000/2005.  • Managed and administered Oracle multilingual databases that included 6 production instances and testing / integration instances sized around 60 - 70GB each.  • Upgraded databases from earlier versions to the latest versions from SQL server 7 to 2000.   • Successful conversion of database character-set (Oracle 8i/9i) from the existing character-set to its superset without any data loss by analyzing, using the Oracle command line utility protocol. Database Administrator HDFC - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2002 to November 2002 Database Administrator Netdecisions Pvt Ltd. January 2001 to March 2002 SQL DBA/Developer Bajaj Ele - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2000 to January 2001 Education Bachelor Of Science in Computer Applications Madurai Kamaraj University 2004 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce University Of Mumbai 1997 Skills MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), ORACLE (9 years), T-SQL (6 years), Datastax Cassandra (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    RDBMS MS SQL Server 6.5/7.0/2000/2008/2012/2014. Oracle 10g/9i/8i/7.x,    Operating Systems HP-Unix11.0, WindowsNT 4.0/2000/2003, RH Linux 5.0 Enterprise.    Backup Softwares Veritas Netbackup, SQL Litespeed  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL  BI Tools Informatica, Cognos