Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Fiserv Inc Fairview, TX Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Fiserv Inc - Irving, TX January 2014 to Present Fiserv is global financial organization with more than 13,000 clients and approximately 22,000  associates worldwide and takes pride in its mission to enable clients to achieve best-in-class results.  The company is highly regarded for its financial services technology and services innovation, including  award-winning solutions for mobile and online banking, payments, risk management, data analytics and core account processing.    Responsibilities:  • I supported Microsoft SQL databases, including all client-facing environments, database backup,  • Support of databases across internal and end-user applications.  • Working closely with internal customers to deploy changes into the production environment,  • Managed change control processes, internal tools, monitoring, responding to and troubleshooting  SQL Server alerts.  • Responsible for database monitoring, troubleshooting, performance tuning, and high availability  strategies for SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, and SQL Server 2014.  • Technical experience with High availability of SQL server databases and Always-ON feature and Windows Failover Clustering.  • Implemented performance monitoring using System Center Operations Manager 2012  • Worked in reviewing and enhancing backup and recovery strategies.  • Worked on query optimization and index maintenance  • Anticipated hardware requirements and storage capacity planning for development, QA and production  • Responsible for production deployments, verification and rollback when needed  • Responsible for patching and hot-fixes are uniformly applied to all environments for PCI compliancy  • Worked on assigning the least permission and managing users, roles and group accounts  • Extensively worked on database partitioning, security and encryption.  • Worked on upgrading DTS to SSIS packages and deploying them to production  • Lead performance monitoring and tuning of assigned projects and communicate with other teams for any root cause issues.  • Production support experience on replication, database mirroring, Reporting Services and SSIS.  • Experienced in LiteSpeed and CommVault backup tools and Spotlight monitoring Tools  • Pro-actively monitor production databases and optimize systems for better performance.  • Diagnose system problems, evaluate alternative solutions and take initiative to solve problems.  • Monitored index usage and tuned them where appropriate  • Performed SDLC and Migrations through test environment to production.  • Reviewed the entire environment and quantify the standardization of the databases and servers, and worked on enforcement of enterprise standards around database technologies    Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, and 2012 R2, Litspeed, Commvault, Spotlight, SharePoint 2003, EMC Remedy, Service Now, SSIS, SSRS, Management  Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer Sr. Database Administrator Trans Corporation - Lewisville, TX October 2012 to January 2014 Med Trans Corporation is a leading national air medical provider focused on establishing partnerships  with other sister companies (Air Evac, Eagle Med and REACH), hospital systems, medical centers and EMS agencies through more than 50 bases across 18 states. Med-Trans able to offer customized air  ambulance programs through alternative delivery/shared resource models, community based models or traditional hospital-based models. At Med-Trans I was the only DBA to support and maintain all  Production, QA and Dev. environments.    Responsibilities:  • Designing severs architecture and Disk Layout for the new Data Center  • Installing and configuring SQL server 2012 in Windows server 2012 environment  • Database Migration from SQL server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012 to New Datacenter  • Configuring and Maintaining HA Always on Feature for Disaster Recovery and reporting purpose  • Worked on Data Encryption for PCI and HIPAA compliance  • Worked on TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for some database to secure mdf and ldf files  • Managing user logins and granting proper permission across different applications.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services  (SSRS).  • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions  • Responsible for pushing the changed from Dev environment to QA and from QA to Prod  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance  • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted  databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Having hands on experience in DR processes including Log shipping and Replication  • Managing Access front-end SQL back-end application, installing user interface  • Worked on application software updates and patching  • Monitoring the servers using Idera third party software (SQL Diagnostic Manager).  • Monitoring the SQL Jobs using Idera third party software (SQL Job Manager).  • Configuring and Monitoring servers using IT-360  • Expensive Knowledge on using Red Gate third party tools  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective  documentation and mentoring team members Sr. Database Administrator (eOrdering DBA) Verizon Communications - Irving, TX December 2010 to October 2012 Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008 R2, Windows 2008 Server, Red Gate Tools, Idera, IT-360, Avamar, Management Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer  Sr. Database Administrator (eOrdering DBA)  Verizon Communications - Irving, TX  December 2010 to October 2012  Responsibilities:  • Performed SQL Server's health checks, fixing all environment issues regarding space issue, blocking, user's connection problems, and replication issue.  • Monitored Data Load jobs and resolving data load issues.  • Product Change Request deployment on test servers followed by Data load completion.  • Prepared and loaded the Product Change Requests on Production servers and monitoring.  • Maintained and troubleshoot Replication issues (Transaction and Snapshot Replication).  • Resolved various performance issues and running DBCC commands, SQL Profiler.  • Monitored jobs and resolving issues in SSIS packages and DTS packages  • Monitored SQL server, Application logs and analyzing the logs.  • Maintained both Dev. and Production servers in sync by deploying main release and off-cycle release.    • Data transformation activities using DTS Import/Export for transferring data between different  Databases.  • Designed new DTS Packages as per needs, resolve problems with existing DTS packages.  • Incorporating business logic in DTS while converting from Oracle, MS Access and Text to SQL Server.  • Created new database/tables to put in the extracted data and rebuilding the relationship.  • Performance Tuning, Backing and Restoring User Databases.  • Created different user level groups, and assigned appropriate permission level to the database.  This made sure that only the right person with enough authority would be able to see the Customer  Information.  • Created Distributed Partitioned Views, Debugging / Troubleshooting Stored Procedures, upgrading  existing ones.  • Documented Disaster Recovery Plans and participated in disaster recovery.  • Perform Full Backups and Transaction Log Backups. Restore them whenever necessary; creating back  up strategies and scheduling them for execution.  • Working with various departments while developing their applications, assisting in Database design, phasing from development to QA and to Production environment.  • Involved in Performance Tuning for Source Databases, and Target Databases.  • Rebuilt indexes on various tables.  • Moved data from production to SIT for testing purposes with masking sensitive customer info.    Environment: Windows 2003 Advanced Server, SQL Server 2005/ 2008, Management Studio, SQL  Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, ETL: MS SQL Server DTS, SSIS, Upgrade Advisor, DTS Designer Tools, Windows Performance Monitor, F-Secure Database Administrator Hewlett-Packard - Houston, TX April 2007 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on installation, upgrade and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005 on a Standalone and Cluster Servers as a Single instance and multiple instances.  • Good experience in Implementation of Production, Integration and Development environment, Hardware requirements and support.  • Experienced with migration of databases from MS SQL server 2000 to MS SQL server 2005 and experience in migration and support of databases for Production, Integration and Development  environments (Dedicated and Shared Server).  • Coordinated and performed quality assurance testing for movement of databases and database  objects from development to testing and production environments.  • In migration process involved into PAR Review, Migration Review, preparing documentation for reviewing process and migration, request for backup, migration and providing active support after  migrations.  • Implementation of Point in time Backup and recovery plans of all databases and maintain  documentation. Schedule the Administrative Tasks (like database integrity checks and maintenance  plans).  • Worked with MS DTC for the Windows Server 2003 and Failover cluster testing.  • Migrated DTS Packages into SSIS using Upgrade Advisor and DTS Designer.  • Creation and maintenance of Users security permissions and migrated the entire database objects  from one server to another server.  • Extensive exposure to creation of databases, objects, stored procedures, triggers, security, DTS (i.e.  Import and Export), BCP, Transact-SQL experience, and SQL Server Agent and SQL Server profiler.  • Creation and scheduling of Maintenance plans ( database and log backups and cleanups)  • Implemented disaster recovery for SQL Server Production Database as Fail-Over and/or Standby  servers. Used Log Shipping Technique for warm backup solution for MS SQL Server databases.  • Good experience in the maintaining production servers, monitoring performance issues, trouble  shooting and solving production issues.  • Good experience on configuring Replication, mirroring, and Log Shipping in SQL Server 2005.  • Developed reporting data and entry portals with Microsoft SharePoint sites, PowerPoint slides and Excel spreadsheets as needed for project team reporting. ESL, OVSD and CI Information data loads for  proprietary reporting.    Environment: Windows 2000 Advanced Server/Server 2003, SQL Server 2000-2005, Enterprise  Manager, Management Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, ETL: MS SQL Server DTS, SSIS, Upgrade Advisor, DTS Designer Tools, Windows Performance Monitor. Database Administrator Micron Technology - Manassas, VA February 2006 to March 2007 Responsibilities:  • Installation of MS SQL enterprise servers on test, development and production boxes on a Stand by and Clustered servers.  • Performed Database Administration and Management activities in a safe, recoverable and professional manner that ensures the optimal operation of all database environments.  • Handled database objects with Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer.  • Administered the MS SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking  the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Created Proper Views to prevent unauthorized access and have extensive Transact SQL experience.  • Database Backups and Restoration, Backup Strategies and Scheduling Backups.  • Tested backup and recovery strategies in a test environment and verify the validity of tape backup.  • Coordinated and performed quality assurance testing for movement of database and objects from development to testing and production environments.  • Configured Log Shipping to create a stand by server for production server.  • Worked on migration and maintenance of data using various utilities like DTS, IMPORT/EXPORT and ATTACH/DETACH Data Migration.  • Created and Maintained Snapshot, Transactional and Merge Replication.  • Responsible for query optimization, performance tuning and index tuning.  • Periodic checking of all databases with DBCC commands for maintaining data consistency and integrity  • Designed and Developed reports by using SQL Server 2000/2005 reporting service and good  understanding of Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Analysis Services (SSAS).    Environment: Windows 2000 Advanced Server, MS SQL Server 2000/2005, Microsoft Analysis Services, MS Outlook, TSQL, ERwin etc. Database Administrator Delta Consultancy Inc - Addis Ababa, ET September 2004 to June 2005 Responsibilities:  • Worked on SQL Server 2000, which is installed on a cluster (Active/Passive) environment with fast  problem solving capacity.  • Created logical and physical data modeling for development database using ERwin Tool.  • Installed MS SQL Server, Performed Database Design and created User Databases.  • Administered MS SQL Servers by creating User logins and assigned them proper permissions, observing all process running on the server making sure server will run at its best.  • Scheduled backups and performed restore operations for system test data depending on developers'  requirement.  • Involved in disaster recovery procedures for production servers.  • Created DTS Packages to upload test data from Text files.  • Performed Data migration (import and export) from Text to SQL Server and data transfer using BCP  and DTS.  • Managed Disk space, memory and User connections.  • Performed T-SQL tuning and optimizing queries.  • Performed query plans and made sure each and every query is using appropriate indexes by using  Profiler.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning and index tuning.  • Performed Database Integrity Checks, updated Database Statistics and performed Re-indexing.  • Used DBCC checks and fixed data corruption in Application databases.  • Responsible for capacity planning, monitoring Disk I/O, CPU and memory.  • Maintained and created replications (Transactional and Snapshot).    Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, Windows 2003 Server, Windows 2000-Advanced Server and ERwin. Education M.Sc. in Information Systems in Information Systems in Information Systems Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET B.Sc. in Natural Science in Natural Science in Natural Science Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql Additional Information Skills    Database (10+ years), databases (10+ years), Ms sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql server  (10+ years)    Technical Summary    • SQL Server Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Business Intelligence Development Studio,  Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, SSIS and DTS (Import and Export), Replication,  Database Tuning Advisor and Index Tuning Wizard, BCP, SQLCMD, Reporting Services Report Manager,  Reporting Services Configuration and Report Builder, Upgrade Advisor, SQL Configuration manager and  Service manager, Client Network Utility and Server Network Utilities, Surface Area Configuration.  • Languages: C/C++, Visual Basic 6.0 and T-SQL.    • Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008 Standard, Windows Server 2003, Windows 2000 Advanced  Server, Windows Professional, Windows NT/95/98/ME/XP and MS-DOS.  • Databases: MS SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008, MS Access, 97/2000/2003/2007.  • Front End Tools: MS FrontPage 98/2000, MS Office 97/2000/XP/2007, MS Outlook 97/2000/2003/2007.    • Data-Modeling Tools: ERwin, MS Visio.  • Reporting Tools: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 Reporting Services, Microsoft Operations Manager  (MOM).  • Networking: Managing User accounts using Active Directory.