Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Reed Elsevier Philadelphia, PA • 10 years of profound working experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, System Analysis, Design, Development, and Support of Oracle Database in Production, Staging, Development, and Testing Environments.  • Providing DBA support to multiple Cluster, Non-cluster and ASM Database in production, development and Testing Servers in UNIX, Linux and Solaris Environments.  • Handful of experience in Oracle Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Critical Patch Updates (CPU's) in various environment.  • Excellent experience in Installation, administration and troubleshooting of Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i Databases for OLTP (multiple instances)/ OLAP environment on Very Large or Highly Transactional Databases.  • Worked on high availability of the databases including RAC, ASM and data guard on Oracle Exadata.  • Expertise in setup, installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of several Oracle tools and utilities like Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer in various versions.  • Having good experience in configuring OEM 12C cloud control and have hands on experience in monitoring databases using OEM 10g/11g.  • Working knowledge and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL functions, packages, procedures, cursors, collections, triggers, exception handlers, PL/SQL tables in Oracle.  • Expertise in writing SQL queries, Views, Materialized views, PL/SQL procedures, functions, packages, triggers, cursors, collections, Ref cursor, cursor variables, System reference cursor, Dynamic SQL.  • Created various types of database objects Indexes, tables, Sequences, Synonyms  • Commendable knowledge in SQL and PL/SQL with regards to Data manipulation, Ad-Hoc query requests and Data Profiling.  • Proficiency to create composite data types such as PL/SQL records and PL/SQL collections  • Ability to manage objects dependencies in the Oracle database  • Strong ability to handle Oracle Exceptions  • Strong knowledge of Oracle utilities like SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Data Pump and External Table  • Solid development skills in Oracle tools and technologies including Oracle Forms and Oracle Reports.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Explain Plan, Data optimization, query optimization, job scheduling.  • Good at UNIX and Shell Scripting, knowledge in Hadoop.  • Punctual and ability to manage and meet project deadlines.  • Experience in query optimization, performance, and tuning (PL/SQL) using SQL Trace, Explain Plan, Indexing, Hints, Bulk Binds, Bulk Collect, Creation of global temporary tables and table partitioning  • Worked heavily with relational database models, schemas & entity-relationship diagrams (ERMs) to create technical/system design documents.  • In-Depth Knowledge of Oracle Architecture, data dictionary, to understand Schema Objects, Schema Objects Relations, Schema Privileges, Roles, and Restrictions.  • Experience in using several built-in database packages such as DBMS_JOB, DBMS_OUTPUT, UTL_FILE, and DBMS_SQL  • Strong knowledge of PL/SQL Wrapper to protect the PL/SQL procedures or packages  • Expertise in handling errors using Exceptions.  • Experience in working with SQL Server Reporting Tools (SSRS) and SQL Server Integration (SSIS).  • Expertise in using tools such as Oracle SQL Developer, SQL*Plus.  • Very good knowledge of JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, Perl, Unix Shell Scripting  • Fundamental knowledge Java development and JDBC  • Strong knowledge of networking topologies  • Knowledge of the system analyzes and gathering information  • Good team player, quick learner, target oriented individual with excellent communication and interpersonal skills, also possess the ability to work independently  • Sound ability to provide training and teaching to team members about database    Databases ORACLE 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL SERVER 2008/2005, MS Access  ETL tools Oracle Data Integrator 10g/11g, Informatica 8.6/9.1  Programming SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, XML, Unix Shell scripting, Java, C, C++, VB  Tools  Grid Control 10g and 11g, OEM 9i, Database control, Datapump, Streams, RMAN, RAC, ASM, 10g AWR, Erwin, Toad, Import/Export, statspack    Window Utility Package Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Word Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Reed Elsevier - Philadelphia, PA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install/Upgrade Oracle 12c/11g Database from 9i and 10g to 11g and 12c  • Migrate Databases running on HP-Unix and Solaris to AIX  • Work with Business leads/Managers and provide Database solutions according to their requirements.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Oracle 9i through 11g Databases.  • Performance tuning using Oracle tools STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, ASH,10g/11g OEM and 12c OEM, OSWatcher  • Use vmstat, iostat, sar, topas, top tools for performance monitoring and tuning at O/S level.  • Experience in configuring OEM 12c cloud control load balancing by adding additional OMS using F5 Service Load Balancer(SLB).  • Installed 2 node and 4 node clusters on Exadata  • As a cloud service engineer provided DBaaS support for client using AWS.  • Provide customer onboarding and help customer to understand AWS offering and troubleshoot database issues.  • Provide end to end Oracle support and consulting services to customer running Oracle database on AWS.  • Experience in using Oracle Access Manager (OAM) Single Sign-On authentication for user logging in Oracle 12c Cloud control.  • Implemented active Data Guard for reporting databases and other critical databases.  • Configure and Troubleshoot Shareplex Database Multisite Bi-Directional Replication.  • Made use of Parameterized Cursors, when needed in the Procedures.  • Worked on bug fixes, analyzing invalid objects and re-compiling them.  • Currently, continuing to work on HEWS related tasks. Worked and developed many procedures and functions according to the requirement, and developed brand new packages with cursors.  • Developed all types of Explicit cursor and used in the packages and procedures  • Created scripts to load the data into tables from another database  • Debugged, maintained and made changes to existing systems  • Retrieved data from Oracle and MS SQL Server tables for generating customize report in Excel and Access for providing to supervisor and manager  • Loaded data into Oracle database that used to come from others sources in different format such as Text or Access tables  • Implemented data integrity constraints and Enable & Disable at data loading  • Retrieved information from data dictionary views for DBA  • Extensively used for DDL, DML, and DCL statements  • Tuned database SQL statements and procedures by monitoring Explain plans and system statistics  • Inserted hints and rewrote the SQL statements code as required for tuning SQL statements  • Wrote complex SQL queries and Subqueries for faster data retrievals  • Used different types of Join condition in the queries.  • Combined multiple queries result with set operators (UNION, UNION ALL, INTERSECT, MINUS)  • Used built-in database packages, such as DBMS_JOB, DBMS_OUTPUT, UTL_FILE, and DBMS_SQL  • Created Dynamic SQL statements at runtime  • Updated SQL, PL/SQL codes from Oracle Form to better performance  • Performed basic database administration work on DBA request  • Conducted PL/SQL training session for co-workers to educate about the latest PL/SQL features, PL/SQL performance tuning    Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL and PL/SQL, Import & Export utilities, SQL Loader, SQL Tuning, OEM, MS SQL Server Senior Oracle Database Administrator Paychex Inc - Rochester, NY April 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions and procedures  • Managed different types of triggers  • Used different types of variable such as (Scalar, Composite, Bind)  • Developed dynamic SQL commands in procedures and function to drop & create indexes  • Involved in the database administration, managing security and granting & revoking object privileges  • Created objects such as users, tables, views, indexes & sequences  • Loaded data from other file formats such as TXT, ACCESS, Excel to database  • Used Oracle Loader and import/export utilities for loading data  • Manipulate constraint at the time of loading so that data could load fast  • Used Hints in the SQL statement for better performance of the SQL statement  • Extensive Knowledge and working of Bulk Collect and Bulk Binding for data retrieval  • Developed a package containing several procedures and function using oracle concepts such as ref cursors and bulk collects are used to improve performance.  • Extensive used Explicit course in the function and procedure  • Developed various procedures and functions in PL/SQL for doing the ETL.  • Used basic Linux commands for managing files  • Worked on resolving the production issues. Developed a lot of new scripts and updated existing scripts to solve the issues.  • Identified, tracked and resolved performance problems  • Involved in the documentation of the system    Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL and PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Import & Export utilities, SQL Loader, Data Pump, SQL Developer Oracle Database Administrator Coastal Corporation - Houston, TX June 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the walk through the existing application code to understand the business process flow.  • Created stored procedures to extract the data from source table, transformed as per the business logic and loaded into the target table.  • Created stored functions to perform calculations on the raw data and accessed through procedures while processing the data as per the business logic.  • Used bulk collects and FORALL programming feature to process the data with effective performance.  • Created complex views and performance tuned them which were the sources to the downstream applications.  • Extensively used sequences, indexes in the procedures according to the requirement  • Created different types of table partitions for better performance  • Created and used explicit cursor in the function and procedure  • Worked with Development team to create necessary and update company's software  • Developed, Analyzing, and writing PL/SQL scripts  • Used advanced features in the function and procedure such as ref cursors and built-in package  • Wrote complex SQL statements using multi-table joins  • Involved in fine-tuning stored procedures by making use of PL/SQL Collections and its BULK FETCH and BULK INSERT features.  • Created different types of constraints on different tables  • Involved basic administrative activities such as monitoring OEM, granting/revoke privileges to user & role  • Handle PL/SQL Exception in the function and procedure  • Extensive used different types of Loop, CASE and IF statements in the PL/SQL block  • Used advantage of the %ROWTYPE and %TYPE in the PL/SQL block    Environment: Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL and PL/SQL Oracle Database Administrator Winter Wyman - Waltham, MA November 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle mainly analysis, design, Coding, testing, and implementation of the application.  • Created new Tables, Indexes, and Sequences where needed  • Created complex queries with different types of join and conditional clauses  • Developed PL/SQL packages using indexes, bulk collects and bulk variables.  • Developed control files for SQL*Loader and PL/SQL programs for loading/validating data into the database.  • Created PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers/Packages to implement business logic.  • Used Exception Handling extensively for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application  • Implemented relation among tables through creating different types of constraints  • Used Wrappers for data security, which encrypts the PL/SQL code  • Coordinated with DBA in improving Database Performance  • Used SQL cursor attribute in the PL/SQL block  • Developed multiple types of Explicit cursor in the procedure to retrieve multiple rows  • Wrote complex queries with group functions and HAVING clause  • Collaborate with various departments and perform research on all data processing functions.  • Monitor and recommend changes if required to all PL/ SQL packages and provide stored procedures and design and develop various relational database.    Environment: Oracle, SQL Developer, SQL and PL/SQL, SQL *Loader Oracle Database Administrator PFIZER - Andover, MA March 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities:    • Involved in the complete life cycle of a product from requirements gathering to end of system testing.  • Extensively used PL/SQL for designing packages, stored procedures, functions, database triggers.  • Extensively used PL/SQL to extract data from tables  • Developed, modified and optimized complex queries for data retrieval and modification.  • Added SQL Hints in the SQL statement for enhancing data retrieval performance  • Manage data integrity constraints to make sure validated data  • Documented changes and enhancements in code.  • Provided basic help to web-developers for using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS  • Created complex queries in PL/SQL on SQL plus and SQL developer environment for making easy and fast way to retrieve data to others user in the department  • Used the appropriate indexes for Performance Tuning  • Monitored indexes and analyzed their status for performance tuning and query optimization  • Used PL/SQL techniques like Bulk Collect/Bind, FORALL for enhancing data retrieval  • Combined multiple queries result with set operators (UNION, UNION ALL, INTERSECT, MINUS)  • Collaborate with the Oracle team to fulfill Production support and enhancement duties following the client processes and procedures  • Provide Project managers with (effort / time) estimates on development tasks.  Environment: Oracle, SQL Plus, SQL and PL/SQL, FoxPro, Visual FoxPro Oracle Database Administrator Walmart - Washington, DC June 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed pl/SQL packages, stored procedures, and functions to populate the data in the database tables  • Involved in translating functional requirements into detailed design requirements.  • Wrote SQL queries to retrieve data to prepares report  • Involved in the database administration, managing security granting & revoking object privileges  • Developed database objects such as users, tables, Views, sequences, functions, procedures, packages and triggers  • Created and implemented different types of constraints  • Used different join condition in the queries to retrieve data from multiple tables  • Developed queries with group functions and condition clauses HAVING  • Used SQL cursor attribute in the procedure and function  • Created user define types and used in the packages  • Used basic Hints for SQL tuning for fast retrieval data  • Analyzed all business functionalities related to backend database interfaces.  • Business functionalities related to backend database interfaces were analyzed and documented.  • Utilized Analytical function, bulk collect and Dynamic SQL for generating complex SQL script.  • Made use of the datapump for the migration of data from one database to another.  • Advanced queuing and oracle job scheduling.  • Maintenance of project process documents and procedural documentation.  • Involved in Development, testing, and release management.    Environment: Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus 10.1, SQL*Loader, Erwin 4.1.4, Toad 10.1, UNIX, Solaris, Windows. Education Bachelor's