DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/Data Analyst <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span>/Data Analyst DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/Data Analyst Springboro, OH Being a qualified and experienced IT support professional, I wish to offer my professional services to an organization wherein my experience and skills are utilized for the fulfillment of the business objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR/Data Analyst THE BONTON STORES, INC - Company Closed - Moraine, OH February 2000 to September 2018 Expertise    Systems and Network Administration  SQL Server 2008r2/2012/2016  Microsoft Office Suite  Work with multiple business units  Support End Users  Monitor Application Performance  SQL Database Administrator  Customize and modify JAVA web pages  Documentation of Processes  Create and design reports    Professional Experience    Responsible for SAP and SQL Administration of WorkForce Management and iTime Clock application working with Staffing, Human Resource, Payroll and Store Operations business units. Gathering business requirements for SAP reporting and functionality requirements. Consistently communicate with business units to support and enhance the application. Monitor and troubleshoot system and application issues and resolving in a timely manner.  § User Support: Consistently support and troubleshoot SQL database/application issues and have automated multiple tasks that previously had to be handled by end user (reboots using OPSWISE, email alerts of failed processes or scheduled jobs). Created and designed multiple reports and web-based interfaces to assist Staffing to make informed decisions. Using JAVA created code to move employee punches from SAP application to our payroll system. Worked with end users, business units and 3rd party vendors to identify needs and proposed business process and system enhancements to business units and developers.  § Projects: Served as lead in the design and implementation of SAP Application WFM to automate forecasting and scheduling of approximately 20,000 employees for 280 stores. Implemented and customized web based time keeping iTimeClock application to Point of Sale in all stores. Aided in coordinating Consultants, Staffing and IT for SAP system upgrade and rollout to all stores. Performed upgrade of SAP BW and Enterprise Portal from Netweaver 7.0 to Netweaver 7.4. Assisted in upgrade from SQL Server 2008r2 to 2012.  § Security: Responsible for creating Profiles, Roles, Worksets and Iviews for Staffing, HR and Management to access SAP functions and reports using SAP Solution Manger. Created user interface for on portal for forgotten password functionality. Also, responsible for SAP yearly License audit. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems SINCLAIR COMMUNITY COLLEGE Skills Database administrator, Sql server, Sql, Network administration, Application performance, Microsoft office, Documentation Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jennifer-chmiel-45066 Additional Information Excellent People and Organizational Skills – Multiple projects completed individually and in teams.  Skilled in project scheduling, problem solving, communicating clearly, verbally and in writing with technical and non-technical associates.   Consistently seek to update my knowledge and technical skills to improve systems and applications.  Strong ability to multi-task and prioritize tasks to meet the needs of business units and provide positive support and training to end-users.  Very passionate to learn new systems and applications