Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Stone Mountain, GA Experienced Database professional with direct experience in Oracle, Ms Sqlserver. Installation, configuration, creation and upgrades in Oracle environments (10g/11g.12c) using OS via. Linux, UNIX and Windows XP/NT servers, database analysis of components and configuration of database migrations. Strong ability to implement migration, consolidation and upgrade strategies, which include source to target migrations and cutover. Fundamental understanding in Accounting, Finance, strong data analysis experience. Strong communication skills, and ability to effortlessly interface and build rapport with technical and non-technical users. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator MG NET LLC - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to August 2017 • Database upgrade -use of DBUA, Data migration tools, upgraded 11g to 12c.  • Worked with a team to manage over 120 databases ranging from 15GB to over 150GB each.  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication - Implanted uni directional and Bi-directional replication.  • Installed and configured Oracle Data Guard.  • Traced user sessions and utilized AWR/ADDM/ASH reports for tuning.  • Utilized a variety of tools - OEM, RMAN, Data Pump, Linux shell scripts - to backup, refresh/clone databases  • Leveraged AWR/ASH/ADDM/ reports and OEM (SQL Monitoring and Tuning Advisor) to monitor and optimize poor performing SQL Code.  • Routinely applied scheduled PSU/CPU and one-off oracle patches.  • Created scripts for database monitoring using CRON Jobs.  • Monitored databases, and tweaked parameters for performance tuning.  • SQL and PL/SQL skills - worked with developers to fine tune queries.  • Performed Hot/Cold backups & recovery using shell scripts and RMAN.  • Performed SqlServer 2008r2 DBA duties including: database backups, restores and recovery, performance tuning, capacity analysis.  • Cleaned SqlServer Databases Backups, Restored and Recovered System, Users, and TDE Databases in compliance to RTO and RPO.  • Experience in Performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO) TSQL queries using native SQL tools like SQL profiler, database tuning advisor, and third party tools like SQL Optimizer(Toad).  • Used Activity monitor, Performance monitor, and DMV's to identify and reduce outstanding waits in SQL Server.    Environment:Oracle(90%) 10g, 11g, 12C, SqlServer(10%) 2008r2, Linux(Redhat), Oracle Goldengate, Datapump -Export/Import, OEM Dbconsole, Toad. Data Analyst Jupiter Financial Services - Atlanta, GA January 2004 to July 2013 • Prepared year-end financial reports, prepared net revenue and expenses report for various organizations.  • Perform Gaap analysis on financial data ranging from overnight loans and float to outstanding mortgages.  • Filed monthly sales, occupancy taxes and heavy phone contact with various state agencies to resolve delinquencies on behalf of clients.  • Used advanced excel features (pivot tables, multiple linked sheets etc) to prepare spreadsheets.  • Gathered data necessary to accomplish analysis from Access database, imported it into Excel for further manipulation using Excel functions e.g If Else if, Extract number, convert etc..  • Converted flat text files from mainframe into excel format using excel functions feature.  • Imported data from Access Database into Excel using Import/Export Wizard. Education Certificate Pacific Training Institute 2012 B.B.A in Finance Bernard Baruch College (City University of New York) Skills Database (10+ years), excel (9 years), Import/Export (9 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), Oracle (3 years), DBA, Oracle Dba Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/emmanueltannor Additional Information Skills Summary:    ORACLE 10GR2,11GR2,12C-  • Database Administration - Oracle 10g/11gr2/12C.  • Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Unix OS.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming language - Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions.  • Knowledgeable in HA per Oracle - RAC configuration.  • HA experience per Dataguard, Goldengate.  • Database Tools: EM Dbconsole, Grid control, Sql Developer, Toad, RMAN, Putty, VPN.  • Providing support to Oracle databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager Database control and command line tools utility like - Netca, DBCA, DBUA, OPATCH.  • SQL developer.    SQL SERVER -  • Windows Server 2008, 2008r2, Enterprise/Datacenter.  • Using Activity monitor, Performance monitor, and DMV's to identify and reduce outstanding waits in SQL Server.  • Installing, configuring, maintaining, and upgrading MS SQL Server 2005, 2008/2008r2 (Enterprise, developer, Express, Evaluation).  • Knowledgeable High availability(HA), and Disaster Recover(DR) solutions including installing and configuring Windows/SQL clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication.  • Knowledgeable AlwaysOn availability groups(Sql Server 12)  • Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security including implementing assigning privileges and roles in accordance with Principle of Least Privilege.  • Data migration using Import/Export Wizard, BCP, Bulk Insert, OpenRowSet, SSIS, Export/Import wizard, and SSMA.  • SSMS, SSIS.    Amazon AWS -  • Knowledgeable AWS cloud architecture.    Other Applications: Crystal Reports, Advanced Excel, Access.