Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Manager - Sisters of St. Francis Columbia, SC Work Experience Database Administrator Midlands Technical College - Columbia, SC February 2015 to Present I am a Raiser's Edge expert - working with system for over 20 years... Net community, Events. Database clean-up is one of my passions. I'm looking for a fresh start and eager to offer my expertise with a team dedicated to a job well done. Data Manager Sisters of St. Francis - Aston, PA 2011 to Present Foundation Associate Capital Health 2007 to 2009 Database Administrator College of Physicians of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA 1999 to 2007 Database Administrator Chemical Heritage Foundation - Philadelphia, PA 1996 to 1999 Became an expert in Database Management for multiple clients and employers.  Recent Project Highlights:    ? Database Migration: Often known as the big fix. Led in the data conversion involving complex "exporting" and "importing" procedures and data mapping. Addressing data duplication, standardizing coding and data entry.  ? Benchmarking Reports: Created 40 hour report of hospital financial status over last five years. Report involved breakdown of all corporate and government funds, individual giving, naming opportunities, budget information and database coding analysis.  ? Data Driven Strategic Planning: Report giving trends and history of constituents. Assist in the implementation of strategic plans through customized reports. Assist in the daily decisions of system coding and other data related processes.  ? Gift Entry and Financial Reconciliation: Gift entry via cash, web-site, credit cards, grants and checks including matching gifts, split gifts, restricted, unrestricted entry and daily bank deposits. Responsible for daily and monthly reconciliation with finance and marketing departments.  ? Policies and Procedures: Created User Friendly Policies and Procedures, led companywide training on crucial new policies, procedures and technologies and hosted Raiser's Edge User Groups throughout the Tri-State area.  ? Customer Service: Lead liaison with Institutional Advancement, Development Office, IT Department and Organizational Constituents and Vendors.    Able to Relocate & Travel Extensively ? Available for Full-Time & Contract Assignments Education Axia College University of Phoenix Online - Phoenix, AZ 2010 Additional Information Key Skills  Database Clean-up  Data Import & Export  Customized Reporting  Customized Database  Database Security  Policies and Procedures  Database Training  Process Benchmarking  Software Installation and Updates  Customer Service  Trouble Shooting