Oracle database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle database administrator - HTC Global Services Madison, WI Work Experience Oracle database administrator HTC Global Services - Madison, WI August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administration of Oracle 11g, 12c and 18c database servers.  • Part of DBA on call rotation and providing end to end support for critical issues in all Operational (Oracle) and Business Intelligence (GreenPlum and Oracle) databases.  • Administration of databases with Guidewire Apps (Claim Center, Policy Center, Catalyst )  • DBA for Guidewire Catalyst Conversion to convert the claims from legacy ICS systems to Oracle database.  • Installation of Oracle RDBMS and Grid Infrastructure on new standalone and Cluster servers.  • Set up Oracle 12c standalone and one node RAC databases on new linux servers. This includes setup of Oracle RDBMS and CRS software's on the new servers.  • Building Oracle data guard using RMAN duplicate and setting up data guard broker for the Production RAC one node databases.  • GoldenGate replication setup for upgrading/migrating the Production databases ensuring the minimal downtime.  • Migration of databases to Oracle 18c (Multitenant Architecture) on Exadata platform.  • Supported SOM upgrade using Informatica ZDT (Zero downtime) product with GoldenGate in the backend.  • Working to upgrade Prod and Pre-Prod databases from 11g release 2 to 12c environments. Coordinating with the various application teams to achieve this goal.  • Cloning (using RMAN) of Oracle standalone and RAC databases.  • Refreshing databases using various method (RMAN, Data Pump, etc.)  • Setting up backups for the new databases and managing the database backup and recovery for the existing databases.  • Database administration using Oracle Enterprise Manager. Setting up the new databases in OEM. Setup and modifying Metrics thresholds as per the requirement and monitoring databases using Information Publisher reports  • Performance tuning of Oracle databases.  • Application of PSU, one-off patch, bug-fix patches(whenever required)  • Creating and managing new and existing users  • Troubleshooting and resolving daily database issues. Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing and production usage.  • Performs the capacity planning required to create and maintain the databases. Project Lead Wipro Technologies - Jacksonville, FL November 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implementation and management of Oracle real application cluster (RAC), Data guard, Backup and Recovery Process & Performance Tuning.  • Worked on database migration project from physical servers to Oracle as a service platform (In house Cloud platform/ RDS (AWS))  • Managed and provided support for thousands of production servers on various operating systems (Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux and Windows) to multinational clients.  • Main working area includes installation, upgradation, migration, cloning, database refresh using RMAN/Data Pump/Exp-Imp, patch implementation, planning & managing Backups and Recovery, GSD implementation, database tuning and monitoring of oracle servers.  • Administration of Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c database servers.  • GoldenGate implementation, monitoring and troubleshooting any issues.  • Disaster Recovery solutions with Oracle Data guard (Physical, Snap shot standby, Active Data Guard etc.)  • Upgrade of Oracle database from 11gR2 to 12c  • Refreshing databases using various method (RMAN, Data Pump, etc.)  • Planning and managing the databases infrastructure.  • Managing the database backup and recovery. Database monitoring and tuning  • Management of Real Application Cluster 11g on Linux.  • Application of PSU, one-off patch, bug-fix patches(whenever required)  • Creating and managing new and existing users  • Troubleshooting and resolving daily database issues. Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing and production usage.  • Performs the capacity planning required to create and maintain the databases.  • Install new versions of the Oracle RDBMS and its tools and any other tools that access the Oracle database.  • Plans and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database.  • Controls migrations of programs, database changes, reference data changes and menu changes through the development life cycle.  • Implements and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  • Performs database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database.  • Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance. Reviewing the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards are being adhered to.  • Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  • Training L1/L2/L3 Resources  • Incident Management. Change/Problem Management. Escalation Management. Team & Queue Management.    Environment:  • Oracle 10g/11G/12c stand alone, RAC 11g, Data Guard, OEM, Linux, Solaris, AIX Senior Oracle database administrator Wipro Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh February 2011 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implementation of Golden Gate technologies for production and development environment.  • Strong experience of implementing and managing oracle real application cluster (RAC), Data guard, Backup and Recovery Process & Performance Tuning.  • Working on database migration project from physical servers to Oracle as a service platform (In house Cloud platform/ RDS (AWS))  • Managed and provided support for thousands of production servers on various operating systems (Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux and Windows) to multinational clients.  • Main working area includes installation, upgradation, migration, cloning, database refresh using RMAN/Data Pump/Exp-Imp, patch implementation, planning & managing Backups and Recovery, GSD implementation, database tuning and monitoring of oracle servers.  • Administration of Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c database servers.  • GoldenGate implementation, monitoring and troubleshooting any issues.  • Disaster Recovery solutions with Oracle Data guard ( Physical, Snap shot standby, Active Data Guard etc)  • Upgrade of Oracle database from 11gR2 to 12c  • Refreshing databases using various method ( RMAN, Data Pump, etc)  • Planning and managing the databases infrastructure.  • Managing the database backup and recovery. Database monitoring and tuning  • Management of Real Application Cluster 11g on Linux.  • Application of PSU, one-off patch, bug-fix patches(whenever required)  • Creating and managing new and existing users  • Troubleshooting and resolving daily database issues. Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing and production usage.  • Performs the capacity planning required to create and maintain the databases.  • Install new versions of the Oracle RDBMS and its tools and any other tools that access the Oracle database.  • Plans and implements backup and recovery of the Oracle database.  • Controls migrations of programs, database changes, reference data changes and menu changes through the development life cycle.  • Implements and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  • Performs database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database.  • Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance. Reviewing the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards are being adhered to.  • Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  • Training L1/L2/L3 Resources  • Incident Management. Change/Problem Management. Escalation Management. Team & Queue Management.    Environment:  • Oracle 10g/11G/12c stand alone, RAC 11g, Data Guard, OEM, Linux, Solaris, AIX Oracle Database Administrator Johnson and Johnson and Cummins Inc - Noida, Uttar Pradesh September 2004 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Daily activities includes Monitoring and rectifying alerts, Database build, upgrade, tuning, Creating and Implementing change request (CR), Database refresh request from development team, schema creation that includes user creation, permissions, table space quota.  • Installation Configuration and maintenance of different oracle flavor on HP-UX Sun Solaris  • Database creation (using scripts and DBCA), applying Patchset and CPU patches  • Handling SAP database- Include cloning and extend a tablespace using BR tools  • Monitoring alert log for production databases and taking the corrective actions in case of any errors.  • Raising SR with Oracle support if required.  • Monitoring CPU utilization for production servers and taking the corrective actions, also follow-up with the application teams if required. Implementation of quarterly security patch of Oracle.  • Creating TNS entries in OID through Net Manager. Binaries Upgrade, version migrations  • Cloning of database using Hot or Cold Backup's and RMAN Backup.  • Migrate/Upgrade the Oracle Database from 9.2.0.x to 10.2.0.x,11.1.0.X  • Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic workload Repository) and Analyzing by Using ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).  • Installation of 9i/10g on Sun Solaris, HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Linux  • Managing Tivoli Generated Incident Tickets for production database.  • Developed backup & restore strategies for Hot and Cold backups.  • Handling SAP database- Include cloning and extend a tablespace using BR tools  • Analyzing and Rectifying Production Databases backup failures.  • Creating new users and grants them required privileges and roles.  • Creation of new Tablespace and adding and resizing the Datafiles.  • Database Sizing, Tablespace Management and Rollback Segments Management, Transaction Management, Security Administration  • Performs database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database    Environment:  • Oracle 10g, 9i, Sun Solaris, AIX, Red Hat Linux, RMAN Oracle Database Administrator Net Connect Pvt Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2003 to June 2004 Responsibilities:  • Oracle users Creation\Deletion and granting privileges to users  • Managing tablespaces.  • Network connectivity issues to users (Tnsnames. ora\Listener.ora)  • Windows 2003 server installation and configuration.  • Handling process related software and network issues.  • User Management on NT/2000 systems and ensure system security. To plan a secure network solution providing complete security against intrusion, Web server security and virus attacks    Environment:  • Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, 18c Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Dr. B.R Ambedkar University - Agra, Uttar Pradesh June 2002 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba