Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - ALLEGIANT AIR Las Vegas, NV An Information Technology Professional with 18 years' experience in the industry. Expertise includes Database Administration (DB2 UDB DBA), MS SQL Server DBA. Experience with working and supporting large volume of DB2 databases in multiple environments UT, DEV, QA and Production. A self-starter with strong interpersonal, communication skills and work ethics. A highly motivated team player and a quick learner of new technologies. Able to work in a highly challenging and fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator ALLEGIANT AIR - Las Vegas, NV August 2014 to Present DB2 UDB DBA on Linux and MySQL DBA  DB2 duties:  • Upgraded DB's from 9.7.5 to 10.5.3 to 11.1.2.2.  • Upgraded DB's from 11.1.2.2 to 11.1.4.4 because of Security vulnerability.  • setup db2haicu between 2 Prod databases (Primary and Standby) and 2 STG databases.  • Installed, configure and setup 4 Prod servers and migrated from Power 750 IBM to Power 8.  • Create custom build DB2 DB's for special project.  • Hands on experience with Database installation, migration, configuration and tuning.  • Monitor database performance, determine and implement appropriate adjustments.  • Created Temporal tables for over 80 tables in Prod environment.  • Troubleshoot production and test DB2 issues using db2top, db2pd, dsmtop, vmstats and top.  * troubleshoot performance and slow running queries.   • Setup High Availability and HADR.  • Successfully failover from one server to another.  • upgrade TSA from 4.1.0.3 to 4.1.0.4.  • Perform backup/recovery/restore.  • Create user id's and privileges for DB2 on Linux.  • Perform data analysis to provide management with timely and accurate information.  • Research, test and coordinate DB2 patches/upgrades.  • Interact with developers and other support teams to resolve client issues  • Trained and mentored new hires  • Created documentation  • Carried on-call duties    MySQL duties:  • Installed MySQL (5.6.22, 5.7.22) using RPM  • Upgraded MySQL to many mini patches and Version 5.7.  • Set up/configured multiple instances  • Set up replication using multiple slaves  • Set up backup schedule  • Restored production data to test environments Database Administrator GRANGE INSURANCE - Columbus, OH December 2013 to August 2014 DB2 UDB DBA on Windows Server & IBM Netezza  • Support and maintain DB2 databases on Windows environment and Netezza databases.  • As DBA mainly responsible on Database backups, recoveries, performance improvement  methodologies and any other strategic changes.  • On-call on a 24 X 7 for immediate resolution.  • Checking and Validating the Database health using event monitors and snapshots.  • Upgrading Databases to new versions from DB2 8.1.2 to 9.7.7.  • Redirect Restore of DB2 databases to different servers from ONLN/OFFLINE backups.  • Creating group and users on the new Windows servers for DB2 DB's.  • Monitoring database and SQL statements by creating event monitors when needed.  • Carrying out regular maintenance work on the production databases.  • Creating tables/view on DB2 and Netezza comparing 2 objects using DBArtisan.  • Netezza's performance and creating the user/groups, new databases, tables and views.  • working closely with BI/DW team members.  • Working with IBM personnel to resolve issues when required.  • Assisting all levels of users with varying technical problems and resolving them. Database Administrator SYSCO CORPORATION - Houston, TX November 2012 to August 2013 DB2 UDB DBA on AIX/UNIX and Linux in SAP Environment.  • Support and maintain DB2 databases on SAP environment, DBMax (live cache) and HANA.  • As DBA mainly responsible on Database backups, recoveries, performance improvement methodologies and any other strategic changes that DB2-SAP system supports.  • Checking information from DB6 Cockpit on SAP GUI, using t-codes.  • On-call rotation on a 24 X 7 work environment for immediate resolution.  • Checking and Validating the Database health using Health monitors, using topas, nmon.  • Upgrading all Databases to new versions of DB2 9.7.2 to 9.7.7 and Fix Pack upgrades to the existing Databases.  • Redirect Restore of sap systems to different environments from ONLN backup.  • Monitoring SAP performance on DB2 and Oracle using transaction ST04 and SAPDBA tools respectively.  • Monitoring SAP space/storage usage and objects definitions using transaction ST04.  • Working with Off-shore DBA and BASIS group.  • Monitoring database performance with ST04, ST06n and ST03 and spacing issues and maintaining crontab.  • Carrying out regular maintained work on the "Production, Staging, QA, Training, Sandbox and Development" regions, like Reorgs, Runstats, Import, Export, Backups and Restores & extracting backup and logs from TSM.  • Resolving failed TSM backup on daily base.  • Assisting all levels of users with varying technical experience with trouble-shooting and problem solving. Database Administrator DB2 & SQL Server MOORCROFT SYSTEM INC February 2012 to November 2012 • 24x7 support of (DB2 and SQL Server).  • Responsible for database upgrades, backup and restore.  • Monitors and tunes database performance during testing and production operations;  • Install and maintain Database systems for SQL Server 2005 & 2008.  • Setup SQL Server security, user ids.  • Migration of existing SQL Server databases to consolidated platform. Database Administrator DELOITTE CONSULTING LLP July 2011 to December 2011 Responsible for the logical and physical integrity of the custom application database  environment and the custom logical and physical database design.  • Monitors and tunes database performance during testing and production operations;  coordinates and implements database sizing/resizing, restructures and index rebuilds; assists  with capacity planning for future database growth; documents benchmarks and procedures  needed to optimize performance; ensure that all performance guidelines are followed.  • Develops, maintains and supports procedures, standards and interfaces for centralized  Database management.  • Installs, patches, upgrades, maintain, and support DB2 in all environments.  • Implements database access procedures including User ID administration.  • Implements Database Change Requests (DBCRs), i.e., data repairs.  • Assists application development and maintenance staff with database questions and issues.  • Assists in development and improvement of database administration-related plans,  processes, procedures, standards and priorities.  • Maintains detailed knowledge of all database administration processes, procedures, and quality standards. Database Administrator SYSCO CORPORATION - Houston, TX October 2010 to June 2011 DB2 UDB DBA on AIX/Unix in SAP Environment.    • Support and maintain DB2 databases on SAP environment.  • As DBA mainly responsible on Database backups, recoveries, performance improvement methodologies and any other strategic changes that DB2-SAP system supports.  • Checking information from DB6 Cockpit on SAP GUI.  • Working in a 24 X 7 work environment for immediate resolution.  • Checking and Validating the Database health using Health monitors and benchmarks.  • Installing DB2 Software using SAP NW and Manual installations.  • Upgrading all Databases to new versions of DB2 9.7.1 to 9.7.2 and Fix Pack upgrades to the existing Databases.  • Monitoring database performance and spacing issues.  • Carrying out regular maintained work on the "Production, Staging, QA, Training, Sandbox and Development" regions, like Reorgs, Runstats, Import, Export, Backups and Restores from TSM.  • Assisting all levels of users with varying technical experience with trouble-shooting and problem solving. Omnisys - Dallas, TX February 2009 to June 2010 Database Administrator Open Solutions - Houston, TX October 2001 to November 2008 DB2 UDB DBA on AIX  Worked with large blue chip Bank client's data in this position.    • Maintained and supported large Data Warehouses and Data Mart databases according to customer specifications which increased customer satisfaction and retention.  • Reviewed customer's requirements and prepared scripts and enhancements to be implemented in production environments.  • Built and maintained secure databases (DB2) for banking customers that ensured compliance with their policies and procedures.  • Evaluated and implemented corrective actions for DB2 on AIX performance and fine-tuning issues.  • Enhanced the application performance, by running RUNSTATS and REORG and implemented BACKUP.  • Worked in a cross-functional team that provided 24/7 support for production environments which ensured continuous service to clients.  • Created database objects: Tables, Table Spaces, Indexes, Views, Storage and Volume groups based on client requirements.  • Used EXPORT, IMPORT and LOAD utilities, moving data between tables and output files.  • Created user id's using SMIT and assigned proper accessibility options that ensured compliance with company's security access policies.  • Provided daily support to multiple internal development groups related to programmers' project requirements.  • Created & maintained Oracle Databases in Development environment. Database Administrator 2005 to 2005 Worked with large and nationwide pharmacy client's data at this position.    • Support and maintain DB2 and MSSQL server databases  • Review SQL's for performance fine-tuning issues which helped with Performance issues.  • Work in a 24 X 7 work environments.  • Upgrading all Databases to new versions of DB2 (9.5) and Fix Pack Products to the system.  • Monitor database performance and spacing issues.  • Create new tables/views/indexes in both DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Assist all levels of users with varying technical experience with trouble-shooting and problem solving. Database Administrator Canada Customs and Revenue Agency June 1996 to April 2001 DB2 DBA on OS/390 mainframe  • Maintained a DB2 database by analyzing, designing, testing and implementing database changes.  • Provided 24/7 support of DB2, OS/390 databases.  • Recovered large DB2 tables and indexes.  • Implemented backup methodology for DB2 database.  • Analyzed performance of DB2 databases and tuning them as necessary.  • Writing & maintaining technical documents. Education Bachelor of Arts Honors in Human Studies University of Toronto Canada - Toronto, ON Diploma in Computer Programming Algonquin College - Ottawa, ON Skills Aix (8 years), Basis (Less than 1 year), Bmc (Less than 1 year), Bugzilla (Less than 1 year), Change control (Less than 1 year), Change control management (Less than 1 year), databases (10+ years), Db2 (10+ years), Dos (Less than 1 year), Erwin (Less than 1 year), Linux (6 years), Mssql server (1 year), Mysql (4 years), Oracle (7 years), Sap (1 year), Solaris (1 year), Sql (2 years), Sql server (1 year), Udb (10+ years), Unix (1 year), Sql Database, DBA, Sql Dba Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/aqila-zurmalwall/3/677/721