Lead/Senior Database Administrator Lead/Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead/Senior Database Administrator - Cablevision New York, NY • Over 11+ years of experience in Information technology skilled in the area of database management, database administration, backups, performance tuning in development, testing and implementation. Experience in Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration, SQL Server development, Oracle Database, Oracle Development, Netezza Administration, Redshift AWS Cloud, Data Warehousing, Data Modelling on Production, test and development environments.  • Managing large databases sizes ranging from 30GB to 64terabyte.  • Managing multiple MS SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008R2 databases and instances in a Clustered environment. Involved in the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to 2005, 2008R2 and 2012 environments Experience in Central Management servers in SQL Server.  • Expertise also includes Oracle Installation, creating Oracle 12c,11g, 10g, 9i databases, upgrades, migrations, patches and creation of over a terabyte size production databases, backup and recovery and performance tuning.  • Creating PL/SQL blocks, procedures, functions and packages  • Effective in managing multiple projects simultaneously, troubleshooting and finding solutions to the most challenging technical problems and meeting the deadlines.  • Altice USA (Legacy Cablevision), Sogeti USA, Lifetime Entertainment Services, Astoria Federal Savings Bank, Columbia University, New York Stock Exchange, Citibank, the Street.com/ RealMoney.com, Modern Language Association with financial, Banking, Industrial, Human Resources and entertainment services experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead/Senior Database Administrator Cablevision - New York, NY October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managing the offshore DBA team to provide runbooks and training them to handle SQL Server builds and some Oracle projects.  • Worked on SQL Server Consolidation Project in order to save SQL Server Licenses to Consolidate SQL Servers 2012. 2008R2, 2008, 2005, 2000 environments.  • Support SQL Server High Availability Database Mirroring, Clustered environments on SQL Server 2012, 2008R2 version for Optimum West Bresnan Application and Serena ACP Application used for changed management system.  • Developed SQL Server Monitoring Program to monitor all SQL Server data files and log files for all SQL Server databases at one Central Location and Alert the DBA's if the threshold reaches the percentage limit ahead of time if more space is required for the files in order to avoid outages.  Developed SQL Server Separation process on Monitoring Server to disable accounts on all SQL Servers which are terminated in Active Directory.  • Experience in Central management Servers to change sa passwords using this tool and other tasks to deploy procedures, packages using CMS.    • Upgraded some Oracle Marketing databases from version 11.2.0.3 to 12c and some from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 recently.  • Support MDR (Marketing) Oracle 12c, 11g,databases, deployments, storage allocations, promptly complete service tickets for Marketing Group and ready to accept challenges and troubleshooting issues as required.  • Administer Oracle 11g Light Path Netcracker, Kenan databases in terms of backups, performance issues, deployments and complete service tickets using service now application promptly as requested.  • Migrated Sox reports to Atlas Application for Oracle databases in 2014 so the reviewers can approve the user access and privilege sox reports for Audit every quarter using the Atlas Application instead of getting their sign off manually for Oracle and SQL Server sox databases.  • Work with Netezza KOM Application Group to administer Netezza databases, backups, troubleshoot issues related to job delays, opening requests with IBM, complete access requested by the users and refresh UAT, Dev environments from Netezza production databases.  Worked with Application Support team to migrate Netezza cron jobs to Appworx so we can get alerted for long running jobs and during failures.  • Experience in Redshift AWS Cloud to check the status of database, cluster, sessions and generate performance reports.  • Volunteered and supported multiple projects at one time during off hours and weekends as follows:  • Transition Optimum West (Bresnan) SQL Server databases to Charter.  • Adbase Newsday two-week (weekend, off hours) Oracle deployment.  • Upgrade Serena ACP databases to SQL Server 2008R2 for ACP Application.  • SQL Server Migration from 2005 to 2012 and 2014 for Decentrix Application. Senior Consultant Sogeti USA September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Planning and Installation of SQL server 2005 and 2008 in a Clustering environment and related  Configurations.  • Advise on the storage requirements for the SQL Server 2005 and 2008 environments.  • Migrating the databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2005 and 2008 environments. Transferring the logins, linked servers, DTS packages, jobs to 2005 and 2008 instances.  • Preparation of Migration checklist listing the Pre migration tasks, backup & restore method and Post  Migration steps to be adopted.  • Involved in working on the issues related to upgrade advisor for 2005 and 2008.  • Working with the application owners and users for testing the applications and databases. Database Administrator Lifetime Entertainment Services - New York, NY August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Creation of over 40 Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i databases on Linux, HP-UX, improved the creation of Oracle and UNIX shell scripts to refresh databases from production to test environments. Setup cron jobs to monitor alerts, down production system, refreshing databases, database statistics, running scripts to check the performance of the databases, running trace on the Oracle databases as requested by the application owners, monitor size of the tablespaces, extents and tables.  • Experience with Oracle 11g database environment on Production, Test and development databases.  • Installing Oracle 10g, 9i Client, database patches, and network configurations and worked with database security.  • Worked with database security, running audit scripts against system tables, audit against users, setting up passwords, creating security views, applying critical patch security updates, running trace, scheduling jobs related to audit scripts to run against the databases, schedule jobs to trace failed logins related to Oracle and SQL Server databases and also perform other audit related tasks as requested by the auditors related to Sarbanes Oxley compliance (SOX).  • Working off hours, weekends to perform troubleshooting relating to the database errors and requests received through email for Oracle and SQL Server 2005 databases.  • Involved in the creation of PL/SQL procedures, functions and packages and scheduling them to run as needed.  • Creation of over 50 SQL Server 2008, 2005 production and test databases, migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to 2005 for Production and Test servers. Setting up Maintenance Plans, scheduling jobs to refresh databases from one server to another, shrinking log files, performance tuning, setup Linked server, using SQL*Profiler for trace events.etc.  • Involved in the creation of Procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Worked with Crystal Reports XI using Oracle and SQL server databases for creation and designing of the reports related to earnings for Freelance workers for the payroll and finance department, also created Status reports using the Heat Ticketing System used by the IT helpdesk.  • Involved in the database upgrade of SharePoint 2003 to 2007 for our intranet site using SQL Server 2005 environment.  • Worked and involved in the installation of SQL Server 2005 with Active/Passive and Active/Active Production Clustering environment.  • Worked with database security and audit related tasks related to Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  • Improving the performance of the Oracle databases through creation of materialized views.  • Initially involved in creating SQL Queries in Oracle and SQL Server databases for the Human Resource project to match the queries between the two environments as a part of the project.  • Worked with the RAC environment for the site Lifetime Movie Network.  • Worked on the database part for the Sets, SharePoint, Lawson, Lifetime Move Network, Media Asset Management "MAM", Rights Logic, ScheduAll, Heat, Gabriel Form, EDocs, PeopleSoft Reporting, Enterprise Information System "EIS", SCR Budgeting, Gabriel, Scribe applications.    Environment: Oracle 11g, 10g (release 2), Linux, HP-UX, Windows 2003, Oracle Streams, ERWIN, SQL Server, 2008/2005 in a clustering environment, UNIX shell scripting, RAC, Data guard, RMAN, Backups & Performance Tuning. Using pentaho software for ETL, Toad, SQL Navigator, and SSIS. Database Administrator Astoria Federal Savings Bank - New York, NY July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Initially involved in applying the patches and upgraded the Oracle version from 8.1.7.0 to 8.1.7.4.0 on Test and Production databases, applied other security Patches for Listener Passwords, database Links and also applying other security patches on Oracle 9.2.0.6 environment on production and test environments.  • Perform the Oracle Market Manager update process for Marketing every month end  using PL/SQL Scripts. Improved the PL/SQL scripts, which involved strong expertise of PL/SQL.  • Improved the performance of the databases and troubleshooting the errors related to the memory parameters and providing solutions to increase the memory parameters for better performance.  • Collaborate with the programming Staff in the preparation and verification of data for developed database applications. Manage database development environments.  • Responsible for the database administration and development related responsibilities including data loads using SQL * Loader, export and import utilities, SQL Scripts, procedure and function development, performance tuning and backup and Recovery operations.  • Providing solutions to the LAN department for any requests received related to SQL Server databases in a cluster environment. Creation of the Database Maintenance Plans for the SQL Server databases. Heavily involved in the creation of SQL Server databases in a Cluster environment, performing backup and restore operations, setup auditing for SQL Server 2000,  Creating DTS operations and security operations.  • Involved in the upgrade of the ADP application for Human Resources from Oracle to SQL Server 2000. Involved in the creation of instances in a cluster environment, creation of databases, conversion of views from Oracle to SQL Server 2000 and scheduling the Maintenance plans for the ADP Testing and Production environments.  • Perform Disaster Recovery accountabilities as required. Consult and advise the users using various databases and LAN administrators on administrative client/server policies and procedures and methods. Assist in the procurement, distribution or transformation of data for specialized applications (Internet/Intranet links to database systems).    Environment:-Oracle 10g, 9i, Oracle 8.1.7.4, Oracle Market Manager 4.0, SQL Server 2000 in a Cluster environment, HP UX 11.0, Windows 2000 and 2003, ERWIN Tool, and Java. Database Administrator Fathom Knowledge Network - New York, NY June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Improved the database Structure, data model, and content of the site, replication and databases by using automated Unix Shell Scripts, PL/SQL procedures and using SQL Loader Utility to upload the CSV files on stage and production servers. Created stored procedures, triggers as per developer specifications.  • Improved the search by synchronizing the Oracle Intermedia/Context Search engine on all the databases by editing the stored procedures related to the search.  • Provided solutions and Troubleshooting to the requests received from co-workers and developers in terms of upload and if any changes to be made to the content.  • Involved in Installation, Creating SQL Server Databases, managing SQL Server tools, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning and using ODBC connection to transfer tables from Oracle to SQL Server 2000, also generated daily, weekly and monthly reports using Oracle, SQL Server 2000. 7.0, Crystal Reports related to Traffic on the Site, reports for Sales, Users & Enrolments.    Environment - Oracle 9i,8i,Sun Solaris 2.7,Linux, Win 2000, SQL Server 2000,7.0, Crystal Reports, ATG Dynamo 5.6, HTML, XML, Java, ERWIN, SecureCRT, Toad, Hitlist traffic tool. Database Administrator Bond Technologies, Incorporated - New York, NY May 2007 to June 2009 • Worked with the client Modern Language Association (MLA) responsible for setting up their Production and test servers from foundation until the completion of the project.  • Upgraded the Installation of Oracle 8i Enterprise Edition on the Test and Production databases  • using OFA architecture from foundation until the completion of the project on time and within budget which included the creation of databases, tablespaces, users, grants and transfer of data using export and import utility. Setting the connections between the clients, database servers and web servers using ODBC connection and Net 8 configurations.  • Implemented effective backup strategy setting up Online Backups in archive log mode and Logical Backups using export and import utility. Performed different kinds of database recoveries. Tune Oracle Memory structures and optimise system performance.  • Edited the MLA registration form using Perl Scripting and loading the data into the Oracle Database.  • Installed Developer 6I i.e. forms developer and reports developer, setting up the connections between the Oracle 8i server and developer forms/reports.  • Worked with the client The Street.com/RealMoney.com to manage their 24X7 website, 6 production and 3 development servers and database performance tuning of all the database servers.  • Initially involved in the Performance Tuning for the Production databases. Extensively improved the performance of the databases through the computation of the most expensive SQL queries, greatest I/O consumption and with highest memory and using other effective methods of indexes.  • Helping the developers for the creation packages/procedures, data transfer from development to production using export/import utility.  • Monitoring the production and test servers, checking the alert log files, every day's backups and checking the free space available on all the production servers. Configured database links on distributed databases, monitored and set-up the Snapshot replication on production databases and troubleshooting and solved the errors encountered by the developers for some database jobs running from development to production database.  • Worked with the Client Govworks.com to manage their 24X7 Website involved in handing full and patch Builds i.e. moving the Static text from development to test and finally to the production database and to perform other DBA tasks.  • Improved the scripts related to moving the static text from development to the production database and also involved in inserting and updating other requests as per developer's specifications through email on development, test and production databases.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 8 on Sun Solaris and creation of database. Improving and handling the sizing of some tables for the database. Loading the data using SQL * Loader on test and production databases.    Environment: Oracle 8i, 8.0, Java, Vignette, HTML, Stored Procedures and triggers, Rman, Database Cloning, Online Backups, Sun Solaris 2.5. Oracle Database Administrator and Developer Ciber Inc - Nashville, TN April 2006 to May 2007 • Designed and improved the entire architecture of the System, data modelling and participated in the design Phase, draw ER diagrams using ERWIN and designed tables.  • Implemented effective methods to manage production and test servers including the creation of Oracle databases, tablespaces, database objects, data loading using SQL * Loader.  • Implement good backup strategy including physical and logical backups and scheduling hot and cold backups for the production servers.  • With monitoring techniques, constantly performing tuning for multiple production, test and development databases.  • Provides automated reports using UNIX shell scripts and SQL procedures to identify memory problems at multiple levels in both the operating system and database.    Environment: Oracle 8.0, 7.3, SQL Server 7.0 ,Developer 2000, Forms 5.0,4.5, Windows NT, Sun Solaris 2.5, HP- UX, Online Backups, Performance tuning, PL/SQL blocks, SQL * Loader, Unix Shell scripting. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASES (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems- AIX, Red Hat Linux, HP-UX, Sun Solaris v. 2.7, 2.6, IBM, Novell, Windows 2012,2008,2003,XP, 2000, NT, 98, 95.    Databases-Oracle12c,11g,10g,9i,8i,8.0, 7.3, SQL Server 2014,2012,2008R2,2008,2005, 2000, 7.0,6.5 , SQL AZURE, Netezza databases, Redshift AWS cloud.    Oracle Database Tools -Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL * Loader, Export/Import Utility, ETL Tools, Net 8 configurations, Oracle Migration Assistant, Replication, Backup and Recovery, RMAN, Performance Tuning, Parallel Server and Oracle Intermedia search engine.    SQL Server Database Tools- SQL Agent, Business Intelligence Studio, Data Transformation services,  SQL * Profiler, Replication, Backup and Recovery, Setup Auditing, Performance Tuning, SSIS, SSRS  Reporting Services, SSAS, Central Management Servers, Powershell scripting.    Languages-SQL,PL/SQL,T-SQL, Unix Shell Scripting, HTML and C programming.    Other tools-Oracle Market manager 4.0, Crystal Reports XI, Toad Software, SQL Navigator, DB Artisan,  Raid configurations, Apache, ERWIN, Developer 2000 (Forms 4.5, 5.0, 6I), Report 2.5, 3.0, ASP, MS Access, MS Office 2003, Service Now for tickets and deployments.