SR. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTOR SR. ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> ADMINISTOR SR. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTOR - DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Fort Washington, MD Certified Oracle Database Administrator with 10 years' experience in Oracle Database  Administration Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and  Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modelling, Performance  Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Streams. In addition, I am familiar with  Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National Continuity Program and  Requirements. I have knowledge of related NIST, Presidential policy, Executive orders and other Federal Continuity Directives. I am a competitive achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. I possess exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities; and a solid reputation for collaborating with highly motivated teams and retaining the development of innovative solutions. Work Experience SR. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTOR DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE January 2018 to Present • Monitored daily alert log files for production Oracle databases on BIS systems.  • Performed Oracle DBA activities such as backup, export and import, table space management, table partitions, user management, security management, installations and upgrades.  • Ensured all oracle database storage and backup are functioning correctly  • Patched databases quarterly in both production and development environments.  • Performed daily operational network system checks.  • Reviewed and analyzed daily application interface jobs  • Provided weekly statistics to the application support team to track the number of registrations and validations for applications  • Performed monthly data load from staging to production environment.  • Provided extended customer support (internal and external) to related applications including in a timely manner, including ticket creating, updates, and resolutions.  • Managed passwords for all production application test accounts every 90 days.  • Managed passwords for all applications related to database schemas every 90 days.  • Support the application team with version releases, database troubleshooting and related activities.  • Completed baselines for the systems by utilizing DISA STIGS.  • Advice senior managers on identified risks, issues and opportunities for the systems, including development of contingency plans. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE May 2009 to January 2018 • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Implemented Materialized views, database links.  • Regular database management on 10g and 11g OEM.  • Performed day-to-day activities such as creating users, roles, schemas, tables, views, indexes and rebuilding Indexes and running scripts given by the clients.  • Frequently monitor emails in regards to any database issues.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, /maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test  Databases for products.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using export/import scripts.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Responsible for the administration of a highly available web logics database solution supporting over 200 concurrent users in a VERITAS Cluster.  • Conduct DISA procedures to ensure system integrity and security.  • Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks - performance tuning, database design, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environments, to ensure system performance and stability.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Granting roles and privileges to end users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Upgraded databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c  • Configured and maintain Oracle Golden Gate 12c for data replication between Oracle databases.  • Configured uni-directional data replication for OBIEE 12c data warehouse using Oracle GoldenGate 12c. Education BACHELOR OF ART in SOCIOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND EASTERN SHORE May 2008 BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in SOCIAL WORK SALISBURY UNIVERSITY May 2008 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Red hat, Unix, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix shell, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Rdbms, Oem, Windows 2000 Additional Information SKILLS  • RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    • LANGUAGES: HTML, JavaScript, HTML, PL/SQL, SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, MySQL    • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Linux/ Unix (RED HAT LINUX), Windows 2000 Server, Windows 2007 server  • TUNING UTILITIES: OEM, SQL *Plus, Data Pump, RMAN, AWS, ADDM