Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Securitas Washington, DC Ebony is an accomplished, certified ORACLE Database Administrator with over 7 years of experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in database production, monitoring, tuning, migration, upgrades, backup and recovery, cloning, replication, and security implementations. She is also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Unix, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Windows and MS SQL Server. Ebony has an exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. She is a proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. Ebony is an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator JELANI CONSULTING - Greenbelt, MD November 2014 to Present • Providing administrative support and maintenance on Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c installations, database creation, database security, database optimization and tuning.  • Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Created, tracked, and closed service tickets using REMEDY ticketing system and developed a defect prevention process including but not limited to root cause analysis and corrective action.  • Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using Rman and Datapump utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and 12c using the Oracle Data pump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and Data pump utilities for all database sizes.  • Upgrading databases from 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers. Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 12c databases.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (DATA GUARD).  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 500GB to 3TB).  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture.  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 10g,11g and 12c..  • Cloning schemas, objects and databases on new server using exports from 11g database and imported in 12c using Data Pump.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Implementing, tuning and maintaining Oracle database using OEM Grid Control.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Developing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for data extraction, outage reports with supporting resolutions, preventative maintenance documentation and weekly activity report.  • Participates in the 24/7 on-call DBA rotation schedule. Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting - Greenbelt, MD March 2010 to November 2014 • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Established and implemented backup/recovery and patch scheduling as well as exported and imported databases frequently into the development and test environments and for archiving purposes.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments.  • Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Created, tracked, and closed service tickets using REMEDY ticketing system and developed a defect prevention process including but not limited to root cause analysis and corrective action.  • Assisted developers with SQL code troubleshooting as well as tweaked applications, procedures and SQL when necessary.  • Developed RMAN backup and recovery strategies and procedures.  • Part of on call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Jr. Systems Administrator INDUS CORPORATION/NASA SEWP - Vienna, VA May 2007 to February 2010 • Maintain, monitor and troubleshoot physical and virtual server infrastructure.  • Maintain, monitor and troubleshoot NASA SEWP Windows/Apple server environment.  • Maintain, monitor and troubleshoot NASA SEWP network - based services: File and Print services, Email, Active Directory, DHCP/DNS/WINS.  • Maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot messaging and meeting systems.  • Configure, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot document imaging solution.  • Configure, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot windows software deployments.  • Monitor and troubleshoot NASA SEWP security access system.  • Provided and maintain documentation of backup processes and retention periods.  • Provided Tier 3 support for customers and technical staff.  • Provided and test backup and disaster recovery processes and procedures.  • Develop and provided training and technical documentation for ITS staff members.  • Worked with vendors in the research, development and implementation of server technologies.  • Prepared and maintain written documentation of NASA SEWP server and application environments.  • Worked with department leaders implementing new software and hardware technologies.  • Worked with vendors in the process of troubleshooting escalated incidents.  • Worked with Senior Systems Administrator implementing new sever technologies and computer technologies.  • Participate in appropriate in-service and workshop programs and attend any required meetings. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Strayer University - Washington, DC January 2001 to June 2005 Skills Capacity planning (7 years), Database (7 years), Linux (7 years), Oracle (7 years), security (7 years), DBA, Sql Server, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Oracle Database, RAC, Rman, Sql Database, Informatica Development (4 years), AWS (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ebony-bryant Certifications/Licenses OCA Orcale Certified Associate 11g Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  - Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration - Database Security & Patching  - Performance Monitoring & Tuning - Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation  - Installation, configuration, capacity planning -  - Oracle Data guard - Oracle ASM & Grid Control    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS:    • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 10g and 11g using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM, TOAD, SQL Developer, Explain Plan, AWR, ADRCI, ADDM.  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers, UNIX, LINUX.  • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database security (TDE)  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability