DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AND AWS CLOUD AMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> AND AWS CLOUD AMINISTRATOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AND AWS CLOUD AMINISTRATOR - INFOZEN Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AND AWS CLOUD AMINISTRATOR INFOZEN November 2016 to Present • Manage and Support Large Scale Enterprise DHS Databases in Development, Staging and Production environment across data centers.  • Support maintenance of the Production, Staging, Development and Test environment for clustered Database across platforms and servers.  • Develop and enhance scripts to support production processes and operations  • Support Databases on AIX, Solaris, Linux, Windows  • Support script deployments for all environments  • Migrate SQL server on premise to Amazon Postgres RDS  • Migrate oracle on-premise to Amazon Oracle RDS  • Migrate Sybase on-premise database to Amazon RDS Postgres  • Migrate MySQL on-premise database to Amazon Aurora  • Manage AWS RDS instance database, patching the instance  • Migration Data using Amazon Database Migration Services (DMS)  • Migration database Objects using Amazon Schema Conversion tool (SCT)  • Perform Quarterly PSU Patch during maintenance window  • Enforce security and access control measurement to safeguard databases authentication and authorization infrastructure.  • Provide technical feedback for future databases implementation and performance resilience and optimization.  • Script deployments for Development/Application team  • Migrating databases to Amazon Web Services  • Monthly Maintenance Window Support  • Operation System Patch Support (Shutdown/Startup of Databases and CRS)  • Loading data using Sql Loader for dev/application team  • Configure and implement service monitoring and alerting tool in cross-platform environment  • Interact with senior management and stakeholders on issues and risks concerning the support of databases services in cross-platform distributed environments.  • Migrate legacy mail server components to the cloud. DATABASE AND CLOUD DATABASE AMINISTRATOR SAIC January 2016 to November 2016 • Manage and Support Large Scale Enterprise level Oracle and Open source Databases in Development, Staging and Production environment across data centers.  • Participate in all phases of system Operations and Production support of database support  • Configure and implement service monitoring and alerting tool in cross-platform environment  • Interact professionally with cross-functional development and support groups in all stage of the Software Engineering Life Cycle (SELC).  • Implement, configure and deploy RAC databases in multi node environment.  • Migrate on-premise databases into Amazon RDS and Redshift clusters.  • Migrate on-premise Sql server databases into Amazon Postgres RDS.  • Migrate on-premise Sybase databases to Amazon Aurora  • Migrate on-premise Oracle databases to Amazon RDS Oracle  • Manage a portfolio of database applications and release in clustered and load-balanced environment to ensure system performance metrics  • Support Databases on Solaris and Linux  • Establish and recommend changes to policies, processes and procedures that affect databases products.  • Work with database Team lead and exercises independent judgement in developing methods, techniques and evaluation criteria for resolving incidents.  • Document technical and operational process and procedures.  • Support and perform database migration to DHS Datacenters  • Provide continuous monitoring to mitigate cloud specific compliance issues.  • Assist clients to plan out and monitor cost by leveraging Trusted Advisor, Online Cost Calculator, Billing Alerts and Notifications. ORACLE/SQL SERVER DATABASE AMINISTRATOR ASM RESEARCH August 2015 to December 2015 • Configuration and troubleshooting Oracle database instances, cluster databases  • Perform Oracle DB upgrade  • Manage Sql server databases using Sql Server Management Studio  • Perform Backups, Restoring and Recovering the database  • Monitor table growth and resolves reported issues  • Interact professionally with cross-functional development and support groups in all stage of the Software Engineering Life Cycle (SELC).  • Manage a portfolio of database applications and release in clustered and load-balanced environment to ensure system performance metrics, OLA and SLA are met.  • Perform Large Data Migrations  • Managed database on Window server 2012  • Monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvements in database  • Developing Sql Scripts, documenting Sql scripts and processes  • Writing and updating stored procedure using Sql server database management system  • 24X7 production Database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Load data using SQL*Loader  • Database Integration using Sql Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Database Management using Sql Server Management Studio ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH August 2014 to August 2015 • Configuring audit, granting privileges and restricting access, creating users, profiles, roles and monitoring quota on table spaces in line with resource planning guide.  • Supported Oracle Version 11g on Linux  • Scheduled daily on incremental backup and weekly on full database backup.  • Troubleshoot end user application Issues  • Managed database on Window server 2012 and 2016  • Performance Management by running Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Management (ADDM)  • Configuring Oracle Network Environment and Solving connectivity issues with TNS and Listener  • Used Enterprise Manager DB console to monitor performance, clone databases, tuning and maintaining optimal performance, unit testing, database integration  • Used Data Pump to implement database refresh with the hot backup using DUPLICATE or full export.  • Used EXPORT/IMPORT to do table level and full database defragmentation.  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  • Patched and installed of Oracle software.  • Created new databases using DBCA  • Installing and Configured Oracle software using Database Configuration Assistant  • Duplicate Database Oracle Database Administrator WAU April 2011 to June 2014 • Perform monitoring, administration and troubleshooting of Oracle database  • Supported and Administered Oracle Version 11g on Linux and Microsoft Windows  • Monitor and troubleshoot Database backups, disk space and server availability  • Create access databases objects (tables, queries) to support staff reporting needs.  • Perform Database Performance tuning  • Creation and modification of Oracle Objects such as tables, synonyms, indexes  • Installed and configured oracle database software  • Creating and Managing User account  • Monitored Tablespaces size, resizing Tablespaces  • Created user, allocation of appropriate Tablespaces quotas with necessary privileges and roles  • Retrieving Data using the SQL select statement, restricting and sorting, using single row functions to customize output.  • Manipulating Data, displaying Data from multiple tables using equijoins and non equijoins. Oracle Database Administrator BOLTOS INC February 2008 to April 2011 • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS  • Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other database objects.  • Installed and manage Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Perform bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  • Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  • Provide database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  • Monitoring Tablespaces and Data files utilization.  • Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files  • Performing physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Use explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  • Performed instance tuning, memory tuning query tuning and complete database tuning.  • Resolved various complex issues with the database.  • Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases.  • Upgrade Oracle 10g database to 11g.  • Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System and minor in Web Design Development Washington Adventist University M.Sc. in Cloud Computing Architecture University of Maryland University College Skills Data migration, Database, Dbms, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Oracle tools, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Application server, Dms, Jenkins, Backups, Elastic beanstalk, Amazon ec2, Ec2, Amazon rds, Database as a service Additional Information Skill Summary:  • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases on Linux and Windows OS  • Installation and management of Oracle database using database control  • Installation and application of several Oracle critical patches to various database versions  • Migration of On-premise databases to Amazon RDS  • Migration of On-premise database to Amazon EC2  • Migrating data with Amazon Data Migration Services  • Experience with Oracle SQL Developer and TOAD  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to back up the databases  • Performed import and export as needed and scheduled nightly export on each database  • Regular Monitoring Alert log Files and trace files on Day to Day Basis.  • Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle problems such as connectivity problems, backup and performance issues.  • Manage Database Using Sql Server Management Studio  • Installed, configured and managed 11gR2 (RAC) on ASM storage  • Manage RAC databases using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and grid control  • Configure and setup Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard.  • Managed Data Guard using Data Guard broker.  • Extensively using DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  • Performing database cloning using RMAN.  • Perform bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  • Schedule jobs using various Oracle tools such as Oracle OEM, DBMS JOBS and SCHEDULER  • Managed database on Window sever 2012 and 2016  • Creating PL/SQL Jobs  • Managing Oracle databases using golden gate  • Documented database structure, changes, problems, issues for future reference  • Oracle 12C Installation and Knowledge of new features  • Experience with AWS Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) EC2  • Experience with AWS Database as a Service (DBaas) RDS  • Migrating data from MYSQL databases to Amazon Aurora MySQL using AWS DMS  • Migrating data from oracle databases to Amazon Aurora MYSQL using AWS database migration services and Amazon schema conversion tool (SCT)  • Creating AWS EC2 Instance and connecting to EC2 Instance  • Deploying Oracle Database 12c using Amazon RDS (DBASS)  • Managing EC2 Instance  • Applying AWS RDS Patch  • Patching EC2 Instances  • Managing and taking manual backups of RDS Databases  • Monitoring Performance using AWS Cloud Watch  • Configuration and Deploying Data broker and cloud sync in AWS VPC  • Configuring lifecycle policy for AWS S3  • Deploying and evaluation of application server stack using AWS Opsworks stack  • Creating cloud migration plan  • Experience with cloud formation templates  • Configuration of Jenkins  • Experience deploying website using AWS Elastic beanstalk  • Create MySQL databases and users with privileges  • Export and Import of Mysql schema/databases with MySql Workbench  • Monitoring MYSQL database performance  • Recycling informatica services  • Creating and managing informatica service account in all environment    SKILLS  Databases, Oracle 10G, Oracle 11G, Oracle Data Guard, Performance Tuning, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle RMAN, Oracle 12C, Oracle RAC, Automatic Storage Management, Amazon Web Service    Applications, Tools, and Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Data Guard, SQL*Loader, Data Migration (Export and Import), Procedures, RMAN Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, AWR, ADDM, NETCA, NETMGR, DBCA, DBUA, GITHUB