Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Sun Products Corporation Austin, TX • Over 9+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator, Have worked on complete life cycle support, from development to test and production.  • I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions. Areas of work include installation and configuration, database upgrades and patching, database migration, performance tuning, database refreshes, security management, backup and recovery.  • Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.  • Implement and support Administration tasks such as backup and recovery procedures, database utilities, and data replication technologies for both PROD and NON-PROD environments  • Knowledge about Oracle Virtual Server and managing Oracle VMs  • Involved in each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, and development and production support activities.  • Installation and configuration of Golden Gate for bidirectional replication.  • Configured Oracle Data guard for Oracle Disaster Recovery and Performed switchover/switchback from primary database to standby database for testing purpose for the application teams when required.  • Extensive experience in installation and implementing OEM and TOAD and setup of Oracle Grid Control.  • Performed day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for issues and validating disk space.  • Migration of large number of databases from 10g to 11g and implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases and Applying PSU Patch also Migration of non ASM database to ASM database.  • Scheduled Cumulative Incremental backups using RMAN Cloned databases with RMAN Utility.  • Interact with development and end-user personnel to determine application data access requirements, transaction rates, volume analysis, and other delicate data required to develop and maintain integrated databases Job specific duties.  • Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and performing periodical backup, restoration and recovery using RMAN(full and incremental)  • Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating Systems with sizes up to 5TB.  • Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements and design indexes to improve response of queries.  • Testing and implementing different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, Data Pump export/import.  • Implementation of Flashback Technology, Log Miner, Automatic Database Diagnostic Manager (ADDM).  • Great Exposure to Cassandra, NoSql, Mongo database servers.  • Worked actively in configuring and maintaining Oracle Physical Standby/Active Data Guard Database oracle 11g.  • Experience in the Upgrade of Oracle Databases in patch set Level and also in version Level (9i to 10g), (10g to 11g) and (11g to 12c).  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Installation and Configuration of Oracle 12c Multitenant container and pluggable databases.  • Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) /Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Extensive training received on Exadata  • Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup and Recovery, cloning of databases using RMAN, Veritas NetBackup and IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM).  • Used EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at database level or tablespace level and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  • Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including Backups, exports and imports.  • Good communication and cooperation skills with an aptitude to learn quickly, take responsibility, work under pressure.  • Participate and report on Software Design Reviews (SDR) and Technical Review Meetings (TRM).  • Excellent documentation skills and make sure to update status report on every shift. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator TEKSYSTEMS / SAIC - Austin, TX April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for installing and configuring Golden Gate for Oracle using 11g R2.    • Responsible for all corrections to the database infrastructure and for repairs, maintenance and periodic reorganization of oracle databases  • Monitoring the database for growth and added space to the table spaces as per demand.  • Troubleshooting Space Management & User accounts and privilege issues in coordination with the application team.  • Responsible for monitoring daily database activities and overall performance, growth and tuning configurations as well as the security of the database.  • Experience in UNIX/SHELL scripts analysis for providing the reports.  • Responsible for performance tuning the applications by capturing and tuning database performance metrics, System metrics and resolving issues like deadlocks, Locking, slow performing queries using SQL Advisor, Baselines and other tools (SQLT).  • Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and managemen.  • Involved in Installation and Configuration of Management agents in 12C (Cloud Control).  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Got training on Exadata system.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 9i to 10g, Cross platform migration from different platforms.  • Setup and configured replication using Golden Gate and Data Guard in physical and logical mode.  • Applied quarterly PSU Patches Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Plan for new Servers/RAC Databases to host databases that are as big as 3 Terabytes in size.  • Usage of Partitions to improve the query performance and manageability.  • Created users, granted roles and privilege management. Maintained user accounts and privileges to maintain application security.  • ETL and DW, design and develop high volume data ETL process via Oracle SQL and PL/SQL and Unix shell scripting, Data warehouse solutions design and implementation (ROLAP, Star Schemas).  • Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  • Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN duplication.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder  • Analysis on SQL and Services with high CPU, Memory usage, AWR analysis, ADDM (Automatic Database diagnostic Monitor report), Active Session History (ASH).  • Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.  • Providing suggestion and workaround to Tune the Bad Performing SQL by giving Index and Stats fix with the help of Execution plan and Predications  • Database schema Migration activities using oracle golden gate, data pump (Expdp / Impdp).  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle RDBMS 10g -12c in Production, QA, and Test environments as well as 10g Forms and Reports and 10g-11g Application Suite.  • Migrating and consolidation of 11g databases into 12c in both QA and Production environments.  • Comfortably working on Oracle Virtual Server for most part.  • SME on partitioning Advanced Compression and other core DBA functions  • Installation and consolidation of 12c multitenant databases in QA and Test environments. Container and Pluggable database administration and cloning.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Regular weekends on call rotation for production support.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis as well as Replication from production to testing using Expdp/Impdp.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to Oracle OLTP.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2010, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Jr. Oracle Database Administrator News Bank, Inc - Chester, VT March 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Managed SQL server databases in both production and DEV environments using SQL server management studios.  • Monitoring databases using tools like TOAD, SQL Developer and OEM Cloud Control.  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting.  • Regularly supported projects such as data guard, golden gate on UQT and Test environments.  • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c cloud control.  • Provided Development DBA support for developer queries and requests, which includes query tuning, server tuning, identifying problematic code, etc.  • Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  • 24 X 7 Live Production & Development database support and administration.  • Monitored the operating system response in terms of CPU usage, disk space, and swap space by using various UNIX utilities like SAR, VMSTAT, IOSTAT and TOP.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Implementing Data Pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2010, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Aerospace - Department of Defense - Virginia Beach, VA October 2014 to February 2016 Supporting Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS-A) is the authoritative source of defense readiness data. DRRS-A is a group of web based applications that provides the defense capability to update and report on all unit types during their entire lifecycle. The DRRS-A applications are an n-tier solution using Flex, Java and Oracle RDBMS. Web based applications running on Oracle database platform.    Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured Oracle Database standalone and Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Red Hat Linux.  • Performed upgrade and migration of databases from 11.2 to 12.2.  • Configured Data Guard to provide high availability by implementing 11g R2 Physical Standby database.  • Used RMAN duplicate database feature to move/clone databases on Linux and zLinux.  • Installed and implemented 12.2 RAC with 4 nodes.  • Added new nodes to 11g Cluster to distribute the load.  • Worked extensively on data center migrations on multiple database versions.  • Installed and configured Golden Gate 12.2 on lower database environments.  • Designed, configured and maintained backup and recovery policies including RMAN backups.  • SQL, PL/SQL Tuning and Monitoring.  • Compared and contrasted snapshots for performance reporting purpose.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning database performance using Profile, Index, Audit Trail, Partitioning Table and Windows Performance Monitor.  • Responsible for resolving complex recovery scenarios on critical production databases.  • Extensively used STATSPACK,AWR, ADDM and SQL Loader for database performance statistics collection purpose.  • Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control installation and configuration for performance monitoring.  • Proactively health check and storage planning for future database and server growth.  • Performed partitioning in the table level to improve performance of the database.  • Performed cross platform migration using tablespaces and RMAN backup.  • Performed database refresh using Expdp and Impdp tools.  • Created and maintained database objects such as: Table, View, Synonym, Trigger, Roles, Index and privileges.  • Administered and maintained database security policies and procedures (DoD Standard).  • Applied Oracle Database Hardening for securing sensitive database servers.  • Experience with administration of high-performance and large-scale multi-terabytes databases.  • Linux crontab shell scripting for server level database monitoring and backup.  • Configured Oracle database TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Oracle Wallet.  • Used external tables and SQL*Loader to import data from flat files.  • Administered tablespaces (data file) on space management and adjusted for future needs.  • Performed upgrade from 11.2 to 12.2 database binaries.  • Applied quarterly database patching standalone and RAC databases.  • Designed and implemented database backup/restore methodologies.  • Resolved database networking issues and Operating system administration.  • Mentored other team member.  • Documented and build database documents for database rebuild.  • Used Nagios third-party application tool for server and database monitoring.  • Provided 24/7 on-call ticketing support and other system related. Oracle DB Admin GDIT - Defense Travel System (DTS) - Fairfax, VA March 2011 to September 2014 The Defense Travel System (DTS) is an online system for defense travelers. The application has been updated with the latest functionalities for integrating, automated, end-to-end travel management system that enables DoD travelers to create authorizations, reservations, receive approvals and generating travel vouchers within CONUS and OCONUS. Supported Data Warehousing and OLTP database environments for mission critical systems utilizing Oracle databases.  Responsibilities:  • Performed Production Server Migration and successfully deployed databases on to new servers.  • Installed and configured Real Application Cluster (RAC) and standalone databases.  • Managed Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Non-ASM database file systems.  • Installed Oracle 11g database on Windows and Red Hat Linux.  • Thoroughly performing patch analysis and applying database patches and Java using Opatch.  • Managed tablespaces, adding and resizing data files and performing disk space management.  • Created/Assigned users to groups and granted privileges and permissions to appropriate groups and roles.  • Managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Implemented master plan for backup & recovery using RMAN tools.  • Implemented net backup and tape backup.  • Successfully developed and implemented database monitoring scripts, server health check scripts and Database backup scripts.  • Performed database backup using data pump (expdp) and as well as RMAN backup.  • Implemented Oracle database DATAGUARD, LOGICAL STANDBY and PHYSICAL STANDBY databases for load balancing.  • Performed Explain Plan analysis for Query Optimization and SQL tuning.  • Performed Database tuning by using tools: STATSPACK, AWR, TKPROF and optimizer hints.  • Maintained documents for future reference.  • Worked on production support on throughout nights and weekends. Oracle Administrator Horizon - Jersey City, NJ March 2009 to February 2011 Web-based system with re-useable components to capture customer's registration survey results allowing consumers to register for product samples for the client to establish market share data. The system implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture, which enable multiple developers to work on separate modules simultaneously, reducing effort time for the project and ensuring maintainability of the system. Using Oracle database behind the applications along with other databases.    Responsibilities:  • Provided 24X7 supports for production problems and tickets.  • Management of table spaces for different users by granting quota on various table spaces.  • Estimated Storage capacity for database objects and datafiles.  • Monitored the growth of the database objects UNIX Shell scripting.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate batch jobs through Cronjob.  • Extraction of data from different flat files into Oracle Database using SQL*Loader and automated the process by using Basic Replication using materialized views.  • Implemented and maintained streams for synchronization of data at various sites.  • Utilized Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) to manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas.  • Database Administration and Planning including logical design, physical design, backup & recovery.  • Performed logical backup of the entire database using import/export utility.  • Created and implemented Oracle database backup and recovery strategies using RMAN.  • Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability  • Shell scripting for setting up backup procedures and Windows scheduler.  • Export and Import of database objects to copy from one database to another database.  • Investigating suspicious database activity using Auditing.  • Built many Oracle database environments without requirements.  • Performed knowledge sharing among other team members.  • Worked with system administrators and network administrations to fulfill business and technical requirements on building Oracle database servers. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), SQL (9 years), RMAN (9 years), LINUX (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1,3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000 RDBMSOracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, WinSCP, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer.  Database Utilities SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager,ETL Tools Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Data Pump, Export, Import.