Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Abbott Laboratories Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Abbott Laboratories - Chicago, IL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as DBA Consultant managing 100+multiple oracle database environments on Production UAT, Test, DEV database.  • Extensively worked on CDB/PDB environment  • Involved in Golden Gate installation with Initial Load  • Golden Gate setup on multimode RAC setup  • Handled Exadata non-production and production databases  • As part of my roles and responsibilities, supporting deployments for all scheduled releases.  • Analysis on SQL and Services with high CPU, Memory usage, AWR analysis, ADDM (Automatic Database diagnostic Monitor report), Active Session History (ASH).  • Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.  • Provide assistance and technical support to all database end-users and addressing all Alerts for Sev2, Sev3, and Sev4 etc.  • Database schema Migration activities using oracle golden gate, data pump (Expdp/Impdp).  • Database housekeeping activities that can reclaim space at both OS & DB Level.  • Responsible for performance tuning the applications by capturing and tuning database performance metrics, System metrics and resolving issues like deadlocks, Locking, slow performing queries.  • Supporting 24/7 Call2Work, Triage etc., ITO DBA Engagement during Sev1 /P1 Outages.  • Handling day to day tickets and issues with BMC REMEDY tools.  • Provided 24/7 On-Call Production Support on rotation basis.  • Preparing DDL and DML script based on requirement.  • Coordinating with the application team to fix null point exception issues and so on.  • Experience in Switchover activities    • Experience in RAC environment  • Performing Backup/Recovery with RMAN and automate the backup using crontab.  • Planning Backup & Recovery strategy  • Creating users, Granting required permissions, allocating quotas.  • Tablespace creation/Design for Production Database  • Monitoring and checking alert logs and user dump files for correcting errors and tuning.  • DB server migration from one datacenter to another data center  • Database Migration from source to target using RMAN, FTP method  • Handled end to end Datagaurd Broker setup for up to 5 Node RAC for both 12c and11g  • Involved in Performance Tuning of Production and non-production environments  • Provided consulting for Development Teams to guide them on latest technology trends  • Involved in making sure of Compliance for the databases  • Handled On-Call for production databases  • Involved in benchmarking performance during load testing in production and non-production environment  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle 10g RAC, Dataguard, RedHat Linux, Exadata, Oracle Goldengate, Goldengate Director, Data Pump, Toad Senior Database Administrator Abbott Laboratories - Dallas, TX May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Perform and troubleshoot database backup, recovery, capacity, and security plans.  • Database creation, up-gradation, Patching ,cross platform database migration, database tuning/reorganization, SQL statement tuning, backup/recovery, general troubleshooting, script development, and documentation.  • Administer, maintain, and implement changes to existing databases to meet customer requirements.  • Manage Backup and Recovery using RMAN & Storage solution EMC Replication Manager and NetApp. Performed several complicated recovery scenarios  • Respond to test and production database problems and implement immediate resolution efforts across technology areas.  • Implementation, administration & maintenance of DELL Shareplex 8.2 Replication.  • Setup, configuration, & troubleshooting of Oracle Goldengate 11g & 12c replication.  • Database upgrade & migration using Goldengate.  • Serve as a communications liaison between the business customer and the technology development and support groups.  • Setup and administration, failover of Physical & Logical standby dataguard, 12c Snapshot Standby, 11g,12c Active data guard.  • Documenting and communicating assigned work progress to immediate project team, and management.  • ASM administration and migration of non ASM database to ASM using RMAN.  • Communicate problems or issues in a timely manner, manage resolution of problems and escalate as required.  • Expert in Oracle Enterprise Manager (EM) 12c/13c, command line and GUI with solid experience as an EM administrator.  • Implement, configure, maintain, support and administer EM 12c/13c.  • Experience configuring, installing, deploying, and maintaining EM Agents  • Understand EM 12c plug-ins, management packs, provisioning and extensions.  • Technical design and architecture for Exadata X6 systems, Exadata expert with network, system administration, storage & database design,configuration.  • Providing technical troubleshooting on issues related to Exadata X6.  • Exadata X6 Patching, daily administration & maintenance.  • Migrating database to Oracle Exadata X6 Model.  • Employ productivity aids in all aspects of assignments, analyze and resolve problems of medium complexity. Research and recommend alternative actions for problem resolution, with minimal supervision.  • Design, implementation and administration of databases in the public cloud environment Amazon AWS & Oracle cloud.  • Experienced in designing, implementing, and supporting Database as a service(DBaaS) in public cloud.  • Migrate & manage databases to Amazon AWS & Oracle public cloud.  • Performing UNIX Shell scripting..  • Working with Database Export/import, RMAN cloning, duplication, DR setup.  • Managing 800 databases and administration of large DW databases of sized 30TB.  • Oracle 10g, 11g,12c RAC Database Installation, administration, configuration and maintenance.  • RAC clusterware 11.2,12.1 & 12.2 upgrade.  • Implementing moderately complex changes to existing databases.  • Expert in 12c Multitenant PDB/CDB setup, migration, administration & troubleshooting.  • Well versed with 12c advanced database security and partitioning.  • Experienced in leading several critical DBA related projects.  • Implementation of LDAP , Active Directory tool.  • Installing and configure new database engines and upgrades to new product releases 11.2.0.4 & 12.10.2,12.2.0.1  • IT Security policy enhancement, Implementation of PCI & SOX compliance.  • Implement physical data models at a project level.  • Working on oracle database migration , upgrade & patching 11g,12c.  • Create, document, and administer, and document database backup and recovery plans, capacity plans and security plans to meet project requirements.  • Proficient in complex SQL coding and complicated Performance Tuning.  • Administration and maintenance of Oracle Database 10g, 11g & 12c.  • Oracle RDBMS installation, up-gradation & patching on different Oracle versions.  • Performing through Performance Tuning of Database.  • Database backup and recovery using both RMAN and Storage copy.  • Performing major Application release and implementing major Database related changes.  • Database Cloning, RMAN duplication,11g Active cloning, active duplication for DR.  • Managing Data warehouse large databases on a daily basis (> 30 terabyte),  • Documenting step by step procedures for new release installation, upgrade, patches.  • 24X7 primary On-call support based on a rotation.  • Applying Critical CPU patches, PSU and DST Patches on every quarter.  • Performance Tuning of database, Performance tuning of Sql /Pl- SQL query.  • Configuring & monitoring Backup and Recovery using RMAN and Storage method.  • Creating effective UNIX shell scripts for Oracle DB monitoring & administration.  • Well versed in working with Oracle Support to resolve any unidentified issue. Senior Database Administrator Dexmedia - Dallas, TX October 2012 to May 2015 Description: Primarily responsible for Oracle Database Administration, Maintenance, Creation, Configuration, Installation, Up-gradation, Patching, Cloning, Migration, Performance Tuning, Backup/ Recovery, Troubleshooting and other core DBA related activities. Dexmedia are having more than 600 databases spread across different environment like Dev, Stage, Test and Production. Implemented several critical database infrastructure project like cross platform DB Migration, DB upgrade to 11g,12c, ASM Implementation, Shareplex replication setup etc.    Responsibilities:  • Working as an Oracle DBA on various OS platforms, which includes AIX, HP, Linux, Solaris, NT and Oracle 9i and 10g, 11g, 12c environment responsible for production DBA activities.  • In Dexmedia my responsibilities involved:  * Oracle software installation, up-gradation, patching on different Oracle versions.  * Installation & configuration of new Shareplex Bidirectional replication setup.  * Performing through Performance Tuning of Database.  * Up-gradation of databases from oracle 9i to oracle 10g ,11g& 12c.  * Database creation, migration and capacity planning.  * Implementation and administration of Oracle Goldengate 11g  * Database backup and recovery using both RMAN and SRDF copy.  * Performing major Application release and implementing major Database related changes.  * Extensive experience in Database Cloning, RMAN duplication, 11g Active cloning, 11g active duplication for DR.  * Configuration and maintenance of One directional and Bi-directional Shareplex replication.  * Performed Export/Import, Data pump Export/Import for oracle 9i/10g,11g databases.  * Managed Data warehouse large databases on a daily basis (> 18 terabyte), supporting 600 databases. Worked on Data Guard, and Oracle RAC 10g,11g systems.  * Oracle 10g & 11g RAC Database administration, configuration and maintenance.  * Installing & managing of oracle clusterware and RAW Devices.  * Creation of physical standby DR and logical standby reporting databases.  * Administration and maintenance of Logical standby reporting and Physical standby DR databases.  * IT Security policy enhancement through role & priveleges, Implementation of PCI & SOX compliance.  * Administration of oracle Bidirectional Streams replication.  * Worked with OEM Grid Control, configured agent in different Host for monitoring.  * OEM 12C cloud control.  * Worked on OEM production Grid configuration, administration and maintenance.  * Documenting step by step procedures for new installation, upgrade, patches etc.  * 24X7 primary On-call support. Applied Critical CPU patches, PSU and DST Patches.  * Database sizing, Capacity Planning. Performance Tuning of database.  * ASM Instance creation, administration, maintenance. Migrate Databases to ASM Storage.  * Performance Tuning of Applications/Databases using various Oracle tools like SQL trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan,10046 event etc.  * Leading several DBA projects  * Configured and implemented Backup and Recovery using RMAN.  * Working extensively on Oracle database partitioning.  * Performed/Tested different RMAN database recovery scenario as a part of disaster recovery drill. Performed several complicated recovery scenario in reality.  * Creating effective UNIX shell scripts for Oracle DB monitoring & administration.  * Database Cloning/refresh from production to test and development environments using SRDF, RMAN and Import utility.  * Implemented Oracle Advanced Replication using snapshots, materialized views.  * Database Reorganizations for better space management.  * Worked with Oracle support to resolve several complex Severity1 Database issues. Senior Database Administrator Qualcomm - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to September 2012 Description: Primarily responsible for Oracle Database Administration, Maintenance, Creation, Configuration, Installation, Up-gradation, Patching, Cloning, Migration, Performance Tuning, Backup/ Recovery, Troubleshooting and other core DBA related activities. Qualcomm are having more than 800 databases spread across different environment.    Responsibilities:  • Working as an Oracle DBA on various OS platforms, which includes AIX, HP, Linux, NT and Oracle 9i and 10g, 11g environment responsible for production DBA activities.  • In Qualcomm my responsibilities involved:  * Performing through Performance Tuning of Database. Up-gradation of databases to 11g.  * Database creation, migration and capacity planning.  * Oracle software installation, up-gradation, patching on different Oracle versions.  * Database backup and recovery using both RMAN and Storage solution.  * Performing major Application release and implementing major Database related changes using Service centre.  * Oracle 11g RAC Database administration, configuration and maintenance.  * Creation, administration & maintenance of physical standby DR and logical standby reporting databases.  * Worked with OEM Grid Control configuration, administration and maintenance.  * Documenting step by step procedures for new installation, upgrade, patches etc.  * Database sizing, Capacity Planning. Performance Tuning of database.  * Performance Tuning of Oracle Database & SQL statement.  * Backup & Recovery Solution using RMAN. Performed several complicated recovery scenario in reality.  * Creating effective UNIX shell scripts for database monitoring & administration.  * Database cloning from production to test and development environments using SRDF, RMAN and Import utility.  * Implemented Oracle Advanced Replication using snapshots, materialized views.  * Database Reorganizations for better space management.  * Oracle partitioning management. Senior Database Administrator GMAC Mortgage - Philadelphia, PA May 2008 to February 2010 Description: Mainly involved in Oracle Database Administration, Maintenance, Creation, Configuration, Installation, Up-gradation, Patching, Cloning, Migration, Performance Tuning, Backup/ Recovery, Troubleshooting and other core DBA related activities. GMAC are having more than 500 databases spread across different environment like Dev, Stage and production. Most of the mission critical databases are configured in two nodes of RAC cluster.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as an Oracle DBA on various OS platforms, which includes AIX, HP, Linux, NT and Oracle 9i and 10g, 11g environment responsible for production DBA activities.  • In GMAC my responsibilities involved:  * Performing through Performance Tuning of Database.  * Up-gradation of databases from oracle 9i to oracle 10g & 11g. Database creation, migration and capacity planning.  * Database objects creation, maintenance, problem diagnostics and resolution.  * Oracle software installation, up-gradation, patching on different Oracle versions.  * Database backup and recovery using both RMAN and SRDF copy.  * Performing major Application release and implementing major Database related changes using Service centre. Database monitoring script development.  * Performed Export/Import, Data pump Export/Import for oracle 9i/10g&11g databases.  * Managed Data warehouse large databases on a daily basis (> 8 terabyte).  * Supported more than 500 databases of GMAC spread across the various environment like Development, Staging and production.  * Implemented Oracle 10g RAC for mission critical Application.  * Oracle 10g RAC Database administration, configuration and maintenance.  * Managing oracle clusterware and RAW Devices. Database sizing, Capacity Planning.  * Creation of physical standby DR and logical standby reporting databases.  * Administration and maintenance of Logical standby reporting and Physical standby DR databases. Administration of oracle Bidirectional Streams replication.  * Worked on OEM production Grid configuration, administration and maintenance.  * Documenting step by step procedures for new installation, upgrade, patches etc.  * 24X7 primary On-call support. Applied DST patches Applied Critical Patches Update (CPU) every quarter.  * Physical and Logical database design.  * Performance Tuning of databases & SQL queries.  * Creating effective UNIX shell scripts. Performed various UNIX Administration tasks.  * Database Cloning/refresh using SRDF, RMAN and Import utility.  * Implemented Oracle Advanced Replication using snapshots, materialized views. Database Administrator Agilent Technologies - Santa Clara, CA November 2005 to April 2008 Description: Toyota's Data Centres are located in different locations of USA namely Torrance, Phoenix, Baltimore and Cedar Rapid. The Databases are in the six nodes of global cluster depending on the business criticality. I was involved primarily in Oracle Database Administration, Maintenance, Creation, Configuration, Installation, Up-gradation, Patching, Cloning, Migration, Performance Tuning, Backup/ Recovery, Troubleshooting and other core DBA related activities of Toyota Financial Services .Supporting and administration of mission critical production Databases of Toyota.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as an Oracle DBA on SUN Solaris9,Solaris 10,HP-UX 11.11, Windows 2000/NT 4.0 and Oracle 9i,10g Database environment .Toyota Implemented ITIL framework to support their growing Infrastructure.  • In Toyota my responsibilities were involved:  * Database objects creation, maintenance, problem diagnostics and resolution.  * Developing database scripts/shell script for Database monitoring and maintenance.  * Performing core DBA activities for 50 mission critical production databases.  * Managed large Data Warehouse databases on a daily basis (> 4 terabyte).  * 24X7 primary On call support.  * Installing of Oracle 9i and Oracle 10g on Solaris 9 and HP-UX Itanilum Platform.  * Creation, Configuration and maintenance of database on Unix environment.  * Implementing major Database releases and changes.  * Performance Tuning of database, Performance Tuning of Applications/Databases using various Oracle tools like SQL trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, SQL Advisor. Worked very closely with development team.  * Applying DST patches to the Database on UNIX and NT environment.  * Applying quarterly Security Patching for production Databases.  * Well versed in working with Oracle Support to resolve any unidentified issue.  * Database sizing, Capacity Planning.  * Extensive experience in testing and implementation of enterprise level Backup and recovery strategy using RMAN and Import/Export Utilities.  * Performed different RMAN recovery scenario as a part of disaster recovery drill.  * Developing shell script to perform Online/Offline RMAN backup and Recovery.  * Loading Data into the Databases using Sql-Loader.  * Performing through Performance Tuning of Database.  * Optimizing SQL/PL-SQL queries for better Performance.  * Performing in depth analysis of database performance during the peak activity, identify bottleneck, finding the best solution and implement the best solution in the Production.  * Extensive experience of cloning the production Databases using RMAN, Import.  * Upgrading database from Oracle 9i to 10g using manual approach.  * Configuring OEM Database Control in Production for 10g databases.  * Implementation of several new features of 10g for the Databases.  * Configuring and maintenance of Database monitoring Tools FOGLIGHT and DP-SPI with HP Openview database monitoring Agent.  * Perform routine DBA activities like maintaining Space, Schema management and troubleshooting the Databases issues and solving the Incidents.  * Migration of databases from Stage/Dev platform to the production environment, configure backup, creation of database monitoring scripts for the migrated databases.  * Troubleshooting Oracle Database issues for mission Critical Production systems Education B. Tech in Electronics and communication in engineering University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA Skills OEM (9 years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Unix (10+ years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Database, DB2, Documentum, Sql Server, ASM, Linux Additional Information Operating Systems: SUN SPARC, ,SUN Solaris 10, HP UX PA-RISC,HP-UX Itanium, HP UX 11.11,Linux x86,Linux X86-64, Linux PPC, IBM AIX 5L, SCO UNIX  RDMBS: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12.1.02; 12.2.0.1  Replication: Shareplex 8.2, Oracle Goldengate 11g, 12c;Dataguard  Tools/Utilities: EMC Replication Manager 5.2, NetApp, Ignite monitoring, OEM Cloud control, SQL Loader, Oracle Datapump,RMAN,LAB128,WinSCP,Putty,Foglight, SQL-Developer,TOAD8.6,AWR,DP-SPI,Autosys,HP Open View, HP Service Desk, PL-SQL Developer 3.1, Service center,Remedy, DASH; Spectrum, Active Directory.  Storage: SAN, Hitachi, XIV, EMC, NetApp, Exadata,ASM  Clusterware/Netbackup: RAC, Automatic storage management ASM, Veritas Volume Manager 4.1, Veritas Cluster 4.1,Veritas Netbackup, Oracle Clusterware, RAW Devices, Tivoli Storage Manager,EMC Replication Manager 5.2, NetApp  Enterprise Manager: 12c EM Grid & 13c cloud.  Engineered System: Oracle Engineered System X5 & X6 Model.  Cloud: Amazon AWS, Oracle, Microsoft Azure  Workshop & Certification:    • Oracle 12c R2 New Features Workshop Certificate.(2017)  • Oracle Exadata X6 12c Workshop certificate.(2016)  • Oracle Exadata certified Implementation Specialist(2015)  • Oracle Real Applications Clusters Administrator Certified Expert.  • Oracle Certified Professional (OCP)