DATABASE ENGINEER TIER 3 <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> ENGINEER TIER 3 SENIOR SQL DATABASE ENGINEER Oakton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DATABASE ENGINEER TIER 3 ETC Solutions May 2016 to Present • Upgrade/build production/test databases clusters/instances (SQL 2008 R2 - SQL 2017) and maintain optimal performance for a large network consisting of 15 multi-node clusters, several stand-alone database servers, accounting for over 900 databases  • Troubleshooting performance problems with Microsoft clusters, SQL databases using index optimization techniques, resource allocation analysis, to maintain 24/7 uptime for all production databases to meet the customer SLAs.  • Collaboration with various technology stack teams to help architect data flow design for new applications being deployed in the enterprise  • Supporting client requests with ad-hoc database requests with development/test efforts, as well as production build deployments.  • Responsible for user access, collaboration with backup team to ensure backups/restores of the database, Microsoft Cluster Administrator for failover; keeping up with the latest releases of Service Packs; help plan the infrastructure upgrade projects with SQL Server specifications, capacity planning, etc. SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Discover Technologies July 2015 to May 2016 • Manage high availability SQL database environment for continuity of operations between data centers.  • Administer, develop, maintain and implement the policies and procedures necessary to ensure the security and integrity of all SQL Server databases.  • Ensure Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) are implemented.  • Perform SQL code reviews, troubleshoot performance issues, maintain, monitor and configure production database systems for optimal performance, reliability and operations. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR TIER 3 CSC August 2010 to July 2015 • Upgrade production/test databases from SQL 2K8 R2 to SQL 2012  • Troubleshooting performance problems, maintaining 24/7 uptime for all production databases  • Responsible for setting up test and development database instances (SQL 2008 R2, SQL 2012)  • Responsible for user access, collaboration with backup team to ensure backups/restores of the database, Microsoft Cluster Administrator for failover; keeping up with the latest releases of Service Packs; help plan the infrastructure upgrade projects with SQL Server specifications, capacity planning, etc.  • Supporting the database users with daily database requests with development/test efforts PRINCIPAL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Serco International - Arlington, VA December 2009 to August 2010 * Maintaining 24/7 uptime for all production databases (SQL 2000/ SQL 2008); synchronization between test/development and production databases.  * Responsible for database consolidation & migration; backup/recovery; Microsoft cluster & EMC Autostart failover / disaster recovery exercises; upgrades (SQL 2005/ SQL 2008)  * Support the application team with day to day database troubleshooting requests - data transfers, database performance tuning, transaction monitoring, and user access. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR EDS - Herndon, VA October 2008 to December 2009 * Supporting high availability databases - SQL 2000/2005 on multiple domains implementing replication - Transactional/Merge/Snapshot.  * Responsible for use access, permissions and approval of T-SQL code for production releases.  * Maintaining synchronization between test and production databases. PRINICIPAL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Serco International - Arlington, VA March 2008 to October 2008 * Responsible for all production, test and development databases.  * Create scope, plan, and technical course of action to upgrade production databases.  * Create disaster recovery plans and backup/recovery procedures for all production databases.  * Plan and implement a centralized system of production databases inventory. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CACI Inc - Chantilly, VA October 2007 to March 2008 * Oracle 10g: set up test and development databases by cloning; manage database users/roles; developed dynamic SQL stored procedures; support a team of developers;  * Manage database security, logins, users, roles, and object permissions  * Support a team of developers: plan solutions; verify code for data manipulation SQL scripts for bug fixes, data repair and functionality enhancements; create, maintain, and enforce documented database standards  * Maintain MS SQL Server 2K5 databases; develop and implement backup/restore procedures DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Intersections, Inc - Chantilly, VA June 2006 to October 2007 * Maintain Oracle 10g (Red Hat Enterprise Linux), MS SQL Server 2K5 databases, including Oracle RAC, Oracle 10g Grid Control and SQL Server Clusters  * Build MS SQL Server 2000 and 2005 databases, monitor alerts, follow change management processes, setup/modify log shipping and replication.  * Perform transaction analysis and performance tuning including updating statistics, re-indexing, structure modifications, capacity planning, and index analysis.  * Plan and execute database modifications and SQL scripts for bug fixes, data repair, functionality enhancements.  * Develop and implement backup and recovery procedures, including disaster recovery procedures. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Battelle - Stafford, VA January 2006 to June 2006 * Oracle 9i Database maintenance for development/testing/production on Windows/Red Hat Advanced Server 3  * Perform ongoing tuning of the database instances, evaluate and install new Oracle patches.  * Install new versions of the Oracle RDBMS and migrate databases; backup/recovery database files and objects  * Build and Manage SQL Server 2000 databases, monitor logs, check scheduled jobs for failures, backups, replication agents, and DTS packages. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Intellidyne LLC - Falls Church, VA November 2003 to December 2005 * Monitor database logs for errors; perform backups/recovery for Oracle 9i and MS SQL Server 2000 databases.  * Manage user logins and permissions to Databases and DB objects.  * Assist software engineers with DML and DDL query writing. WEB DEVELOPMENT/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Center for Remote Sensing - Fairfax, VA December 2002 to October 2003 * Plan and maintain oracle database for development environment;  * Manage users/roles; plan and implement backup procedures  * Responsible for corporate website planning, redesigning, and management. DESKTOP SUPPORT TECHNICIAN Intellidyne LLC - Falls Church, VA October 2002 to December 2002 * Member of a team responsible for a client side migration at the DoD HA/TMA.  * Migrating 600 PC's from Windows NT to Windows 2000; resolving trouble tickets for the NOC. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering Strayer University 2011 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Salisbury University 2001