Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Olidia Care Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Olidia Care - Minneapolis, MN August 2015 to Present • My daily routine includes but not limited to the following: Performance tuning, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure System performance and stability.  • Install and configure Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c software on UNIX/LINUX operating system.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Experience in managing Oracle RAC for high availability.  • Frequently monitor emails with regards to any database issues.  • Successfully configure and manage Data Guard for disaster recovery and high availability.  • Performed Data Guard failover as required for maintenance. This includes coordinating with application owners and sys admins as to when the failover can be performed.  • Perform data and metadata migration to newly installed servers using Data Pump Expdp/Impdp.  • Experience in data replication using snapshot, materialized views and dblinks.  • Create database objects like views, procedures, functions, triggers, tables, synonyms and indexes.  • Plan and perform Backup/Recovery using RMAN base on SLAs, test backup for corruption, Work with Flash Recovery Area as well.  • Resolved locking issues, inconsistencies and assists in batch processes.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query Performance.  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery using RMAN utility.  • Clone production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN.  • Work on database security including Auditing (standard auditing, fine grain, valued based and statement auditing), Encrypting (Transparent Data Encryption).  Used IAM resources to create group and assign permissions, activate MFA on root account and apply IAM password policy  • EC2 launch your instance, some of the resource used in EC2 are Elastics IPs, Load balancers  • S3 is a storage area, there you create bucket, upload your data and set up permissions  • Auto scaling. DynamoDB, Elastic cache, ECS, BATCH, Elastic beanstalk, CloudTrail, EBS, RDS ETC  • Trouble shooting AWS EC2 instance. Trouble shooting CloudWatch, Troubleshooting ELB, Troubleshooting Cloud Trail. VPC configuration and Security, AWS snowball. I have hands on experience in AWS. I can go details more in AWS cloud program. Oracle Database Administrator Target - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN February 2013 to August 2015 Created and managed database objects such as tables, indexes, materialized views and referential integrity constraints.  • Participated and supported Oracle server installations and standalone installations  • Worked on various types of system units monitoring and fixing technical problems that might possibly prevent the database instances from their daily run.  • Restoration and Recovery of database from offline, online using RMAN and Data Pump backup.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Performed administrative activities like user creation and administration, profiles, privileges and roles administration, space and schema management.  • Work with developers to diagnose Database related application problems, provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and application issues.  • Experience in applying patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches as per the oracle recommendations.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespaces and data files management.  • Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant (NETCA)  • Monitored the state of the listener by checking the status of listener and restarting listener.  • Constantly monitored data files, control files, redo log files for space and availability.  • Refreshed databases from Production to Test environments using a hot backup and data pump.  • Cloned databases in Test, Development and production environments using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for various Database sizes.  • Automated the processes using CRONTAB.  • Interacted with users and troubleshoot problems related to privileges and resources.  • Monitored databases activities and files usage, ensured databases function properly by removing or deleting old or obsolete files.  • Part of support team for 24/7 on-call production support. SQL developer 2008 to 2012 Grid control, explain plan, AWR, ADDM and DRA  • Work with Various operation systems like MS Windows server (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX(Solaris 9/8/10), LINUX, Red hat, Ubuntu, centos) Mongo DB.  • Backup and Recovery Using RMAN    • Data Migration Using Exp/imp/Data pump, and SQL loader  • Oracle ASM (Cluster, and RAC configuration and Administration  • Oracle Data Guard Installation/ Administration for high availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • MS SQL loader Management Studio  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX shell Scripting  • Installation, configuration and update of ORACLe 11g 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA Education Bachelor's degree University of Liberia 2009 to 2013 Skills Database, Oracle, Encryption, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Security, Scripting, Bash, Capacity planning, Cloning Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  • Database Security and Patching  • Backup and Recovery  • Transparent Data Encryption  • Performance monitoring and Tuning  • Upgrades $ Migration  • Installation, configuration, capacity planning    • Oracle Data Guard $ Data pump  • Oracle ASM  • Grid Control  • Database Cloning  • Bash/Unix shell scripting and Automation