Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Data Modeler Columbus, OH Extensive experienced, multi-talented Database Administrator/Data Modeler/Developer/Report Writer in Nationwide for 20+ years. Highly skilled on Oracle, SQL Server, Netezza, Teradata databases. Played key roles in multiple projects using all kinds of tools to import/export, manipulation data, performance tuning, create reports and analysis and created web dashboards and Excel spreadsheets reports for investment and database management team using WebFocus reporting tool. Migrated Oracle databases to PostgreSQL on Amazon Cloud. Worked as Informatica Administrator. Implemented and mentored developers on ETL projects using Informatica and PL/SQL. Worked as data modeler and Erwin server administrator. Worked as an instructor in Ohio University teaching Statistics and Psychology before joined nationwide. Great team player with excellent communication skills.    SKILLS & TECHNOLOGY  ? Oracle, SQL Server, Teradata, Netezza, Informatica, WebFOCUS, Erwin  ? AWS Cloud, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Data Migration Service (DMS), Database migration (on-prem to AWS Cloud)    ? SAS, SPSS, MatLab, Toad, WinSQ, OEM, Data Architect, Business Objects, Microstrategy, Excel, Access    ? Python, Java, C++, Github, ESP, Oracle Golden Gate, Oracle RAC, Perl, , SQL/PLSQL    ? Windows, UNIX, Linux, Mainframe Work Experience Database Administrator Data Modeler - Columbus, OH September 1996 to Present Create reports for investment and database management team using WebFocus. Automated trading reports by extracting the data from database in real time and display the reports from web dashboard and email to the end users directly.  ? Created the WebFocus dashboards so use can get reports in real-time by clicking the links on the websites and scheduled jobs to send excel spreadsheets to users automatically to their email three times a day.  ? Utilize existing stored PL/SQL procedures stored inside Oracle database using Focus language to reuse the work from other development effort and improved the efficiency and save the developing time.  ? Implement and mentor developers on ETL projects using Informatica and PL/SQL. Create PL/SQL triggers and/or procedures to maintain database automatically.  ? Experience as system and application DBA in a large Data Warehousing and OLTP environment for Nationwide Investment, Claim Center and Marketing Department  ? Migrate Oracle databases to PostgreSQL on Amazon Cloud using Schema Conversion Tool and Data Migration Services tools.  ? Perform physical database design; Transform logical data models into physical database structures using Oracle Designer, Erwin. Provide data modeling assistance as required. Write and code logical and physical database descriptions and specify identifiers of database and provide directions to others in coding descriptions.  ? Erwin server administrator. First person to implemented 3-tired Erwin services in Nationwide by installing the database, web hosting services and the front end webpage and client for Erwin 7. Presented at the Nationwide Data Modeling group meeting.  ? Performed Erwin server upgrade, backup and restore using Erwin utility and Oracle export/import for five application areas in Nationwide to use a centralized repository.  ? Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in the database against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure. Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database. Manage user access rights and user resource quotas.  ? Provide hands on technical expertise, provides senior level technical guidance and documents to developers, project leaders and other teams members as necessary. Provide consulting to developers on optimal usage of database features and facilities. Provide support to developers working on SQL, including development of best practices, hands on demos, and knowledge transfer  ? Research and analyze emerging Oracle database technologies, techniques, and protocols and making recommendations. Troubleshoot and resolve database issues in a timely manner, Prepare capacity planning and sizing. Set up Partitioning, Data Guard/Standby Database.  ? Continuously manage performance through trending analysis and work with development teams on identified tuning opportunities and perform database healthcheck and feedback to the application team. Provide database performance tuning, database security, and promote process improvement  ? Perform database system management functions (e.g., software installs, version upgrades/patching and configuration management, backup and restore using RMAN). Refresh non-production environments with data from production databases  ? Create and maintain databases, database objects, including tablespaces, tables, indexes, views, synonyms, triggers, procedures, and sequences in development, test, production and disaster recovery environments.  ? Ability to self-initiate, prioritize and execute effectively in a dynamic work environment with multiple concurrent demands. High level of flexibility, energy and team spirit Instructor Ohio University - Athens, OH September 1995 to June 1996 Ohio    ? Presented lectures and conducted discussions to increase students' knowledge and competence using visual aids, such as graphs, charts, videotapes, and slides.  ? Prepared reports and maintain records such as student grades, attendance rolls, and training activity details. Observed and evaluated students' work to determine progress, provided feedback, and made suggestions for improvement. Performed teacher's evaluation for the dean's office using programs on mainframe.  ? Developed curricula and plan course content and methods of instruction.  ? Developed teaching aids such as instructional software, multimedia visual aids, or study materials.    ADDITIONAL RELEVANT HIGHLIGHTS Education Master Of Science in Computer Sciences/Mathematics Ohio University Master Of Science in Psychology Ohio University Graduate Certificate DeVry University Skills Sql Server, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Dba Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lanjunzhang