Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Irving, TX Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions - Irving, TX October 2009 to Present Responsibilities  • Supporting development, unit test, system test,Integration test, certification test, production databases under almost all flavors of UNIX (Oracle Enterprise Linux, Red Hat, Sun Solaris,IBM AIX) and Windows  • Worked on multiple database upgrades from 9i to 10g/10g to 11g and EBS upgrades from 11i to R12 (12.1.1/12.1.3).  • Worked on database platform migration from HP Superdome to Exadata.  • Multinode setup of R12 Oracle EBS, Shared Application Filesystem implementation with PCP setup & SSL implementation, Load balancing setup.  • Worked on 9i,10g,11g Oracle Database (RDBMS) Upgrades, Database size between 1 Terabytes to 5 Terabytes, Support and Maintenance activities.  • Upgrade discoverer from 10g to 11g and integrate with R12 EBS. Migrate discoverer EUL components. Installation of 11g fusion middleware components and configure.  • EBS DMZ/External tier setup.  • Clone and resolution errors during activity.  • Mobile server maintenance, workflow mailer setup, oracle printer setup & other sysadmin activities.  • Standby server setup and failover.   • Export-import, database character set change.  • Code migration, backup and recovery.  • Concurrent manager issues and resolutions.  • Databases refresh using hot and cold backup.  • Patch analysis and patch application including application and oracle patch.  • Server health checks and process monitoring.  • Running autoconfig to setup application tiers.  • Working with adutilities.   • Scheduling shell scripts in crontab for several database activities.  • Other several dba activities.    Accomplishments  * Managed team of twelve DBAs and handled multiple projects at a time.  * Extensive experience handling a variety of different clientele through various levels of communication.    Skills Used  • Having Experience in Oracle ERP Technologies for 11i and R12.  • Having good knowledge in R12 Upgrade, Shared application filesystem, SSL, Loadbalancing and FMW.  • Good experience in Capacity planning and capacity assessment for large Oracle Apps Environment.  • Having good experience in upgrading Oracle ERP, Discoverer, different versions of oracle databases on different platform.  • Experienced in different version of Oracle APPS installation on different platform.   • Experienced in maintain and upgrading other application like Vertex, Ringmaster, ITG etc.   • Having Experience on Real Application Clusters maintenance and day to day operations for 11g RAC.  • Having experience on Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g implementation, maintenance and day to day operations.  • Experienced with Grid Control.  • Experienced in Performance tuning of different versions of Oracle databases on RHEL, HPUX, Sun Solaris.  • Experienced in Migration, Upgrading, patching, cloning and configuring Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g databases on OEL, Sun Solaris, HPUX.   • Using STATSPACK, TKPROF and AWR, ADDM, GC Manager to monitor the performance of Oracle Database.   • Implemented Grid Control monitoring system for very large environment to monitor Oracle database, UNIX servers other middleware servers. Set up notification for performance bottleneck and failure of services.  • Experienced in handling large database of 200 TB of Oracle ERP database   • Expertise in UNIX shell scripting and automated task scheduling using crontab. Education Bachelor in Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Netaji Subhash Engg College - Irving, TX 2001 to 2005