Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - General Motors Financial Keller, TX Work Experience Senior Database Administrator General Motors Financial March 2015 to Present • Introduced, planned and implemented conversion to RMAN backups.  • Introduced, planned and implemented 2 and 3 node RAC configurations on AIX and Linux.  • Introduced, planned and implemented Exadata system.  • Implemented new real time database monitoring and alerting across the environment.  • Planned and implemented conversion to Dataguard and active Dataguard for reporting.  • Planned and Implemented OEM into the environment for management, maintenance and monitoring.  • Introduced numerous database enhancements to environment: bigfiles, system partitions, ASM, TDE  • Planned and implemented database upgrades 11.2 to 12.2  • Architected and implemented advanced, strategic database management systems.  • Mentored, coached and assisted other DBA's in the group.  • Consulted and advised management on database enhancements and process improvements. Senior Database Administrator Epsilon, LLC October 2007 to February 2015 • Planned and implemented database upgrades 9i to 10G, 10.1 to 10.2 and 11.1 to 11.2  • Planned and implemented database migration of 2TB database from SUN 9.2 to AIX 11g.  • Maintained/Tested backup and recovery procedures using RMAN, disaster recovery testing.  • Implemented real time database monitoring and alerts.  • Monitored and tuned Oracle databases.  • Design & implementation of schema/packages/procedure changes.  • Developed and implemented complex data models and logical database designs.  • Designed & implemented ETL scripts.  • SQL and database performance monitoring and tuning.  • Production support of multi-terabyte RAC and standalone databases. Senior Database Administrator Brierley & Partners April 2006 to September 2007 • Database architect & management, including design/build of databases, schemas, tablespaces and datafiles.  • Planned and implemented database upgrades 9i to 10g  • Monitor & Tune database performance.  • Migrated 10g database from Linux/cooked filesystem to Solaris 10G/ASM.  • Implemented database backup and recovery strategies to rapidly recover data using RMAN and database exports.  • Implemented physical/logical standby databases utilizing Oracle DataGuard. Senior Database Administrator Fidelity Investments March 2000 to April 2006 • Acted as a DBA for over 70 databases, sized from 5GB to 1.5TB.  • Planned and implemented database upgrades, 8i to 9i and 9i to 10g.  • Managed and implemented a database consolidation project, reducing over 30 databases into a single  Linux RAC database.  • Database management, including design/build of databases, schemas, tablespaces and datafiles.  • Designed and implemented custom application to track server information, including operating  system information, hardware, applications, databases and business contacts.  • Worked closely with Oracle support and BDE for bug fixes and troubleshoot database issues.  • Planned database re-organizations to increase database performance.  • Enhanced and maintained database recovery strategies for on-site and off-site recoverability, including tape based, DataGuard and Streams  • Implemented database backup and recovery strategies to rapidly recover data using RMAN and database exports.  • Designed and implemented enterprise wide conversion procedure to convert from raw to JFS/UFS  filesystems with a very limited outage of production databases.  • Designed and implemented 9i RAC databases on Linux and Solaris platforms.  • Performed quarterly disaster recovery (DR) test utilizing tape based and DataGuard methodology.  • Monitored and tuned Oracle databases. Backup Administrator Fidelity Investments October 1996 to March 2000 • Team leader for group of three, mentored and supervised junior team members.  • Responsible for filesystem, database and archive logs backups of over 10TB nightly across three data  centers.  • Architected and designed "bullet proofing" procedures to insure backup integrity.  • Performed disaster recovery tests of databases and application filesystems quarterly.  • Implemented monitoring and verification procedures to track success/failed backups.  • Received President's Award for designing and implementing an archive log backup reduction plan.  • Created custom reports to track tape vaulting, backup statistics and failures.  • Experienced with Storage Tek tape silos and software (ACSLS) Texas Instruments September 1995 to October 1996 Unix Change Management, September 1995 - October 1996  • Designed and implemented a change management configuration database.  • Managed and installed various applications (SAP, Spectrum, Oracle and Operating Systems) on multiple hardware platforms (SUN, HP, and IBM).  • Setup models and prototypes within Spectrum.  • Developed and implemented HTML programs.  • Installed and configured Solaris and AIX operating systems.  • Performed OS upgrades, kernel tuning and other typical system administrator functions. System Analyst Zadall Systems Group June 1993 to September 1995 • System administrator on SCO, AIX, NCR and Solaris platforms.  • Provided technical training to large accounts.  • Responsible for solving customer's technical problems and integrating Zadall applications into a variety of UNIX systems; traveled to, and worked closely with large accounts to resolve technical  issues.  • Wrote communications utility to distribute and apply software updates to customer base.  • Designed and coded "C" programs and extensive shell scripting.  • Installed, configured and maintained AIX, SCO, NCR and Solaris operating systems.  • Installed and configured company wide DNS and email server. Programmer/System Administrator Tandy Corporation December 1991 to June 1993 • System administrator for numerous SCO and DEC Ultrix systems.  • Coded, Installed and maintained numerous "C" applications.  • Trouble shoot hardware and software problems in Tandy manufacturing plants.  • Designed and coded applications for payroll, timesheet, symbol scanners and numerous utilities. Education Certification Southern Methodist University March 2000 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Kentucky - Major, KY May 1991 Additional Information • Oracle RAC, Data Guard and Streams Implementations.  • Oracle7, 8, 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12.1 and 12.2 database administration and management.  • SQL*Plus, SQL and PL/SQL programming and development, including packages, stored procedures  and triggers.  • UNIX Systems (HP, SUN, AIX, LINUX) administration.  • Accustomed to working on mission critical, high availability (HA) systems in a 7x24 organization.  • Strong knowledge of UNIX shell scripting and structured programming.  • Six Sigma Green Belt