Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Hingham, MA My underlying philosophy is: it’s not tech support, or IT support -- it’s people support.    My goal is to provide top-quality support, which I define as:  • Responding promptly, with courtesy and professionalism  • Providing a valid solution in an acceptable time frame  • Maintaining the privacy and security of all confidential data  • Documenting the solution appropriately    I've always been the 'go-to' person for computer help; it was either my job, or simply because everyone knew I could (and would) gladly fix their problems and explain the solution to them.    I'm constantly learning more and more about hardware, networking, and Windows and Mac software because I want to help people use technology to do their work. This a job that I excel at, is personally and professionally satisfying and is beneficial to both the end-users and me. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Information Systems and Technology 2000 to 2016 Customer service is crucial. If the end-users can't access their data quickly and securely, they can't do their jobs.    I worked with the clients to install, update and support their databases to suit their individual requirements and schedules. I resolved and documented their trouble tickets and helped with their client-side applications.    As the de facto Tech Support person for the team, I helped with non- database issues like hardware, software, OS questions, network issues, online collaboration tools, etc. I kept up to date with Windows (up to Windows 10), and became familiar with Windows Server, SQL Server, Active Directory, Office 365 and cloud computing. Computer Manager Department of Chemical Engineering 1995 to 2000 I spent five years providing Gold Star Support for the department's Windows and Macintosh computers.    As the sole 'Computer Guy', I provided complete computer support for hardware, software, networking, printing and training. "Sorry, I don't know" was not an acceptable response from me. Any problem involving a computer came to me, and I solved it as quickly and completely as I could.    One of my strongest skills is the ability to put myself in the customer's shoes. I can see problems from their perspective, and explain the solutions (both in person and in writing) so they understand them. Education MS in Database Technologies Regis University 2011 BS in Computer Science Boston University 2002 Skills Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows 8 (3 years), Windows 10 (2 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Networking (5 years), SQL (6 years), Windows Server (1 year), Ticketing Systems (3 years), Shell Scripting (3 years), Virtualization (5 years), Computer Repair (6 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Customer Service (7 years), Documentation (7 years) Additional Information Key Accomplishments    Managed the computing environment of a large department at MIT:  • Ensured the daily business wasn’t interrupted by network outages, hardware failures or software issues.  • Network:  o Installed, repaired or replaced cables, connectors and network cards.  o Configured network parameters (IP addresses, DHCP, DNS servers, etc.).  • Hardware:  o Replaced, repaired or upgraded desktop computers and laptops (memory, hard drives and other internal components) as well as monitors, printers, and other peripheral devices.  o Helped users with local and centralized backups.  • Software:  o Installed, upgraded and patched as required.  o Taught the users how to use software products when necessary, and resolved any issues.  o Created user accounts and changed passwords.  • Managed the department Web site.  • Recommended hardware and software purchases.    Provided daily support for all computer-related issues:  I resolved all issues as quickly and pleasantly as I could, ranging from: "Should I use a PC or a Mac?" to “The printer's not working” to “I can't get my Email” to “My computer won’t start” to "The network is down".     Helped the department personnel improve their computer literacy and productivity:  • Wrote documentation for individuals, as well as blogs and Wiki pages.  • Worked with users one on one, presented to small groups and taught larger classes.    Oversaw the rewiring of the network infrastructure:  • Planned and coordinated with the vendors to balance efficient installation with minimal disruption.  • Verified the quality of the installation.   • Kept the end-users informed and provided extra ‘hand-holding’ when necessary.    Designed, created and maintained the department computer cluster (30 LAN-connected PCs):  • Faculty and students were extremely impressed with how easily they could collaborate in classes, workshops, projects, etc. and how much their productivity increased.  • The most important decision I made was not connecting the room to the Internet. This cut down on frivolous student use, leaving the room free for its intended purpose.