Database Architect <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Database_Admin_Consult Richardson, TX * Almost 13 years of experience on various RDBMSs database administration along with NoSQL database administration. Experience on Oracle Database RAC 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i and Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014 along with online replication tools like Shareplex, Golden gate and NoSQL databases like MongoDB & Cassandra. Experience in Data Virtualization tools like Denodo, Composite.  * Comprehensive experience in multi flavoured databases administration includes Installation, Upgrades, Migration, Performance Tuning, and Troubleshooting etc.  * Installed and configured multi nodes RAC on Linux & HP servers. Experience in Oracle RAC administration on ASM. Created and configured the Data Guard with / without using Flashback.  * Two level of Backup Strategy has been implemented using of RMAN and Data Pump. Extensive hand on experience on recovery of databases using of RMAN.  * Faced multiple problems related to performance tuning and provided persistent solutions to it in Oracle.  * Installed and configured Oracle Grid Control in order to monitor all the databases using customized metrics and personalized alerts.  * Installed and configured high availability solutions as SQL Server Always On, SQL Server cluster and standalone environment.  * Configured Disaster recovery solutions as SQL Server mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication.  * Created robust backup strategies in SQL Server using Full, Differential and T-Log backups.  * Worked on many performance related issues in SQL Server and provided concrete solutions to it.  * Installed and configured Quest PA (Foglight), Quest Spotlight tools for monitoring and performance analysis in SQL Server. Worked on Quest Litespeed for backup solutions in SQL Server.  * Experience in creating complex views from multiple data source in virtualization tools.  * Worked on cloud solution using Oracle 12c and Microsoft Azure. Carried out various database upgrades and schedule patching.  * Designed and developed NoSQL solutions for all users. Analyzed and resolved issues relating to database application performance.  * Managed and administered all NoSQL database systems. Prepared formal queries for various reporting requirements.  * Created and executed database solutions in distributed and clustered forms.  * Supported ETL operations with custom scripts and COT tools.  * Suggested latest upgrades and technologies for NoSQL databases. Evaluated system performance and validated NoSQL solutions.  * Hands on experience in data virtualization tools e.g. CIS (Composite) and Denodo.  * Created multiple shell and PowerShell scripts in both Linux and Windows platform.  * Worked on various RFPs, Solution Designing and Transitions.  * Good knowledge on various ITIL components including incident, change & problem management.  * Initiated practice of semiannual and annual ticket analysis, found pattern on tickets and recurring tickets, fix the issues through automation, saved 1200 Hrs man/hours and good amount of hard and soft dollars. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Architect Cognizant Technology Solutions - Richardson, TX September 2018 to Present ·       Provided significant contribution to the DCR (DataCenter Re-Alignment) Project that used newly built Private Cloud with VMware vCloud technologies and features by Centralizing & Virtualizing approximately 2300 application databases that saved huge License cost and also saved significant Database Maintenance Labor cost.  ·       Provided Road-Map to the Senior Management with Phases 1. Improved manageability using Host & DB Consolidation along with Standardization. 2. License Cost Savings using Virtualization & Private SQL Cloud. This road map drives as the scope for future projects.  ·       Implemented Database Encryption, SSL Encryption and Data Encryption for multiple Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) / PCI / HIPAA compliance applications.  ·       Implemented Disaster Recovery using Database Mirroring, Log Shipping based on Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and managed AlwaysON Availability Group setup.  ·       Configured Data Protection (Backup) onto Tape based on Recovery Point Object (RPO). Occasionally base lined backups were required during code deployments or during application version releases.  ·       Implemented High availability by configuring SQL Server AlwaysOn along with distributed AG. Also by building SQL Server Failover Cluster.  ·       Migrated databases from Windows host to SQL Server on Linux.  ·       Worked on migrating SQL Server databases’ underlying storage from mechanical rotating disks to solid state flash drives. I have created project plan and migrated all NetApp storage to PURE Storage.  ·       Handled VLDB (Very Large DB) with TB sizes and implemented Automated Partition extension (using Sliding Window technique).  ·       As lead for database technologies, provided advanced technical support to enterprise DBA team on Oracle database related technologies such as Exadata, Golden Gate, Streams, RAC, upgrades, migration, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, RMAN, Partitioning, Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL, PL/SQL, Code review and optimization, Materialized views, Flashback, troubleshooting, Data pump, RDBMS security, optimize server resource utilization etc.  ·       Worked on performance tuning issues’ resolutions using statistics, hints, SQL tuning set etc. and support the mission critical OLTP and Data Warehouse production databases.   ·       Oracle advanced security using Oracle Vault for outside database authentication to ensure data privacy and data integrity from unauthorized privileged database users.  . Configured and maintenance on Shareplex and GoldenGate queues and unidirectional data replication.  . Upgraded Oracle 12.2.0.1 to Oracle Database 18c on premise with all necessary fixups.  . Upgrade Oracle GoldenGate from 11gR2 to 12c. Implement OGG 12c new features in mission-critical production environments. Database Tower Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions US Corp - Houston, TX March 2015 to August 2018 Location: Houston, TX  Duration: Mar 02, 2015 - Till Date    Stewart Information Services Corporation (SISCO) is a customer-focused, global title insurance and real estate services company offering products and services in the U.S. and abroad through its direct operations, network of approved agencies and other companies within the Stewart family. Stewart also provides loan origination and servicing support; loan review services; loss mitigation; REO asset management; collateral valuations; due diligence for capital markets; home and personal insurance services; tax-deferred exchanges; and technology to streamline the real estate process.    Responsibilities:  * Design solution for enterprise service bus project for client.  * Design solution for Office 2.0 project for client.  * Worked on licensing consolidation project and designed a solution that saved big cost of client.  * Design solution for all 32 to 64 bit database servers to migrate from CDot netapp storage to 7MTT netapp storage systems.  * Extensively worked on complete data center migration project and helped in designing new datacenter.  * Created and configured Oracle databases on RAC environment with Data Guard.  * Configured SQL Server Cluster with AlwaysOn.  * Applied critical patch set and new and enhance features of Oracle database.  * Installed and configured Grid Control.  * Scripted the backup/recovery policy and procedure for Oracle database.  * Recurring refreshed the Test or QA environment with Production data.  * Automated routine tasks through shell scripts in Oracle and in PowerShell in SQL Server.  * Performance analysis using AWR, OEM Grid and tkprof etc Oracle Databases.  * Performance analysis using Quest Performance Analysis (Foglight), Quest Spotlight in SQL Server.  * Conducted backup/recovery through RMAN or Export & Import.  * DR setup in SQL Server using Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication.  * Implemented the database access security through triggers. Created triggers for job modifications.  * Worked on Shareplex and GoldenGate queues.  * Provided assistance for integration of auditing and alert systems in NoSQL databases.  * Implemented and automated backup and recovery systems and architecture for NoSQL databases.  * For NoSQL databases, designed storage infrastructure systems and configured database performance systems.  * Composite and Denodo domain, users, roles, privileges, configuration, and maintenance.  * Development of data virtualization views, Base views, Derived views, Projection, Selection, Union, Minus, Flatten views.  * Custom functions, packaged query, package, triggers, admin scripts.  * Worked on data virtualization tools for creating views with multiple database sources.  * Created comprehensive health check report across all production env. in shell and PowerShell and scheduled it. Database Tech / Team Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - KARNATAKA, IN May 2013 to February 2015 Location: Bangalore, India  Duration: May 06, 2013 - Feb27, 2015    Wellington Management Company (WMC) is a private, independent investment management company. The firm has client assets under management totaling over US$969 billion, and serves as investment advisor for over 2,150 institutional clients in over 50 countries.  Responsibilities:    * Configuration and Administration Oracle RAC along with ASM. Troubleshooting issues related to RAC infrastructure  * Configured Dataguard and troubleshooting sync issues between Prod and DR.  * Troubleshooting performance tuning relate issues and provides concrete solutions.  * Pro-active analysis on database performance parameters as per the load on system to mitigate and upcoming performance issues.  * Created backup plans, created scripts for backups status. Point in time recoveries.  * Installed and configured SQL Server cluster with AlwaysOn and Administration of same.  * Create DR env using Mirroring and log shipping. Troubleshoot sync issues.  * Create replication between selective objects across envs.  * Worked on performance tuning issues and creates maintenance jobs for better performance delivery.  * Troubleshooting backup issues, recovery though tlog backups. DR failover test.  * Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  * Supported operation tasks such as backup, replication and schema modifications.  * Virtual data port database setup, configuration and maintenance. Import and export data virtualization database.  * Worked on Base views, Derived views, Projection, Selection, Union, Minus, Flatten views.  * Created health check scripts on shell and powershell.  * Worked on Shareplex replication and queues. Database Tech Lead Tech Mahindra - MAHARASHTRA, IN April 2012 to April 2013 Database Adminstrator / Onsite Co-ordinator ZenSar Technologies Ltd - Rotherham October 2008 to March 2012 Location: Rotherham UK  Duration: Oct, 2008 - Mar, 2012    The Fulcrum Group Holdings Ltd. has grown into the one of the largest gas provider industry in the U.K Territory. It currently operates over almost everywhere in UK. The company is working as sister concern for National Grid U.K. & has diversified into fuel gas provider and has created a comprehensive infrastructure including its own logistics and distribution division.  Additionally I have created a monitoring tool for the existing system which monitors all databases as well as servers and provide information regarding these after every certain time span. This application has been developed in .NET technology. As a backend I used Oracle & SQL Server. With the ease of this application we can now perform some critical tasks also through this application with the help of single click.    Responsibilities:  As a Database Administrator I am actively involved in the below phases of project:    * Administration of complete database. Continuous monitoring of database.  * Taking backups with certain time intervals. Recovery of database after taking backups. Usage of RMAN  * Managing contingency, by creating a standby database for production databases for high availability in case of any system crash or if development database got stopped.  * Synchronized the production database with development & test databases.  * Successfully implemented Dataguard in Oracle 10g.  * Monitor server performance & done the needful.  * Managing production as well standby databases.  * Backup & Recovery of SQL server databases.  * Database cloning. Oracle Dataguard.  * Tuning of database for high performance. Tuning of SQL scripts.  * Exportation & Importation of schemas. Normalizing all the objects.  * Improve performance with the help of performance tuning for databases.  * Clone & Refresh databases.  * Various system deployments & changes.  * Implemented log shipping for SQL server databases.  * Modified DTS packages on SQL server.  * Creation of databases on Oracle & SQL server.  * Automate various processes with the help of shell script.  * Develop a user interface application in .net framework to monitor the whole system.  * Hands-on on HP-UX.    Employer: ZenSar Technologies Ltd  Client: Fulcrum (National Grid)  Sub Project: Database Upgrade  Role: Project owner  Location: Rotherham UK  Duration: May, 2010 - Jul, 2010    This project was carried out to upgrade the existing database infrastructure to a new version. We have the existing database system in Oracle 9i version & we have upgraded it to Oracle 10g version.    Responsibilities  * The major hurdle to carry out this activity is to minimize the downtime of production environment. We have cleared this hurdle with proper planning & innovative ideas.  * Knowing the criticality of the system completed all time bound activities in flawless way.  * Implemented new features of Oracle 10g version in order to increase the performance of system.  * Modify shell scripts in order to run successfully with new version of oracle.    Employer: ZenSar Technologies Ltd  Client: Fulcrum (National Grid)  Sub Project: Data Center Migration  Role: Project member  Location: Rotherham UK  Duration: Nov, 2010 - Jan, 2011    This project was carried out for migration of production data centre SDC01 which is owned by Fujitsu located in Thurrock London. We had moved our servers from London to Edinburgh where there was one more data centre. It was very nice to work in this project to get the actual feel of huge infrastructure with all the care while doing the activities.    Responsibilities:  * Detailed analysis on every aspect of risk factor.  * Failover of servers & databases to the contingency site.  * Follows all the norms & conditions that are suggested by the Fujitsu.  * Completed activity successfully inside the time window given by Fujitsu. Database Administrator AT&T Inc 2011 to 2011 is an American multinational telecommunications corporation headquartered in Texas, United States. It is the second largest provider of mobile telephony and largest fixed telephony provider in the United States, and is also a provider of broadband subscription television services. AT&T is the 7th largest company in the United States by total revenue, as well as the 4th largest non-oil company in the US. It is the 3rd largest company in Texas by total revenue and the largest non-oil company in Texas. In 2011, Forbes listed AT&T as the 14th largest company in the world. It is the 20th largest mobile telecom operator in the world with over 100.7 million mobile customers.    Responsibilities  * Configured and Administer Oracle RAC with ASM.  * Created and configured Oracle database on RAC environment and database with Data Guard..  * Tested and certified the critical patch set and new and enhance features of Oracle database  * Installed and configured Grid Control.  * Scripted the backup/recovery policy and procedure for Oracle database.  * Coordinated the Client-to-Setup new environment.  * Refreshed the Test or QA environment with Production data.  * Automated routine tasks through shell scripts.  * Performed and tuned using AWR , OEM Grid and tkprof etc Oracle Databases.  * Delivered production support on a 24x7 basis.  * Conducted backup/recovery through RMAN or Export & Import.  * Using of SQL Navigator and Toad 3rd party software.  * Implemented the database access security through triggers.  * Database upgrade from Oracle 10.2 to Oracle 11.1  * Patching of CPU patches.  * Patching of PSU patches. Database Administrator ZenSar Technologies Ltd - MAHARASHTRA, IN November 2007 to September 2008 The Hitachi group founded in 1910 and has grown into the one of the largest utility industry in the whole world. It currently operates over almost everywhere in the cosmos. The Group has diversified into industrial machinery, power plants, information systems, electronics, materials, financial services and has created a comprehensive infrastructure including its own logistics and distribution division. The application is for Hitachi Used Machinery Construction Company Ltd. Our client deals in trading & purchasing of construction machinery. The task involves working as a only Database Administrator for this project.    Responsibilities:  * Worked as the only DBA for the complete project.  * Designing Database as per the requirement, given by client.  * Creation of Oracle 10g Database through scripts.  * Administration of complete database.  * Continuous monitoring of database.  * Taking backups with certain time intervals.  * Recovery of database after taking backups.  * Tuning of database for high performance.  * Scripting for application.  * Tuning of SQL scripts.  * Exportation & Importation of schemas.  * Make database synchronized for all development centers (India + Japan + Poland).  * Continuous client interaction for gathering updated requirements.  * Attended all the conferences between management & client.  * Implemented dataguard by creating a standby database.  * Created clone of development database as testing database to decrease the number of connections for a single database and for decrease overhead too.  * Synchronized the production database as well as test database.  * Implemented the SQL tune package. Database Administrator ZenSar Technologies Ltd - MAHARASHTRA, IN June 2007 to November 2007 The Bajaj Group founded in 1926 and has grown into the largest two-wheeler automobile industry in India. It currently operates over almost everywhere in Asian continent. In addition to its automobile sector, the Group has also diversified into finance, electrical and electronics and has created a comprehensive infrastructure including its own logistics and distribution division, to support its operations and other businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Implemented automated system for data loading process.  * Implemented automated system for data extraction process in CSV format.  * Development of code as per the business requirements  * Packaging of the developed component to be deployed in production environment.  * Provide production support for the deployed project till it was stabilized  * Analysis of requirements for new project and impact analysis.  * Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents.  * Understanding Customer requirements, Application requirements.  * Loading foxpro data into staging area which was in Oracle.  * Develop scripts as per the business requirements to normalize new system.  * Unit testing and system integration testing of the developed code.  * Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  * Received client appreciations for the projects.    Declaration .  The above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.  Place: Houston, TX Name: Abhishek Mohan Education Masters Of Computer Application in Computer Science Gurukul Kangri Univ. India - Haridwar, Uttarakhand August 2004 to June 2007 Bachelor of Science C.S.J.M University 2004 U.P. Board 1998 Skills Oracle (10+ years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), Mongo (5 years), Linux, HTML Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Oracle Certified Professional MS Certified Technology Specialist - SQL Server Additional Information Skill Set .    OS: HP-UX, Tru 64 Unix, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux 6.X, 7.X, Oracle VM Server, VMware and Windows 2003  Languages: SQL and PL/SQL, T-SQL, UNIX Shell, SED/AWK and Perl Scripts, Powershell, HTML with CSS  Databases (RDBMS): Oracle 9.x, 10.x, 11.x, 12.x. Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008/R2, 2012, 2014  NoSQL: MongoDB 3.4, 3.3 Cassandra 2.x, 3.x  Schedulers: Crontab, AT Scheduler, Oracle Scheduler, OEM, Windows Task Scheduler, Dollar Universe  Clusters: Oracle Clusterware and OCFS. Microsoft SQL Server Clusters  High Availability: Oracle 10g/11i, 12c RAC, Standby Database, Clustering and Data Guard Setup, Automatic Storage Management. SQL Server AlwaysOn  Data Virtualization: Denodo 5.0, 6.0 Cisco Information Server (Composite) 6.2, 7.0  Replication: Quest Shareplex Replication Queue, Oracle Transactional Replication with Golden Gate Replicator, Oracle Streams, SQL Server Replication.  Tools & Utilities: Toad, SQL Navigator, Quest PA (Foglight), Quest Spotlight, Quest Litespeed, DoubleTake