Database Administrator(DBA) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>(DBA) Database Administrator(DBA) Arlington, TX Database administrator creates architecture solutions for clients. Uses Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase database computer systems. Specializes in Oracle and MS SQL Server production database. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator(DBA) Techworld February 2013 to November 2015 • Installation, Administration and Maintenance of SQL server instances  • Design database backup and restoration strategy, setup Test development staging and production environment  • Setup high availability as part of disaster recovery strategy for the database as well as documenting major changes to the SQL Servers  • Troubleshooting various problems that arise in a day-to-day work and fix issues  • Monitoring and performance tuning physical server level, database level, database setting and options as well a query tuning  • Developed recommendations and plans that reduced customer impact and enhanced stability and continuity of business.  • Troubleshoot site-site and remote access.  • Attended change review calls to review mops as well as present mine when I had changes.  • Create users and assign permissions based on the level of database access the user would need  • Create linked Servers to SQL Servers and other database such as Oracle, Access etc.  • Monitored system logs for all devices using various monitoring tools to maximize uptime and reduce customer impact. DBA Migos Tech July 2010 to January 2012 -Limbe    • Responsible for testing and troubleshooting and implementing site to site vpn issues with both internal and external customers which include debugging crypto for IPSec phase 2 and isakmp phase one issues.  • Creation of changes to be implemented on systems and work with the different businesses on agreement of accepted down times to ensure minimal impact of the Network uptime  • Responsible for testing and troubleshooting and implementing Cisco routers including configurations, hardware testing, protocol analysis and testing, backup the configurations, access-lists implementations and modifications, route map configurations and testing. IOS upgrades and downgrades  • Responsible for testing and troubleshooting and implementing switches which include hard ware replacement. Chassis replacements in cases where we have bad slots. Image upgrades on both hybrid and native switches. Spanning tree issues, addressing port security issues, initiating and implementing failover by the use of HSRP.  • Years working with databases and related sql apllications.proficiency in various programs, operating systems, expert at finding and resolving malfunctions using exceptional technical and communication skills to ensure minimization of downtime and optimal computer performance Education High School Diploma National Comprehensive High School Diploma Alison University North Lake College Irving - Irving, TX Skills COMPUTER APPLICATIONS (5 years) Additional Information Relevant Skills:  • Excellent knowledge of Database: Oracle, SQL Server and Sybase.  • Strong knowledge of Operating Systems: Windows 7and LINUX.  • In-depth knowledge of the relational database.  • Wide knowledge of Switches, routers and load balancers.  • Through knowledge of database architecture and program design.  • Sound knowledge of database installation and configuration.