Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA - CaseNet Waltham, MA • Database Administrator 9+years of experience managing SQL Server in development, QA and Production environments.  • Experience managing Production Databases in VIRTUAL and PHYSICAL environments.  • Expert in Upgrading of SQL Server from lower version to higher version.  • Experience in managing ACTIVE/ACTIVE and ACTIVE/PASSIVECluster environment.  • Experience in Setting up AlwaysON availability groups on 2012.  • Experience in implementing Disaster Recovery (DR) and High Availability Solutions (HA) using Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Proficient in Database Administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup &Recovery, Database Security, Database Designing and Query Optimization.  • Experience in implementing Snapshot, Transactional, Merge and Peer-to-Peerreplication.  • Used toolsFog light, Idera for performance monitoring tools and ITSM used for ticketing tools.  • Upgraded and Migrated SQL Server from Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012.  • Expert in performance tuning, using PROFILER, QUERY EXECUTION PLAN and INDEX TUNING.  • Extensive use of SQL Server DMV's for Performance Tuning.  • Created SSIS packages and deployed the packages from development to different environments  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks and planning and scheduling Recovery Procedures.  • Experience in developing and managing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views and Locking.  • Experience in Relational Database management systems (RDMS).  • Experience in Data Warehouse.  • Experience in AWS Management Console, IAM, S3 Bucket, EC2, S3 Glacier, Storage Gateway, Cross Region Replication, Snow Ball (Data Export/Import). Work Experience Sr.SQL Server DBA CaseNet - Waltham, MA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring SQL Server 2008R2, 2012R2 and 2014 on Windows 2008R2 and 2012R2 servers.  • Worked with SQL DBA team andSQL Developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Created user roles, managed security in server and database level, built reports and deployed them to production.  • Provided 24 X 7 dedicated supports to large number of Production, QA, development and clustered servers.  • Hands on experience on T-SQL, DMVs and DBCC commands including system store procedure to monitor and troubleshoot various issues.  • Extensively used SSIS package to import and export data from flat files, Excel and MS Access to MS SQL Server databases.  • Proactively monitor, manage and troubleshoot databases by using third party tool Idera and Foglight.  • Developed the metrics and trending processes for SQL database sizing and growth using native and supporting tools.  • Daily monitoring of two-node active-passive SQL cluster in a host environment.  • Applied service packs and security fixes for all SQL Servers, and provided database administration support.  • Involved in upgrading and migration from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012R2 and from SQL Server 2012R2 to SQL Server 2014/2016.  • Performed the database backups for production, test and development environments.  • Created the backup and restore strategy for the all three environments.  • Worked with the database optimization, Performance tuning and index tuning for optimization of queries.  • Working experience and knowledge on various High Availability SQL Server solutions/technologies, including Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication and AlwaysON AG.  • Experience inconfiguring, monitoring and managing several Replication Topologies.  • Strong knowledge on setting up and troubleshooting Database Mirroring including Auto Failover Database Administrator MDTA - Baltimore, MD February 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008 R2/2012/2014  • Involved in upgrading SQL Server 2008 R2 /2012 instances to SQL Server 2014.  • Involved in database design, database standards and T-SQL code reviews.  • Managed Active/passive SQL Server Clusters.  • Implemented Mirroring and Log Shipping for Disaster recovery.  • Planned and Implemented complete backup strategy for Full, Differential and Log Backups.  • Created extensive SSIS packages, deployed them to various servers and scheduled them for execution  • Configured transactional and Peer-to-Peer replication and managed publications, articles.  • Proactively involved in monitoring database Performance by monitoring Index fragmentation level and updating Statistics.  • Automated most of the DBA Tasks and monitoring stats.  • Responsible for SQL Server Edition upgrades and SQL Server patch management.  • Created Schemas, Logins, Tables, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes, Views, Functions and Stored Procedures.  • Monitored event and server error logs for troubleshooting.  • Supported the business 24/7, maintaining 99.999 uptimes depending on the application and business SLA requirements. Database Administrator Neometrics - Hauppauge, NY April 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured SQL Server 2005 and 2008 R2 in all environments.  • Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2005 test servers to SQL Server 2008.  • Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using SQL Server Maintenance Plan.  • Experienced in configuring log Shipping and Mirroring for SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS  • Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Transferring the data (ETL) to Data warehouse by SQL Server 2008 Integration Services.  • Involved in trouble shooting databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  • Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures and triggers.  • Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  • Involved in capacity planning and monitoring data/log files size, growth and disk space. Database Administrator USDA - Reston, VA May 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked primarily as a PRODUCTION support DBA giving 24/7 Support on SQL 2012/2008 R2.  • Migrated SQL Server from SQL Server 2008R2to 2012.  • Worked extensively on Virtual and VMware Environments.  • Worked on managing SQL Server Environment in High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR).  • Involved in Performance Tuning on Production, QA and Staging servers of the current project.  • Managed Production environment for High Availability in Active/Active and Active/Passive mode.  • Worked on AlwaysOn availability groups and replicas for reporting and backup.  • Installing and Configuring SQL Server 2012 AlwaysOn availability groups for high availability.  • Involved in Monitoring Performance of different production servers.  • Worked extensively with SQL server Profiler, Execution plan and Index Tuning Wizard for performance bottlenecks.  • Created the backup and restore strategy for production and development environment.  • Created Database Maintenance Plan for the Performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Database Statistics, Re-indexing and online Indexes.  • Using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) tool of SQL Server to populate data from various data sources, creating packages for different data loading operations for ETL application.  • Managing schema objects such as tables, views, clusters, indexes, procedures, triggers & maintaining Referential Integrity depending on user requirements and converting them into technical specifications.  • Performing fine Tuning of Database Application. Cleansing and solving Database troubles.  • Experience in Data Warehouse. SQL DBA Unisys - Blue Bell, PA February 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities  • High-level technical resolution for incidents received from phone calls, emails or automated ticketing system during specific shifts  • Evaluate Root Cause analysis, looking for permanent fix, and preventive steps  • Automation View (preferably script ability - PowerShell/shell script)  • Provide client advisory on Database Technology, Architecture and best practices  • Install, patch update and Upgrade MSSQL & ORACLE Databases  • Learn new versions and provide guidance on migrations and new Standards  • Work closely with IT project managers, database programmers and multimedia programmers  • Developing, managing and testing Database backup and recovery plan  • Writing Database documentation, including Data Standards, procedures and definitions  • Troubleshooting Oracle issues  • Perform Database performance tuning and capacity planning  • Expertise in High Availability and Maintainability solutions for Master & Slave Cluster servers  • Lead and/or participate in project activities SQL DBA Speedway LLC - Enon, OH June 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Work closely with project managers, business analysts, business clients and other SQL team  • members to define requirements, design, estimate, code, test, certify, pilot, and roll-out requested changes.  • Provide support to Speedway Departments to troubleshoot and resolve production issues.    • Provide 24 /7on-call support, this responsibility is rotated and shared    • Maintain development test environment    • Work with deployment team to build and test    • software deployment package for certification    • environment and live stores Education Bachelor's Skills Data modeling, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Ssrs, R2, Erwin, Visio, Ms office, Crystal report, Excel, Outlook, Word, Windows 7, Windows server 2003, Reporting/analysis Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012, Windows 7/8/10  Database: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008  Reporting/Analysis Tool: SSRS, Crystal Report  Data Modeling: SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram), ERWin, VISIO  MS Office: Word, Excel, Access, Outlook and Power Point.