Senior Database Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst Senior Database Analyst - General Dynamics Information Technology Wiggins, MS Experience in software systems design, development, and services for international and domestic clients including database development, requirements gathering, and application software design, development, installation, demonstration, and training.    Skills include: Oracle Certified Professional in Oracle Database 11g; Oracle Certified Associate in Oracle Database 10g and Oracle Database 11g; other database training includes courses in PostgreSQL Database Development; Software skills include PL/SQL, C.    Strengths include interpersonal, analytical, and verbal and written communication skills necessary to interface with clients, management, and colleagues for a variety of purposes including technical leadership, requirements gathering, documentation, training, and presentations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology - Bay Saint Louis, MS March 2018 to July 2019 Provide Database Administrative / Support services as a Senior Database Developer for the CTG and OPREP databases in the Naval Oceanographic Office (NAVO) of the Commander, Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command (CNMOC).     Lead daily team Scrum meetings. Senior Database Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology - New Orleans, LA October 2014 to March 2018 Provided Database Administrative / Support services for the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement agency, with emphasis on the Electronic Document Management System and the Service Now help desk. Duties also included documenting system concepts and data flows in preparation for the reconfiguration of database administration responsibilities during the transition of the existing database architecture to Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC). Senior Database Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Bay Saint Louis, MS June 2013 to October 2014 Provided engineering services to the Naval Oceanographic Office (NAVOCEANO) for a wide array of efforts and departments. Engineering services ranged from analysis of bottlenecks during the generation of the customers’ products to optimization of infrastructure for future endeavors by the sponsor. Provided consultation regarding database backup and recovery, monitored database performance, and performed forensics to ensure maximum optimization. Ensured organization standards for Department of Defense (DoD), NAVOCEANO, and industry were applied to new designs. Senior Consultant / Database Administrator Booz / Allen / Hamilton, Inc - Montgomery, AL July 2012 to June 2013 Migrated Development, Test, and Production databases from a PeopleSoft environment to a direct Oracle connection for JAVA-based applications. This migration allowed more flexibility in the customization of application interfaces and source code necessary to meet customer requirements.     Developed Java Graphics User Interfaces for managing and using code list lookup values and descriptions. These code list options were used to replace non-validated text entries as a means of convenience, and to increase data integrity. Database Administrator / Database Designer Trofholz Technologies, Inc - Montgomery, AL November 2011 to June 2012 Restructured database tables and relationships during preparation for migration from PeopleSoft; Developed PL/SQL tool to translate data from the PeopleSoft schema to the restructured schema, and implemented PL/SQL constraints, triggers, and functions for data integrity.    Enhanced batch imports of data provided in Excel files from official sources to track language test scores. Database Administrator (PERS) of Mississippi - Jackson, MS January 2011 to November 2011 Monitored Microsoft SQL Server database and tuned application performance by adding indices to table columns commonly used in queries; Provided SQL query and report commands to assist Software Developers and Subject Matter Experts, and performed weekly and ad-hoc backups of databases. Software Scientist / Database Administrator / Technical Manager Intergraph Corporation - Huntsville, AL December 1984 to November 2010 • Designed and led the conversion of an early hard-coded, FORTRAN-based charting system to a user-customizable, rules-driven system written in C. The C language provided the critical ability to dynamically allocate and free memory used to store the varying amounts of relational data, metadata, and rule sets needed for the chart symbolization process.    ? Re-designed user tables and relations; designed and implemented meta-data tables to store system  rules.  ? Prototyped rules interpretation engine to validate data and create chart graphics and tables from   aeronautical data based on user-defined conditions and parameters.  ? Led development as a Technical Manager of the rules-based system.  ? Interfaced with domestic and international clients or potential clients in order to:  * Gather requirements for new or existing systems and tools.  * Provide technical assistance for responses to Requests for Proposals or Requests for Information.  * Conduct Sales and Marketing demonstrations and discussions.  * Train client users and Software Engineers on rules customization.  • Implemented live, incremental backups and point-in-time recovery using Oracle Recovery Manager and   Oracle Secure Backup.    International Customers Supported    Conducted local and on-site training and consultation in Europe, South America, Canada, Asia, and Australia for application users and software developers including the transfer and training of Intergraph's aeronautical software to Ingegneria Dei Sistemi (IDS) S.p.A. of Italy. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Alabama June 1999 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS May 1985 Skills Database Development (10+ years), Database Administration (5 years), Software Development (10+ years), Customer Service (Requirements Gathering, Training, Consultation) (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CSM: Certified Scrum Master May 2018 to Present Oracle Certified Professional May 2011 Additional Information References available upon request.    In-house training Certificates of Completion available upon request for:  • Development Methodologies  • An Overview of Agile Methodologies, Feb 2015  • Database (Oracle)       - Oracle Database 12c – Administration: Manage the Database Instance, July 13, 2018       -Oracle Database 12c: EM Cloud Control, June 2018           -Oracle Database 12c RAC Administration: Introduction to Oracle RAC,             September 2017       -Managing an Oracle Database 12c Instance, August 2017       -Oracle Database 11g: Installation of Clusterware and RAC, July 2015       -Oracle Database 11g: High Availability in RAC, July 2015       -Oracle Database 11g: Configure, Manage, and Use Services in RAC, July 2015       -Oracle Database 11g: RAC Database and Oracle Clusterware Administration,        July 2015    • Database (PostgreSQL)       -PostgreSQL Database Fundamentals Part #1, June 2018       -PostgreSQL Database Fundamentals Part #2, June 2018    • Programming      -Java SE 8 Fundamentals: Data Manipulation and Inheritance, July 2018      -Java SE 8 Fundamentals: Classes and Objects, July 2018      -Java SE 8 Fundamentals: Introduction to Java, July 2018      -JavaScript Essentials: Getting Started, July 2018      -XML Language Basics, June 2018    • System Administration / VMware      -Red Hat Certified System Administrator: The Command Line, August, 2018     -Red Hat Certified System Administrator: The Environment, August, 2018      -VMware Datacenter Overview, June 2014      -Virtualization with VMware: An Overview, June 2014      -VMware vSphere5 - Part 1: Introduction to Virtualization, May 2014    • Development Methodologies     -An Overview of Agile Methodologies, Feb 2015