Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Groton, CT Work Experience Database Engineer IronArch Technology - McLean, VA January 2019 to Present Responsible for oversight of the design and development of the APPS database system.  Key Contributions:  • Responsible for the construction of record access and retrieval methods.  • Conducting interviews with both end users and developers to capture requirements for future development.  • Responsible for incorporating Afghanistan human resource policies into the construction of the database  • Conduct a security assessment to verify database is adequately hardened off.  • Verify database code is best practices and works as expected. Database Advisor Dyncorp Intl - Fort Worth, TX August 2018 to January 2019 Designed and develop multiple relational databases for the tracking of Afghanistan Army and Police force. Serve as critical technical interface for data management between the US and Afghanistan database systems. Develop the database to mirror Afghanistan force management policy and needs. Advise on best practices for the development and implementation of databases. Monitor data integrity, manage data cleaning/quality control, and perform data validation and integrity checks. Build and manipulate analytic datasets.  Key Contributions:  • Responsible for administering, supporting and assisting in the implementation of new and existing systems, data conversions, deployment and monitoring of the system. This includes maintaining legacy system databases, and developing and assisting in the migration to new systems.  • Responsible for the performance and integrity of the force management database.  • Responsible for incorporating force management policies into the database development and operations.  • Required to create, maintain, and enhance pre-defined and ad hoc queries and reports as directed within the environment.  • Required to create or enhance Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) for Microsoft Access modules of the Force Management Database.  • Provide data used for analysis processes to evaluate performance, risk, and cost trades to identify the optimal solution within resource constraints  • Ensures overall completeness, accuracy, and consistency of data with various error checking methods and validation procedures.  • Ensures users can access data concurrently, in a form that suits their needs.  • Ensures permissions and privileges are controlled.  • Ensures storage and archiving procedures are functioning correctly.  • Ensures data integrity exist within the data. Writes database documentation, to include data standards, procedures, and definitions for the data dictionary (metadata).  • Complies with DOD information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the maintenance and oversight of the database.  • Analyzes and defines customer data requirements and specifications.  • Designs, implements, and maintains multi-user databases.  • As required, migrates data to a newer version of a database management system and/or a new system.  • Troubleshoots and resolves database issues; troubleshoots problems involved in the input, retrieval, or modification of database information and the general operation and maintenance pertinent to any of the organization's data system elements or sub-elements.  • Trains, Advises, and Assists (TAA) Afghan Database Administrators on proper development and maintenance of the force management database.  • Supports force managers by participating in required meetings, working groups, and other events.  • Devises, implements, and manages a backup and recovery strategy. Microsoft SQL Server Data Analyst LEIDOS - Reston, VA 2013 to 2018 Designed and developed a relational database for a large epidemiological healthcare program. Serve as critical technical interface for data management requiring exceptional understanding of installation, configuration, monitoring, maintenance and backup/recover in Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 environment. Monitor data integrity, manage data cleaning/quality control, and perform data validation and integrity checks. Build and manipulate analytic datasets. Author proposals for new studies to procure funding. Highlight potential savings to the Submarine Force from future studies.  Key Contributions:    • Communicate with Personnel Specialist on obtaining and validating personnel data.    • Design reports from military human resource data.    • Create a process to allow for the standardization of weekly and monthly employee performance reports.  • Consistently meet task deadlines while maintaining high quality deliverables.  • Accountable for authoring database procedural and standards documents, providing greater understanding of best practices across program staff.  • Performed Data Profiling, Data Analysis, Data Cleanup, Data Dictionary Design and Development, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Object Modeling.  • Champion adherence to database policies within the program.    • Effectively troubleshoot and resolve database errors, minimizing downtime.    • Successful transformation of unstructured data into structured data.    • Create meaningful Entity Relationship Diagrams to reflect data modeling.    • Clean and transform Department of Defense data in various formats.    • Create effective data dictionaries reflecting current database.    • Mentor and lead active duty personnel on database design, theory and maintenance. Assign work to other analysts and ensure that project deadlines are met.    • Design ETL processes for multiple data sources.    • Author disaster recovery plan.    • Responsible for requirements gathering via surveys and interviews.    • Perform cost-benefit analysis on proposals for new submarine epidemiological studies.    • Provide ROI & cost-benefit analysis on new policies implemented by the Submarine Force.    • Perform SWOT analysis on proposed new policies to the Submarine Force.    • Calculate actual cost of new policies to the Submarine force after implementation. Database Administrator Raytheon Incorporated - Waltham, MA 2007 to 2013 Provided technical leadership in database administration and application development for Navy Submarine on Board Training (SOBT) program. Administered six distinct SQL Server 2008 and MS Access 2010 databases. Developed front-end applications, new relational databases and standardized reports used for business needs analysis.  Key Contributions:  • Create reports highlighting ROI of SOBT Courseware.  • Responsible for assuring SOBT Courseware meets technical navy standards.  • Performed Data Profiling, Data Analysis, Data Cleanup, Data Dictionary Design and Development, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Object Modeling.  • Transformation of project management tools through application development. Database Specialist Martin's Point Health Care - Portland, ME 2004 to 2006 Essential IT professional maintaining business-critical patient satisfaction tracking data and market research for health care and health insurance provider serving the Northeast region. Developed and maintained databased in SQL Server 2000 and MS Access 2003.  Key Contributions:  • Improved report processing automation by creating VBA scripts for use in market research surveys.  • Enhanced performance across marketing campaigns by designing cross reference SQL queries and reporting views on Crystal Reports.  • Responsible for reconfiguring Patient Connection Program, from public relations to an operational function.  • Build and maintain a RDBMS for The Patient Connections program while abiding by HIPAA privacy laws. Maintain security best practices for healthcare management. Education Masters in Information Technology in Database Design Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH September 2019 Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2016 Bachelor of Arts in Economics University of Southern Maine - Portland, ME 2011 Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2008 r2, Sql server 2012, Mysql, Sql, Cognos, Ssrs, Tableau, C++, Php, Visio, Visual basic, R2, Java, Matlab, Client relations, Process flow, Sql Dba, DBA, Perl Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2017 to March 2023 Additional Information Highlights of Expertise:  • Report Preparation  • Database Management  • Strategy &Execution    • Cost-Benefit Analysis  • Innovative IT Initiatives  • Decision Analysis    • Process Flow  • Client Relations  • End-user Training    Technical Proficiencies:  Proficiency:  SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, Microsoft Visio, Tableau, Microsoft Office Suite, COGNOS, Matlab, SSRS, TSQL, Java, C++, Visual Basic, PHP, MYSQL, Microsoft Windows 10, Microsoft Visio