Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Chesterton, IN Work Experience Senior Database Administrator ATT Services - Chicago, IL February 2017 to Present Provide operational database support including installing, patching, and upgrading 100+ Oracle databases versions 11.2.0.4 and 12.1.0.2 on Linux, Solaris, and windows. Also provide limited support of DB2, Postgres, Maria db, and MySQL. Provide administrative support for contracted DBAs including project oversight, labor cost estimates, account provisioning and validation and general project assistance. I currently provide support for government contacted services and therefore must apply quarterly Oracle PSU patches within 20 days of release and participate in database validation after monthly OS patching exercises. Lead Database Administrator ATT Services - Chicago, IL December 2005 to February 2017 Team lead for team of 7 Oracle DBAs providing operational database support including installing, patching, and upgrading 100+ Oracle databases of varying sizes on multiple platforms including windows, Linux, Solaris, HP, and AIX. Environments range from standalone simple databases to Dataguard standbys, Goldengate replication, gateway configurations, and RAC using ASM. Significant accomplishments include support of 600TB, 6 node RAC cluster which included complex and risky upgrade from 11.1 to 11.2. Won internal CIO award for joining a faltering project and getting project back on track and meeting client deadlines. Lead Database Administrator SBC Services - Chicago, IL March 2000 to December 2005 Team lead for team of 11 DBAs supporting Sybase, Oracle, SqlServer and Essbase. Implemented on call rotation, outlined offshore support parameters for front line support, and implemented standard monitoring and scripts. Worked with design teams to provide standard database builds for thousands of databases. Supervisor Project Engineering AMERITECH - Chicago, IL February 1995 to February 2000 Provided general IT support for Ameritech Corporate organization which included top Executives and their support teams and geo-diverse Legal department. Primary responsibility was to maintain all corporate used databases Sybase, Essbase, SqlServer, And Oracle along with general Solaris server support. Major projects during this time was development of an application which was sold to other RBOCs and managing the conversion from Macs to Windows for entire legal department. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Valparaiso University - Valparaiso, IN August 1983 to May 1987 Bachelor's