Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Montana Department of Labor and Industry Helena, MT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Montana Department of Labor and Industry - Helena, MT March 2014 to Present As Database Administrator for the Montana Department of Labor, I review, evaluate, design, implement and maintain databases. These databases incorporate - or are connected to - Tableau-related data warehouses and servers, Microsoft Dynamics, ServiceNow, SharePoint, PowerBI, Oracle ERP and a host of other systems. Recent projects include completion of an inter divisional data warehouse, accompanying SSIS structure, and moving self-hosted systems into Azure. I also identify data sources, construct data decomposition diagrams, provide data flow diagrams and document the processes. I write code for database access, modification, and construction. In addition, I am an experienced Technical Writer and Analyst, and have at times been a Web designer. My Web work can still be seen at the state's travel site. I've authored a couple of books inside and outside the technical arena. Database Administrator Logistic Systems, Inc September 2006 to March 2014 Database design, coding, testing and supporting for multiple server and network environments. Proficient in several database systems, including Oracle, DB2, Access, MS SQL Server, JDBC, Visio, Apache, Java, Visual Studio, XML, Windows and Unix-based systems (complete list on request). Skills include: performance tuning and capacity monitoring, data conversion, systems integration, security, back-up and recovery, HADR design and administration, forms and reports development, web solutions, SQL optimization. Technical Writer Logistic Systems, Inc June 2002 to March 2014 Use of a wide range of tools in creating documentation geared toward both technical and non-technical audiences. Wrote programmer-level API documents for using the API with Java/JSP, web services (W3C SOAP protocol), Windows .NET, Apache Axis, and XML. Wrote installation and configuration guides. Researched program, installation, and database problems. Wrote and edited extensive technical copy. Target media included print and online documentation. Web Designer Montana Dept. of Commerce January 1996 to June 1997 Contract work creating content for the state's Lewis & Clark bicentennial website. Education Bachelor's in Print and Broadcast Journalism University of Montana - Missoula - Missoula, MT August 1993 to May 1997 Skills Tableau (3 years), DBA, Sql Server, DB2, Sql Dba, Ssis, Rman, Technical Writing, XML, API, Writing, HTML, Robohelp, Visio, Framemaker, C++ (2 years), C# (4 years), Javascript (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Tomcat (10+ years), Dita Certifications/Licenses SQL Server Administration August 2018 to Present Oracle Administration and Tuning June 2006 to Present Advance Oracle Performance and Tuning May 2013 to Present Tableau Reporting and Server Administration 101 through 301 October 2018 to Present Additional Information Specialties    Documentation, research, asset protection and threat assessment.  Tableau, Microsoft Dynamics, ServiceNow, Visual Studio, SSRS, SSIS