Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DBA specialized in: Data Analysis, Relational & Dimensional Data Modeling, and Technical Advisement Apex, NC A U.S. Army veteran with 15+ years of experience in the IT and data warehousing and analysis fields as a highly skilled and accomplished database administrator and analyst. A proven record of designing, analyzing, and implementing database systems warehousing critical data, architecting and modeling databases, and consolidating and migrating data to drive continuous improvement and increased efficiencies. Extensive experience in applying agile management principles for project management, including requirements gathering and project planning, and facilitating collaborative efforts to deliver sophisticated solutions within performance metrics and financial targets.    Team Lead   § Led small teams of database administrators and designed and managed systems warehousing mission-critical data serving various projects for IBM and external clients.  § Developed and managed data warehousing systems supporting work with customer, product, and financial data across multiple projects leveraging agile processes and technologies.  § Facilitated communications between disparate development teams ensuring coordinated implementation plans and the recognition of proposed data changes in all applications.  § Led teams of remote DB2 DBAs located in multiple countries providing guidance as a Subject Matter Expert (SME), work direction on upgrades and coordinated implementations, and one-on-one mentoring via telephone, chat, and email.  § Directed three DBAs and managed day-to-day activities for a large data warehousing project to consolidate and integrate 25-30 legacy sources into a master, single point-of-contact customer record.  § Represented the DBAs in department meetings, distill and define issues and requirements, and assigned tasks to team based on skillset and workload.    Data Modeler/ Database Design   § Architected and modeled data warehouses and designed consolidation and development systems for finance and product support purposes.  § Analyzed and implemented the data architecture and modeling of data warehouses using ERWin and Informix Data Architect (IDA) for design, documentation, and versioning.  § Consolidated legacy customer data applications by developing an innovative Customer Management Solution Systems (CMSS) resulting in increased efficiency across multiple divisions.  § Designed, built, and configured an AIX server to host the development and testing of DB2 data warehouses.  § Mentored other DBAs and conducted “Lunch and Learn” sessions leading educational presentations on database concepts for other team members, including programmers, team leads, and testers.  § Engaged stakeholders during requirements gathering and testing to ensure efficient and accurate project completion.    Database Management, Performance, and Problem Resolution   § Diagnosed and resolved issues related to database sources, use, and data transport in response to the demanding and fluctuating needs of the client, including IBM internal departments and external entities.   § Designed data models and supported DB2 zLinux and AIX servers for worldwide product pricing and costing applications providing business value of up to $30M a day.  § Evaluated and implemented database-related products, including Change Data Capture (CDC) for capability, performance, and cost benefits.  § Led data migration projects from AIX to virtualized zLinux environments increasing the performance of supported databases.  § Researched, created, and published disaster recovery plans and processes maximizing up-time of supported systems.  § Supported multiple teams performing activities ranging from SQL creation to Java code review finding code issues and improving application performance.  § Hosted multiple education sessions with global team members covering topics, including database concurrency, performance, and SQL design. Work Experience Database Administrator IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC February 2000 to Present Led various teams of programmers and DBAs to support internal and external projects and operations using cutting-edge development and data management tools.  Database Administrator AIC - Morrisville, NC February 1997 to February 2000 Maintained a network of 50+ database servers distributed across the US to synchronize data using data propagation software and assist other DBAs in DB duties, including problem determination, performance evaluation, and SQL issues resolution. U.S. Army Military Experience U.S. Army - Various August 1988 to August 1992 Served in S. Korea and Ft. Ord, CA. Designed and administered Company and Battalion-level databases for company administration and Battalion school registration and tracking using industry-standard tools and platforms and served as the school’s NCO. Education Professional Development in MS SQL Server 2012 Administration | Tailoring Hybrid Cloud: Designing the Right Mix for Innovation, Efficiency, and Growth | Architecting on Amazon Web Services (Networking and Best Practice, Databases and Application Services, Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Overview, Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Auto Scaling, IAM and Object Storage) | MySQL: Database Concepts, Design, and Installation | Ecosystem for Hadoop | Big Data, Hadoop, and Analytics | Hadoop 101-Big Data University | Handling Relational Data with Cloudant | M202 MongoDB Advanced Deployment and Operations | DB2 10.5 for LUW Advanced Database Administration with DB2 BLU Acceleration | Netezza Workshop Session 1 | Oracle 11g Performance Tuning | Oracle 11g Administration I and II | Kimball University Data Warehouse Workshop Skills DATABASE (10+ years), DB2 (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), ERWin (10+ years), Agile (4 years), zLinux (7 years), Linux (7 years), AIX Administration (10+ years), Data Modeling (10+ years), Data Analysis (10+ years), Sql Dba, DBA, ETL, MYSQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bob-mcmillan-88375048