Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Wells Fargo Work Experience Database Administrator Wells Fargo June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Database migration, monitoring and troubleshooting databases scripts for following environment from Source Machine DEV, SIT, PROD1 and Prod2 to target Machine Oracle 12c RAC EXADATA.  • Junior Java script developer able to build a Web presence from the ground up -- from concept, navigation, layout and programming.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Created reusable, testable, and efficient Python code using best programming structures, flowcharts and algorithms as well as assisted in designing and implementing Python modules to load data from various sources such as MYSQL and Oracle to database.  • Capacity planning, SQL analysis, schema revisions, security administration and user account maintenance. Assist customer in identifying use cases for priority adoption of Amazon Web Services as well as best practices implementations  • Create & articulate compelling value propositions around AWS  • Migrated database server-based EDM Team that meets user requirements.  • Create, modify and test various SQL queries, stored procedures and views for obtaining data from diverse source systems and platforms.  • Modified the database development and production standards for Microsoft enterprise databases.  • Deploy database change scripts provided by EDM Teams.  • Document the logical and physical components of operational databases and their functionality.  • Understand table indexing and query strategies, database objects maintenance and performance issues.  • Analyses database migration problems as assigned and provide solutions to address EDM Team needs.  • Setup Meeting for Database Migration Project. Databases Technical Support Teleperformance January 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Provided day to day productions database (Oracle 9I/10g/11g) operational supports for IBM clients like ATB Financial and Alberta Oil & Gas companies.  • Performed enterprise database (Oracle 11G/ 12c) and applications server (Web Logic 10.3) software installations, configurations, upgrading patches, database management and administrations under various operating systems (Linux, Sun Solaris 5.10/Windows 2005).  • Created user profiles, groups, roles and scripted for easy database administration.  • Approved all productions database designs and schema changes.  • Controlled all migrations (Oracle 10G and 11G and SQL Server 2000 to Oracle 10G/11G) of the database schema objects and ensure the data availabilities.  • Performed daily backup & recovery system (RMAN) and VERITAS.  • Setup databases performance monitoring system tools (OEM 10g Grid Control)  • Monitored database performance tuning and others diagnostic activities.  • Provided On-Call (24/7) technical supports when needed. Database Engineer COMMVAULT System April 2006 to October 2016 Level 3 Support) /UNIX Group  Responsibilities:  • Data management, administration and modeling for SQL Server 2016 Window.  • Document all observations and work performed in a clear and detailed format, with timely status updates / follow-ups to customers and management as required.  • Reproduce /confirm customer issues or product defects, and submit to engineering for immediate or future consideration (as appropriate).  • Articulate and communicate technical concepts and issue solutions to customers in regards to the Installation of Red Hat 7.1 version on Oracle Virtual servers.  • Support customers in the installation of COMM VAULT software for File System IDA for the following systems, Linux, Sun-Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, MAC and Windows Servers.  • Manage the installation of COMM VAULT SOFTWARE Oracle IDA and SAP IDA for the following Oracle database on Linux, Sun-Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, OS-390 & Windows).  • Oracle Database Administration for 12c, 11g and 10g.  • Assist the customer in the setup of Oracle (RAC) Application Clusters databases, backups online and recovery.  • Provided On-Call (24/7) technical supports when needed. Education INTELLIPAAT IT Technical School for AWS June 2018 Certificate of Completion in Sun AVTECH Institute of Technology July 2012 Learning Tree International January 2009 COMMVAULT Technical School December 2008 Certificate of Completion in Database Design and Engineering Borough of Manhattan Community College March 2007 Skills Database administration, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, R2 Additional Information PRIMARY SKILLS:  • Database Administration: MS SQL Server 20017/16,2008R2, Oracle 12c/Oracle 11g.  • OS: Window Server 2012 R2 and 2016, UNIX (Linux, Sun-Solaris, HP-UX, AIX), Oracle Virtual Box.  • Cloud Service: Oracle/AWS.  • Backup and Restore Linux file System.  • Backup and Restore MySQL Database.