Sr. Database Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Database Developer/Engineer Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Engineer Dun & Bradstreet - Austin, TX September 2017 to Present Create, develop and maintain database objects. Develop and maintain data quality, ETL pipelines, and database architecture. Proficient in SQL language, SQL server versions, CTEs, service broker, and stored procedures. Work very closely with backend developers and QA team to create seamless high quality systems. Data Management Analyst III Q2ebanking.com June 2015 to June 2017 Served as data analyst, database developer and product manager of Q2's usage scorecard product which is series of data analysis visualizations providing at-a-glance assessment of KPI performance. This was built using Tableau Desktop versions 9.x and 10, Tableau server, our data warehouse and data marts.    Creator of Q2's self-service reporting initiative which allows company employees from all departments to write reports and create analysis. Built data marts from the data warehouse. Created daily data refreshing auto-extracts. Created a documentation catalog of reporting objects users can choose from. Assessed and assigned object level security. Created a companion SharePoint site to assist self-service reporting users - content includes training links and documents, how-to examples, quick-start guides and a catalog of data mart objects. Created ETL (data migration) scripts to populate the data warehouse and data marts with data from various sources.    Daily operational activities include writing and maintaining SQL queries, stored procedures, SQL jobs and schedules. Conducted data analysis and mining using SQL and Tableau to advise senior management on company performance metrics.    Love working with customers to help them achieve the success. Enjoy helping people find the data they need. Database Developer HomeAway.com December 2012 to January 2015 Daily activities include writing ad-hoc T-SQL queries, DML, DDL, and reporting. Creating and maintaining stored procedures to alter data in support of evolving front-end applications. Also create and maintain SQL Server Jobs. Database Developer HotSchedules.com March 2011 to December 2012 Writing ad-hoc T-SQL queries and CRUD statements and stored procedures to alter data in support of a quickly-evolving front-end application. Database Administrator on contract Comsys/Manpower at Dell August 2010 to February 2011 Created SSIS package, jobs and stored procedures to migrate data and objects from remote databases to target. Analyzed and performed database optimization. Maintain test environments to assist programmers in developing and testing applications. Database Administrator PBS&J April 2009 to August 2010 Created and executed data migration processes and scripts. Created process documentation. Created SSIS ETL packages for several of PBS&J client's projects. Analyze and re-write developer's SQL statements to improve performance. Significant T-SQL experience. Database Administrator CTG at PBS&J November 2008 to April 2009 Participate in data migration of legacy system to upgrade. Using ERStudio, SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2005. Database Administrator Compadre LLC November 2007 to October 2008 Responsible for backup, recovery, maintenance schedules, routine health checks, all scheduled jobs on all production database servers. Responsible for over 700 GB of data on 5 production servers and 2 development servers. Maintain over 25 databases. Also serve as Database Architect; logical and physical database modeling and implementation. Consultant CTG at PBS&J April 2007 to November 2007 Writing complex SQL queries (on AIX platform) against DB2 data warehouse for use by IBM management to evaluate customer satisfaction and product quality. Programmer VI Texas Education Agency September 2003 to April 2007 Data modeling, normalization, design and query tuning. Member of a development team that created the Educator Certification System that is still in use today at TEA. Consists of hundreds of transact-SQL statements in back-end and business layer. Created and managed over 100 stored procedures as well. Wrote ad-hoc reports on an as needed basis. Developed and maintained SBEC Online, a web application that collects and processes Texas public school certification applications, written in ASP/HTML/JavaScript for Sybase and SQL Server to accept and process Texas Teacher Certification applications. Software Engineer NF Consulting 2000 to 2003 Developed SBEC Online, a classic ASP/HTML web application for Sybase and SQL Server to accept and process Texas Teacher Certification applications. Senior Systems Analyst BAE Systems December 1997 to 1999 Education B.B.A in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Texas State University Skills data migration (3 years), Data modeling (3 years), database (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), stored procedures (10+ years), Agile Scrum, Jira, Sql Server, Ssis Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gm0yi31fteyds3rb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills Summary:  Offering 25 years of software product management and data management experience at all stages of the SDLC with a focus on data analysis and data management including:  • Extensive use of SQL - data mining, analysis and report writing using SQL queries and tools (like Tableau Desktop v10 and Tableau Server)  • Database design and data modeling (including normalization)  • Maintaining production databases, daily job maintenance, and query tuning for performance speed  • Writing stored procedures and functions  • Writing complex database queries and transactions (OLTP)  • Experience working at every level of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) including business analysis  • Writing and maintaining Extract-Transform-Load packages and scripts (ETL) for data migration and system integration.  • Experience creating documentation, and other business analysis functions, including:  ? writing use cases  ? writing functional requirements  ? writing technical requirements documents  ? documenting business rules  • Excellent communication and team participation skills  • Experience using 3rd party database maintenance and monitoring tools; Red Gate, DB Artisan/Embarcadero ERWin and ERStudio, SQL Prompt5  • Version control software experience: Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server and Subversion  • Experience with Jira work management and task-ticketing system  • Business analysis