Executive Account, Manager of Database Administrators Executive Account, Manager of <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrators</span> Executive Account, Manager of Database Administrators - IBM Simpsonville, SC Twenty years of extensive IT experience involving strategic management, positive process  transformation, detailed administration, both development and design of Oracle databases and  database objects; In depth experience in the following areas: team management, comprehensive  problem analysis and resolution; thorough project planning and implementation, training and  documenting Database Administrator processes and procedures, assurance of database scalability,  reliability, and 24x7 availability, 24x7 on call production database support, 24x7 on call project  implementation support, performance tuning and capacity management, server setup and  configuration for Oracle databases; both server and client database software installation; instance  creation and maintenance; robust backup and recovery; proactive performance tuning.    DATABASE and OPERATING SYSTEMS:    Database: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Exadata, MS SQL Server 2000 - 2016, MySQL  Oracle Specific: RMAN, Partitioning, EM13 EM12, Golden Gate, Data Guard, GRID, OMS,  Capacity Planner, Data Gatherer, Replication, STATSPack  Software: Oracle SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise Manager v12, Oracle Enterprise Manager v13,  TOAD, Telalert, Veritas Netbackup, Veritas Cluster Server, Veritas Database Edition for  Oracle, Microsoft Office, Timefinder, StarOffice, Veritas Backup Exec for NT  O/S: Mac OS, UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Windows 2000/2003, MSDOS  Hardware: Apple, IBM Compatibles, Sun  Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, UNIX Shell Scripting Work Experience Executive Account, Manager of Database Administrators IBM - Greenville, SC August 2018 to Present Primary task: As part of the Execute Team, my task involves collaborating and building of a team that would effectively support the client Windstream Communications. My responsibilities  include management of both onshore and offshore Database Administration team of 20 members  that provided 24x7 administration and maintenance of production and development enterprise  Oracle Database systems. for our client.  - Serve as Executive Account Lead Manager providing Database and Infrastructure expertise for both production and non-production support of client priority database and infrastructure  projects.  - Led team that designed and implemented standards, policies, and operational procedures for database backup/restore, security, performance tuning, monitoring, maintenance, disaster  recovery, and application support. Provide user training, documentation, troubleshooting, event  & incident management and resolution  - Proven track record in planning and resolution of organizational and business issues  - Ability to deal effectively with a variety of individuals at all organizational levels from Directors, to Vice Presidents, to Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Information Officer  - Owed knowledge transfer off the established the multi stream Golden Gate and Data Guard  database infrastructure to offshore support team members  - Championed the use and implementation of third party software for database supervision to better support the client with more proactive and timely notifications Database Manager Level 1 Windstream Communications - Greenville, SC September 2004 to July 2018 Primary task: Managed the team of 10 Database Administrators that provided administration and maintenance of 50 production and 150 development databases. Manage over 6 terabytes of  production databases and 2 terabytes of non-production databases.  - Led team that established the high availability database infrastructure for a rapidly growing  telecommunications company. Current database environment is comprised of over 60 UNIX, NT, Linux, and HP servers. 8 of the 18 production instances are housed on 3 Sun E4500s  clustered together via Veritas Cluster Server.  - Proven track record in planning and resolution of organizational and business issues  - Ability to deal effectively with a variety of individuals at all organizational levels  - Spearheaded the utilize native tools like index tuning wizard, database tuning advisor, profiler, performance monitor, activity monitor, and event viewer to provide proactive and timely  notifications Senior Oracle Database Administrator NuVox Communications - Greenville, SC April 1999 to September 2004 Primary task: Daily administration and maintenance of 50 production and 150 development  databases. Manage over 6 terabytes of production databases and 2 terabytes of non-production  databases.  - Helped established the current high availability database infrastructure for a rapidly growing  telecommunications company. Current database environment is comprised of over 60 UNIX, NT, Linux, and HP servers. 8 of the 18 production instances are housed on 7 Sun servers  clustered together via Veritas Cluster Server.  - Substantial experience with maintaining and recovering very large 24x7 OLTP and data  warehouse databases. Managed databases ranging in size up to 800Gb.  - Studied implementation of RMAN and used data gathered to transform and enhance the performance of backup and recovery processes.  - Spearheaded weekly testing of backup and recovery strategy via RMAN database cloning and hot backing cloning.  - Assisted in design and implementation of current backup and recovery strategies. Successfully  performed multiple point-in-time recoveries of control files, tablespaces, datafiles, and databases.  - Served as Lead DBA from proposal to full production implementation of several database related  projects.  - Assigned task to team of Database Administrators; ensured assigned tasks were completed not  only accurately and efficiently but also on time.  - Implemented Oracle's Enterprise Manager providing a fully automated 24x7 means to proactively monitor all aspects of the databases and servers. Configured OEM to send e-mail  and alphanumeric pages of event notifications.  - Actively engaged assisting with trouble shooting and solving database related issues experienced  by NuVox partners. Provided aid to developers to fine-tune SQL queries and design of database  objects.  - Transformed knowledge repository by drafting and updating of a full suite of database related  documentation including new policies and procedures  - Conducted detailed sizing and capacity planning for both databases and database servers.  Provided management with capacity projection reports. Database Administrator Fluor Daniel Corporation - Greenville, SC June 1997 to March 1999 - Member of TabWare Database AdministratorTeam.  - Goal: assure quality and reliability of client/server application  - Installation and setup of database and TabWare software at client sites  - Served as database support for TabWare group and clients using TabWare application  - Performed updating, writing, and testing of database triggers and procedures for Oracle database  - Responsible for daily NT Server and multiple database back-ups and data recovery  - Provided secondary DBA support for Microsoft SQL Server and Sybase databases  - Assisted in design and setup of a multi-site and multiple database replication strategies Programmer/Analyst Liberty Life Corporation - Greenville, SC September 1996 to February 1997 - Performed updating, writing, and testing of programs by implementing skills learned during Internship and under grad studies  - Enhanced programming ability by daily use of learned skills and learning IDMS, CICS, and COBOL  - Successfully performed daily tasks on an independent and unsupervised basis    SUPPORTED DATABASE SYSTEMS:  MetaSolv TBS, Remedy (ITSM), ADP, ETime, ETime Sheet, TrackIt, Equity Edge, Clarify E  Front Office, Daleen BillPlex, Knowledge Planet, EHPT BMP, DSET, Eftia Master Scribe Suite, Remedy HelpDesk, Centive, Various in-house systems Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Furman University - Greenville, SC May 1997 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server