Linux System Administrator Linux System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Albuquerque, NM Innovative, resourceful Senior Database Administrator & UNIX/Linux Architect with 1O+ years designing, installing and maintaining enterprise Oracle, DB2, and IDMS databases. Well versed in HP-UX, Solaris and AIX, and Linux systems administration, with proficiency in distributed Web & mainframe environments. Skilled at importing data from multiple sources into Oracle and contributing to migration and disaster recovery projects.  • Dedicated high-achiever, adept at analyzing complex problems and implementing solutions that are cost- effective, easily maintained and "right the first time".  • Exceptional ability to translate, communicate and document complex technical information to end-users at all levels.  • Strong organization, time management, and motivational skills; consistently able to deliver top-quality projects under the tightest deadlines. Work Experience Linux System Administrator State of New Mexico, Children, Youth, and Families - Albuquerque, NM July 2018 to November 2018 • Installation, maintenance and configuration of SLES and RedHat Linux on VMWare based virtual machines.  • Relocated a data center from one geographic location to another  • Managed all disk systems using the NetApp software and hardware  • Proficient with the following Novell utilities - eDirectory, iManager, IPrint  • Administered Windows servers  • Responsible for installation and upgrade of Data Protector backup software  • Knowledgeable of the use of Active Directory  • Competent in the use of the of HP StorageWorks D2D Backup System  • Monitors and troubleshoots issues related to Novel, VMware, and Linux  • Worked extensively with HP hardware Oracle Database Administrator TEKsystems - Albuquerque, NM October 2017 to February 2018 Provide Database Administration support for Central New Mexico Community College  • Assists staff with Oracle Database support  • Worked on project that moved database files from NetApp storage to Tegile storage  • Assists staff with other ancillary software and applications  • Proficient in Oracle Database Administration  • Provides SQL Server and Microsoft Access support  • Monitors and troubleshoots issues revolving around the Oracle infrastructure using the Oracle 12c Grid Control.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2 and Oracle 12c, Linux, VMWare, SQL Server, Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c Oracle Exadata Administrator State of New Mexico Workforce Solutions - Albuquerque, NM February 2016 to September 2017 • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 and 12cR1 systems on an Oracle Exadata Quarter Rack and Eighth Rack platforms  • Proficient in Oracle RAC and ASM technologies  • Provide patching support for the Oracle Exadata platform.  • Conversant with the Oracle 12c Multitenant Database Protocol  • Proficient with Oracle 13c Cloud Control software  • Responsible for patching Linux Oracle Servers  • Proficient with Linux yum and rpm manipulation.  • Monitor and maintain backup and recovery activities utilizing RMAN  • Install, maintain, and monitor the Oracle infrastructure using the Oracle 13c Cloud Control.  • Provide database support to Application Development team  • Backup SQL Server Database Administrator  • Install, configure and maintain disaster recovery system - Data Guard  • Responsible for day-to-day troubleshooting of the database infrastructure  • Makes requested structural changes to the databases  • Troubleshoot day-to-day databases issues  • Provides 0racIe-related Linux support on the Exadata and SimpliVity platforms  • Comfortable with all aspects of Linux and Unix utilities and scripting    Key Accomplishments:  Successfully migrated Oracle from version 11G to 12C for all databases.    Environment: SimpliVity, Exadata Oracle 12c, Linux Red Hat, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c, Toad TEKsystems September 2015 to February 2016 support for the City of Albuquerque Water Authority and the State of New Mexico Unemployment Insurance System  • Assisted with the conversion of the Oracle databases from a physical server platform to an all VMWare Virtual Machine platform.  • Installed and configured Linux on virtual machines  • Responsible for upgrading Linux machines  • Configured and installed the Virtual Machines used by the backend Oracle databases  • Provide patching support for the Oracle platform using the patch utility  • Implement backup and recovery activities utilizing RMAN  • Converted the Oracle Enterprise Manager from theOracle Grid product to the Oracle 13c Cloud Control.  • Responsible for patching Linux Oracle Servers  • Proficient with Linux yum and rpm manipulation.  • Provide database support to Application Development team  • Functioned as the ESRI GIS Database Administrator  • Responsible for day-to-day troubleshooting of the database infrastructure  • Made structural changes to the databases    Environment: Oracle 11gR2, VMWare, Linux R ed Hat, Or a c le Enterprise Manager 13c, Toad American Express Corporation - Phoenix, AZ May 2015 to September 2015 support for the State of New Mexico Unemployment Insurance System  • Install, configure , and maintain Oracle 11gR2 and 12cR systems on an EMC VCE VBlock platform  • Provide patching support for the Oracle platform using the opatch utility  • Implement backup and recovery activities utilizing RMAN  • Monitor Oracle performance using the Oracle 13c Cloud Control.  • Installed Oracle Goldengate product  • Provide database support to Application Development team  • Responsible for day-to-day troubleshooting of the database infrastructure.  • Used Puppet to configure Linux and Oracle environments.  • Made structural changes to the database    Environment: Oracle 1 1gR2, EMC V C E VBlock, Linux Red Hat, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c, Toad Oracle Database Administrator e Solutions October 2013 to May 2015 • Provide Database Administration support for the State of New Mexico Unemployment Insurance System  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 and 12cR1 systems on an Oracle Exadata Quarter Rack and Eighth Rack platforms  • Proficient in Oracle RAC and ASM technologies  • Provide patching support for the Oracle Exadata platform.  • Monitor and maintain backup and recovery activities utilizing RMAN  • Install, maintain, and monitor the Oracle infrastructure using the Oracle 12c Cloud Control. Provide database support to Application Development team  • Backup SOL Server Database Administrator  • Install, configure and maintain disaster recovery system - Data Guard Responsible for day-to-day troubleshooting of the database infrastructure.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2, Oracle Exadata Quarter Rack, Linux Red Hat, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c, Toad Oracle Database Administrator TEKsystems - Colorado Springs, CO August 2013 to October 2013 • Provide Database Administration support for various entities within El Paso County such as the County Assessor's office, Department of Health, Sherriff's department , County Coroner and others  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 system on an Oracle Exadata Quarter Rack platform  • Proficient in Oracle RAC and ASM technologies  • Responsible for maintenance o Linux Oracle servers  • Migrate various Microsoft Access databases to Oracle and MySQL  • Provide patching support for the Oracle Exadata platform.  • Monitor and maintain backup and recovery activities utilizing RMAN  • Install, maintain, and monitor the Oracle infrastructure using the Oracle 12c Grid Control.  • Responsible for day-to-day troubleshooting of the database infrastructure.  • Provides support for the JD Edwards development team    Environment: Oracle 11gR2, Oracle Exadata Quarter Rack, Linux Red Hat, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle MySQL. JD Edwards Application Suite, Toad Oracle Database Administrator Atmospheric and Environmental Research - Lexington, MA April 2012 to May 2013 • Provide Oracle OBA support Air Force Research Laboratory for Satellite launch and operations center.  • Provide day-to-day general Oracle DBA.support for several satellite programs.  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 system  • Configure and maintain a disaster recovery database using Oracle Data Guard utility.  • Extensive development of Perl and Python scripts for Linux, Solaris and Oracle support  • Thorough knowledge of Bash and Bourne shell scripting.  • Maintain Oracle backup and recovery systems.  • Monitors day-to-day health and performance of the Oracle subsystem  • Troubleshoots and corrects any deficiencies in Oracle daily operations.  • Works with developers to create new databases and database structures when requested. Consultant Glacier Technical Solutions LLC - Anchorage, AK February 2012 to April 2012 2-month assignment  • Provide Oracle database technical support for the USDA U.S. Forest Service in Albuquerque, NM.  • Provide Oracle 11g Release 2 RAC and ASM database support on Linux operating systems  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 RAC and ASM systems on Linux  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard  • Install, configure, and administer Oracle supporting products.  • Provide SOL Server 2008 Support for several projects  • Functioned as a backup SOL Server Database Administrator    Environment: Oracle 11gR2, ASM, SOL, PL/SOL, SOL Server 2008, Linux Red Hat, Toad Level II HP-UX System Engineer Hewlett Packard Corporation - Rio Rancho, NM May 2011 to February 2012 Provide Level II HP-UX operating system engineering technical support to Hewlett Packard Customers  • Provide Technical support for Core HP-UX, SD-UX, lgnite-UX, HPVM products.  • Develop and provide fixes for operating system product issues.  • Compose official Hewlett Packard HP-UX technical documentation  • Ability to provide customers with workable solutions in a timely and an extremely professional manner.    Environment: HP-UX operating systems Consultant Gantec Corporation - Schaumburg, IL July 2010 to May 2011 Oracle Database Administrator - 10-month project  • Function as Oracle Database Administrator for the State of New Mexico Department of Workforce Solutions - Unemployment Insurance Tax System.  • Provide Oracle 11g Version 1 & 2 database support on Windows 2008 Server 64bit.  • Provide SOL Server 2008 Support  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR1 and 11gR2 RAC and ASM systems on Windows 2008 R2  • Install, configure, and maintain standby databases using Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard  • Install, and maintain Oracle database instances- Single Instance, RAC. ASM, Clustered File System  • Install, configure, and administer Oracle ancillary products.  • Utilizes RMAN for daily backup and database replication activities  • Proficient with the major Oracle utilities such as Data Pump, Export/Import, and SQL Loader  • Perform clones and refreshes of Oracle database environments.  • Makes structural changes to the Oracle Databases  • Assists with database conversion activities from DB2 legacy systems to Oracle  • Advisement concerning database best practices  • Proficient with ancillary Oracle products such as TOAD for the OBA Suite  • Windows 2008 R2 System Administration for Oracle  • Works effectively in a Tema environment  Key Accomplishments:  Successfully migrated data from the DB2 legacy database to the Oracle production database ahead of schedule and under budget.  Developed all the UNIX and SQL Loader scripts that were used during the migration.    Environment: Oracle RAC 11gR2, ASM, Windows 2008 Server R2, Toad Senior Oracle Database Administrator Comcast Cable Corporation - Englewood, CO December 2008 to May 2010 • Provide Oracle database administration support for the Comcast Neptune Billing System.  • Provide Oracle 1Og and 9i database support  • Install, configure, and maintain Oracle 11gR1 RAC and ASM systems on Red Hat Linux  • Install, configure , and maintain standby databases using Oracle 11gR1 Data Guard  • Install, and maintain Oracle database instances- Single Instance, RAC. ASM. Partitioning  • Install, configure, and administer Oracle RDBMS products  • Developed an entire suite of PL/SQL scripts to support Data Life Cycle activities.  • Perform clones and refreshes of Oracle database environments  • Migrated legacy HP-UX Oracle environments to Red Hat Linux Oracle RAC environments  • Responsible for the application updates, patches and code releases.  • Implement performance management metrics using Oracle SQL and PL/SQL  • Log and Manage Oracle TARs.  • Troubleshoot problems and issues having to do with Oracle Software  • Implement partitioning with very large databases (multiple terabytes)  • Responsible for installing all Oracle software fixes and patches  • Implemented RMAN for database backup, cloning and Data Guard implementation  • Make structural changes to Oracle databases per Configuration Management requests  • Upgrade and clone Oracle databases in various environments  • Responsible for migrating changes within the database environments  • Proficient with ancillary Oracle products such as TOAD for the OBA Suite  • Work closely with customers and developers  • Installs configures and maintains Oracle Data Guard configurations  • Installed, configured, and supported Oracle Data Warehouse Builder.  • Creating and maintaining Oracle-related Unix shell scripts for Linux  • Synchronize data warehouse between database platforms  • Proficient with ancillary Oracle products such as TOAD for the OBA Suite  • Provide Oracle support to the Configurat ion Management Team  • Develop and implement corporate-wide Information Life Cycle Management procedures Senior Oracle Database Administrator EDP Recruiting Services, Inc - Englewood, CO September 2008 to December 2008 • Provide Oracle database administration support for Comcast Cable Corporation Neptune Billing System.  • Support database platform on Oracle/Linux RAC environment  • Install and maintain multiple Oracle database instances  • Troubleshoot problems and issues having to do with Oracle Database Management Software  • Responsible for installing all Oracle software fixes and patches  • Make structural changes to Oracle databases per developer request  • Responsible for migrating changes within the database environments  • Work closely with customers and developers  • Creating and maintaining Oracle-related Unix shell scripts for Linux Consultant ISYS Technologies - Littleton, CO April 2008 to August 2008 Oracle Database Administrator - 3-month assignment  • Primary Database Administrator for the WIPP Waste Management databases  • Wrote PL/SQL procedures that identified security risk factors in the Oracle Environment  • Work with Oracle Manufacturing Application software  • Troubleshoot problems and issues having to do with Oracle Software  • Make structural changes to Oracle databases per developer request  • Work closely with customers and developers  • Worked to seamlessly connect CVS with the Oracle development tools  • Create and maintain Oracle-related Unix shell scripts DBA Knowledge Englewood, CO February 2008 to April 2008 Consultant: Oracle Database Administrator - 3-month assignment  • Contributed as a datacenter move consultant.  • Provide consultation with regard to a data center move onsite for Yellow Pages Inc, Macedonia, Ohio  • Responsible for all data movement  • Install new Oracle RAC databases on Red Hat Linux Education B.A. in English St. Francis University - Loretto, PA May 1974 Skills DB2, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Administrator, Red Hat, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottbing Additional Information Technical Skills    Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2, IDMS •  Platforms: Oracle Exadata, EMC VCE VBlock, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris, Linux, Windows Servers (Multiple versions), IBM Mainframe Operating Systems  Languages: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet Technology, Struts, Faces Apache Server, Tomcat, C#, C++, C, Visual Basic.NET, XML, PERL, Python, REXX, COBOL, Assembly, Android  Tools: Oracle Real Application Cluster Technology (RAC), ASM, Oracle Data Guard, SQL, PUSQL, ESRI  ArcSDE, Oracle Utilities, EMC Symmetrix, Ascential ETL tools, Erwin Modeler, Toad, Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c Grid Control, bash, vim(vi), mailx, iptables, sftp, grep, sed, awk, find