Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator Rosemead, CA • Senior Level Oracle Database Administrator with 18 years' experience  • Senior UNIX/ Linux Systems Administrator with 20 years' experience.  • MySQL and MariaDb.  • Comfortable in multi-platform environments.  • Experience with large projects. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Raytheon September 2015 to December 2018 • Oracle 11, 12 and 18 Setup and Administration  • Oracle RMAN Setup and Administration  • Oracle Enterprise Manager Setup and Administration  • MySQL Setup and Administration  • MariaDB Setup and Administration with Galera Clustering  • Oracle APEX Setup and Administration  • Sybase Administration  • Toad for Oracle, SQL Tuning, AWR, ADDM  • Python and shell scripting for database monitoring  • AWS Cloud Database Support 12C and Enterprise Manager    While working at Raytheon I am involved in projects at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  The projects I work on most are PODAAC, TES/SIPS, MLS and AIRS. It's interesting work and I have learned what it's like in the JPL environment. This was initially a four-month contract while a coworker was on maternity leave and ended up being over three years. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Golden State Water February 2010 to 2014 • MySQL 5.3 Setup and design  • phpMyAdmin  • Sr. Oracle Database Administrator  • Oracle 11g  • Sr. Unix System Administrator  • Oracle RMAN Setup and administration  • Oracle on HPUX 11.32 Itanium, Oracle Linux and Windows 2008 Server  • Oracle CC&B installation and configuration  • Oracle Unbreakable Linux clustering    During my time at Golden State Water I have been part of a JD Edwards Deployment and a Customer Care & Billing system implementation on all new HP Itanium hardware. When starting the machines were in need of patching and reconfiguration. Another large part of my responsibilities were assisting in disaster recovery setup. I learned HP's XP20000 replication between HPUX machines from San Dimas to Las Vegas by assisting in the setup contracted through an onsite consultant. Once that project was completed I then proceeded to replicate a HPUX system on my own as well as using those skills to replicate Oracle on Windows. Database Systems Engineer Verio Inc June 2008 to February 2010 • Mysql 5.2  • phpMyAdmin  • Sr. Database Systems Engineer  • Oracle 10g  • Sybase  • Linux Redhat administration  • Oracle Dataguard  • Oracle RMAN setup and administration    Working at Verio has solidified my knowledge of Linux and introduced me to more database technology. In this position I've been exposed to complete builds of production systems. New exposure to Dothill SAN technology and becoming more familiar with Opensource software is a wonderful experience. Two MySQL projects consisted of redesign and performance tuning of the backend that runs whois.net web site. Another was several installations of MySQL on several machines for Verio's Shared Hosting service. Both projects included automated backups, automated check and repair of any index and or table issues. A conversion from MYISAM to INOODB and security tasks. HeartCenteronline (Ivilliage NBC Universal) July 2001 to January 2008 Database Administration/Systems Administration  • Oracle 9i installation/administration  • Oracle 8i Administration  • HP MC Serviceguard High Availability Configure/Administration  • HPUX Systems Administration    When coming to HeartCenteronline the database system consisted of a system I built about year before while working for Echobridge. When Echobridge went out of business HCO contacted me to administer their systems. I did this on a contractual basis from July 2001 to Sept. 2002 when they offered me a full time position. Since coming on full time I rebuilt the database servers to include Oracle 9i Real Application Clusters and Hewlett Packard MC Serviceguard. Now that the upgrade of the systems is over they wanted me to become a full time Coldfusion developer, and I'm not satisfied with application development. HeartCenteronline (Ivilliage NBC Universal) July 2001 to September 2002 The demise of Echobridge has kept me busy with short-term contracts. These projects included an install of an HPUX L2000 to run Oracle and a VSAM to SQL Server conversion. The install included a memory upgrade, kernel tuning, setup of an HP disk array 7130 and creation of a backup strategy for both the OS and the Oracle database. The conversion project included database design, massaging and import of data, creating backup strategies and user training. Database Administrator/Systems Administrator Echobridge Technologies June 2000 to July 2001 • MySQL design, installation and configuration 3.23  • Oracle 8i and SQL Server database administration for several projects throughout complete life cycle. Including Oracle installs physical and logical database design, backup/recovery and performance tuning.  • HPUX and Solaris Systems Administration including equipment referral, purchase, setup, install, patch install, disaster recovery and delivery to clients.  • Web Server setup for IIS, Netscape and Apache on both NT and UNIX.  • NT Server setup and administration for in house network.  • Use of both ARCServ and custom UNIX scripts for backup and recovery.    At Echobridge I was fully responsible for every Database and all Unix servers for each client throughout the life cycle of each project. Responsibilities included but were not limited to installing software, database design, performance tuning, maintaining patch levels for OS and all applications, backup and recovery and file system maintenance. Capacity planning and disaster recovery were also a large part of my work. Oracle/PeopleSoft Administrator Sunglass Hut International August 1999 to June 2000 • Oracle 8 database administration that consisted of performance tuning trouble shooting, backup/ recovery. Maintaining three distinct 100+ gigabyte environments, production, staging and development. Daily refreshes and migrations.  • PeopleSoft Financials administration. Maintaining a large PeopleSoft environment single-handed is a large order. All DB activities, maintaining the PeopleSoft patch level, migrating code, user security, troubleshooting, talking with PeopleSoft and researching errors that were encountered throughout the day. Process scheduler and Tuxedo application server implementation and maintenance was also a large part of my responsibilities.    While working at Sunglass Hut I was part of a major upgrade that consisted of Oracle, PeopleSoft and the AIX OS. Completing the project on time and under budget despite the complications and unexpected errors was a feat that didn't go unnoticed. UNIX Systems Administrator Glen Raven Mills 1997 to 1999 • Unix systems administration of 13 machines ranging from the low end E series to the high end V series.  • RAID array deployment of MTI fibre channel storage area network devices.  • Veritas Enterprise Netbackup complete setup from install to deployment.  • Netscape Suitspot setup and administration of complete email server for entire corporation.  • Oracle and Informix Database Administration.  • Major role in the design of multi million-dollar data center.    While at Glen Raven I worked closely with the Lead DBA to configure several HP 9000's for use with Oracle and Oracle Applications, this included setting up the disk farm and file systems, installing all required software and thoroughly testing each piece of equipment. I was fully responsible for proper maintenance of every Unix server. I played a major role in setting up and configuring several pieces of hardware. I became very familiar with the ATL tape library system and Veritas Netbackup. At Glen Raven I had the opportunity to learn the internal hardware for E, D and K series HP9000's. I performed complete system board upgrades, adding memory, adding drives and other hardware on the machines that were not on HP service contract Database Programmer/Systems Administrator Softbank Services Group 1993 to 1997 • Informix Database Administration of 75+ mid sized standard engine database that included data loads, schema creation, data mining and manipulation.  • UNIX systems administration of three HP9000 that included monitoring activity, user security, monitoring file systems for hot spots and taking corrective action.  • ASCII and EBCDIC conversions for proper loading into database schemas.  • Windows NT use.  • Pre sales technical support for many products.    At Softbank I worked extensively with the Informix standard engine database. I was in control of order imports for several clients that came in many different formats. I would analyze the existing structure and massage the data to fit to one of the DB models we made. I was responsible for maintaining system integrity, monitoring disk hot spots and moving data files or index files from one file system to another to avoid thrashing. Education Bachelor of Science State University College at Buffalo 1993 Associate of Science State University College at Alfred 1990