Lead Database Specialist - Oracle Database Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist - Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Database Specialist - Oracle Database Administrator - Bureau of Labor Statistics ? Over 12+ years of IT experience as Oracle DBA on a variety of UNIX (Solaris, Linux, IBM-AIX), Windows 2000 platforms. Currently working on Linux, SunOS.  ? 4+ years of Experience in supporting Sybase/My Sql/Sybase databases.  ? Significant experience in Financial, Telecom, Insurance and Statistics applications.  ? Extensive Experience in upgrading oracle databases. (11g to 12c & 10g to 11g)  ? Experience in monitoring database performance using OEM, Splunk & customized shell scripts.  ? Experience in working on Sybase ASE15, Replication Server15  ? Worked on configuring and migrating databases from oracle to Amazon Aurora database using AWS data migration tool.  ? Worked on setting up resdshift database on AWS for testing purposes.  ? Worked on installation and configuration of OEM 12c repository, agents & OEM upgrade (12.1.0.1 to 12.1.0.4)  ? Experience in implementing and managing Oracle 10g/11g/12c features like Real Application Clusters (RAC), Data Guard, Streams and worked extensively in OLTP and OLAP environment under Sun Solaris and Red Hat Linux.  ? Experience in migrating databases from Sybase to oracle  ? Data loading from other databases and text files into Oracle Database using SQL*LOADER.  ? Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle10g/11g/12c RAC using ASM.  ? Good experience in installing, configuring and administrating Data Guard  ? Experienced/Involved in setting up Oracle Golden Gate configuration and troubleshooting GG issues.  ? Migrations Using Golden Gate.  ? Experience with exporting and importing data to and from a database using the exp/imp utility  ? Used EXPDP/IMPDP (Data pump) to take the hot backup using DUPLICATE or full export and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  ? Creating tablespaces and planning the location of data, index and rollback tablespaces redo log files and control files.  ? Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Query/application tuning using optimizer hints, Explain plan, SQL trace.  ? Created table partitions to improve performance and data management.  ? Analyzed tables and indexes for Cost Based Optimization (CBO) to work efficiently.  ? Experienced in designing, developing, scheduling and monitoring UNIX shell scripts to administer all the environments.  ? Extensive use of Crontab in UNIX environment for scheduling routine tasks.  ? Worked with Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Table Partitions, Triggers, SQL queries, PL/SQL Packages.  ? Database backup and recovery. Used hot and cold backups. Involved in development of scripts to automate backup and recovery procedures for development databases.  ? Providing assistance in logical/physical data modeling using ERWin.  ? Experience in database application development using SQL, TOAD.  ? Database backup snapshots using Netapps snapshot technology.  ? Extensively used NetApps Snapshot technology for cloning, backup and restore of a database.  ? Extensively involved in Database Cloning manually as well as using RMAN.  ? Configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c (OEM) and Splunk to monitor database and report on events as defined by the DBA group.  ? Installed and configured oracle agent 12c for database monitoring and incident reporting.  ? Extensive Database Administration - Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c experience that includes creation and management of users and their profiles. Tuning of the database for optimum performance.  ? Documentation of projects, databases, installations.  ? Experience with delivery management and estimation.  ? Clear communication and documentation of technical specifications.  ? Experience in working with high-transacted OLTP systems.  ? Highly motivated, excellent team player, enthusiastic, strong initiative and quick learner of new technologies. Strong interpersonal and communication skills in dealing with customers. Work Experience Lead Database Specialist - Oracle Database Administrator Bureau of Labor Statistics - Washington, DC July 2012 to Present Washington D.C. Jul 2012 to Till Date    The Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor is the principal Federal agency responsible for measuring labor market activity, working conditions, and price changes in the economy. Its mission is to collect, analyze, and disseminate essential economic information to support public and private decision-making. As an independent statistical agency, BLS serves its diverse user communities by providing products and services that are objective, timely, accurate, and relevant.  Role: Lead Database Specialist - Oracle Database Administrator  Contribution:  ? Participated in analyzing the requirements for the logical and physical design of the database.  ? Oracle 11G, 12c installation and configuration.  ? Upgraded oracle databases from 11.2.3 to 12.1.0.1 & 12.1.0.1 to 12.2.0.1  ? Worked on Redshift database on AWS government cloud for research and testing on migrating our databases to the cloud.  ? Experience in working on AWS data migration from oracle to Aurora without any downtime.  ? Performance tuning in terms of sqls, adhoc sqls etc and database tuning by setting up the right parameters as and when required.  ? Database monitoring using Splunk and OEM.  ? Worked on migration of databases from Sybase to Oracle.  ? Installed and Configured RAC on Linux server with 2 nodes using SAN storage  ? Extensive use of CRSCTL and SRVCTL commands for administering RAC databases.  ? Performance Tuning using grid control.  ? Responsible for applying Oracle patches using the OPatch utility.  ? Managing database security. Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  ? Migrated oracle databases using Oracle golden gate feature.  ? Worked on setting up golden gate replication on heterogeneous environments (Solaris/Linux)  ? Created NetApp snapshots for database backups.  ? Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High availability configuration.  ? Responsible for capacity planning, administration of Oracle Active Data Guard.  ? Generated SQL and PL/SQL scripts to create and drop database objects including: tables, views, primary keys, indexes, constraints, packages, sequences, grants and synonyms.  ? Creating crontab entries for various monitoring and maintenance job duties like backups, batch jobs, tablespace monitoring, deadlock alerts etc.  ? Responsible for taking weekly backups of data using exp, imp, expdp and impdp.  ? Aiding developers in writing efficient code and making efficient use of the resources leading to better performance and optimization.  ? Administrator tasks like managing users, roles and permissions.  ? Performance testing on stored procedures, indexes, and triggers.  ? Installation and configuration of OEM grid control 12c/13c repository and Agent  ? Configuring adding targets to OEM grid control 12c.  ? Upgraded OEM 12.1.0.1 to 12.1.0.4  ? Migration of databases from Solaris 10 to RHEL 6.4  ? Scheduled oracle jobs for hot and cold backups using NetApps technology.  ? Automated many Oracle DBA tasks using shell scripts.  ? Worked in creating NetApps volumes for oracle databases.  ? Trouble shooting performance related issues.  ? Configured DFM (Data Fabric Manager) for storage alerts.    Environment: Oracle 11gR2/12c, OEM 12c/13c, PLSQL developer, Reflection, HP-UX, PL/SQL, RMAN, RAC, DataGuard, ASM, Streams, Grid Control, SQL Loader, Shell Scripting. Lead - Oracle Database Administrator Universal American Health Care - Vienna, VA August 2011 to May 2012 Vienna, VA Aug, 2011 to May 2012  Universal American (NYSE: UAM), provides health benefits to people with Medicare and affordable healthcare products and programs, including Medicare Advantage plans and traditional health insurance.    Role: Lead - Oracle Database Administrator  Contribution:  ? Accepting and solving incidents within the SLA  ? Database Refresh of UAT and DEV environments with Production data  ? Importing Backup Database and Restoring the particular table  ? Database Recovery, Tablespace Recovery, Data file Recovery  ? Fine tuning and troubleshooting  ? Administered multi node RAC cluster  ? User Creation and Tablespace Allocation to appropriate users  ? Creating Database links and Snapshots  ? Certified and applied CPU patches on Solaris, UNIX and Red Hat Linux 6.2 platforms in RAC and Non-RAC Environment  ? Responding to alerts received by Patrol agent.  ? EXPDP and IMPDP  ? Database space monitoring  ? Monitoring and Performance tuning of Sybase ASE 15 database  ? ASM administration (Configuring ASM instances, creating diskgroups, Adding disks under disk groups, ASMCMD)  ? RAC failover (node, Tested interconnection, etc), adding and removing nodes from the cluster  ? Experience in Unix Shell Scripting for automating the DBA tasks and schedule Jobs in UNIX environment  ? Performance tuning using AWR, ADDMR and SQL advisor  ? Managed cluster resources, modified resource settings for HA solutions.  ? Monitored RAC working status  ? Maintained RAC configuration changed VIP, relocated services, add/delete/modify objects.  ? Built parallel queries on RAC databases  ? Tracing User Activities through SQL Trace for Performance  ? Code promotion of PL/SQL procedures and scripts to UAT, Dev and Production environments  ? Monitor objects growths (Tablespace, tables, roll back segments)  ? Created tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications  ? Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  ? User administration using Facets front-end  ? Upgraded Databases from 10g to 11g  ? Used BMC patrol for alert management.  ? Used DBArtisan for instance monitoring  ? As a lead DBA, I was responsible for handling a team of 8 members    Environment: Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, OEM, AIX 5.2, Red Hat, Linux6.x, FACETS front end GUI, TOAD I. T. Analyst - Oracle Database Administrator Northern Trust - Chicago, IL April 2010 to July 2011 Chicago, IL Apr, 2010 to July, 2011  Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide.    Role: I. T. Analyst - Oracle Database Administrator  Contribution:  ? User accounts, roles, and privilege administration  ? Database Refresh of UAT and DEV environments with Production data  ? Importing Backup Database and Restoring the particular table  ? Extensively worked on RAC implementations. Planed SAN storage layouts, tuned kennel parameters. Installed CRS Clusterware and DB software, created RAC databases in ASM storages on Red Hat Linux servers for Oracle Portal database  ? Database Recovery, Tablespace Recovery, Data file Recovery  ? Fine tuning and troubleshooting  ? Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g enterprise edition databases on Red Hat Linux 6.2 and UNIX platforms  ? Implemented and maintained RAC, Data guard on RHEL and Solaris  ? User Creation and Tablespace Allocation to appropriate users  ? Tracing User Activities through SQL Trace for Performance  ? Creating Database links and Snapshots  ? Responding to alerts received by Patrol agent  ? EXPDP and IMPDP  ? Installed 10g/11g databases and Clients on RHEL and other win/Unix platform  ? Database space monitoring  ? Monitor objects growths (Tablespace, tables, roll back segments)  ? Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g RAC  ? RAC Troubleshooting  ? ASM administration  ? Implemented dataguard setup and configuration (Active, Physical and Logical)  ? Maintaining schemas and partitioning tables  ? Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using tools such as PL/SQL, Oracle Hints, SQL Trace, Explain plans  ? Experienced with all kinds (Status, Performance, and Trend Analysis) of DB Monitoring  ? Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  ? Created tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications  ? Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required  Environment: Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, Red Hat, Linux, Oracle 11gR2 RAC on Solaris, DBArtisan. Solution Integrator - Oracle Database Administrator Ericsson - Riyadh, SA December 2008 to April 2010 India, Riyadh, Bahrain Dec, 2008 to Apr, 2010  Charging Reporting System (CRS) is a Dataware Housing System which is used as a Charging Report tool for prepaid IN online charging system. CRS collects data from various network sources like SDP, CCN, AIR then filters, correlates, and transforms this information to provide business-critical reports for customer care-, financial-, audit- and IT-departments.    Role: Solution Integrator - Oracle Database Administrator  Contribution:  ? Administered Oracle 10g production environments for telecom databases  ? Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using tools such as PL/SQL, Oracle Hints, SQL Trace, Explain plans  ? Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required  ? Extensively worked on RAC implementations. Planed SAN storage layouts, tuned kennel parameters. Installed CRS Clusterware and DB software, created RAC databases in ASM storages on Red Hat Linux servers for Oracle Portal database  ? Worked with Oracle support to solve multiple RAC issues  ? Created tablespaces, tables, and users for custom applications  ? Volume creation in storage using CAM  ? Bringing the volumes under the veritas  ? Adding the newly created volumes to ASM  ? Maintaining the database  ? Technical support and assistance to all database end-users  ? Check Alert Log errors and make necessary actions to rectify them  ? Monitor objects growths (tablespaces, tables, roll back segments)  ? Monitoring system until it is handed over to the customer  ? Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using tools such as PL/SQL, Oracle Hints, SQL Trace, Explain plans  Environment: Oracle 10g on Solaris v9 & v10, CAM, Sunfire V440, Linux, EMC, Veritas Volume Manager. Oracle Database Administrator Aceliant, Megasoft - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2007 to December 2008 Chennai Feb, 2007 to Dec, 2008  Acceliant is a web based application providing fully integrated, comprehensive, global solution for the co-ordination and management of clinical trial activities. The software is designed to store details of subjects, trials, visits, sites, results or the trials, and other relevant information. It also allows tracking user's activities.The clinical trial solution helps to coordinate and manage clinical trial activities, collect and check clinical data, integrate and archive documents and images.    Role: Oracle Database Administrator  Contribution:  ? Porting of applications schemas and implementing payment manager applications  ? Ensuring 24x7 availability  ? Planning and implementation of Physical/Logical backups using RMAN-Export/Import-Datapump utilities  ? Administered Oracle 11g R2/10g production environments for telecom databases  ? Worked on tools such as TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN and TRACE FILE to tune SQL Queries  ? Upgraded Databases from 9i to 10g  ? Worked on maintaining schemas and partitioning tables  ? Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using tools such as PL/SQL, Oracle Hints, SQL Trace, Explain plans  ? Experienced with all kinds (Status, Performance, and Trend Analysis) of DB Monitoring  ? Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  ? Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required  ? Importing data from flat files into database using SQL loader and External Tables  ? SQL Performance tuning for better performance of the database  Environment: Oracle 10g on Linux, TOAD, Beta system on Sun Solaris Oracle Database Administrator IMEI, GSMA - Megasoft - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2005 to February 2007 Chennai Aug, 2005 to Feb, 2007  The Main Objective of the Project is to control Mobile Thefts. The Project Aims in Maintaining the Color-List status of the IMEI Numbers in IMEI database. The IMEI database consists of IMEI allocation management and IMEI color list management. IMEI Allocation management ensures that the range of available IMEI numbers, which is a finite resource, is carefully managed to ensure optimum use of the available range. The GSMA defines the manner in which IMEIs are allocated and applications are accepted from handset manufacturers. Color list management describes the sharing of information related to IMEI records. The IMEI database is the central repository that contains information on number ranges and attributes of approved mobile equipment (white-list), IMEIs of equipment to be barred service (black-list) . The grey-list is also maintained, indicating IMEIs that should not be denied service, but monitored for they are suspected duplicates.    Role: Oracle Database Administrator  Contributions:  ? Configuring and maintenance of physical Standby database  ? Ensuring 24x7 availability  ? ORACLE installation and evaluation of Hardware of the Database Server  ? User accounts, roles, and privilege administration  ? Starting /Shutdown of the Databases  ? Managed and applied Archive Logs  ? Taking Logical Backup (Export)  ? Importing Backup Database and Restoring the particular table  ? Database Recovery, Tablespace Recovery, Data file Recovery  ? Fine tuning and troubleshooting  ? Restoring database  ? User Creation and Tablespaces Allocation to appropriate users  ? Setting the Rollback segment for the Database  ? Setting Roles, Profiles for the different type of users  ? Tracing User Activities through Sql Trace for Performance  ? Reducing or Increasing a Checkpoint Process  ? Creating Database links and Snapshots  ? SQL*Loader for uploads  ? Write scripts for taking "EXP" tables daily or weekly as per user's    Environment: Oracle 9i/ 10g in Linux ES 2.1, TOAD, BMC Patrol Manager. Education Bachelor of engineering in engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2005 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), DATABASES (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:    Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, My SQL, Sybase, DB2, OMS 12c, 13c, MS-SQL  Oracle and other Database related Tools SQL*Loader, SQL*Net, OEM, TOAD, ER-studio, Data Guard, ASM, Golden Gate, RAC, Oracle Discoverer, OLAP, SQL backtrack, DBArtisan    Operating Systems Sun Solaris, HP-UX, AIX4.3.3, Red Hat Linux 6, and Windows Server 2003/2008  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Scripting Languages Shell scripting  Markup Languages HTML, XML (knowledge)  Reporting Tools MS Project, Ms-Office, Working Knowledge on VERITAS Net backup server, Discovery Link.