Senior Infrastructure Operations Analyst Senior Infrastructure Operations Analyst Talented Data Professional Cockeysville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Infrastructure Operations Analyst T Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD August 2018 to Present Key Accomplishments  • Completed service tickets for a variety of Oracle-related issues  • Move jobs from various legacy schedulers into Autosys  • Monitored database performance and heath with Cloud Control and Foglight  • Provide performance tuning advice for queries including those involving multi terabyte Datawarehouses  • Explore cloud-based replacements for current Oracle deployments Oracle Database Administrator/Linux System Administrator Baltimore County Government - Towson, MD July 2015 to August 2018 Key Accomplishments  • Managed full deployment of Oracle Cloud Control from installation to configuration of monitoring templates and compliance.  • Led project to use Data Guard for Disaster Recovery and to migrate systems off of older hardware onto newer hardware.  • Improved database backups with addition of recovery catalog, improved scripts, and encryption.  • Implemented Oracle Partitioning and Index Key Compression on larger systems for significant performance gains.  • Responsible for deployment and ongoing management of Oracle Database Appliances - setup, patching, creation of VMs.  • Handled day to day Linux administration.  • Spearheaded project to adopt DoD STIGS for all systems and databases.  • Managed several Oracle 12C upgrades.  • Key player in project moving stand alone Access and Foxbase databases into enterprise platforms MS SQL Server and Oracle databases. Create relational database designs and implement in either platform.  • Serve has backup for MS SQL issues including backup failures, clearing transactional logs, and space issues  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties.  • Mentored junior staff.  910 Walnutwood Road Cockeysville, MD 21030 (410) 961-3423 ginacrossdba@gmail.com Oracle Database Administrator Data Systems Analysts, Inc January 2015 to July 2015 in support of US Army PEOC3T  CONTRACT TASK: Oracle Database Administration and establishment of COOP site using Oracle Data Guard    Key Accomplishments  • Installation, configuration, and management of multi-state Data Guard Environment in support of Army Contracting Command (ACC).  • Installation and management of Oracle Middleware/Oracle Forms and Reports (11.1.2.2).  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties. Software Engineer 5 Honeywell Technology Solutions, Inc - Columbia, MD March 2014 to December 2014 CONTRACT TASK: Maintenance and support of Oracle 11g/12c databases, Oracle Advanced Security, Cloud Control Installation, Data Guard Implementation, Oracle HTTP Server, and Linux Administration.    Key Accomplishments:  • Responsible for full installation and configuration of Oracle Cloud Control environment including incident notifications and agent push outs.  • Designed and implemented multi-state Data Guard environment for high availability and disaster recovery.  • Managed application of both database and Red Hat operating system patches.  • Installed Application Express 4.2 and set up listeners using mod_plsql on Oracle HTTP Server 12.  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Telecommunication Systems, Inc - Baltimore, MD December 2011 to March 2014 Project: Baltimore City Police Department - Maintenance and support Oracle 11g RAC database, Linux Administration, Data Integration.    Key Accomplishments:  • Wrote PL/SQL procedures, programs, and reports related to various law enforcement specifications. Examples were procedure that would email out calls for service data for sectors around UMB campus and juvenile offender tracking  • Managed Linux Operating System on 3 Node Oracle RAC Cluster and 2 Node Middleware environment.  • Maintained and support BPD Records Management database containing over 2 terabytes of sensitive data.  • Led data integration projects involving Oracle, Lotus Notes, MS-SQL, and other external systems.  • Served as IT data liaison with external entities including City of Baltimore, State of Maryland, and State's Attorney's Office.  • Oracle Middleware (Oracle Forms and Reports) Support.  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties. Senior Technical Analyst ( Database Administrator) Stanley Black and Decker, Inc - Towson, MD April 2007 to December 2011 Key Accomplishments:  • Served as primary Peoplesoft DBA and led database portions of upgrades related to Peoplesoft Portal and Human Resources. Later supported Oracle E-Business Suite when Stanley took over.  • Worked with Peoplesoft developers in the tuning of queries and creation of indexes.  • Led database portion of upgraded related to SAP Business Warehouse.  • Served as database contact for all issues related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.  • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager monitoring environment.  • Managed more than 40 instances from sandbox to production, performing upgrades/patching, new installations, and cloning of databases.  • Wrote PL/SQL programs to track various performance vectors and perform routine database tasks  • Implemented SAP data dictionary changes including new tables and indexes as well as object updates.  • Led migration of data from remote locations to Towson due to data center consolidations.  • Implemented Oracle Index Key Compression to improve space usage and performance in certain tables.  910 Walnutwood Road Cockeysville, MD 21030 (410) 961-3423 ginacrossdba@gmail.com Database Engineer University of Maryland at Baltimore - Baltimore, MD January 2006 to April 2007 Key Accomplishments:  • Served as primary database administrator for databases behind Peoplesoft Portal, HR, and Financials responsible for patching and upgrades, cloning databases, and implementing production changes.  • Worked with Peoplesoft developers in the tuning of queries and creation of indexes.  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties. Oracle Database Administrator Towson University - Towson, MD April 2001 to January 2006 Key Accomplishments:  • Key player in rollout and implementation of new Peoplesoft HR and Student Solutions environments.  • Responsible for database and application patching and upgrades.  • Maintained production and development databases (space management, user creation, privileges, roles etc.).  • Cloned databases for test and development via RMAN, Data Pump, and manual methods.  • Automated hot backups using a combination of incremental, differential and full RMAN backups.  • Traced and resolved database performance issues.  • Tuned SQL queries and debugged Oracle PL/SQL packages, stored procedures and functions.  • Provided general on-going Oracle database 24x7 support duties. Senior Technical Associate Towson University - Towson, MD April 1999 to April 2001 • Applied various patches and security updates.  • Designed database for Graduate School Admissions Application using Erwin.  • Maintained database (tablespace management, user creation, privileges, roles etc.).  • Automated tape hot backups using a combination of incremental, differential and full RMAN backups.  • Database performance and tuning issues.  • Administered Graduate School's IIS2 web server and Windows NT File Server.  • Developed MS Access database applications with forms and reports.  • Provided general application and hardware support to Graduate School staff. Program Manager Potomac Research International January 1999 to April 1999 Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Loyola College - Baltimore, MD Master of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD Skills DATABASES (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS & CERTIFICATIONS    SQL Databases: Oracle 8/9/10/11/12 (RAC/ASM), MS-SQL, Access, MySQL.  NoSQL Databases: MongoDB, Cassandra, Firebase  ERPs and Other Applications: Peoplesoft, SAP R3 & BW, Oracle Apps (BI), Oracle E-Business Suite, Cognos.  Oracle Applications: Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle HTTP Server, Application Express, Oracle Cloud Control  Oracle Hardware: Oracle Database Appliance x3-2, x5-2  Virtualization: Oracle VM, VmWare  Security: Oracle Advanced Security, Encryption, Wallet, PKI, Oracle Connection Manager, Oracle Secure Backup  High Availability: Real Application Clusters (RAC), Data Guard, IBM HACMP, Advanced Replication.  Networking: SSH Tunneling, IPTables Firewall  Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux, Windows Server, Solaris, AIX.  Programming Languages: PL/SQL, XML, HTML, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Database Tools: Toad, OEM, DBA Studio.  Data Modeling Tools: Erwin.