Oracle Database Administrator for FVE project Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> for FVE project Oracle Database Administrator / Mad Scientist Wilmington, DE Whaine Norman has been an Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) for more than twenty years (including Oracle versions  8,8i, 9i, 10g, 11g to 12c), following eight years of Oracle programming experience (SQL, PL/SQL, Unix and Windows shell scripting,  COBOL). He has supported ERP systems Banner and Lawson, Oracle RAC, ASM, Goldengate, SharePlex in Windows, Unix and  VAX environments. Has held several federal clearances. Oracle 9i Certified Associate. Oracle 11g Certified Professional candidate.  DATABASES & PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES:  Oracle (4,5, 6, 7, 8, 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c), SQL, PL/SQL (27 years total as programmer and DBA)  Oracle DBA (8,8i, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c), Enterprise Manager, SQL Net (20 years)  HP UNIX, AIX, Windows, Toad (16 years)  COBOL, MVS, VM/CMS, JCL, Mark IV (6 years)  Toad, Erwin, SQL Server (7, 2000) (3 years) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator for FVE project CGI Technologies, Incorporated March 2015 to January 2017 CGI Technologies is one of the world's largest independent IT and business process services companies. CGI is now 68,000  professionals providing client consulting services on 5 continents.  After team restructuring, promoted to Subject Matter Expert (SME) in charge of production support of Federal Virtual Environment  (FVE) and Remedy Oracle 11g/12c database systems, secondary DBA for US Courts, SIEM (ArcSight). As DBA helped maintain and develop the FVE Oracle database system on Linux. Upgrade and update existing task related programs. Wrote scripts in Linux and  SQL to better automate existing system. Installed patches and upgrades. Refreshed client databases as requested. Implement Federal  database standards and assist clients during Federal SOX audits. Responded to ITSM tickets and provided Tier III help desk support.  Created automated RMAN DR script. Standardized Oracle Admin profiles. Constantly looking for ways to overcome problems and improve the database system. Install Enterprise Manager 12c on new Federal Cloud Control Server. Help support on US Courts  databases. Worked extensively with Oracle, Remedy, ITSM, Linux, RMAN, Toad, OEM, DBCA, SharePlex, IP Center.  Duties and responsibilities included Install, configure, maintain (upgrade and patch) Oracle database. Create, monitor, optimize  database performance utilizing advanced performance tuning skills. Ensure database availability. Automate recurring or redundant  database tasks. Design and architect solutions which often require complex system integration. Maintain database integrity,  availability, and restorability. Perform capacity planning and project estimation. Provide on-call and Tier 3 technical support for troubleshooting of complex issues. Execute and automate database refreshes. Document database standards, guidelines and best  practices. RMAN database backups. Task scripting, monitoring, and performance evaluation techniques. Evaluate and research new  database features, version and technologies.  • Minimized client customization efforts by standardizing FVE environment and developing universal jobs supporting all 5  federal clients and applying individual business rules and differences in supporting jobs.  • Automated startup / shutdown database processes and created automated server reports, reducing need for professional DBA  intervention and related cost of DBA labor and time during monthly server maintenance and recovery from server crashes. Oracle Database Administrator for US Courts project CGI Technologies, Incorporated April 2008 to March 2015 Hired as DBA and promoted to Primary DBA in charge of production support of US Courts Oracle and Remedy database systems. As  DBA helped maintain and develop the US Courts Oracle 9i/10g/11c database systems on Windows and AIX. Supported JIFMS 11g  RAC databases and GoldenGate replication on RedHat. Wrote scripts in Windows UNIX and SQL to better automate existing system.  Converted client databases from Windows to AIX. Installed patches and upgrades. Interim team leader. Recovered databases during  DR exercises. Updated Oracle 11g requirements documentation. Refreshed client databases as requested. Responded to Remedy  tickets and provided Tier III help desk support. Created automated RMAN DR scripts. Extensive experience with Oracle, Windows,  AIX, Linux, RMAN, Toad, OEM, DBCA, Remedy, GoldenGate replication.  Installed Oracle and created databases for JPM project on AIX. Created databases on Remedy test server and migrated data. Supported  CGI internal and training databases.  WHAINE NORMAN  • Designed and implemented job system nicknamed "just set it and forget it", automating database refreshes from production  databases to test systems, decreasing DBA refresh workload 80%, minimizing client job submission errors, and increasing  overall refresh accuracy to 99.5%.  • Developed and implemented system automating database recovery (DR) using RMAN in creating custom database scripts,  reducing database recovery time ½ and eliminating human recovery errors.  • Created simplified Oracle user account and password maintenance system using Windows scripting, implemented and used by  Tier 1 operations team, reducing number of late P2 password reset requests. Oracle Database Administrator Communications Test Design Incorporated October 2006 to January 2007 Communications Test Design, Inc. (CTDI) has provided hardware and maintenance service solutions to the telecommunications  industry since 1975.  Supported production 10g databases and development efforts. Migrated Unix and Windows databases from Oracle 817 to 10g across servers. Planned tablespace layouts. Applied upgrades and patches to 10g databases. Cloned databases. Configured backups, Oracle  Net and ODBC. Database troubleshooting. SQL Tuning. Learned Ingres to support legacy systems.. Oracle Database Administrator Commerce Bank July 2004 to October 2006 Led installation, configuration, maintenance, tuning, backup / recovery, upgrades, applicable patches, created Unix scripts,  growth and performance monitoring, trend analysis, security and user management of databases on HP-UX and IBM AIX operating  system platforms and SQL Server. Supported Lawson, Sagitta (IBM Universe Pick DB). Contractor / Oracle DBA Tek Systems / US Navy August 2000 to January 2004 Performed contractor work at Naval Ship Systems Engineering Station (NAVSSES). Built and maintained MELS system, web- based data mart designed to allow ship engineers to view smart ship data from anywhere, globally. Designed database utilizing  partitioned tables and transportable tablespaces. Used SQL Loader for ETL and data migration. Created DB security plans in compliance with naval specifications and SOX.  • Archived MELS ship data, reclaiming 40% of disk space used in production and 55% in test.  • Rewrote PL / SQL, cutting runtime 75%.  • Recovered 42% of index space by rebuilding indexes.    SCT (now Sungard), Malvern, PA  Oracle Database Administrator / Banner Alumni Technical Consultant  EXE Technologies, Eddystone, PA  Oracle Database Manager / Administrator  Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA  Oracle Database Administrator Education Bachelor of Arts in Applied Computer Studies Penn State University - University Park, PA Bachelor's in Liberal Arts Central High School of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA Certificate in Python Edx online (MITx) - Internet Skills Oracle Dba, DBA, ETL Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Oracle 9i OCA. Upgrading to 11g OCP. Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfzafejywt-0a74z Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.