SQL Architect/DBA DMS engineer SQL Architect/DBA DMS engineer SQL Architect/DBA DMS engineer Mundelein, IL Many years of experience in database/software analysis, development and design. Extensive experience in database administration, design, normalization, and optimization. Diverse background in all phases of the system development life cycle including analysis, system design, documentation and testing. Work Experience SQL Architect/DBA DMS engineer Martin & Bell, LLP - Chicago, IL May 2016 to May 2016 First ever DBA and DMS resource for the organization.  • Architecting, engineering and implementing iManage 10.2 fully HA/DR solutions for 3 data centers using AlwaysOn and latest SQL version. Prepared documentation to standardizing all processes and data flow for SQL and DMS.  • Fully responsible for a SQL and DMS back-end environments, assisting level one support handling end users requests.  • Installation, configuration, management and administration Prosperoware Milan products like Workspace Management and Matter Hub bundles, Service Desk.  • As DMS engineer administer, monitor, configuring, integrating, and maintain the Firm's enterprise application systems such IDOL, Communication and Mobile servers.  • Provide ongoing system maintenance support to resolve system's bugs and address general end-user requests.  • Research, identify and recommend enhancements to existing systems.  • Defined and applied best practice for: data & database architecture, administration, monitoring, architecture, design, scalability, resources reallocation and planning.  • Demonstrates and further develops knowledge and experience in department standard software integration methodologies and software tools to better facilitate application design, integration, and implementation of software that meet Firm requirements. Database administrator Grainger - Lake Forest, IL October 2012 to May 2016 Level 3  • Provide 24x7 supports to business community, leading firm and oversea DBA teams.  • Support 250+ SQL servers SQL 2005 thru 2014, sizing more 20TB, Oracle databases daily operations sizing more 600 TB including monitoring, archiving, development, optimization, replications, backup and restoration.  • Responsible for the management, execution and completion of data related projects.  • Define strategy of database server's consolidation and integration.  • Administration of SAP Data services and Business Object with Oracle Exadata and Hana on the back end.  • Provided technical database direction on data design, query tuning, replication configuration and support, training of database utilities, and software products to software development, business users, and support staff.  • Maintaining multiple databases for use by Grainger web-based and reporting applications for financial and marketing departments.  • Assisting development groups in design database, write stored procedures, creating SSIS and SSRS packages, views, interpret execution plans, tune queries based on results.  • Actively participating as permanent DBA member in weekly standup meetings with different business units and technical architecture group.  • Reviewed database objects and code with developers to provide efficiency, improve performance of stored procedures, indexes, optimization and to adhere to company standards.  • Gathering business requirements, developing logical data models, database normalization to minimize data redundancy, creating physical database, assessed implementation alternatives and formulated overall design approaches. Sr. SQL Server DBA Seyfarth Shaw LLP - Chicago, IL April 2006 to October 2012 • Responsible for a company day-to-day operation of more 2000/4TB + databases including monitoring, archiving, development, optimization, replications, backup and restoration. Enhancing systems availability.  • Conducting upsizing, installations, upgrades, migration SQL 2000/5/8 servers including clusters and VM's. Creating capacity planning forecasts, establishing and maintaining custom-tailored backup/restore procedures, disaster recovery plans, and rollback plans.  • Confers with appropriate managers, vendor's customer support regarding problems, upgrades, and capabilities of databases and company applications such as SharePoint, DMS, LegalKey, CarpeDiem, Interaction, Elite, CompuLaw, Litigation, and RingTail. Database Administrator CoAMS, Inc - Chicago, IL March 2005 to April 2006 • Re -architect and implemented database security, backup, and disaster recovery strategies for the company's database environments. Created new process for deploying SQL Server components to improve controllability, efficiency and accuracy.  • Primary database responsibilities are as follow: Data Import/Export Plan management and execution; Database and Database System Performance-tuning, monitoring, capacity planning, and optimization; Database Indexing Strategy planning and implementation; DTS Packages; Database Server and Operating System audits.  • Built new SQL boxes including clusters, upgraded from SQL 7.0 to SQL 2000, Service Packs, and security patches. Providing recommendations and implements database software and hardware configuration, requisitions. Database Administrator Consultant Beckett & Associates - Bedford Park, IL July 2004 to February 2005 • Implemented backup and recovery procedures. Created maintenance plans for all production servers.  • Detected, monitored, diagnosed, and fixed problems of SQL servers in clustered environment.  • Used and modified SQL metadata views to create data dictionary for all production servers.  • Monitored system/ database performance, executed testing, and implementation of major systems.  • Modified, and created tables, indexes, stored procedures, scripts, and triggers using T-SQL. Database Administrator CCH - Chicago, IL July 2001 to June 2004 • Responsible for the maintenance - DBCC, SQL Server agent, SQL mail, and integrity of the SQL database.  • Proactive and real-time performance monitoring - Windows NT Performance monitor, SQL Profiler.  • New applications database implementations - set up application test environments, including RDBMS server configuration, client workstation and connectivity configurations, database installation, configurations.  • Assisted in developing stored procedures, set up jobs, DTS packages.  • Maintained the SQL software by: installing and testing new releases, applying and testing maintenance fixes.  • Provided documentation, recommend, and implement database software and hardware configuration. Web Developer Art.com - Chicago, IL June 1999 to June 2001 Created, modified stored procedures to increase performance of the application. Alone designed, developed, and implemented Returned Merchandise Authorization (RMA) for intranet and American Royal Art systems including SQL database. Enhanced and maintained the intranet's reporting applications. Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained company's sites written in four-tier application model. Activities included design of the databases, business objects, and web pages using ASP, VBScript, Visual Basic 6.0, DHTML, HTML, XML, COM/DCOM, JavaScript, and MTS. The system uses a SQL 7.0 database and an MS Internet Information Server 4/5.0. As well worked on transferring entire Intranet to new designed Intranet which using COM/DCOM's, modifying all pages for new business objects, and database design. Hold various positions as mainframe consultant Motorola August 1994 to June 1999 To develop and maintain applications used COBOL, CICS, JCL, QMF, EasytrievePlus, Clist, Panvalet, Endevor, Startools, Intertest, Smarttest, Expediter, ChangeMan, and FileAid. On the back-end used relational database as DB2, IMS DB/DC and hierarchical as VSAM. Education B.S in Industrial and Civil Construction Engineers Moscow Institute of Civil and Structural Engineers May 1990 Skills Informix, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Html, Visual basic, Xml, Asp, Dhtml, Java Additional Information Technical Proficiency  Databases: MS SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008/2005/2000/7/6.5, Oracle 12C, Informix, MS Access. Platforms: Windows 2019/2016/2012/2008/2003/2000/XP/NT/98/95/MS DOS. Languages: ASP, Visual Basic, VB/Java/Windows scripts, XML, DHTML/HTML