DATA ANALYST DATA ANALYST DATA ANALYST - Wells Fargo Beltsville, MD Over 6+ years of experience in IT industry in different business Segments like nonprofit, manufacturing and business. I have a very good foundation of RDBMS concepts and have been involved in development and design of Databases, data analysis and reporting. I have Extensive knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experienced in Database Administration, Data Analysis, Data Extraction, Data manipulation, Report Creation, and Importing & Exporting Data in different formats and from various sources.  • Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of client data.  • Experienced in Data Analysis, Data Extraction, Research, Reporting  • Good experience in reviewing and understanding business requirements and Analyzing and reporting.  • Experience in MySQL, SQL server and Oracle and database tools like TOAD, SQL Server Management Studio.  • Generated weekly, monthly, and quarterly reports necessary in maintaining a good and balanced financial statement.  • Clear knowledge and understanding of financial terms, costing methods and concepts  • Perform analysis of the given data and draw accurate inferences, in accord with the objectives of the analysis  • Gather data required to conduct analysis from several sources, compile it together in prescribed format and enter the data in several data analysis software  • Excellent understanding of complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Good Knowledge of data validation using Excel like VLOOKUPs and PIVOT tables.  • Able to meet deadlines while also presenting accurate work  • Excellent understanding of software methodologies like Waterfall and Agile Scrum.  • Very good experience in Analysis on Web based applications and ETL  • Excellent Analytical, Decision-Making and Organizational Skills coupled with good co-ordination, communication and interpersonal skills, good Team Player  • Detail-oriented, responsible, enthusiastic and highly flexible to changing priorities Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DATA ANALYST Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to Present Wells Fargo is an American international banking and financial services holding company. It is the world's second-largest bank by market capitalization and the third largest bank in the U.S.  As a Data Analyst I am assisting in reconciling two applications- project using a combination of Automation and Physical methods across the Data Centers.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used SQL for accessing and manipulating database systems  • Extracted data from various sources and imported into data warehouse  • Profiled source data and pinpointed data discrepancies  • Performed quantitative analysis for financial data and financial statements  • Involved in writing several SQL queries and procedures to provide multiple database services  • Performed data cleansing, data mapping, and data profiling using SSIS  • Performed ETL process using SSIS package  • Developed reports on SSRS and created multiple types of reports such as parameterized, conditional, table and matrix. DATABASE SPECIALIST TeleworX LLC - Reston, VA January 2017 to September 2017 TeleworX is a leading provider of engineering consulting services and innovative software to the global telecom community. Providing service; design, analyze, and evaluate the network from complex network design to cutting edge handset applications - and build the solutions that make the clients' vision come to life.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed DB with Tables, Views, Triggers and stored procedures for marketing department, with scripts in Unix Shell.  • Created Daily batch feeds to ingest Data from various Data Sources for Marketing Dashboard.  • Cleaned, created, massaged & integrated (ETL) Analytics data from Emails.  • Created Reports for Marketing and Finance in Tableau based on the all the Analytics Data from Multiple Sources of Data.  • Performed Business Area Analysis and logical and physical data modeling for Data Warehouse / Data Mart applications as well as Operational applications enhancements and new development.  • Dealt with data models and defined the model in accordance with telecom industry.  • Completed contract builds according to client-approved SLAs using ETL, Excel, and SQL.  • Analyzed invoice data against carrier contracts to alert of any discrepancies.  • As sole Contract Data Analyst on major projects, managed logistics of Contracts tasks to ensure compliance with overall project management plan.  • Worked with Quality Control to ensure quality standards were met. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Partners In The Horn Of Africa - Addis Ababa, ET September 2008 to November 2016 Ethiopia    • Assessed partners needs and goals through communication and system evaluations to modify existing databases for personalized customization  • Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes  • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect important company data  • Partnered with project management teams on development of scope and timeline  • Developed data models and database designs to plan projects  • Spearheaded development and implementation of business intelligence architecture to deliver end-to-end BI solutions  • Specified user access levels for each database segment to protect database integrity and company information  • Effectively controlled the release of proprietary and confidential information for general client lists  • Wrote scopes, requirements  • Monitored multiple databases to keep track of all company inventory  • Protected company reputation and built loyal client base by working relentlessly to resolve problems and improve customer satisfaction  • Created communication strategies to meet organization's objectives  • Developed exceptional attendance record with special attention to punctuality and preparation to work upon arrival  • Completed all company insurance renewals including property, Workers' Compensation, general liability, cargo, and aviation  • Wrote agendas and notes and sent out automatic notifications for upcoming meetings  • Provided onsite training Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Unity University - Addis Ababa, ET 2008 Skills Data conversion, Database administration, Database, Microsoft access, Sql, Data mining, Ssrs, Data warehousing, Life cycle, Software development life cycle, Sdlc, Data quality, Usability, Usability testing, Systems management, Database management Additional Information Skills  • Database administration  • Data conversion and migration  • Information systems management  • Microsoft SQL  • Writing queries  • Data testing  • Data warehousing  • Usability testing  • Data mining    • Data quality  • Transact SQL  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Database management  • Microsoft Access  • Structured query language (SQL)  • SSIS  • SSRS