State Representative State Representative Bethel, CT Work Experience State Representative State of Connecticut - Hartford, CT January 2017 to January 2019 Propose and Introduce new legislation  • Draft legislation in response and to reflect district needs.   • Supervise and direct office and Staff  • Prepare and proofread correspondence  • Approve public and media relations Manager/Owner Bethel Mail Service - Bethel, CT December 2006 to December 2016 • Over saw the day to day operation of the store. Coordinated the purchase and restocking of supplies and products.   • Negotiated with vendors and suppliers on pricing, quantity and quality of supplies and services.  • Trained all new employees on Shipping protocals for USPS, DHL, Federal Express and UPS  • Created work schedule for store employees.  • Tracked and stored all business related documents to assist in End of Quarter, and End of Year financial preparations which included tax preparation.  • Ensured that customer expectations were being met by myself and store staff.  • Other reasonably related duties as needed Database Administrator Computer Task Group (Consultant at IBM) - Poughkeepsie, NY January 2003 to December 2006 • Using DB2, Tivoli Service Desk, PC Anywhere, Citrix, AIX Microsoft Windows 2000 and F-Secure SSH Client to Install, configure and support eESM database tools for Problem and Change Management.  • Perform Changes to the eESM database tools and database as required. Maintain data in the database as provided by the customer.  • Assist in resolution of Hardware/Software issues for TSD infrastructure and database issues.  • Adhere to department process, procedures and work instructions.  • Other reasonably related duties as assigned Education Bachelor's in Political Science Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT September 2000 to May 2017 Skills Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, DB2, IBM DB2 Certified Database Administrator, Microsoft Certified Professional (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses IBM DB2 Data Base Administrator Present IBM DB2 Data Base Administrator Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) A+ Certified Present A+ Certified