Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Flint, MI Over 4+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management and database security.  • Having hands on experience in administration of Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i and RAC databases.  • Worked as a team member to provide 24x7 on-call production database support.  • Experience working as Oracle DBA in Linux, HP-Ux, Solaris, AIX and Windows environments.  • Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases.  • experience in DataGuard Configuration, Implementing and maintaining Standby Databases, Active Data guard and Snapshot Standby.  • Configured Data guard broker between the primary and standby databases, perform Switchover/Failover and monitor the data guard status via DGMGRL and GUI.  • Having good knowledge about Physical and Logical structure of a database.  • Maintained catalog server and involved in registering the databases in catalog server.  • Hands on experience in Grid Control 10g & 11g and installed 12c for database monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics  • Experienced in Clusterware (Grid Infrastructure)-CRS management and configuration.  • Extensively experienced in Oracle Database monitoring and Tuning using Grid control/Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) monitoring.  • Experienced in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICAT.  • Expertise in replication technologies including GoldenGate, Streams, and Materialized Views.  • Used Data masking to protect private and confidential data by replacing sensitive information with dummy data Experience in Performance Tuning.  • Performed Flashback features to handle efficient database recovery and implementing restore points for testing.  • Experience in backup and cloning using RMAN procedures.  • Designed and implemented Database Backup and Recovery strategies using RMAN, OEM.  • Experienced in fixing the Performance issues in Data guard/RAC.  • Experience in Data Migrations using oracle Export/Import, Data Pump, RMAN, SQL*Loader.  • Experienced in Unix Shell scripts for backups, export and import of database.  • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle instances using Oracle Enterprise Manager, ADDM, monitor users, table spaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.  • Resolved shared memory allocations, long transactions, locking issues and deadlocks.  • Good at monitoring server performance, database transaction log growth and error logs.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using security compliance auditing, expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*Loader.  • Expertise in Performing Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, Statspack, SQL*Trace, Tkprof.  • Experienced with hardware sizing and capacity planning.  • Having good knowledge of NoSQL databases especially MongoDB.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like AWR, and ADDM.  • Expertise at Tuning Database Server at Hardware level, OS Level and Oracle Database Level. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle DBA IMIMobile - IN April 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Database Installation and embedding oracle base software into the product on multiple platforms.  • Supported Oracle 11g, 10g and Oracle 9i Databases of Production, Testing, Staging, Dev and Training environments.  • Provide backup/recovery, problem diagnosis, performance tuning, data reorganization, and database upgrade support for over 40 Oracle databases.  • Performing day-to-day activities such as creating users/roles/schemas/tables/views/indexes and running the scripts given by the clients.  • Installed database on Oracle 12c on Linux platform.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g RDBMS Software.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g Physical standby database in Data guard.  • Configured Oracle Grid Control for monitoring databases.  • Upgraded Oracle 10g databases to Oracle 11g.  • Setup of Jobs (startup/shutdown/export data pump) using the Oracle Grid.  • Data Migration as part of enterprise data warehouse project.  • Applied necessary security patches for databases.  • Successfully migrated databases from running oracle 9i to oracle 11g and non-ASM instance to ASM instance.  • Worked on import/export, export data pump/import data pump and SQL Loader.  • Setup of the cold backup of test/development databases through RMAN for weekly maintenance.  • Worked with different types of storages i.e. SAN/NAS.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g RAC database on Linux.  • Installing and Configuring RMAN and Flash Recovery.  • Cloning databases using RMAN as well as scripts.  • Involved in migration of 9i RAC databases to 11g RAC databases.  • Created the users and assigned the appropriate roles and grants.  • Created Indexes-Bitmap/Join Indexes, Function-Based Indexes etc as per the given structures, operations, data in the tables for increased performance.  • Support of database with features like partitioning with PL/SQL calls to collect stats, Index maintenance.  • Using EXPLAIN plan utility to analyze the cost involved in query processing and tune it for faster retrieval.  • Worked on performance tuning of SQL and Procedures and packages.  • Created Cron jobs in production to automate production tasks.    Environment: Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, Linux, Sun Solaris 9, IBM AIX, DataGuard, Tkprof, OEM, NET8, HP-Ux, Red Hat Linux, UNIX Scripting, PL/SQL, Apex. Database Administrator Serco Group - IN May 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Planning, Installation and Configuration of Oracle Database on the Server.  • Installed Oracle 10g R2 databases on HP-Ux and Linux platforms.  • Worked in In-house Data Center and managing enterprise servers which includes HP Itanium, HP Blade, IBM Power, HP Data Protector Robotic, HP EVA Storage contains Prod, Stage, Test, Dev databases.  • Worked on oracle patches using OPatch utility.  • Coordinating Backup and Recovery operations over all databases, ensuring 100% recoverability.  • Installed MySQL database for PAS application.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery jobs  • Create & Manage Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges. Created multiple Raid levels using volume manager.  • Performing Daily, Weekly and Monthly Oracle monitoring and maintenance tasks.  • Wrote Stored Procedures for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database.  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client -Server environment using TNS, LISTNER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Creation of Table space, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them.  • Involved in supporting centrally maintained oracle RDBMS server.  • Creation of Users and Granting them privileges and roles.  • Used extensive Sub Queries, PL/SQL procedure, DDL functions, database triggers and packages.  • Designed logically and configured oracle RDBMS on UNIX for better management of databases.  • Responsible for writing database programming to Store/Retrieve the information from the database using SQL.  • Responsible for physical and logical backups of database.  • Performed Database Tuning. Performed Database Security and Integrity.  • Monitoring the data loading jobs.  Environment: Oracle 10g, 9i, 10g iAS, MySQL, MS SQL Server, HP-Ux 11.x, HP Data Protector, EVA, Red Hat Linux, SQL*PLUS, Export/Import. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU January 2015 to January 2016 Masters University of Michgan Skills Database (4 years), Databases (4 years), HP-Ux (4 years), Linux (4 years), Loader. (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 9.0/10.0, AIX 5.x, 6.x Red Hat Linux 4.x, 5.x, OEL 5.x, 6.x, and Windows 2003/2008  Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, MySql  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, UNIX Shell Scripting  DB Management OEM, Grid Control.  Tools/Utilities  RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, Oracle Developer, Export/Import, ETL tools, Data pump, Query builder, Net Backup, VB, MS Access, Oracle Streams, GoldenGate.    Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR.  Database Modeling Toad.