IT Specialist IT Specialist Actively seeking AWS Cloud Engineer position Vienna, VA I’m an experienced data and business professional actively seeking a new opportunity in AWS Cloud Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist Metropolitan Washington Airport Authority - Washington, DC November 2018 to Present Detailed to Chief Information Security Officer November 2018 - Present  IT Security:  • Worked with MWAA Cyber Security Team to conduct Security Assessment of the IT systems distributed across airports, Reagan National and Dulles. Created the Scorecards and conducted follow-up meetings with stakeholders to analyze deficiencies and discuss remediation plan.  • Assisted with development strategies/roadmap for Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) for Authority business critical applications and databases.  • Worked with DBA team to implement security controls for Legacy HRMS database to protect sensitive PII data by encrypting data in rest, and encrypting database backups, and setting up Data Reduction Policy to limit access for low-privileged HR users, to restrict access to privileged database users. Manager, Database Administration Team Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority - Washington, DC November 2005 to November 2018 Cloud migration projects:    • For HRMS migration to Software as a service (SaaS) solution provided technical support by setting up environment for data conversion effort into Workday HCM/Payroll and provided technical guidance for data migration effort into Oracle Data Warehouse for Historical Reporting in OBIEE.  • For migrating on premise Oracle ERP EBS System to SaaS solution, coordinated GOLD Load1 & GOLD Load2 activities to support data conversion effort to Workday.  • For migrating commercial-off-the shelf (COTS) application to vendor-based cloud solution coordinated activities with vendors and business units and provided technical support with upgrade and application migration effort to the cloud solution.  • Evaluated and provided recommendations for managing AWS IAM user accounts to control access to AWS RDS resources used by development team to implement the least permissive rules for the AWS VPC and AWS EC2 security groups to follow AWS best practices.    Management & Administration:  • Managed and controlled Oracle Database and Oracle Application Server licenses to achieve Oracle license compliance and significant cost reduction by migrating database and application instances and consolidating physical servers.  • Served on technical evaluation panel for review of vendor proposals for new IT support contracts by validating vendor response for RFPs.  • Conducted interviews, involved in hiring, performance evaluation and cross training team members to address core competencies and reduce single point of failure.  • Managed team of 5 database administrators who had full development and operational support responsibility for Oracle and SQL Server databases     Configuration Management:  • Established the company's standards and best practices document for Oracle and MS SQL Server database environments. The documents outlined standards for the DBA Operations Group including installation and upgrade of Oracle and MS SQL Server database software, creating databases, naming standards, policies, practices and procedures.  • Worked with Configuration Management Team to coordinate efforts for the addition and/or modification of application and database software to the production environment to ensure the correct changes to the environment are identified, approved, tracked and that all changes to production are communicated. Assisted with setting up source control application to maintain baseline and version control of the source code. Managed and controlled the promotion of source code across multiple environments.  • Provided directions for the Patch Management, to ensure that Databases and Applications have been patched to the latest version. Tracked the patch level for each database instance, managed and planned the patch application process.    Technical Lead:  • Planed and managed database and server consolidation project and completed the Oracle and MS SQL Server database consolidation effort to achieve significant cost reduction in software and hardware maintenance without impacting the operations. Project included database and application software upgrade, patching, redeployment/migration of databases and applications to other platforms and/or servers and/or locations resulting in decommissioning more than 100 of physical servers which were beyond end of life support from vendor and virtual servers.  • Provided design specifications for the Microsoft SQL high available virtual server cluster implementation for the commercial-off-the shelf (COTS) common-use ticket counter application at Dulles.  • Led the effort to apply security controls to minimize the number of potential security-related issues with the ERP systems to meet the Authority IT Security requirements. Established ERP Cloning Operation Security Strategy to provide a structured approach for cloning the E-Business Suite application, scrambling sensitive data, and transferring files from the Production domain to the Development domain while maintaining the integrity of the sensitive data and environment  configuration. Set up Credential Mapping for SOA FTP adapters to eliminate username and passwords from being displayed in clear text;  • Technical Lead for successful move of Oracle ERP Financial applications, databases and servers from on premise to an off-site co-location data center. Lead a team of server administrators, application owners, database administrators over several months of detailed planning and step by step sequenced runbook instructions. Lead the team for powering down to move and powering back up at the co- location center as there was not the capacity to do this as a fail-over. The move involved hardware, operating systems and applications which all were beyond end-of-life support from vendors.  • Provided technical guidance for upgrading Authority's mission critical applications and databases including Oracle E-Business Suite Application upgrade from 12.1.1 to 12.1.3 version as well as upgrading RAC enabled Oracle databases from 11gR1 to 11gR2 version. Assisted with cloning Oracle EBS applications to refresh non-production instances using rapid clone technology. Performed maintenance of the multi-node e-Business Suite environment with Shared File System using Oracle  EBS R12 Applications DBA (AD) utilities.  • Coordinated efforts on setting up new environments for Oracle E-Business Suite Application and Interface development and testing. The activities included creating new instances for Development, Data Conversion, System Integration Testing, Demo instances (CRP), User Acceptance Testing and Production instances.  • Managed and provided oversight for Oracle E-Business Suite integration with Legacy Systems utilizing Service Oriented Architecture. Assisted with installation and configuration of Oracle WebLogic Server as well as SOA database adapter configuration and deployment of SOA composite objects. Assisted with uploading user accounts into Oracle EBS application and assign user roles and responsibilities utilizing Data Load scripts;  • Technical Lead for creating an automated monitoring system using Oracle Enterprise Manager for Oracle databases and Nagios alerts for MS SQL Server databases to ensure proactive monitoring and reduce unplanned system downtime.  • Coordinated efforts between IT Operations team, vendors and customer for Parking Revenue Control System implementation to ensure IT resources availability for the project. Analyzed and provided recommendation for the selection of hardware and software, assisted in overall design for the new system. Controlled and managed environment availability to meet the deadlines, monitored and controlled Production and Failover Site set up, identified risk factors and ensured that the solution has  been determined to eliminate or decrease the risk. Sr. Database Administrator Orizon Inc - Washington, DC January 2004 to November 2005 Responsible for maintaining Oracle and MS SQL Server databases and providing oversight for COTS implementation activities (e.g., Revenue Management System, Work Order Systems, and Parking Revenue Management Systems). Ensured that the application and database systems worked properly, and all workflows/interfaces/reporting are operational. Responsible for database and application upgrades,  patch management, user management, security management, backup and recovery management and performance tuning. Day-to-day activities included: installation, configuration, patching, upgrade and maintenance of Oracle and MS SQL Server databases; Oracle Password Policy implementation; restructuring production Oracle databases and migrating logical and physical data files to SAN disk;  database performance monitoring and management using Oracle Enterprise Manager, TOAD and SQL Plus for monitoring and maintenance; using export/import utilities to refresh test and development databases; using RMAN for database backup and recovery; as a Team lead providing technical guidance and environment orientation for the new Database Administrators, conducting interviews for the new  DBA positions, evaluating and performing cost/benefit analysis for the new Oracle products. Database Administrator Titan - Washington, DC April 2003 to January 2004 Responsible for maintaining Oracle and MS SQL Server databases including installation, configuration and patching of databases as well as Oracle9i Application Servers with Oracle Forms and Reports;installation and configuration of Oracle Discoverer Admin, Discoverer Desktop, Discoverer Viewer; evaluating and implementing tools for database performance monitoring and management such as BMC Express, BMC Patrol and Oracle Grid Control; Software Engineer Data Consultants Inc - Manassas, VA September 1999 to April 2003 Designed and developed multi-dimensional data analysis solution to support core Route Accounting Application. The system was designed to provide vital information to business decision makers to analyze data, track the sales of the product and salesperson performance and to increase revenue. Day-to-day activities included: MS SQL Server installation, configuration, database creation, backup and recovery, DTS package development and setup jobs to automate backup and restore procedures, database monitoring and performance tuning, on call production support for SQL Server databases on multiple customer sites, gathering requirements for the Data Warehouse application, design and development of ETL programs to load data from Pervasive database into MS SQL Server 2000 database, design and development of multidimensional OLAP cubes using MS Analysis Service, creating Fact and Dimension tables using Star Schema, developing MDX queries for OLAP services, designing OLAP drill down analytical reports using Crystal Analysis, installation and configuration of Crystal Enterprise with IIS web server, developing web based reports using PHP, JavaScript, HTML with SQL Server 2000. Programmer/Analyst ProComp Software, Inc - Gretna, LA February 1998 to August 1999 Developed SQL queries and stored procedures for data analysis using SQL in Oracle. Responsibilities included developing custom Crystal reports as well as testing and creating evaluation version of Engineering and Cost Estimating Application. Provided technical support to customers with troubleshooting application issues and report modifications. Research Assistant University of New Orleans - New Orleans, LA September 1997 to December 1997 Maintained existing scientific program for numerical analysis of heat and mass transfer problem using Fortran. Responsibilities included program modification, mathematical modelling and numerical analysis of the data. Education MS in Mathematics and Physics National Academy of Science - Bishkek, KG 1990 to 1996 BS in Electrical Engineering Moscow Power Engineering Institute - Moscow, RU 1982 to 1988 Skills SQL, Oracle, Linux, AWS Certifications/Licenses AWS certified Solution Architect - Associate March 2019 to March 2022 AWS certified Cloud Practionier January 2019 to March 2022 Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS/PLATFORMS:  Windows Server, VMware, Oracle Enterprise Linux, OVM, Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu, CentOS;