Cost Engineer Technician Cost Engineer Technician Cost Engineer Technician - Bilfinger Industrial Services San Jose, CA Work Experience Cost Engineer Technician Bilfinger Industrial Services - St. Louis, MO March 1999 to June 2019 • Develop and present weekly and monthly cost tracking report, with data gathering, research & analytics, problem identification, and presenting solution recommendations.  • Assess risks associated with construction of the project, coordinate estimate review with appropriate leaders.  • Design and implement multiple dashboards using Power BI - PowerPivot & Power Query tools for cost  control reporting.  • Translate numbers into meaningful facts for businesses to help them make better business decisions. Database Administrator UPS - St. Louis, MO July 2017 to December 2017 • A MS Access Database Developer who worked closely with supervisors, managers, and directors to generate reports, analyze data, and produce statistics for their presentations.  • Followed up with managers to develop strategies to reduce company cost.  • Tracked trending data results versus last year results.  • Created quarterly presentations to discuss company's growth and interoffice awareness to the company's  enterprise strategy.  • Developed, executed and maintained a wide array of pre-existing MS SQL Server/Oracle/MS Access /MS Excel based systems.  • Analyzed data, using Excel Spreadsheets and data output from various systems, needed to assess the overall accuracy and integrity of results being produced.  • Developed SQL queries to research, analyze, and troubleshoot data and to create business reports;  worked with the development team to investigate and correct software bugs and deficiencies.  • Strong problem-solving skills and understanding of relational database concepts, standards and generally  accepted practices.  • Development and implementation of new reports and presentation which have a high degree of complexity.  • Documented process knowledge via narrative and flowchart documentation.  • Presented results of process analysis to key stakeholders.  • Identified training opportunities and design/coordinate the development of training materials and deliver  training.  • Strong diverse development styles, flexibility, adaptability and attention to detail. Interpreter/ Translator Global Village Langue Center - St. Louis, MO December 2016 to June 2017 Provided interpreting / transliterating services for patients, employees, and other individuals for meetings,  interviews, telephone calls, etc. including one to one and group settings.  • Prepared written translations of instructional and educational materials, correspondence, and forms from one language to another when appropriate for use by the patients, staff, and other individuals. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Management Information System Southern Illinois University Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL December 2016 Associate Degree in Business Administration Saint Louis Community College - St. Louis, MO December 2012 Additional Information SKILLS    • Power user of itwo 4.0, Sage and Power BI  • Visual Basic programming language using Visual Studio .NET  • Project management, prototyping, relational database, reporting, and research  • Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) / Waterfall Model, Agile Methodology / Scrum Methodology  • Data System to a logical level prototyping, interface design, data flows, tables / trees  • Microsoft Office (Outlook, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Visio, MS Access)  • Operating system (Window, Linux, Android, iOS  • 802.3 Ethernet protocol  • SAP product and ERPs  • Networking: TCP IP, Routing, PING Operating system, Oracle FIREWALL.NET, Ethernet  • Attention to detail, develop presentations, cost control, documentation, flowchart meetings, problem-solving skills, process analysis