Owner Owner Work Experience Owner January 2017 to Present Radian Media  Technical Consultant    Companies worked with:  Mentoring Plus  CFM Foundation  YMCA  PADP    I assisted these nonprofit companies in setting up their Salesforce NPSP system.  This involved a great amount of data cleanup, custom objects and fields, reports and dashboards, and quite a bit of fine tuning of the system to meet their needs. I  worked with Data Loader and all aspects of importing/exporting data, custom  APEX through the Developer Console, automated processes, and record types.  In addition, I setup Salesforce data integration with a number of third party  websites such as FormSite and Qgiv. contractor MetLife July 2002 to July 2017 Senior Web Application Developer/ Database Administrator    Overview:  Design and implement websites for a variety of departments for MetLife.  Development of large content management systems and a stats analysis  platform that examines user behavior, conversion rates, path analysis, and media  campaigns. Development of various interactive tools such as the Disability  Calculator, the Benchmarking Tool, and several workshop registration websites  that allow MetLife to manage the seminars, registrations, and coordinators, and that in turn exchanges information with the company's internal Smart Office data  system. Web Developer/ Database Administrator Social Psychology Network (SPN) September 1997 to July 2002 https://www.socialpsychology.org/    PHP, ASP, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL  Overview:  UI and site layout design, PHP admin tools and MySQL databases for the SPN  websites, including their social psychologist profile system, the SPN forums and several data/web search tools. Designed several notable websites, including the  Stanford Prison Experiment, the Society for Personality and Social Psychology, and the Society of Experimental Social Psychology.    I had the fortune of working with Phil Zimbardo on a few of his websites, most  notably for his book The Lucifer Effect, which involved development of PHP  content management tools, a custom coded Lucifer Effect Theology Blog, reader- feedback tools, as well as the main website UI and graphical design. In addition, I  have designed several websites for small businesses. Skills MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, VBSCRIPT, XML, APEX, EXCEL Additional Information Skills  Languages: Apex, JavaScript, PHP, VBScript, ASP.NET  Web: HTML, CSS, XML  Databases: SOQL, SOSL, SQL, MS SQL Server, MYSQL, Excel