Sr. Database Engineer/Jr Architect Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer/Jr Architect Sr. Database Engineer/Jr Architect - American Century Investment Sr. Database Engineer /DBA with 20 years of experience in requirements, analysis, design, development and testing of OLTP and OLAP databases using IBM-Informatica and Microsoft SQL server 2000 - 2016 / Oracle on both Unix and windows Platforms. Recently worked on project using DATA Virtualization tool DENODO and designed EDWEDM models using DATA VAULT Standards, developed ETL, SSAS, SSRS solutions. Excellent knowledge of SQL Server Administration as well as T-SQL/ dynamic SQL scripting. Proven ability to integrate complex activities into cohesive action plans and work on multiple projects related to TERADATA, ORACLE and SYBASE databases. Known for effectively communicating technical data to non-technical stakeholders. Work Experience Sr. Database Engineer/Jr Architect American Century Investment September 2018 to Present Environment: Netezza (pure data) for Analytics, Informatica (Developer/Power Center/Analysts), Oracle, DB2, ER Studio, Lean Agile, Data Vault/Kimball (Modeling), Tableau    Client Data Warehouse initiative:  • Design ETL to load data from various sources like sales force, XML/JSON/FLAT Files or Relational databases as well as IDQ solution. Assists Data management Team to generate Profiles and other Informatica Analysts tasks.  • Partner with internal stakeholders, data Governance, Data Management teams to understand requirements and drive to the primary concern.  • Participate in Database Design and keep Database models current.  • Collaborate with Sr. Data Architects, ETL developers and participate in PI planning for Agile Train, scrum planning. Generate and present team accomplishments in system/sprint demos. Also work with Experts from Informatica.  • Create/Analyze user stories for creative solutions.  • Participate in code design, review and quality analysis phases of Data WareHouse development. Provide architectural directions, guiding/mentoring and leading development scrum team.  • Delivering quality solution & working on Client Proposals, Estimation etc. Troubleshoot, review logs and provide resolution. Sr. Database Engineer USDA-RMA November 2016 to August 2018 Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2008/2012/2014/2016, T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, TFSVS2013 - 2015, DENODO (Data Virtualization), DATA VAULT- Data Modeling, Power Designer, PowerPivot/Power BI  Enterprise Data Warehouse - Data Marts for Reinsurance Accounting System (RAS): Designed EDW/EDM Database Module using Power Designer. Designed, Developed and Implemented EDW / EDM solution for Escrow-Appian Data Mart for RMA Department using DATA VAULT modeling methodologies, DENODO - data virtualization tool to pull data from Appian cloud as well as developed SSIS ETL processes, SSAS cube to load Data in DATA marts and provided daily/ weekly/ monthly reports in SSRS/ PowerPivot /Power BI on native/share-point mode. Generated Business KPIs and Dashboard.  Customer Information Management System (CIMS): Support CIMS database, reporting and ETL processes. Monitor and Improve performance after database upgrade to SQL SERVER 2016 and implement changes by applying SQL server 2016 new features. Support and develop new reports using SSRS 2016. Also working on Designing In-memory OLTP solution to load data quickly and improve performance of weekly data load processes.  Microsoft Dynamics CRM-Regional Office: Support CRM-RO database and ETL processes to Implement new features.  Operations and Maintenance:  ? Supported all databases and Monitored day to day operations and ad-hoc /daily/weekly/monthly reports related to all application databases. Worked with DBA to Tune scripts / Ad hoc queries on regular basis. Developed process improvements and implemented them to production.  ? Upgrade and set existing database/SSIS projects for auto deploy.  ? Interface and collaborate with key cross-functional departments such as; Infrastructure, Application Developers, Project Management, Support, Quality Control and Database Administrator.  ? Design, develop and implement new database requirements to add new features to existing OLAP/OLTP processes considering all Data Governance policies.  ? Generated Power Designer Database and Data Movement (ETL) Modules to maintain Repository. Database Administrator Dickinson Financial / Armed Forces Bank August 2016 to October 2016 Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2008/2012/2014 (cluster and non-cluster environment), T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, SSRS, Data migration, .NET, Support application and reporting database, VS 2013- 2015, Actian Integrator ETL Tool (Pervasive)    ? Provided support to all databases, including high availability, data discrepancies and performance issues. Monitor and support day to day operations activities related to cluster and non-cluster databases. Tune scripts / Ad hoc queries on regular basis.  ? Create and Set up databases/data marts as well as analysis, design, development and support all ETL processes. Support data warehouse and data mining activities for internal and external vendors.  ? Identify and provide solutions for data integrity on multiple sources, troubleshoot data issues, validate result sets, recommend and implement process improvements and provide ad hoc/daily/weekly/monthly reports.  ? Interface and collaborate with key cross-functional departments such as; Infrastructure, Developers, Project Management, Support, Quality Control.  ? Understand existing Actian/pervasive ETL processes and migrate them to cloud based version 10. Database Administrator / Developer EPIQ SYSTEMS August 2013 to June 2016 Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2008/2012, T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, SSRS, Data migration, .NET, TFS 2010- 2013, Agile Software Development, Support application and reporting database, TFS 2013, GIT, Source Safe, VS 2013- 2015  ? Collaborate with business, customer support, Infrastructure, Project Management, Support, Quality Control, Database Management and Operations Team to determine business functional requirements using complex rules, design, develop as well as implement solution to satisfy those requirements.  ? Provide administrative assistance to Banking and trustee applications which included Adding users, resolving user permissions issues, import - export database as requested, Backup-restore database to support daily development activity as well as support database conversion.  ? Support all Organizational C#, HTML, JAVA Applications/reporting databases in non-production environments. Address, analyze and resolve issues listed by internal and external clients. Support database conversions for clients that are migrating from old Applications to .NET applications or starting new contract with company.  ? Design/Develop required T-SQL, ETL, SSRS and SSIS solutions to fulfill Clients requirements by following industry standards and best practices to ensure data integrity and availability 24X7.  ? Identify and provide solutions for data integrity on multiple sources, troubleshoot data issues, validate result sets, recommend and implement process improvements and provide ad hoc/daily/weekly/monthly reports.  ? Participated in various quality assurance activities including streamlining development processes, code reviews, and various phases of testing. Monitor and support day to day operations activities. Tune scripts / Ad hoc queries on regular basis.  ? Provide and understand documentation for change and new processes. Enhance technical expertise through education, project assignments and professional activities. Data Warehouse Engineer Quest Diagnostics October 2012 to August 2013 Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2008/2012, T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, SSIS, Data Migration, Data Mining  ? Collaborate with business, sales, and marketing data owners to determine how to combine business/functional requirements using complex rules. Design, develop as well as implement solution to satisfy those requirements.  ? Create and set up databases/data marts as well as analysis, design, development and support all ETL processes. Support data warehouse and data mining activities for internal and external vendors those are migrating from old system.  ? Identify and provide solutions for data integrity on multiple sources, troubleshoot data issues, validate result sets, recommend and implement process improvements and provide ad hoc/daily/weekly/monthly reports.  ? Define/design/modify data models for new and existing databases. Develop operational and analytical data warehouse processes as well as support business reporting across the wholesale organization.  ? Participated in various quality assurance activities including streamlining development processes, code reviews, and various phases of testing.  ? Interface and collaborate with key cross-functional departments such as; Infrastructure, Project Management, Support, Quality Control, Database Management. Streamlined various processes and standards to measure operation performance in timely manner.  ? Provide documentation for change and new processes. Enhance technical expertise through education, project assignments and professional activities. Architect Sprint-Nextel July 2006 to October 2012 Database Analysts II July 2006 - OCT 2012    Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2005/2008, T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, SSIS, Data Warehouse, Data Mining, Microsoft Excel 2003/2007/2010, .NET, TERADATA, ORACLE PL/SQL, PowerPivot/PowerView  ? Collaborate with business, sales, and marketing data owners to determine how to combine business/functional requirements using complex rules. Architect, design, develop as well as implement a business analytics and data warehousing solution to satisfy those requirements.  ? Design/Develop required T-SQL, ETL and SSIS solutions to integrate various data sources into data warehouse following industry standards and best practices to ensure consistency of data attributes and naming conventions. Support data warehouse and data mining activities for internal and external vendors.  ? Provide administrative assistance which included adding users, resolving user permissions issues, import - export database as requested, backup-restore database to support daily development activity as well as support database conversion. Tune scripts on regular basis.  ? Work with client to determine business needs. Define and capture metadata and priorities with team members. Support all databases, including high availability, data discrepancies and performance issues. Monitor day to day operations activities and troubleshoot data issues, validate result sets, recommend and implement process improvements and provide ad- hoc/daily/weekly/monthly reports to measure wholesale wireless/VOIP operation performance in timely manner.  ? Define/design/modify data models for new and existing databases. Develop operational and analytical data warehouse processes as well as support business reporting across the wholesale organization.  ? Participate in various quality assurance activities including streamlining development processes, code reviews, and various phases of testing.  ? Streamline various processes and standards  ? Provide and understand documentation for change and new processes. ? Lead and manage various projects from start to end. Software Engineer Sprint-Nextel July 2004 to July 2006 Environment: Oracle 9i, Data Warehouse, Business Integration tools such as Oracle Express, Oracle OLAP and Web Agent, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad, UNIX  ? Analysis, design, development and support for all financial and call center reports for internal and external vendors.  ? Developed new ECARE reports and enhanced some express reports using all stages of SDLC, including analysis, design, development, test, implementation and post implementation support/tuning.  ? Provided 24X7 supports to all EXPRESS applications, including high availability, data discrepancies and performance issues.  ? Migration of EXPRESS apps to OLAP is in progress. These involves, good understanding of existing business rules, new business requirements and configuration of CUBES and Dimensions.  ? Providing 24X7 supports for all OLAP apps, including break fix, performance tuning and high availability.  ? Integration of new developed reporting tools and utilities with existing global reporting system. ? Streamlined various processes and standards to support customers in timely manner. Database Analyst Sogeti/DST Systems February 2004 to July 2004 Environment: Sybase, SQL, PL/SQL, COGNOS  ? Analysis and design of all financial reports for various clients.  ? Creating specifications from design documents, to be used for development purpose.  ? Write reporting utilities to process data and generate ad-hoc and standard reports using SQL, PL/SQL on Sybase database.  ? Integration of new developed reporting tools and utilities with existing global reporting system. Software Engineer/Advance Billing Support Sprint PCS January 2000 to December 2003 Environment: UNIX, C, ORACLE 8i/9i, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, Cognos Impromptu Tool, Toad, MS Access    ? Supported various components of existing billing & MAF system, coding and testing new utilities to support the application and team activities. Also provided technical support to maintain referenced DB objects and Data integrity of reference data required for the correct functioning of MAF application.  ? Set up standards/processes for team and its customers to support day to day activities and changes in reference databases to keep billing system up and running 24/7.  ? Worked on various migration phases, wrote various UNIX shell scripts & PL/SQL Programs  (procedures/functions/triggers), UNIX cron jobs and with eminent usage of various Oracle & UNIX utilities.  ? In addition, worked on and set up synchronization process between various databases used for RODEO billing application.  ? Supported Cognos Impromptu tool as an administrator to fulfill customers' reporting requirements.  ? Liaison between development group and multiple stakeholders to ensure consistent and correct data delivery. Additional Information Agile, Lean Agile  C  C++  Cognos Impromptu Tool  Crystal Reports  DATA VAULT/KIMBALL/INMON (Data Modeling)  DENODO (Data Virtualization)  Designer 2000  Designer 2000 CASE tool  Developer 2000 (Forms & Reports)  ER Studio  INFORMATICA  JAVA  Microsoft Access  Microsoft Excel  Microsoft Excel 2003/2007/2013  Microsoft SQL server 2000- 2016  Microsoft SQL SERVER Analysis Services (SSAS)  Microsoft SQL SERVER Integration  Services (SSIS)  Microsoft SQL SERVER Reporting Services (SSRS)    Microsoft Visio  MS Power Pivot/Power View/Power BI  MS TFS  MS Transact SQL (T-SQL)  Netezza (pure data) for Analytics  Oracle 9i, 10G  Oracle database administration  Oracle EXPRESS & OLAP  Oracle Web Agent  PL/SQL  POWER DESIGNER  SQL*NET  SQL/Loader  SQL/PLUS  Sybase  TERADATA  TOAD  UNIX Shell Scripts  Windows  Windows PowerShell