PROFESSIONAL MUSICIAN- Guitar Player PROFESSIONAL MUSICIAN- Guitar Player Redondo Beach, CA Work Experience PROFESSIONAL MUSICIAN- Guitar Player Self Employed November 1984 to Present • Accomplished session and live performance musician.  • Adept in Rock & Roll, Rockabilly, Blues, Country, Swing, and R&B Lead Engineer, Senior Architect, DBA III Molina Healthcare September 2013 to May 2019 Key areas of focus  • Database Administration -- Oracle DBA working in Exadata and ODA  • Software evaluation and selection -- Ignite, LogRhythm, PostgreSQL  • Project Team Lead - Oracle Exadata, ODA, PCA deployments, Data Guard training, Database Password Authorization Management, SQL Server table partitioning, Microsoft and Oracle licensing  • Presentations to senior management    Projects and Initiatives  • Oracle Exadata, Oracle Database Appliance, Private Cloud Appliance Deployments.  Determined architecture based on database requirements. Led project by coordinating data center, network, and vendor staff. Achieved greater ROI by migrating databases to appliances and decommissioning legacy servers.  • Data Guard deployments.  Created standby databases for disaster recovery. Drafted run book. Trained DBA staff to deploy and maintain.  • Oracle Error Monitoring Notification  Scripted and deployed ORA- error monitoring and notification solution. Selectively and immediately alerts operations DBAs of database issues.  • Privileged Account Management project  Led project to register database related service, system, and user accounts in Liebsoft Enterprise Random Password Manager. Enhances security by eliminating files and scripts with hard coded passwords and ensuring regular complex password changes.  • SQL Server In-Memory feature evaluation  Drafted and executed test plan. Performance and crash test results documented.  Authored presentation including architecture, findings, and use cases.  • Log Monitoring Proof Of Concept  Researched and evaluated multiple vendors per Molina requirements.  Led POC effort of LogRhythm appliance in consultation with Enterprise Monitoring and Information Security teams.  Authored purchase justification presentation.  • LogRhythm project  Consulted with stakeholders and drafted initial scope of project.  Coordinated appliance deployment and configuration with LogRhythm support and Network team.  Instructed and delegated administration to Enterprise Monitoring team.  Facilitates faster and more effective operational root cause analysis. Augments security forensics.  • Claims Processing Database Partitioning project  Led project team to partition database tables and archive claims data to Tier 2 storage.  Project milestones included table selection, partitioning, performance and regression testing.  • PostgreSQL evaluation  Researched architecture and features to determine suitability as lower cost RDBMS platform for Molina.  Reviewed licensing and discount options with vendor (EnterpriseDB)  Drafted evaluation summary and recommendations.  • Database Monitoring Tool Evaluation  Installed and configured SolarWinds Database Performance Analyzer for MS SQL Server and Oracle.  Evaluated features and delegated administration to Delivery and Operations DBA staff. Senior Oracle Database Administrator CITYGRID MEDIA July 2010 to September 2013 DBA for 6 Oracle databases  Application Development and Operations Support  • Automated over 40 steps to export/import objects from 2 production databases into one QA database, saving 8 DBA man/hours per refresh cycle.  • Wrote stored procedures to be executed by Operations staff for routine data fixes, providing reliable and timely support to business units.  • Wrote and executed custom code for mass data changes, ensuring data integrity.  Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Proactive and reactive SQL tuning using Autotrace OEM, AWR and ASH reports.  Upgrades and Patching  • Bug identification and workarounds deployed prior to patching, preventing serious instance hangs and batch job failures.  • Upgraded Oracle version 11.1.0.6 to 11.1.0.7 using response file.  • Patched Oracle version 11.1.0.7 to 11.1.0.7.12 using OPatch.    Established, Documented, and Enforced Standards  • Wrote and deployed shell/SQL script to maintain and store metadata for over 600 application related tables. Facilitates better management of information lifecycle, space usage, and table business purpose.  • Standardized and enforced "new application table" policy. Ensures that business purpose, business area owner, data retention requirements, growth rate, and access characteristics (DML) are all approved and documented prior to production deployment.  • Created database code deployment and logging process. Improves change tracking and debugging efficiency.  • Documented runbooks for Oracle patching and Shareplex replication. Senior Database Administrator, Database Developer NAPSTER.COM July 2009 to March 2010 DBA for 7 Oracle databases (2 RAC clusters), 8 Sybase servers.  Database Developer on API project team.    Backup and Recovery  • Refined RMAN retention policy to account for limited storage capacity. resulting in 20% fewer RMAN backup failures.  Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Reorganized SGA and PGA in Data Warehouse resulting in 40% improvement of batch job duration.  Database Development  • Member of Agile API development team delivering 3 major releases -- API Widget, Developer Portal, API new features. This deliverable allows outside partners to access the Napster service through the public API.  • Created data model and objects for these releases including OLTP and Warehouse tables, partitioned tables, views, stored procedures, and Business Objects reports. Database Administrator, Senior Database Administrator, Database Specialist SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT May 2000 to May 2009 Primary DBA for 50 Oracle databases; secondary DBA for 250 Oracle, 100 MS SQL Server and 6 IBM DB2 databases serving the Television, Motion Pictures, Home Entertainment, and Corporate lines of business.    Leadership  • Contributed to key decisions related to RDBMS / hardware architecture, high availability, clustered file system design, and database tool selection.  • Integral member in four major hardware and capacity upgrade projects successfully enabling data growth of 300gb to 20tb.  • Technical Lead and mentor to Junior Staff. Designated Backup Database Manager.  Established, Documented, and Enforced Standards  • RAM used efficiently by standardizing instance related parameters. This allowed 200 instances to run on a four node Sun v880 cluster.  • Security standards enforced via proper User, Role, and Profile management. SOX compliance verified through independent auditors.  • Production code integrity maintained by standardizing the QA to PROD deployment process.  Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Utilized STATSPACK and SQL Trace monitoring to identify and resolve instance and SQL tuning issues. Complex Business Objects report time reduced from 4 hours to 10 minutes.  • Created large block database to increase datamart batch performance. Batch time reduced from 12 hours to 3 hours.  Backup and Recovery  • Administered complete and point in time recovery of corrupted production systems. No data lost.  • Worked closely with SAN Administration to deploy Hitachi Shadow Image backups. Backup time reduced from 12 hours to 2 hours for 1tb database.  Upgrades and Patching  • Executed major Oracle upgrades from 8i to 9i, and minor upgrades from 9.1 to 9.2.  • Fully automated and parallelized multiple instance shutdown/startup. This allowed for up to 50 instances on a given node to be shutdown or started in less than 5 minutes.  Application Development Support  • Created full automation of database PROD to DEV/QA refresh process. This allowed for any Oracle database to be refreshed anytime by scheduling via crontab. Database Administrator, Oracle Financials System Administrator SARA LEE FRESH April 1999 to May 2000 DBA for 2 production and 2 QA Oracle databases. Oracle Financials, Custom A/R and Sales system.    Backup and Recovery  • Administered complete recovery of two production databases using RMAN. No data lost.  Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Batch processing failures eliminated by modifying pct. increase of extents and resizing rollback segments.  • Batch cycle duration reduced by 10% by resizing redo logs.  Security  • Ensured security by redefining user roles, implementing password aging, and password complexity. Technical Staff Member COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION August 1996 to February 1999 DBA and Database Developer for 4 databases: Facilities Request system, Employee Assistance Program system.    Performance Monitoring and Tuning  • Reduced processing time for batch billing job from 13 hours to 15 minutes.  • Reduced average customer OLTP time from 6 minutes to less than 1 minute.  Project Lead  • Applications Project Lead for Facilities Request System upgrade project.  • Project Lead for implementation of Employee Assistance Program application and database: Responsible for creating database, installing application, cleaning and loading customer data.  Backup and Recovery  • Responsible for logical backup and recovery. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration University of California - Los Angeles, CA Skills MS SQL SERVER, Oracle (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Project Management (2 years), Team Leader (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    RDBMS: Oracle Enterprise Server v7 - 12c, Microsoft SQL Server 2000 - 2014, Sybase, IBM DB2, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Operating Systems: Linux, Sun Solaris, HP UX, MS Windows  Languages/Tools: SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, UNIX shell scripting, SQL*Loader, RAC, ASM, Data Guard, RMAN, DataPump, AWR, ASH, SQL Trace, OEM, Shareplex Replication, Toad, DBArtisan, MS SQL Server Enterprise Manager, CVS.