Principal Database Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Canton, GA Forward-thinking professional with over 30 years of experience in the field and having demonstrated success in providing extraordinary service to both internal and external customers, coupled with multifaceted technical skills to uncover solutions to tough business problems.  * Accomplished in driving software and database upgrade initiatives and modernizing systems to support business goals and objectives.  * Champion of customer service, focused on improving customer/user requirements; renowned as the "go-to" person for application support and development.  * Insightful technical leader experienced with equipping technicians, end-users and executives with the right technology tools and training to excel in fast paced business settings.  * Demonstrated ability in adapting to rapidly changing environments and adopting and applying the latest hardware, software and networking innovations to facilitate attainment of company financial goals.  * Welcomes new challenges and overcomes obstacles to provide top notch system analyst support through effective research, troubleshooting and solutions to internal and external customer requirements. Work Experience Principal Database Engineer E*TRADE Financial 2014 to Present Primarily responsible for the production support of the firm's MSSQL servers, including:  • Daily monitoring & auditing of MSSQL servers across all environments (DEV\SIT\UAT\PROD\DR). Trouble-shooting issues as they come up.  • Develop database extracts as required for the various business units.  • Participate in quarterly disaster recovery exercises.  • Assist with annual SOX audits as required, participating in observation exercises with internal\external auditors.  • Work with the development staff on any internal MSSQL projects that may arise.  • Work with the various application owners on upgrades\migrations as well as performance & capacity issues.  • Advise application owners \ business units on specifying new database servers for upcoming upgrades and\or new projects, ensuring that database servers meet E*Trade standards for server configurations.  • Coordinate with our off-shore support team for nightly tasks and\or issues.  • Conduct interviews of potential candidates.  • Manage user access to all database servers.  • Create and manage system run-books, "how-to" and other system related documentation as required. Consultant - DBA CDC - DISO 2011 to 2014 Worked on the CDC-DISO projects (LRN & Legacy) providing DBA support to the various project teams, including:  • Daily system monitoring and support of SQL Server and Reporting Services.  • Assist the developers with SQL development as needed.  • Troubleshoot SQL issues as they arise in all environments (development\staging\production).  • Design and develop SQL databases and processes such as; stored procedures, SQL Agent jobs, SSIS packages and reports.  • Manage SQL Server user access.  • Work closely with CDC\ITSO\AHB engineers on production & staging SQL issues related to the LRN and Legacy projects.  • Execute various data loads (both scheduled and ad hoc).  • Monitor and analyze system performance with an eye towards enhancing performance. Suggest and develop enhancements (table indexes, file partitioning) where appropriate.    Worked on CDC Account on-boarding activities, including:  • Interviewing and providing feedback to management on potential candidates.  • Assist with documenting the various program areas covered by the DISO contract.  • Develop and document the project plan for gaining VPN access to the CDC's network for CGI employees working on the DISO project.  • Develop workflow for the CDC security on-boarding process.  • Coordinate & track CDC security on-boarding for CGI team members.  • Review and update current CGI job postings for relevance to the DISO project.  • Assist with the update\development of the CGI-DISO Sharepoint site.  • Assist with transition planning.    CMS Web sites team  Provided all manner of DBA support to the developers on the CMS websites team, including:  • Database backups and restores across multiple development SQL Servers.  • Develop various data load processes for applications such as the Dialysis Facility Compare tool and the Nursing Home Compare tool.  • Execute various data loads (both scheduled and ad hoc).  • Assist the developers with SQL development as needed.  • Design and develop stored procedures as assigned. Applications Manager Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn 2005 to 2010 Managed system application projects supported by in-house development staff as well as outside consultants. Oversaw the administration of database servers and third-part software in addition to performing daily administration on the organizations database servers.  * Played a pivotal role in implementing IT applications that effectively brought the Diocese into the 21st century; effectively improved communication as well as increased system reliability and security and efficiently equipped executive management with data and reports for strategic planning.  * Facilitated development projects for parish organizational, personnel, entity management and self-insurance & auto-tracking data collection and reporting.  * Spearheaded the upgrades of application and database servers. Senior Database Administrator HealthPlus, PHSP, Inc 2000 to 2005 Directed the development staff in database design and development activities and supported programming issues. Performed daily database administration and oversaw integration of third-party applications into existing corporate systems.  * Orchestrated the integration of Trizetto Corporation's Health Insurance Portability and Accountability electronic data interchange gateway system with their Facets Claim Adjudication system including the development of Health Plus data scrubbing routines; allowed for the electronic receipt and processing of medical and pharmaceutical claims.  * Oversaw administration of the corporation's 35 SQL servers.  * Played a pivotal role in the design, development and implementation of an electronic data Interchange system for medical claim electronic receipt and pre-processing.  * Spearheaded the debugging of Trizetto's SQL code in a test environment prior to the go-live system launch; identified and resolved system errors and customize the system to meet specific needs of the company. Independent Consultant 1999 to 2000 Independent Consultant  Provided various programming and database administration consulting services to health care clients. Coordinated database design and structure, electronic data interchange claim processing & integration and report application development.  * Supported multiple IT system projects facilitating process improvements and efficiencies. Decision Support Specialist Advica Health Resources, Inc 1998 to 1999 Technical lead for the company's staff's IT support. Designed and developed programs and systems for various production reports, Data Card ID integration and medical claim electronic receipt and pre-processing.  * Successfully developed and implemented an electronic data interchange system for electronic medical claims allowing for the efficient processing of medical and pharmacy claims.  * Installed and integrated an in-house ID card printing system from DataCard Corp. Decision Support - Database Administrator VYTRA Health Care, Inc 1993 to 1998 Developed database designs and modeling and assisted users with queries and stored procedures to enhance performance. Established data warehouse extract and load procedures in addition to production reports. Technical lead for performing day-to-day database administration for user access, client-side software installations, and coordination & execution of data routines.  * Collaborated with all user departments to effectively design and develop data warehouse designs for the maintenance of metadata and data dictionaries and monitor data quality and resolve data integrity issues; provided the ability to merge data from multiple databases into a single easily accessible database giving users the resource to provide executive management data reports in a timely manner.  * Proactively maintained the enterprise data model, SQL and application standards by working closely and interfacing with the application development department and end user community to effectively contain application changes.  * Assisted in the definition and implementation of company-wide production release procedures for set-up environments, automation and go-live roll outs.  * Played a key role in data warehouse development; created data conversion routines, provided user connectivity and training, conduct product evaluation and developed applications. Education A.D. in Math/Physics Valencia Community College 1985 Skills Sql Dba (10+ years), DBA (10+ years)