Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Conduent Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Conduent - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present • Responsibilities    • As team lead responsible to create and implement the DC migrations from one data center to other data center.  • Upgraded oracle Databases from 12.1.0.1 to 12.1.0.2 version on RHEL 6.7  • Build Data guard environments as part of DC migration and actively involving DR Drill activities  • Extensively used oracle expdp/impdp for migrations and configured async process for each database.  • Installed and configured of GoldenGate on 11g/12c database for schema data replication  • Created Tables that Contain Encrypted Columns and Oracle Wallet Management for Transparent Data Encryption.  • Frequently cloned oracle12c databases for test/Development teams.  • Worked on implementation of Database TLS v1.0 on Oracle 12c production database to secure all network traffic containing highly restricted data to be encrypted using transport layer security (TLS).  • Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications.  • Configured multiple databases into OEM13c Cloud Control.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports for 11g databases.  • Worked with oracle support and performed root cause analysis for critical issues.  • Performed Troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports for 12c databases  • Configured RMAN backup jobs for newly built databases  • Assisted in the implementation of new and/or upgraded Oracle Retail Store Solution applications into customer retail stores  • Executed day to day Database Maintenance tasks involving in Database Monitoring, Backups, Space  • Management, Resource Utilization, Object Migration for all Production, Test and Sand Box database Servers.  • Created database maintenance plans for backup strategies and involved in database partitioning.  • Tuning and Optimization of Stored Procedures and use of Performance Monitor/Profiler to solve Dead Locks/Long running queries  • Configured Transitional Replication (Creating Distribution Databases, updating Publishers, creating & managing Publications, managing Replication monitors) and troubleshoot replication issues.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS for installation and configuration.  • Migrated SQL server 2005/2008R2 to SQL server 2008R2/2012 and also migrated data from excel and other sources to SQL server.  • Performed Database consistency checks with DBCC, Defrag, Index tuning and monitored error logs.  • Enabled Transparent Data Encryption on critical databases.  • Troubleshoot block corruption issues  • Provided support to the application developers on the application databases.  • Troubleshot issues with log file full and database size increasing beyond threshold.  • Building new databases and schemas from the scratch for new projects/application on Linux and Unix boxes  • Worked on multiple projects and delivering projects within timeline  • Responsible for developing processes, automation of maintenance jobs, tuning SQL Server, locks and index configurations, administering SQL Server security, SQL Server automatic e-mail notification and SQL Server backup strategy and automation.    • Environment: Oracle 12.1.0.1/12.1.0.2/11g, RHEL 6.x, Solaris 10, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c, TOAD, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Stored Procedures, ASM, Data guard, Oracle Wallet. Principal Database Administrator ORACLE USA Inc - Frisco, TX June 2012 to July 2018 • Responsibilities    • 24/7 Supported critical OLTP Production databases on RAC and non-RAC with Golden gateand Data guard environments.  • Installed, configured and maintaining 4 Node 12.1.0.2/12c RAC databases in Linux/Solaris Servers.  • Upgraded oracle Databases from 12.1.0.1 to 12.1.0.2 version on RHEL 6.7  • Successfully performed Failover on Physical standby database& Failover were accomplished less than 30 minutes.  • Moved Oracle Wallet from cluster-ware to Local Drive on RAC Databases.  • Migrated SQL server 2005/2008R2 to SQL server 2008R2/2012 and also migrated data from excel and other sources to SQL server.  • Successfully setup and managed Oracle data guard on Exadata utilizing multiple networks for redo transport  • Created Tables That Contain Encrypted Columns and Oracle Wallet Management for Transparent Data Encryption.  • Frequently cloned oracle12c databases for test/Development teams.  • Applied PSU and OJVM and DB April 2016patches on oracle 12c RAC Databases.  • Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications.  • Configured multiple databases into OEM13c Cloud Control.  • Applying CPU and PSU patches for all the development and UAT servers when required  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports for 11g databases.  • Developed and maintained functional design documentation for key areas of the Point-of-Sale base application and all areas of the Inventory Management base application  • Performed SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor in Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Supervised and guided Business Analyst activities on existing projects where the POS practice applied  • Worked with oracle support and performed root cause analysis for critical issues.  • Configured RMAN backup jobs for newly built databases  • Responsible to provide 24 x 7 database administrative activities over different database servers    • Environment: Oracle 12.1.0.1/12.1.0.2, RHEL 6.x, Solaris 10, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13C, TOAD, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Stored Procedures, ASM, Data guard, Exadata, Oracle Wallet, MGMTDB, SQL Server 2000/SQL Server 2005. Principal Database Administrator ORACLE USA Inc - Austin, TX December 2005 to June 2012 • Responsibilities    • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2.  • Upgraded databases from Oracle 9i, 10g to 11g.  • Involved with installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC/ORACLE 11g RAC and Standby Databases (Oracle DataGuard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Applied CPU patches.  • As a Principal Database Administrator supporting MOS, CCR, CMDB, CERBERUS, BUG databases and partner Applications  • Responsible for RDBMS upgrades from 10g to 11gR1/11gR3 for MOS environments  • Responsible for H/W replacement for both DB+MT servers. Replaced Old DELL H/W with New SUN H/W  • Responsible for creating the support documents for CCR/CMDS/CERBERUS environments  • Performance tuning & monitoring of the Databases/applications. Extensively used the EM to monitor the applications/DB's/Servers/Storage/Beacons  • Worked on critical projects for CCR Repository upgrades, MOS environments upgrades  • Recover RAC databases, cloning Oracle APPS, Portal and People Soft  • Extensively worked on customer call backs, performance issues  • Cloning of development environment into test environment on a regular basis  • As a team lead managed CCR, CMDB and CERBERUS environments  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN and manual methods.  • Performed block recovery using RMAN.  • Moving data between databases using Data Pump.  • Performed large batch jobs, and tuning of SQL queries and database systems.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Partitioned large tables for better performance and manageability.  • Installed and configured GoldenGate for replication.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  • Migrated databases from Sun Solaris, HP-UX to IBM AIX, and Windows to Linux.  • Written PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions and Triggers.  • Worked with Data Pump to take the logical backups of databases.  • Experienced in performing Point-in-Time Recovery.  • Performed Capacity Planning and Bench Marking  • Load and Transform data using SQL*Loader and External Tables  • Logical and Physical Database Design    • Environment: Oracle 12.1.0.1/12.1.0.2, RHEL 6.x, Solaris 10, Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c, TOAD, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Stored Procedures, ASM, Data guard, Exadata, Oracle Wallet, MGMTDB, SQL Server 2000/SQL Server 2005. Sr. Oracle Apps DBA Global Payments Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2001 to November 2005 • Responsibilities    • Install, configure, implement and support Oracle 9i, 10G environments.  • Help to architect, build and support highly-available Oracle database environments including appropriate reporting, backup-recovery and monitoring systems.  • Participate in capacity management of existing database environments.  • Participate in identifying and analyzing system requirements for building new applications  • Participate in design and development phase of Oracle database systems.  • Lead and participate in projects with cross functional teams  • Analyzing the requirement and converting the requirement into logical & physical structures.  • Generating ER Diagrams using MS-Visio.  • User management  • SQL / Pl SQL Scripting  • Mentor and train technical staff, develop and maintain documentation Skills Database, Dbms, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, Sql server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sridhar-surapaneni-59a09911 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    DBMS & RDBMS Oracle 8i,9i,10g,11g,12c,Sql server and MS-Access, Teradata versions 14.00,14.10  High Availability, Tuning & Monitoring Products  Oracle 10g , 11g RAC, ASM, Streams, Data Guard, 10g,11g,12c Grid Control (OEM), Tkprof, Statspack, AWR, GOLDENGATE , ADDM, ASSM, Veridata,SQL Server    Operating Systems Solaris 9/10, Linux RHEL/OEL 3/4/5, HP-UX 10.x/11.x,AIX 5.2/5.3, Microsoft Windows 2000/2003/2005,UNIX,EXADATA, MySQL (4.x,5,x)  Tools & Utilities  Oracle SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, RMAN, BMC Remedy, Export/Import, expdp/impdp, SQL Loader, SCP, FTP, SFTP, JIRA, MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000,    Backup Tools VERITAS Net Backup, NetApp, TSM, EMC, RMAN, Data pump  MS Office Tools, Skills Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Oracle Retail Store Solutions, Oracle Retail Merchandising System  Programming Languages C,C++,Asp.Net, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL  Skills  Software Installation, Upgrading & Troubleshooting, Patch & Change Management, Oracle Net8 Configuration & Troubleshooting, Backup & Recovery Strategies, Database Cloning, Performance Tuning