Principal Consultant Principal Consultant Principal Consultant - MariaDB Corporation San Francisco Bay Area, CA Skilled database consultant with experience in DevOps, web development and system design. Architect of robust, highly available and scalable database topology. Publisher of many open source database automation projects. Holds dual citizenship with the right to work throughout the US or EU. Work Experience Principal Consultant MariaDB Corporation - Menlo Park, CA January 2017 to Present Perform several duties such as architecture and design, security audits and performance tuning of MariaDB/MySQL database systems. This includes  replication, Galera, Maxscale, ColumnStore, MyRocks, Spider and more.  Design and create dynamically scalable, highly available, fault-tolerant, and reliable databases infrastructure.    Common consulting activities include training, jumpstarts, performance tuning and health checks for some of the fortune 500's largest companies.  Helped plan and execute several large scale enterprise database upgrades  and data migrations from MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, and Oracle to MariaDB.    As an experienced DevOps architect and developer, analyze customer  applications from end-to-end and provide the best infrastructure solutions.  Interface with Linux and Windows environments on various platforms including  AWS, Docker, Virtualbox, Kubernetes, and barebones hardware. Develop  easy to use automation scripts using Vagrant, Terraform, Docker and Ansible.  I maintain a GitHub repository (https://github.com/toddstoffel) with several  automation projects for rapid deployment of MariaDB infrastructure.    Autodesk Lead Database Administrator Autodesk - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to January 2017 Optimized and supported global enterprise database clusters with user base of over 20 million while processing tens of thousands of queries per second    Led an international team of DBAs using Cassandra, Microsoft SQL Server,  Oracle, MongoDB, Amazon RDS, MySQL and MariaDB.    Designed and built an HA DBaaS platform using MySQL and Galera.    Performed tasks such as data migration, database architecture design,  performance tuning, high availability solutions, monitoring, and modernization.    Created a custom monitoring solution for MariaDB MaxScale using the MariaDB Connect Engine.    Wrote Ansible automation scripts for rapid deployment, maintenance and updates of systems.    Configured and deployed AWS EC2 servers and maintained servers as their  system administrator.    Implemented proper disaster recovery practices with planning, testing, backup/  restore.    Worked closely with development teams to tune and design queries and schema for optimal application performance    Integrated monitoring and alerting with ServiceNow and PagerDuty.    Participated in regular Agile sprint planning and execution. Developer / Database Administrator Gun Accessory Supply - Oakdale, CA November 2013 to February 2016 Redesigned and maintained the corporate e-commerce website. (Magento)    Designed and administered complex MariaDB/MySQL Galera database  clusters on virtual, physical and AWS servers.    Maintained Microsoft SQL Server to MySQL Galera Cluster replication through use of SymmetricDS and custom Perl scripting. Maintained MySQL/MariaDB  Galera to MySQL standard replication.    Designed and developed cloud based packing/shipping control system.    Debugged and modified software components.    Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrate  scripts with the company website.    Maintained existing applications.    Designed and delivered new applications. Data Processing Manager ABS Direct, Inc - Modesto, CA October 2012 to October 2013 Managed a small staff of IT professionals.    Maintained and monitored the server room, the wireless network and other IT  infrastructure.    Analyzed market trends and the competitive landscape to understand  opportunities and potential value.    Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrated  scripts with the company website.    Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures.    Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance. Developer / Database Administrator Apple - Elk Grove, CA August 2010 to October 2012 Evaluated multiple software solutions during early software architecture  plotting and system migration planning stage.    Designed, built and maintained MySQL (Percona) high availability databases to power front end dashboards, metrics, and reporting applications.    Stress-tested server code to validate code changes.    Assessed costs and risks associated with developing new features and products.    Collaborated with product management to design, build and test systems.    Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software  products. Identified process inefficiencies through gap analysis.    Researched and resolved issues regarding the integrity of data flow into databases.    Developed a set of metrics derived from raw company data to track  improvements in organizational efficiency.    Mapped current processes and offered recommendations for improvement.    Translated business goals, feature concepts and customer needs into prioritized product requirements and use cases.    Gathered detailed use cases and requirements through regular on-site visits,  virtual meetings and customer advisory board sessions.    Led communication with stakeholders regarding product goals and progress  made.    Gold Coast Web Development Web Developer Gold Coast Web Development - Merced, CA June 1995 to August 2010 Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software  products.    Streamlined deployment process by developing continuous integration tools.    Strengthened developmental methodologies by introducing a code quality  document.    Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrated  scripts with the CMS.    Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures.    Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance.    Drafted comprehensive reports to document bugs and design flaws.    Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage and management of customer orders.    Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system  designs.    Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.    Debugged and modified software components.    Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.    Designed, built, and maintained MySQL database architecture. Education Bachelor's Skills database (10+ years), Database Design (Less than 1 year), Publisher (Less than 1 year), Reliability Engineering (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/todd-stoffel http://github.com/toddstoffel Additional Information Top Skills Skilled database consultant with experience in DevOps, web  Database Design development and system design. Architect of robust, highly  Leadership available and scalable database topology. Publisher of many open  Reliability Engineering source database automation projects. Holds dual citizenship with the  right to work throughout the US or EU.