Operational Database Administrator Operational <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Camden, NJ Looking for the professional opportunity to put my knowledge,  experience and potential to achieve the goals of a company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operational Database Administrator Police and Fire Federal Credit Union - Bensalem, PA November 2017 to Present • Application support for Sql Server 2012/2014/2016/2017.  • Performance and tuning of Sql Server/Databases/Objects.  • Assist in the management of all PFFCU databases performance.  • Implementation and enforcing for database standards.  • Management of multiple IT projects.  • Applying scripting/programming skills to automate system related functions.  • Review and Maintenance of daily sql jobs.  • Backup/DR/Replication/Restore of Sql Servers and Databases.  • Security and hardening of Sql Server.  • Patch management and updates to Sql Servers and Databases.  • Researching, developing, and implementing new technologies.  • Researching, planning, designing, and implementing database solutions.  • Supporting the technical design and implementation of Sql Server within the Company.  • Revising and updating IT departmental procedures as it applies to Database scheduling, tuning and maintenance.  • Documenting internal support processes and procedures.  • Designing and implementing processes to ensure high availability of all systems and take immediate control of production problems and drive them to resolution.  • Working closely with Server Team, Developers Team and NOC Team on projects of all scopes, including cross-functional efforts.  • Working with the VP, Servers and Systems to determine departmental priorities.  • When appropriate engaging outside contractors with proper technical expertise.  • Ensuring timely completion of projects and deployments.  • Other duties as assigned by the VP, Servers and Systems. SQL Server DBA Assistant Manager BHD Leon Bank November 2011 to February 2016 Dominican Republic    • Responsible of installing and maintaining SQL Server database systems  (Production/Development/QA).  • Responsible of the administration and performance to keep the online services  available on a 24/7 work environment that covers over 146 bank branches across the country.  • Responsible of Installing, configuring and maintaining High Availability for production environment (Clustering, Replication, LogShipping).  • Creating and maintaining the database backups using SQL Server and 3rd party  applications.  • Responsible of resolving system issues, database deadlocks and monitoring  automated jobs.  • Responsible of changes, modifications, hot fixes, patches and tuning.  • Migration of the whole SQL Server environment from previous to new SQL Server  versions (from SQL 7, 2000 and 2005 to 2008 R2).  • Responsible of applying SQL service packs and security fixes on SQL environment  (up to 20 Servers and 500+ databases.  • Responsible of SQL Server user management, application and database permissions and roles.  • Responsible of monitoring the health and performance of the SQL environment  using SQL server Profiler and third party tools.  • Responsible of the management for the critical mission database that manages the fraud alert monitoring application for all banking operations 24/7.  • Creation and administration of day to day operations and critical SQL server alerts.  • Working as support of the SQL server applications in a day to day basis with the development team.  • Fulfilling requests and resolving incidents within SLAs.  • Responsible of updating the system documentation and data dictionary.  My SQL Server Blog: sqlserverfan.wordpress.com SQL Server Database Administrator APEC University September 2008 to November 2011 Dominican Republic    • Responsible of the management, administration, performance and maintenance of  SQL Server 2008 databases environment (Production/Development).  • Continuous monitoring of databases and security. (SQL Logs, Operating System  Logs).  • Responsible of resolving system issues, database deadlocks and monitoring  automated jobs.  • Responsible of databases continuous improvement, performance, maintenance,  application of patches and updates.  • Responsible of the creation and management of the SQL databases backups.  • Responsible of SQL Server database permissions and roles.  • Responsible of updating the system documentation.  • Working with the development team in order to create the necessary T-SQL scripts,  stored procedures, tables, views and indexes.  • Responsible for Installing, configuring and maintaining SQL failover cluster for production environment.  • Direct assistance to the IT Coordinator with the academic management applications  using the ERP CLASS (www.innovasof.com). SQL Server Database Administrator Zanzibar Industries December 2006 to August 2008 Dominican Republic    • Working as SQL Server 2005 application support of the ERP Microsoft Dynamics  Great Plains 9.0.  • Responsible of the administration and performance to keep the online services  available on a 24/7 work environment.  • Responsible of changes, modifications, hot fixes, patches and tuning.  • Responsible of monitoring the health and performance of the SQL environment  using SQL server native tools and third party tools.  • Continuous monitoring and resolution of databases bottlenecks, blocks and deadlocks.  • Administration and management of SQL Server Backup using SQL Server tools and  Veritas Backup Exec 9.0 for Windows Servers.  • Management of the preventive system inventory (MP2).  • Management of the Payroll System Management (Genesys).    My SQL Server Blog: sqlserverfan.wordpress.com Education Bachelor in Computer Science Dominican University O&M May 2001 to January 2006 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR (10+ years), Sql Dba, Sql Server Additional Information Expertise    • Senior Database Administrator with over 13+ years of extensive experience  managing database servers running on SQL Server 6.5, 7.0, 2000, 2005, 2008,  2008 R2, 2012 and 2014.  • DBA Consultant / Remote DBA Services.  • Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) SQL Server 2012/2014.  • MCITP: Database Administrator 2008.  • MCTS: Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Implementation and Maintenance.  • Windows Server Administrator - 4 years of experience.  • Advanced knowledge of Database Theory and best practices.  • Depth knowledge and strong experience in SQL Server Administration including  installation and upgrade of the Database Engine and Client Tools, Allocation System  Storage, Backup/Restore operations, Migration, Indexing, Statistics, Maintenance,  Monitoring, Optimization, Performance Tuning, Partitioning, Disaster recovery and  Troubleshooting.  • Experience securing SQL Server, user management, permissions and roles.  • Hands-on experience in SQL Server implementation in a 24/7 environment.  • High Availability: AlwaysOn, Clustering, Mirroring, Replication and LogShipping.  • Knowledge of the underlying Windows Servers Operating Systems  2000/2003/2008/2012.  • Knowledge of Storage Technologies, Memory Management, Disk Arrays, TCP/IP  Networking.  • Advanced knowledge using native monitoring tools for SQL Server and 3rd parties  like SQL Monitor and Spotlight.  • Project support: Providing the necessary knowledge to help and support new and  current solutions.    My SQL Server Blog: sqlserverfan.wordpress.com  SQL Server Certifications Proficient    SQL Monitor  Spotlight  Solar Winds  DPA ( Database Performance Analyzer)  NetBackup  Networking  Office Suite  Tivoli Storage  Manager  Veritas Backup Exec