Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle DBA with expertise in GoldenGate and Performance Tuning Chicago, IL Looking for a career in Database Administration which involves new challenges and implementing best  practices, replication solutions and learning latest Cloud technology features. Interested in building young  DBAs and also manage applications and databases with complete dedication. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina - Chicago, IL July 2018 to Present Oracle DBA for BSC Lead Oracle DBA Fidelity Investments December 2015 to January 2018 Oracle Performance Tuning, Data model changes, Golden Gate implementations. Golden Gate Support Analyst Oracle - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2011 to December 2015 Providing customer support for all Global Oracle Golden Gate customers for all databases and platforms.  • Troubleshooting any OGG related issues like performance, data issues or memory related  issues.  • Helping the customers in installation, up gradation, migration and patching.  • Resolving all the Oracle Golden Gate replication issues between the heterogeneous databases like Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 databases.  • Raise Bug with the Development team and do regular follow-up to provide a fix for the issue. Database Administrator Oracle - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2006 to January 2011 Oracle 9i/10g DBA experience on replicated production databases in the Linux platform.  • Troubleshooting any DB issues like performance, db availability or memory related issues.  • Experience in Oracle DB Upgrade from 9i to 10g, applying CPU and Bug patches.  • User and Security / Access Management through Profiles, Roles and Privileges.  • Developed Unix Shell scripts to automate regular activities or database health checks.  • KT plan for the new resources joining and managed a team of 5 DBAs. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Christ College - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2006 BSc in Mathematics St. Berchmanns College - Changanacheri, Kerala March 2003 SSLC Kristu Jyoti School March 1998 Skills DATABASES (9 years), SQL (4 years), DATABASE (4 years), Oracle Dba, Oracle Dba Links https://WWW.LINKEDIN.COM/IN/RENNYDBA Additional Information KEY SKILLS    • Oracle Golden Gate Product Expert    • SQL Performance Tuning    • PLSQL & Shell Scripting    • Automating Data Modeling Changes    • Familiar with DB Upgrades & Migration    • Oracle Data pump and Delphix to perform Schema Refreshes    • Experience in working on RAC, Exadata & HA systems    • Solid experience on Toad & Oracle Enterprise Manager    Latest Experience: Oracle Golden Gate SME and Lead DBA @ Fidelity Investments. [Dec 2015 - Jan 2018]    • Providing Database Support to the Production and Non-Prod databases of the firm.  • Designing, Implementing and troubleshooting all Golden Gate issues like performance, data  issues or memory related issues.  • Administering Data Model and heavy seeding deployments and projects.  • Identifying & resolving query performance issues on OLTP and Exadata Warehouse DBs.  • Refreshing prod data into lower environments using Delphix tool.  • Performing Disaster Recovery scenario every 6 months.  • Handling Oracle database upgrades from 11g to 12c version.  • Good Experience in Oracle Exadata and RAC environment.