SQE DevOps Engineer SQE DevOps Engineer SQE DevOps Engineer - Nearshore Technology • Having 12+ years of experience in Information Technology providing high quality solutions.  • 2+ Years working as Cloud Architect/ Administrator experience using Amazon web services (VPCs, EC2 instances, Peer Connections, Site to Site VPN configurations, Security Groups, ACLs, IAM, S3)  • Last 2 years as DevOps Engineer, with experience in Configuration Management and Desire State Configuration management.  • Experience managing and deploying DevOps tools like: SaltStack, Ansible, Jenkins, Jira, BitBucket, Docker, ElasticSearch ELK, prometheus and Grafana.  • Design and manage the adoption of new open source technologies saving money on licensing software.  • Project manager certified, more that 7 years combine the technical field and project management methodology as professional certified ensure the competition of the projects on time and under the budget.  • Systems administration more than 15 years, experience on deploy, administer and support a variety of Infrastructure and networking devices.  • Senior Databases developer/ administrator managing SQL Server and Sybase ASE deploying data structures such as OLTP, OLAP, Datawarehouses and Data Cubes.  • Experience in installing, configuring, troublehsooting and managing Office 365 hybrid environments for more than 25k mailboxes.  • Virtualization install, troubleshoot and admin hypervisors for different customers like: VMWare vSphere and Hyper-V.  • 6+ years of experience as network administrator managing and troubleshooting switches, routers and firewalls like: Cisco and Fortinet.  • Linux System Administrator with 8+ years of experience in industries like Oil & Gas, Medical and Education.  • Planing, Installing and Managing Windows services such as Active Directory, DNS and DHCP.  • Business Intelligence architect and designer, ETL architect and KPI designer in different indutries like Education and Oil & Gas.  • Intermediate level managing MySQL, PostgreSQL and MongoDB to support applications.  • 6+ years of experience writing scripts to automate diverse tasks in windows and linux platforms using tools like PowerShell, Bash and Python. Work Experience SQE DevOps Engineer Nearshore Technology April 2017 to Present Project Description: Build, test, update and deploy automated software packages to install medical applications for the client. Managing AWS infrastructure and configuration management environment.    Responsibilities:  • Build software installers using a bootstrap tool to deploy medical applications.  • Build from scratch PowerShell scripts to add business logic to those software packages.  • Test automated software packages in virtual environments to fix and document issues  • Troubleshoot software packages installers in production environment and fix them by releasing a new version of the packages.  • Manage, troubleshoot and support AWS cloud infrastructure configuring VPCs, Security Groups, ACL's, Peer connections, IAM, S3 permissions.  • Manage and deploy configuration management using SaltStack.  • Monitoring internal applications and building graphs to visualize trends.    Environment: Dotnetinstaller 2.4, PowerShell, Powershell ISE, SQL Server, VMware, Windows Server, MS TFS, Jenkins, Helix Perforce, Jira, Confluence, SaltStack, Prometheus, Grafana. System / Database Administrator Puebla Iberoamerican University Mexico April 2012 to April 2017 Project Description: Responsible for all the information technology infrastructure services and core databases.    Responsibilities:  • Manage more than 90 virtual servers within VMware vSphere 5.5.  • Troubleshooting and applying solutions for VMware virtual environment issues.  Enough expertise installing Vmware ESXi servers, vCenter Servers (Windows and Appliance) and P2V migrations.  • Applying updates for ESXi Hosts and VCenter Server using VMware Update Manager.  Monitoring VMware vSphere environment with vRealize Operations Manager.  • Firewall migration project moving rules, static and dynamic NAT's from CISCO ASA to NFG Mcafee Firewall.  • Responsible for virtual machine's migration from Hyper-V to VMware vSphere using Vmware Converter 5.5 (Windows and Linux virtual machines).  • Responsible for RDBMS's databases migration and upgrade from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2016 and Sybase ASE 15.7 to Sybase 16.  • Manage and troubleshoot backup operations using EMC Avamar backup solution and Avamar Administrator 7.1.1.  • Responsible for managing, troubleshooting and monitoring Storage VNX SAN solution.  • Managing, installing, configuring and troubleshooting MS Office 365 hybrid environment.  • Responsible for the creation of powershell scripts to automate manual tasks for diverse technologies and solutions.  • Managing and configuring Barracuda SPAM FIREWALL model 600 used to protect malicious emails from outside.  • Responsible for MS Active Directory, MS Exchange servers, SharePoint and MS CRM.  • Database Administrator (Security, Management, Reporting and Development) for SQL Server and Sybase ASE engines.    Environment: SQL Server, Sybase ASE, VMWare, Windows server, Active Directory, Cisco IOS, Fortinet, Office 365, MS Exchange, MS CRM, MS SharePoint, EMC Avamar. System Administrator Cotemar S.A de C.V July 2007 to May 2011 Project Description: Responsible for designing, installing, troubleshooting and upgrading all systems and network infrastructure in the main Datacenter.    Responsibilities:  • Installing, configuring and solving issues related to physical and virtual servers (Windows / VMware).  • Responsible for Datacenter operations.  • Responsible for more than 150 servers located in different semi-submersible and accomodation offshore platforms.  • Responsible for information backup operations by using Backup Exec solution.  • Limited operations as a DBA (Installation, Configuration, Backups, Restores) using SQL Server.    Environment: Windows Server, VMWare, Backups Exec, SQL Server, MS Exchange, Active Directory, QlikView, MS SharePoint. Education Computer Systems Universidad Realistica de Mexico 1999 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Sybase, Cisco, Vmware, Iis, Html, Json, Python, Xml, Hyper-v, Ios, Apache, Linux, Kafka, Mongodb, Ase Additional Information Technical Skills:  Server Operating systems Linux, Windows  Databases SQL Server, Sybase ASE, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Web Servers Apache, IIS  Infrastructure VMware vSphere, Hyper-V, Cisco IOS  Cloud providers AWS, MS Azure  Programming Languages HTML, Python, Jinja, Yaml, XML, JSON    Courses:  AWS (2019), MS Azure (2019), ELK (2019), Kubernetes (2019), Kafka (2019), Python (2019)