AEM Architect AEM Architect AEM Architect - X-Dimensions LLC Gainesville, VA Work Experience AEM Architect X-Dimensions LLC - Gainesville, VA 2017 to Present Specially hired to deliver complex AEM & Lifecycle enterprise software solutions and implementations based on customer requirements.  • Delivered AEM 6.3 based custom security solution architecture for national financial institution within two weeks of on boarding, exceeding client requirements and expectations. Senior Consultant Adobe Systems - McLean, VA 2015 to 2017 Managed Adobe software client projects by architecting full-stack custom AEM software solutions based on customer requirements and resolving complex technical challenges.  • Actively contributed to the successful delivery of Adobe's Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Centers for Medicare & Medicaid (CMS) Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) Exemptions Forms initiative as Architect, Technical Consultant and Scrum Master. The project consisted of the design and deployment of a multi-tiered AEM 6.1 OSGi Author/Publisher/Dispatcher instance on AWS EC2 with Content Delivery Network (CDN) and the customization of an enterprise level AEM Adaptive Forms solution targeting 7 complex PDF Exemption Application conversion to an adaptive online format.  • Successfully led quality assurance and software testing initiatives on several AEM and LiveCycle ES4 projects. This included creating in-depth test plans and test cases for unit, security, regression, functional, performance, and UAT testing. These efforts resulted in a marked increase in end-product quality, reduction in software bugs, errors and the identification/mitigation of several risks which would have otherwise gone unnoticed.  • Actively engaged with geographically-dispersed project managers, business teams, developers, and users across all phases of the software development lifecycle to successfully deliver custom enterprise AEM/LiveCycle software solutions supporting hundreds of thousands of end-users.  • Successfully developed automated software test scripts using Selenium WebDriver, Mocha, Chai, Node.JS and Jenkins on several projects with focus on reusability and maintainability.  • Served as Project Lead on several Agile AEM projects, leveraging Jira to organize and track vast numbers of project requirements, tasks, and issues for development efforts.  • Performed intensive analysis, documentation and testing to ensure projects met established Information Security and risk management requirements and procedures related to application security.  • Designed, configured and implemented Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) and LiveCycle environments using AEM 6.1/6.2 application tiers and redundant Mongo DB databases via Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Engaged with numerous government clients to deliver Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) 6.0/6.1/6.2 based solutions such as Adaptive Forms, AEM Sites and Adobe Campaign.  ? Spearheaded first Quality Management practice within Adobe Federal. Collaborated with Director to provide a standardized Quality Assurance framework for use on all Adobe software development projects. Framework included technical recommendations, workflows, documentation and best practices.  ? Facilitating daily SCRUM meetings, Sprint Planning and other Agile related tasks.  ? Provided leadership and requirements guidance for development teams on several projects.  ? Actively participated in coding activities for several projects, including coding, debugging, and troubleshooting.  ? Translated partner and client needs to requirements based on a balance of architecture standards, plans and feasibility.  ? Performed root-cause analysis and provided recommendations for production issues related to development.  ? Successfully developed section WCAG 2.0/508 (Rehabilitation Act) compliance for the Tarrant County, Texas website.  ? Created inaugural SDLC documentation library for use within both federal and commercial Adobe sectors. Drafting highly detailed SDLC documents for reusability on all federal, state and commercial software projects. Library including Business Requirements Document (BRD), System Design Document (SDD), and Master Test Plan (MTP).  ? Achieved Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and Certified Manager of Software Testing (CMST) certifications to further augment subject matter expertise on application architecture, development, security and testing. Senior Engineer SE Solutions - Washington, DC 2013 to 2015 Served as lead engineer on various USDA-FSIS software projects by resolving issues in reliability, logistics and integration. Provided technical leadership, consultation, engineering, and development services. Duties include providing direct strategic and engineering consultation for USDA FSIS OCIO IT systems and enterprise application development.  ? Successfully architected, engineered, tested and implemented USDA-FSIS' enterprise instance of Adobe Experience Manager & LiveCycle ES4 J2EE/WebSphere in a production environment. Based on this success, I was tasked with driving several subsequent business solution projects using the platform such as digital signature, forms workflows, mobile app development, and PDF services to support 8,000+ agency personnel. This initiative saved the agency more than $100,000 in licensing fees. Awarded achievement and Employee of the Quarter awards as a result.  ? Lead the successful FSIS OCIO EMSS Microsoft Team Foundation Server 2013 upgrade and migration initiative. The environment includes multiple TFS application tiers, a multi-tenant SQL 2012 database, SharePoint and Project Server integration, Release Management, Visual Studio development testing tools and Microsoft SQL Reporting Services. Contributed additional design features such as failover, redundancy, and network load balancing.  ? Contributed to the design and implementation of USDA-FSIS' 508 compliance center testing labs, which included such build controllers, build agents, Application Load Testing and Web Performance testing within Visual Studio.  ? Brought measured approach to the infrastructure architecture that resulted in reduction in complexity and cost and improved ROI for proprietary applications.  ? Integrated 4 dispersed (USDA & USDA-FSIS) Active Directory domains with the AEM 6.1 and LiveCycle environment via LDAP to automate the bulk import of thousands of Agency user and group objects; facilitating user access, security, and Single Sign-On (SSO).  ? Responsible for creating a custom, multi-component script which automated several mission critical agency tasks such as the import/export of data files. Project successfully completed within strict FSIS network security guidelines and policy.  ? Participated in technical exchange meetings as a technical lead.  ? Provided project management and configuration management support, leadership, detailed documentation and test engineering within a high-performance project team.  ? Actively trained agency staff on all completed software projects.  ? Created technical and functional user guides and documentation. Systems Engineer (Contract) GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD May 2013 to September 2013 Resolved complex development challenges and engineered solutions for Geico web applications visited daily by millions of customers as part of the Development Operations/Product Deployment team.    ? Proactively worked with application developers to identify bugs and implement fixes under constrained time and pressure.  ? Responsible for Release Readiness Reviews, Business Go/No-Go Reviews and Milestone Reviews.  ? Communicated project plans and changes (including requirements, schedules, test plans and scope changes) to stakeholders and managers.  ? Participated in release meetings to maintain awareness of upcoming build releases, procedures, dependencies and release targets. System Administrator/ Database Developer National Society of Professional Engineers - Alexandria, VA 2008 to 2013 Executed daily administration and security of a complex system architecture which included Exchange, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity, Cisco VPN, routers, switches, website and databases.  • Oversaw the successful migration of IIS-based NSPE website to a Drupal LAMP stack, saving thousands of dollars in annual licensing fees.  • Proactively spearheaded the design, and implementation of the organization's inaugural mobile/adaptive website. Accomplished with minimal cost and exceeded Board of Directors' and CEO's expectations.  • Oversaw the technical management of organization's IT infrastructure including numerous bare metal and virtualized servers, backup systems, databases, e-mail system, domain controllers, website and web application.  • Engineered backward compatibility solution of existing IIS website with to extend time and budget allocation needed for new Drupal based website.  • Conducted in-depth technical and functional analysis of all systems including, architecture, framework, disaster recovery and business continuity. Presented gap analysis and recommendations to CEO/Board of Directors, attaining 99% up-time.  • Proactively developed and implemented Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures for organization.  • Improved network security by maintaining updates, patches and vigilant monitoring.  • Implemented and administered Cisco Call Manager and Cisco Unified Voice Mail Server.  • Oversaw Active Directory (AD) and eDirectory administration. Set up users, groups via PowerShell Scripts and Group Policy Management Console (GPMC). Administrator/ Database Developer SOSi, LTD - Reston, VA 2007 to 2008 Work performed at SOSi headquarters in Reston, VA supporting custom web portal used by DOD personnel across the globe. Duties included coordination with Program Manager and IT staff for website development, database development and Tier 2 onsite technical support.  Developed and implemented SQL Server database back-end for custom web portal. Worked with internal and external users to assess and support business needs.  ? Reviewed, tuned and optimized existing procedures and functions, resulting in 40% performance increased.  ? Proactively identified and resolved database quality issues in production.  ? Developed Database Applications in SQL Server.  ? Developed and implemented SQL 2005 Integration Services (SSIS) packages.  ? Identified business requirements and implemented applications.  ? Created complex ad-hoc SQL queries and reports for use by executive team. Education BS in Information Technology George Mason University 1999 to 2006 Skills .NET (2 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (2 years), databases (7 years), security (10+ years), SQL (3 years), AEM, Architecture, XML, Linux, HTML, Javascript, Jquery Links http://linkedin.com/in/mokamal1 Certifications/Licenses CISSP Security+ Quality Assurance Management Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Cloud: Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3), Azure  Configuration Management: Chef, Puppet, Vagrant, Jenkins  Databases: MongoDB, MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL  Middleware: JBOSS, WebSphere  OS: Debian, CentOS, Ubuntu, Red Hat, OSX; Windows Server  Programming: C#, Java, JavaScript, PHP, JSP, JQuery, Perl, Python, HTML5, CSS, SQL  Project Management: Jira, Confluence, MS Project, MS SharePoint  QA Tools: JAWS, Visual Studio Ultimate, JMeter, Load Runner, Selenium, Wave, aXe, NVDA  Security: NIST 800-53, IDS/IPS, Snort, WireShark, BurpSuite, Appscan, Nessus, NMAP, AFlogical  Software: Adobe Experience Manager (AEM), LiveCycle ES3 & ES4, Adobe Campaign, CQ, AEM Adaptive Forms, AEM Sites, LiveCyle Designer, LiveCycle Workbench, Adobe CQ5  Version Control: Git, Subversion, Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS), Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Virtualization: VMWare ESXi, Xen, Virt  Web Frameworks: Sling, OSGi, Node.JS, Bootstrap, XML, SOAP, JCR, XML, JSON, RESTful