Oacle Database Administrator Oacle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Hyattsville, MD Seeking an Oracle Database Administrator position in a goal oriented IT environment that will utilize my existing education, hands-on skills, and over five years of work experience to achieve the organizations objectives. Work Experience Oacle Database Administrator Carmax - Rockville, MD January 2011 to Present Responsibilities  ? Planned, installed, configured, managed and troubleshoot Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux   ? Created and managed databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes and other database objects in an environment where over 500 users connect.  ? Configured and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) using database control.  ? Installed and configured relevant network components such as listener.ora and tnsnames.ora to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity  ? Troubleshoot and resolved various Oracle connectivity problems.  ? Performed bulk load into the database using SQL*Loader   ? Performed Standard and Fine Grained Auditing(FGA) to monitor and ensure database security  ? Administered database user accounts. Created, modified, and deactivated user accounts  ? Assigned and monitored user access rights   ? Provided database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  ? Managed Schema Objects.  ? Regularly monitored Alert Log Files and Trace Files on Day to Day Basis.  ? Analyzed Tables and Indexes usage regularly for performance  ? Monitored Tablespaces and Data Files utilization.  ? Managed Undo Tablespaces, Online Redo Logs, Control Files, and Archived Redo Log.  ? Implemented multiplexing Control Files, Redo Log Files and renamed and relocated Data Files  ? Configured various RMAN parameters as per the requirement.  ? Performed physical Cold and Hot backups using RMAN utility.  ? Identified and recovered the corrupted db blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility  ? Performed complete Media Recovery of Database depending on the nature of failure.  ? Used DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  ? Performed database cloning manually and using RMAN   ? Monitored the user sessions and took appropriate action to kill the inactive sessions  ? Created and rebuilt indexes as necessary.  ? Performed various performance goal oriented Database Tuning.  ? Used EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  ? Created and tuned various materialized views.  ? Tuned various slow running query using optimizer  ? Applied quarterly CPU patches to different versions of databases.  ? Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using Patch Set    Accomplishments  I made suggestions that improved the process: I sigested the use of RMAN Recovery Catalog as opposed to relying solely on Controlfile for backup related information. I suggested the use of RAID storage such as RAID 1     Skills Used  Oracle 10gR2/11gR2 installation ? Database Creation ? Patch sets Upgrade ? Database Cloning ? Optimizing CPU’s ? Upgrade 10g to 11g ?OEM ? SQL*PLUS ? Data Guard ? Linux ? SQL ? PL/SQL ? UNIX ? TOAD ? UNIX 4.0 ? AIX ? Unix Shell scripting ? MS Office ? MS  Management? Healthcare ? Microsoft Windows ? Customer Service ? Business ?Finance ?Sales/Marketing ? Management ? Leadership ? Project Management ? Excel ? SQL*LOADER ?  ? English? French ? Spanish Education MS. Healthcare Management in Healthcare University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD 2009 to 2011 B.S. Technical Management/ Health Services Management - Crystal City, VA June 2008 M.S. in Business Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2013 Additional Information • SQL and/or SQL*Plus  • Linux Shell   • SQL* Loader.  • Oracle Recovery manager (RMAN)  • Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Data Pump(expdp and impdp)  • AWR and ADDM  • Multilingual: French, Spanish