Standard Procurement System Specialist Standard Procurement System Specialist Standard Procurement System Specialist - CASE, LLC& Rothe, Inc Lexington, KY More than 10+ years systems management and database administration experience Work Experience Standard Procurement System Specialist CASE, LLC& Rothe, Inc October 2008 to Present -Contractor for Special Operations Forces Support Activity (SOFSA)  • Systems creation, maintenance/upgrades (Operating Systems and Sybase), Information Assurance (IA), change management, creation/maintenance of COOP, testing/implementation of IAVAs, Creation/review MOUs/BPAs for remote access, and user support for the Standard Procurement System (includes Procurement Defense Desktop (PD2) and Sybase) on DOD networks. Maintained a 99.9% uptime on all servers.  • Designed and implemented a physical/virtual heterogeneous (Linux, UNIX, MS Windows) active directory domain to provide a test network for the PD2 application suite. Network created utilizing end of life workstations in order to minimize costs.  • Automated system (Microsoft Windows and Sybase database) maintenance and backups utilizing VBscripts, PowerShell, and batch files.  • Provide on demand and recurring data analysis from multiple data systems (Sybase, SharePoint, MS-SQL).  • Systems Administer and Help desk support for PEO-SOFSA. Database Administrator I L-3 Communications / Integrated Systems May 2001 to August 2008 Database Administrator Manpower Professional 2001 to 2003 • Project scheduling  Primary responsibilities included maintaining Microsoft Access database (production and reconciliation with government) and being an intermediary with Special Operations Forces Support Activity (SOFSA).  • Redesign of Microsoft Access database utilized by cost estimating department and government customer, improving functionality and accuracy by 100%  • Redesign of all forms required for data tracking utilizing Visual Basic for Applications(VBA) design tools and VBA code to improve productivity by 67% Printer Logistics Technician Manpower Professional May 2000 to April 2001 • Primary responsibilities included interfacing with nationwide, multi-million dollar customer to resolve logistic and technical issues in support of a third tier printer installation project.  • Conducted extensive data analysis to enable upgrading project processes to increase project productivity 75%  • Supervised two temporary employees to include training and daily operations. Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft Excel, Procurement, Sales, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Outlook, Procurement Assessments Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/g5zaogp8tmbc4crl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.