Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator/Developer/Engineer Chicago, IL As a database engineer at President Obama's 2012 re-election headquarters I built, loaded, improved and supported databases for the Data Science / Analytics team. I also worked on database design, SQL development and performance improvements for project Narwhal, the AWS cloud-based unified data architecture that you may have read about in The Atlantic, Slate, Time, Wired, or Washington Post.     Before joining the 2012 campaign's staff I was the head of engineering and development at a data aggregation and management company. Today I am very interested in remote database-related opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Integral Ad Science - Chicago, IL 2019 to Present Work with Vertica and MySQL on AWS. Senior Database Administrator SANS Institute 2018 to 2019 * Data lead on team that is building a new security awareness online training platform.  * NoSQL technologies utilized include AWS DynamoDB and AWS Elasticsearch Service. Senior Database Developer NGP VAN - Somerville, MA 2015 to 2018 * Support multiple agile teams that are developing the company's new EveryAction platform. This has involved designing new tables, reviewing source code, assisting QA teams, implementing a process that populates aggregate tables from operational data stores, and developing stored procedures, triggers, views, functions, jobs and Service Broker queues.  * Design, implement, maintain and improve performance of SQL Server database objects plus resolve customer support tickets in the firm's flagship Voter Activation Network (VAN) product.  * Implement components that populate and maintain clients' cloud-based analytic data stores via NGP VAN's "pipeline" product offering, plus complete clients' custom ETL and report requests.  * Create database maintenance and monitoring stored procedures and SQL Agent jobs.  * Development and productivity tools utilized include Git (Github), JIRA, and Confluence. Database Consultant (Contract) ELELSEE - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2014 * Set up and support AWS RDS (MySQL) and DynamoDB database components of multiple clients' solutions, scripting with Bash and Python for installation, demos and prototyping.  * AWS non- database components that I worked with included VPC, S3 and EC2 (Linux).  * Consulted with a client's data science team to address MySQL database performance issues that were causing daily ETL job failures. Database Consultant (Contract) BRIDGE PORTFOLIO - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2014 Collaborated with analysts and sales team to design revenue-producing client reports, populated report tables using SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures. Upgraded database infrastructure. Database Engineer OBAMA FOR AMERICA - Chicago, IL 2011 to 2012 * Database platforms used on the campaign included Vertica (Hewlett Packard's big data column store product), MySQL on AWS (Amazon Web Services) RDS, Microsoft SQL Server, Netezza (IBM's PostgreSQL-based data warehouse) and Oracle 11g. Utilized database tools such as DBVisualizer and MySQL Workbench. Scripting with Bash shell and Python on Ubuntu Linux.  * Supported several organizations at the campaign headquarters, including the Analytics (Data Science) team, the DevOps team, and the Technology Development team (where I worked on project "Narwhal", the campaign's AWS cloud-based unified data architecture).  * Duties included database design, ETL and legacy data migration, database performance tuning and optimization, query writing, data cleaning, and late-night rollouts of database components with dependencies or steps that were too complex for the normal deployment process.  * Also allocated to the Democratic National Committee to address performance issues related to querying and extracting voter data from the MS SQL Server database of all voters in the United States. Set up a new, properly configured server then rebuilt the old server to use as a backup in case the primary server failed.  * Created and taught SQL workshops to campaign staff, trained junior database professionals.  Experience (continued) Vice President of Engineering INSIGNIS, INC - Chicago, IL 2010 to 2011 Senior Software Developer INSIGNIS, INC - Chicago, IL 2009 to 2010 Database Consultant (Contract) INSIGNIS, INC - Chicago, IL 2006 to 2008 Database Administrator SPECTRUM GLOBAL FUND ADMINISTRATION LLC - Chicago, IL 2005 to 2005 Relocated production database infrastructure to new datacenter during a time period when this firm was named the world's fastest growing hedge fund administrator. Software Developer INSIGNIS, INC - Chicago, IL 2001 to 2005 * Lead SQL developer. Built databases in SQL Server, MySQL and PostgreSQL.  * Developed and maintained ETL components written either in C# (Visual Studio) or Java (Eclipse) that transformed and loaded data from over 100 disparate sources into the company's data warehouses each day.  * Created data models and data dictionaries, defined data quality standards and validation rules.  * Built reports for employees and clients, worked with clients to define new product offerings.  * Managed developers, provided training and encouraged knowledge sharing. Adjunct Instructor of Economics WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY - Dayton, OH 1992 to 1995 Graduate Research Assistant WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY - Dayton, OH 1990 to 1991 * Taught courses in economic principles and financial markets.  * Co-authored "Measuring Ohio's Public Education Output"; generated graphs and tables from datasets created in SAS that linked multiple data sources.  * Received Outstanding Graduate Assistant Award for 1990-1991 academic year. Financial Analyst NCR CORPORATION - Dayton, OH 1987 to 1988 * Initiated and completed automation of reporting process for asset accounting.  * Created ad hoc reports utilizing data from different departments that provided insight to auditing, budgeting, forecasting and risk management organizations. Education MS in Computer Science DEPAUL UNIVERSITY June 2001 None in Quantitative Methods and Economics PURDUE UNIVERSITY August 1996 to September 1998 MS in Applied Economics WRIGHT STATE UNIVERSITY December 1991 BS in Management PURDUE UNIVERSITY May 1987 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Database, MYSQL, Sql Server, Linux, ETL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/noelmckinney