Database Architect <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Database Architect - Blue Shield of California San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Architect Blue Shield of California - San Francisco, CA, US November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Blue Shield of California is a Health Insurance provider.  • Supporting Benefit Focus web portals with MySQL, Tivoli DB2 data ware house environments, Provider Book of Records and Value based Program ware house environments under Netezza Striper/Mako environments.  • Successfully supporting 2 PureApp environments with web sphere and 100+ DB2 VMs.  • Successfully supporting Mysql EDGE environments.  • Our Main frame environment host HP and Need to have time to time setup client servers and db2 client software connectivity to Main frame databases.  • Implemented WLM, Netezza Fluid query, DB2 Federation and Oracle Data links etc.  • Implemented 10 node Cloudera Hadoop environment with heavy usage of SQOOP.  • Successfully implemented IBM Info Sphere Federation Server (IIFS), Info sphere data replication (IIDR(CDC)) and Information Governance catalog.  • Setup, maintain and support replication between Blue Cross Blue shield regions with IIDR replication sync the data for Value based Applications which resided in various RDBMS's and Operating systems.  Planning and implementing technology evaluations for a Transactional Database Platform  • Pioneering the use of DB2 LUW in IBM PureApp appliance, MYSQL, MONGODB & INFORMIX within Mentoring Application, Infrastructure, Operation teams on transactional database best practices.  • Written scripts to scan all database vulnerabilities for all databases (DB2, MySQL, Netezza, Oracle & INFORMIX) as per CIS Bench Marks.  • Setup standardized the OPS team work by preparing the Operation turn over documents for DB engineers.  • Written roles and responsibilities for OPS DBA team.  • Lead Database engineers and Operation teams.  • Architect, Design database solutions to support Analytics and BI applications  • Integrate Analytic solutions with legacy price optimization and modeling applications.  • Collaborate with Science, Analytics, Reporting, Product management, Operation teams to design, deploy, capacity planning, performance tuning, and troubleshooting issues.  • Streamlined Database release process and documentation procedures.  • Guided OPS with the Datacenter re-location effort.  • Working on Cassandra for doing POC for Provider Book of Records project. Database Architect IBM - San Mateo, CA, US May 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • IBM DemandTec is a Software-as-Service provider acquired by IBM for retailers and consumer product manufactures with integrated solutions to optimize pricing, promotions, assortments, predict consumer behavior and an industry platform for collaborative business planning.  • Planning and implementing technology evaluations for a Transactional Database Platform. This cumulated in IBM to host Retail Promotions and Consumer products promotions, Price Response other Analytics initiatives included in its nextGen offerings.  • Pioneering the use of DB2 LUW, Netezza, MYSQL, INFORMIX within IBM Experience One, Mentoring Application, Infrastructure, Operation teams on transactional database best practices.  • Implemented WLM, Netezza Fluid query, DB2 Federation and Oracle Data links etc.  • Lead onshore and offshore Engineering and Operation teams.  • Architect, Design database solutions to support Analytics and BI applications  • Integrate Analytic solutions with legacy price optimization and modeling applications.  • Collaborate with Science, Analytics, Reporting, Product management, Operation teams to design, deploy, capacity planning, performance tuning, and troubleshooting issues.  • Streamlined Database release process and documentation procedures.  • Guided OPS with the Datacenter re-location effort.  • Written script to migrate Oracle Schema/Users to other Oracle database servers using datapump and data links. This script was super useful when we migrate/offload schemas seamlessly.  • Worked on MongoDB environment did a POC one of the Centralized Customer View. Lead DBA/Manager VISA Inc - Foster city, CA, US November 2012 to April 2015 Our team was responsible for Emerging Services and Technologies sub division of Visa operational lanes.    Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of DBA's providing transactional database support for our EST team managed to support multiple RDBMS's which are DB2 LUW, MySQL, Oracle, Informix, MS SQL SERVER, and Mongo DB.  • Our team responsible including myself for around 400 Database environments under 15 Major applications.  • Involved and helped migrating Hadoop 2 node environment to 10 node environment. Also migrated data from old environment to new one.  • VISA purchased company called Playspan. As part of integration we did migrate all Playspan database servers to VISA environments. As part of integration MySQL is not our standard RDBMS's. We wrote database standards, architect the physical structures of the databases, written scripts to monitor databases and setup the database alerts.  • Designed process and documented procedural sequences migrating very mission critical databases to Visa without interrupting the business.  • Managing Change management, Incident Management effectively. Assigned changes and incidents to our team members.  • Collaborate Application team members for DB change requests discuss/attend meetings execute the Changes seamlessly.  • Deploy Major DB changes along with Applications changes with minimal impact to the business applying various methods as per criticality of the application down time.  • Shadow/Support to Peer DBAs, when they perform major DB changes  • Expertise in performance tuning of the longing running queries. Replication setups in various RDBMS's and their maintenances.  • Written many automated checking scripts during this tenure as and when necessary. Like capture long running queries, capture sessions running when active logs reach 90%, capture locking sessions, Collect frequent application snapshots as when needed to diagnose application problems, checking database connectivity, runstats and backup scripts including pruging old backup copies and log files etc.  • Perform team administrative tasks such as vacations, expenses, performance appraisals etc. Sr. Database Engineer VISA Inc - Foster city, CA, US May 2011 to October 2012 VISA Vue Online  Responsibilities:  • This Application generates spend analysis reports and submitted to customers.  • This is in 4 Server AIX MPP DPF Environment. This DW Database size is around 8TB.  • Migrated Database from V8.1 FP15 to V9.5 FP5.  • Tuned 26 performance impacted queries.  • Supported DEV-QA-Prod cycles for DDL changes in related to Application DB changes.  • Automated tablespace checks, Backup, MQT refresh and Database connectivity check scripts.    VISA Information Source:  • This Application is subscription based commercial card information systems.  • This is in SUN Solaris 10 non DPF environment. This OLTP Database size is around 640 GB.  • Implemented HADR by replacing Manual Log Shipping process.  • Migrated entire Visa information source database from 8k page size to 16k page size.  • Upgraded from V8.1 FP 9a to V8.1 FP 16. Currently planning to migrate to V9.1 FP5.  • Recently upgraded Sun Solaris server from M6800 (Solaris 8 with 16CPU) to M8000 (Solaris 10 with 32CPU).  • Tuned 7 Performance impacted queries.    VISA Advance Authorization:  • This Application is advance authorization process for credit card holders.  • This Application Database on Sun Solaris 9 Informix 10.00.UC8 with HDR. This OLTP Database Size is around 450GB Database.  • Implemented HDR between two different geographical locations with in US.  • Migrated Informix version from 9.21 to 10.00. Sr. DBA Safeway Inc - Walnut Creek, CA, US June 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Sr. Database administrator with 24/7 support.  • Maintained Business critical applications like Corema (Safeway Club Card) and Spot/RTPP (Safeway Promotions) databases.  • This Job involves giving support and install, configure and maintain Informix & DB2 UDB databases.  • Installing & Upgrading & creating Version 7 & 8 DB2 Instances  • Worked with Utilities & commands like Snapshot & Health Monitors, Export, Import & Load, DB2 Backup, Restore and User Exit programs  • Support, configure and maintain 11 UDB database Servers on Sun Solaris flat form, related to business critical applications like Corema.  • Worked on multi partition instances, install, and setup and maintain EEE databases.  • Migrated Informix Databases to UDB successfully for Spot/RTPP databases.  • Working and support Teradata 60 node system. Supported 2 Oracle 9I Instances.  • Optimized the query plans by running the Update statistics regularly and suggesting the tips to the developers like indexes needed to be created or not and etc.  • Automated Monitoring of the Instances and Databases by Using of BMC patrol monitor tools and does the database admin.  • Strong exposure in DB2 LOAD, DB2MOVE, DB2LOOK, SQL EXPLAIN tools, db2advis, Auto configure Informix Onstat, onpload, Dbimport, Dbexport, IPL, Onmonitor, IECC, Onlog, Oncheck, HDR, Shell Programming, AWK programming, SAP DBA etc.    Environment: IBM 7017-S70, IBM 7017-S70A, IBM 7015-R50, SUN UE420R, SUN UE6500, SUN UE3000, C++, JAVA, J2EE, Telarian, Roguewave, Informix DRDA Gateway, DB2 Connect, Db2 data propagator, AIX 4.3.3, SUN 5.7,  Power Builder 6.5. System Administrator DHL WORLD WIDE EXPRESS June 2007 to July 2009 System Administrator Installed, setup, maintained and supported Unix operating systems and Production Informix databases.    Responsibilities:  • Played dual role here as UNIX system administrator as well as Informix DBA.  • Job involves Installation, configuration and maintenance of SCO UNIX and Informix online 5.x Engine in particular.  • Supporting User problems and self developed applications in New era at the User end.  • Supporting Connectivity issues from New era to Informix.  • Administration of UNIX and Informix, monitoring the databases.  • Trained the users in WINDOWS95, MS Office and EMAIL Applications.  • Taking care of regular backups on whole System as well as Informix Online.  • Did performance tune on SCO UNIX 5.x and Informix Online 5.x.  • Maintained two databases on INFORMIX 5.x server on SCO UNIX 3.2.5 Platform including hardware and software support.  • Used to do dial from local server to regional office (Bangalore) server and get the data and merge the data into local database.  • Above procedure is achieving by Dialup connection, corn job Settings and running backbend 4gl programs.  • Regular checking of the databases by using the tbstat, online.log Files and run the  • Tbcheck utility and update statistics regularly.  • Installation Software patches and various software products.    Environment: Informix Online Server 5.08, New Era 3.0, SCO UNIX, Wipro Pentium Server. Field Engineer WIPRO FRANCHISE October 2005 to June 2007 Sr. Field Engineer installed, setup, maintained and supported Intel based desktops, heterogeneous novel and UNIX systems including their peripherals.    Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of IBM based Intel range of Personal Computers from XT to Pentium including peripherals like Hard Disk drives, floppy drives, monitors, keyboards, tape drives, DATS, CD ROMS and printers.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and system administration of Heterogeneous networks based on different platforms like SCO UNIX3.2.5, SVR4, UnixWare, NOVELL NETWARE3.x&4.x and Windows NT including nodes, terminal and workstations.  • Installation and maintenance of WIPRO EPSON range of dot matrix, inkjet printers and L&T printers  • Card level interactive debugging.  • Supporting to other Engineers and collecting Annual maintenance contracts. Education Diploma in Electronics & Communications Engineering in Electronics & Communications Engineering S. V Polytechnic 1991 Certification UC Berkley Skills DB2 (8 years), INFORMIX (10+ years), MySQL (6 years), SCO (3 years), Unix (3 years) Additional Information Operating systems: RHEL 7.x& 6.x, CENTOS 7.x & 6.xSun Solaris 8,9&10, AIX Unix5.3.3&6.1, HP UNIX, RHEL, Z LINUX, SCO UNIX 5, UnixWare7, Windows.  Tools: Monyog, MySQL dumper, Percona Mysql tools, IIFS, IIDR, Nagios, Munin, OPTIM, TSA, SAPDBA, OEM, IPL, RUP, VERITAS NetBackup, Legato NetBackup, BMC Patrol, BMC Db reorg, Informix DRDA Gateway, CDR, ODBC, JDBC type2 & type4, BMC Smart DBA, Quest Central, DB2 Connect and BEZ.  Programming Languages: Bash Shell scripts, AWK, SED, JQ & learned Python Scripting and ready to work on it given me a chance.