Developer/Programmer Consultant Developer/Programmer Consultant Developer/Programmer Consultant - MBI Newtown, CT Thirty years of IT experience, fifteen as SQL Server DBA managing various applications such as customer facing membership website, Call Center, Data Warehouse, Advantage Computing (publisher fulfillment system), Lawson Financials, Payroll, Website content management and delivery systems. Utilized Replication, SSIS, Linked Servers, T-SQL.& SSRS Self-motivated, responsible, and reliable with strong technical skills. Enjoys working with users, collaborating with peers, finding creative solutions and the challenges of solving problems. My DBA skills and prior development experience give me a well-rounded view of projects & lifecycles. Work Experience Developer/Programmer Consultant MBI - Norwalk, CT June 2019 to Present Maintain & develop applications on IBM i Series Mid-range system using legacy & current versions of RPG programming language. Database Administrator Execunet - Norwalk, CT January 2013 to June 2019 Connecting Leaders Since 1988. Trusted Advice, Transformative Results.    Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration  • Managing multiple SQL servers, local & at hosting facility. These databases run Execunet's business, website, marketing and in-house applications.  • Played Key Role migrating physical servers to cloud based, hosted servers, improving performance & reducing maintenance.  • Primary SQL developer during major website upgrade from ColdFusion based to PHP based.  • Utilize RedGate software to streamline & automate backups  • Upgraded all production servers from SQL 2005 to 2016 during migration to new data center.  • Solely responsible for security, backup & recovery, tuning, performance and troubleshooting.  • Identified a SQL Injection attack assisted by custom trace file analysis. Comprehensive data backups mitigated interruptions, and directed PHP developer to enhance vulnerable code.  • Assisted in architecture and implementation to become PCI compliant. Database Administrator JNet Communications - Milford, CT September 2008 to January 2013 JNet: parent co. of Servicom, a Call Center Company and Vitel, a Cable Infrastructure Company    Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration  • Managing multiple SQL servers at off-site facility. These host databases for clients such as BP, Comcast, GM, AT+T, Allstate, Jackson Hewitt and internal business for Servicom & Vitel, including data for application development and testing servers.  • Implemented comprehensive backup strategy to replace haphazard DR plan.  • Implemented Change Control procedures and coding standards.  • Upgraded 5 production servers from SQL 2000 to 2005 during migration to new data center.  • Solely responsible for security, backup & recovery, tuning, performance and troubleshooting.  • Responsible for 150 Databases ranging from 1 gig to the 1.2 Terabyte main production database.  • Implemented PCI compliant controls in our SQL databases Database Administrator The Taunton Press - Newtown, CT 2003 to 2008 Taunton Press: Publisher of special interest books, magazines and videos    Microsoft SQL Server Database Administration  • Managed multiple SQL servers at local & remote locations. These hosted the public website for product orders, website content, back office order processing, enterprise financials, data warehouse and application development and testing servers.  • Solely responsible for security, backup & recovery, replication, tuning & performance, troubleshooting, SQL 2000 to SQL 2005 upgrades and Service Pack installation.  • Responsible for SAN storage strategies, growth planning, developer and power user support. Databases ranged from < 1 gig to the 275 Gig main production database.    Focus on security, performance and efficiency.  • Evaluated and implemented backup compression software, which reduced backup times by 66%, reduced backup storage by 80%, and reduced restoration downtime.  • Evaluated & Implemented 3rd party tools for SQL troubleshooting, security, and SQL management.  • Increased performance by utilizing multiple data files and isolating index files.  • Created custom replication monitoring utilities.  • Standardized SQL security based on Windows Active Directory Groups.  • Participated in PCI (Payment Card Industry) Compliance procedures.  • Developed and tested plans for migration from 32-bit to 64 bit SQL Server.    SQL Data Warehouse  • Lead developer creating Data Warehouse for Marketing and Promotion Business Intelligence initiatives.  • Extensive DTS, Replication and ETL with minimal impact on the critical needs of the users. Included light Integration Services work after converting to SQL 2005.    Development Support  • Assisted developers troubleshooting applications.  • Enforced coding standards across SQL environments.  • Responsible for pushing code from dev/test to production.    MySQL DBA.  • Responsible for implementing security, tuning, backups in support of WAMP web environment and related testing environment.    Lawson Financial Technical administrator.  • Responsible for security and applying patches & upgrades. Also worked with the application administrator during major product upgrades. Sr. Programmer/Analyst The Taunton Press - Newtown, CT 1990 to 2003 Developer of In House Fulfillment systems.  • Designed and developed in house order processing and fulfillment applications on IBM AS/400.  • Worked closely with users & project managers during the entire lifecycle.  • Responsible for AS/400 security, backup & recovery and upgrades to 3rd party products.    Conversion from In House systems to 3rd party application  • In 2003 Taunton undertook a yearlong conversion of their entire business from the  • Key role in all phases of the AS/400 to Microsoft SQL Server conversion, testing & implementation.  • Created custom utilities to: Identify & eliminate obsolete source code; identify large unused data files; create a "where used" database for system objects. Programmer/Analyst Eaton Consolidated Controls - Bethel, CT 1987 to 1989 Consolidated Controls manufactures precision instrument controls for the aerospace and defense industry    Developer of In House Manufacturing systems.  • Developed, tested & implemented in house order processing, manufacturing and inventory support applications on IBM AS/400 mid-range computers utilizing RPG, RPG\ILE and CLP languages. Programmer/Analyst Cannondale Corp - Georgetown, CT 1985 to 1987 Cannondale is a manufacturer of high-end bicycles and accessories    Developer of In House Manufacturing systems.  Developed, tested & implemented in house order processing, manufacturing and inventory support applications on IBM AS/400 mid-range computers utilizing RPG, RPG\ILE and CLP programming languages. Skills DATA TRANSFORMATION, MYSQL, REPLICATION, SQL, SQLITE Additional Information Skills    SQL  • SQL 2005 & upgrades from SQL 2000  • DTS (Data Transformation Services)  • Replication  • SSIS (Integration Services)  • Linked Servers  • Log Shipping to standby server  • SAN storage  • Idera & Redgate Tools: Backups, Compliance Diagnostics  • Lumigent Log Explorer    MySQL  • Navicat  • MySQL Administrator    SQLite  • SQL Maestro    AS/400  • RPG-3, RPG-IV, RPG\ILE, CLP  • Hawkeye Pathfinder ("Where Used", Object Analysis)  • Implementer Administrator (Source Control)