Offshore DBA Offshore DBA Oracle DBA - HP Inc. Spring, TX • Extensive knowledge on database administration for 10g, 11g and 12c with experience in very largescale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • RAC Installation and Maintenance, setting up and configuring Dataguard, performing all kinds of Backups and Recoveries, Cloning databases.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 11g and 12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration, RAC Installation using ASM, Grid Installation.), Patching, RAC Backup, adding a node to cluster database for High Availability and Recovery.  • Migrated Single Instance databases to RAC Environment.  • Extensive experience in Dataguard Configuration, Implementing and Maintaining Standby Databases.  • Standby/Failover Administration. Creating standby database, data guard and performing DR simulation.  • Sound knowledge of database patching (PSU, CPU, bugfix, Rolling patching) methods in RAC and non RAC DB's.  • Good experience in UPGRADATION from 10.2.0.x to 11.2.0.x & 11.2.0.x to 12.1.0.x  • Up-gradation and patching of oracle home for SAP DB's.  • Installed and configured Golden Gate in a prod and non-prod env, configured extract, data pump and replicate.  • Configured and Maintained RMAN Catalog Database and schemas and involved in registering the Databases to RMAN Catalog.  • Experience in database cloning with RMAN, Database Refresh and Patch management.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, tuned various large critical OLAP and OLTP databases of Terabytes size using various tools like STATSPACK, AWR, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM and Explain Plan Methods.  • Developed database monitoring/health checkup alerts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance and maintenance.  • Extensive knowledge in Database Backup and Recovery concepts using RMAN utilities (scheduling full/incremental/cumulative backups, hot/cold backups writing/editing UNIX Shell Scripts for RMAN).  • Experience in Database migration using tools like DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable Tablespaces and RMAN Duplication.  • Cross platform migration 11g to 11g and 11g to 12c.  • Have good knowledge about Physical and Logical structure of a database.  • Used oracle configuration assistants like Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA) for creating databases, Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading databases and Network Configuration Assistant (NETCA) for creating a Listener, TNS names to establish a Client-Server environment.  • Proficient in working with Oracle Support and using Meta-link to resolve the bottlenecks in the database environments.  • Excellent oral and written Communication skills, co-ordination and Communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development teams  • Accountable for Database Servers Administration including DB binaries installation, post installation and troubleshooting. Supporting more than 300 Database's, as primary DBA, including both Production and Development ranging from 500 GB to 50TB.  • Implemented RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery.  • Knowledge on Oracle Support Process for Technical requests using Metalink and other support procedures.  • Good work exposure on Remedy/Innotas, a ticketing tool for Incident / Request / Change Tickets.  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA. Work Experience Offshore DBA AT&T. Client October 2017 to Present As Lead DBA (Onsite), manage Oracle database administration assignments for one of the US telecom giant AT&T. Client coordination for new requirements, technical and functional business meets and VPMO meetings. Database migration planning, design and implementation of DR solutions, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, and handle performance tuning, conduct regular system backups and providing solution within SLA.  Associated with Tech Mahindra LTD to take care of database administration assignments for US telecom giant AT&T from offshore. Ensure DB 99.9% DB uptime, patching, upgrade, DR simulation, perform restores, implement recovery procedures. Provided 24 X 7 Production support and acting as Shift lead for team of 20 DBA's.    Responsibilities:  • Installed Oracle DB 10g, 11g, 12c RDBMS, RAC on ASM, Applying Oracle Critical patch updates, Implementing and Managing Data Guard, Replication, Backup and Recovery support and performance tuning etc.  • Migrated Non-ASM databases to ASM environment for high availability using RCONFIG.  • Addition and removal of nodes to RAC.  • Applying Quarterly patches and Version change patch bundles.  • Building Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to Snapshot standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  • Tested disaster recovery with database failover and switchover also tested Golden gate (OGG) replication using DBFS Filesystem and ACFS for GG binaries.  • Responsible for setting up and maintaining the user accounts and providing required privileges for database access.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes.  • Having good experience in user management, Table space Management, Session Management, undo Management issues.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP (Guaranteed Restore Point) and Export and Import (Datapump and Normal) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Implemented archive and Purge strategy for archiving the inactive data in the historical database and purging the archived data from the primary database as a part of performance improvisation using Goldengate and exp/imp using partitions.  • Responsible for installation of Oracle Clusterware (CRS) also referred as Grid Infrastructure from 11g, and 12c Oracle Re-start (standalone grid Infrastructure) and creating the RAC and Standalone databases.  • Migration of databases from Non-ASM (filesystem also referred as Logical Volumes) to ASM i.e. Automatic Storage Management.  • Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  • Cloned and refreshed development and staging databases from production for development and testing.  • Experienced in managing space issues in the Database Level for table space and Regular file system cleanup at UNIX level.  • Experienced in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalog databases and disaster recovery databases.  • Responsible for optimizing sql queries and tuning the long running queries as a part of performance improvisation.  • Providing the Go-live and Post -go live Support for the database performance related issues and ensure that all the work is documented for future reference.  • Installed 12c agents on hosts and discovered targets.  • Determine time estimates and schedule for own work and resolve issues in timely manner.  • Providing assistance in activities such as knowledge sharing and knowledge transfer.  • 24 X 7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c, Linux 5.5, RHEL, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, DBUA, RMAN, RAC, ASM, Grid, Dataguard, DGMGRL, Net-Backup, Team quest tool. Onsite DBA June 2016 to October 2017 Oracle Database Administrator Tech Mahindra Ltd April 2013 to June 2016 Offshore DBA Oracle Database Administrator Mobisoc Tech Ltd - Chandigarh, Chandigarh December 2007 to April 2013 and 4 months)  Manage Oracle database administration assignments for various Indian telecom clients like Airtel, Vodafone, BSNL, Reliance and DBA assignment for Indian Railway. Ensure DB 99.9% DB uptime, patching, upgrade, DR simulation, perform restores, implement recovery procedures. Provided 24 X 7 Production support.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installation and customization of Databases (11g &10g).  • Cloning of databases from production to test environments.  • Periodic data refresh from production to testing environments, Re-organizing database structures.  • Involved in Schema management, Table space Management, User Creation.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas for tablespaces as per needed.  • Implemented Data-Guard with maximum availability, protection and performance configurations and worked with Dataguard Fail over and Switch over cases at the times of up-gradation and migration.  • Upgraded and applied patches as and when required. Database Refreshes from Prod to Dev. Troubleshooting Day-to-Day Users Issues in various modules.  • Evaluated the hardware requirements before upgrading/migrating the database.  • Good experience with recovery managed backups i.e. RMAN  • Cloning of Databases using RMAN.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Crontab.  • Maintained and audited Application and data servers.  • Documented the complete project including all pre-installation, post installation and database configuration steps.  • Manage users, privileges, profiles, and schemas.  • Experiences in using automatic monitoring and management processes like batch processing using Crontab for processes like import, export databases.  • Used analyze table, analyze indexes to tune queries and increase performance.  Environment: Toad, Oraclecle9i/10g/11g, Linux, AIX5.1, Hp-UX, Sun Solaris, SQL, Shell Scripting. Education Tech Mahindra India August 2018 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Punjab Technical University July 2006 Mobisoc Tech Ltd Mobisoc Tech Ltd Tech Mahindra Ltd Skills ORACLE (10+ years), DATABASES (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SOLARIS (6 years), DBA (10+ years), Oracle Dba (10+ years), Oracle Database Additional Information SKILLS:  Databases Oracle 11g R1 and R2, Oracle 10g and Oracle 9i  Administration Tools  RMAN, Export/Import, Datapump, OEM, TOAD, SQL*Loader,  STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL*PLUS, AWR, ADDH, ASH, Shell Scripting, Crontab utility tool    Languages PL/SQL, SQL, Java, C  Web Tools XML, HTML, TCP/IP  Operating System Oracle Enterprise Linux (OEL), RHEL, Unix, Sun Solaris & Windows  Technologies RAC - Real Application Clusters, ASM - Automatic Storage Monitoring, Dataguard, DG Broker, RMAN, GoldenGate