Lead Database Administrator and Database Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Lead Database Administrator and Database Engineer Bellevue, WA • 20 years hands-on experienced SQL Server DBA and DBE  • 5 years hands-on experienced Oracle DBA and DBE  • Administer large, high-volume and mission critical production database environments  • Monitor system's activities, health and performance  • Ensure high level performance, availability, sustainability and integrity  • Analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time  • Manage, plan and optimize system resources, capacity and user accounts  • Refine and automate regular processes, track issues, and document changes  • Participate in new projects on creating database, objects and code reviews  • Setup procedures for database backup/recovery and disaster recovery   • Establish and enforce SQL Server and database standard and policy  • Support Dev, BA, QA, project managers, vendors and business users  • Ensure cross platform schema synchronization  • Ability in database query and index performance tuning  • Perform scheduled maintenance, database migration and release deployment  • Knowledge of SSRS, report development and management   • Database design, maintenance, security, management and analysis  • Understanding of database theories, principles, and best practices  • Self-motivated and work independently or remotely as well as in a team  • Expert in OLTP and OLAP systems  • Expert SQL Server security at both server and database levels  • Experience in database and architecture design and model  • Install and upgrade SQL Server stand-alone instance and clustered instance  • Manage SQL Server databases in both physical and virtual environments  • Configure and maintain database servers, processes and securities  • Working knowledge of MS Windows and UNIX operating systems  • Technical leadership and mentoring abilities  • People management and lead/supervisory experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator and Database Engineer Insurance Group - Bellevue, WA March 2009 to Present • Responsible for critical production SQL Servers high availability, high performance and high security. Administrate SQL Server 2008R2, SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014.   • Manage databases objects, jobs, SSIS packages, log shipping, replications and clusters.   • Monitor SQL Server and database activities, resources, performance, errors and job completions. Maintain company SSAS, SSIS and SSRS systems.  • Troubleshoot, resolve database issues and work on solutions to prevent from reoccurring.   • Build, upload, schedule and manage reports on SQL Server Report Manager.   • Plan SQL Server Database capacity. Manage all test and production databases environments.  • Establish and maintain database standards, policies and procedures.   • Backup, restore and recover databases. Enable SQL Server database disaster\recovery.  • Create and maintain SQL database securities, accounts, groups, users and roles, assign privileges. Document company SQL Server database systems.  • Plan database growth, decommissions obsolete databases, upgrade SQL Servers, apply security patches, locate database files, size database storage, tune server, database and query, optimize SQL Server, database configuration and performance.  • Install SQL Servers stand alone instance and cluster instance, build databases, configure and optimize environments, setup securities and user logins, grant permissions.   • Build ETL packages, extract and load data, export and import data, purge and archive data.  • Establish database change control process. Migrate and deploy project database changes.   • Gather and analysis SQL server and database new project requirements. Plan project SQL server system resources and capacity. Setup and configure SQL server database test and production regions. Create project standard and use industry best practice.  • Design and implement data warehouse, data hub, tables, views, primary keys, foreign keys, indexes and constrains. Merge data from multiple sources into data warehouse.   • Extract, transform and load data from various sources to SQL Server tables using SSIS ETL.  • Build SQL maintenance plans such as database and transaction log backups and index rebuild.  • Code review project SQL scripts. Plan hour by hour project migration and rollback strategy.  • Document and provide project Run Book to Operation team. Support project warranty.  • Establish security models, enroll users and maintain security. Control and monitor user access to the database.   • DBA and DBE tech lead. Database subject matter expert. DBA 24X7 on-call.   • Practice agile methodologies. Senior SQL Server Consultant Microsoft Corp - Redmond, WA July 2008 to February 2009 • Work as a shared resource between Engineer team and Support team at Microsoft E&D Operations Group within the Microsoft GamesIT. This SQL Server 2005 environment is an enterprise environment with 150 SQL Servers and 1200-1500 Databases.  • Install production environment, SQL Server Cluster, SQL Server 2005, Service Packs, set up replications, create databases, implement database security and build up database maintenance plans such as backups, index re-org, update statistics, clean up history, and integrity checking.  • Collaborate with development team, provide code reviews, analysis backup recovery requirement, enhance database design, plan capacity, ensure database security, SQL performance tuning, database testing and release new database or changes to production.  • Resolve escalations from Tier1 and/or Tier 2 Groups. Resolve SQL Server errors and fix database problems. Senior Database Administrator Visa Authorize.net - Bellevue, WA February 2006 to June 2008 Bellevue WA    • Be responsible for designing, building and implementing new databases. Work closely with development team to review schema design, DB code and DTS package. Maintain data consistency and integrity between different data servers.  • Design, create and manage replications between production operation server and multiple reporting servers. Create and maintain disaster recovery plan including clustering, log shipping and failure over. Conduct integration and security testing for DB changes.  • Package and release new DB code or changes to production and prepare rollback process. Install, configure, upgrade and manage SQL Server RDBMS. Monitor, tune and troubleshoot MS SQL Server systems.  • Provide SQL Server expertise and knowledge to development team and QA team. Analyze, recommend and implement new database technologies and features. Database Engineer AREVA T&D Inc - Bellevue, WA April 2005 to January 2006 • Fully responsible as a production DBA for company finance and accounting Database. Build, maintain and monitor corporate ERP finance databases. Refresh database among production, development and test servers. Apply upgrade, tuning and day to day user supports.  • Support database for company CRM system including monitor, troubleshoot, upgrade, backup/restore and configuration. Provide DBA support for customers who host their power system applications at AREVA. Maintain database, failover, refresh data, and apply database changes, upgrades and patch sets. Review logical and physical database design.  • Analyze, identify, and resolve issues with database structures. Establish optimum values for database to obtain best performance. Develop and set up daily database management jobs such as monitor space usage, tuning, backup and export jobs. Refine changes to database.  • Monitor database performance and growth such as data files, distribution of records, fragmentation and free space. Configure and enable database failover. Automate DBA processes. Advise and train junior DBA. Database Administrator Microsoft Corp - Redmond, WA November 1999 to March 2005 • Maintain, develop, and operate production SQL Servers at Microsoft Corporate CIT. Monitor and trouble shot SQL Servers with mission critical systems such as MS Sales/Marketing, Customers Tracking - Siebl CRM and Technical Supporting - PSS Clarify.  • Provide skills to the application development teams in determining their needs including backup/recovery strategies, data migration, SQL Server fail over technology such as cluster or log shipping, SQL Server security and SQL tuning. Operate enterprise-wide server technology in dynamic, not-stop 24X7environment.  • Carry out maintenance tasks, including SQL Server upgrades, installations, configuration and migration. Implement SQL Server scripts to automate process of maintaining and monitoring hundreds of SQL Servers.  • Provide SQL Server expertise and knowledge to solve SQL Server errors. Database Consultant Western Wireless Corp - Issaquah, WA May 1999 to October 1999 • Database Consultant for large PeopleSoft production, development and testing systems. Resolved performance issues. Utilized performance tools such as OEM, DBGeneral, Explain Plan and Bstat/Estat to gather database statistics. Traced/analyzed SQL, SQR and nVision reports to determine proper execution path of optimizer.  • Reorganize database layout to reduce disk I/O contention. Identify performance bottlenecks and apply UNIX OS and Oracle instance tuning. Eliminate object fragmentations.  • Improve physical database design such as resizing rollback segments to enhance various business transactions. Script in SQL, PL/SQL and UNIX shell to monitor system status and utilization. Plane, test and implement database hot/cold backup processes.  • Apply capacity planning of multiple instances environment. Maintain PeopleSoft system objects, security and process scheduler. Database Administrator Dell Computer Corp - Austin, TX June 1997 to April 1999 • Huge Oracle OLAP data warehouse and OLTP E-Com database administrator. Assure accuracy, integrity, completeness and security of 15 terabytes corporate data warehouse system.  Maintain and create schemas which include scripts, functions, procedures, triggers, tables, views, indexes, constraints, privileges, roles, synonyms and user profiles.  • Document data warehouse system such as data flow, process specifications, functionary dependencies and job schedules. Program with SQL, SQLPLUS, PL/SQL and SQL Loader to check data integrity, replicate data among databases, load data, convert data, generate reports and create data marts.  • Operate worldwide data warehouse processes such as extracting, loading and rollup data from Asia, Europe and Canada. Monitored and trouble shoot database and oracle errors.  • Tune database performance and SQL statements. Backup and recovery processes.  • Logical and Physical design, create, develop database of Internet applications for asset management, sales/marketing, finance, legal and travel.  • Install and upgrad databases tools such as OEM and DBVision on UNIX and NT platforms.  • Used ERWin to model data, objects and relationships and to convert model into database. Education Master's in Computer Science Texas State University Skills DBA (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), Sql Server (10+ years), Oracle Dba (5 years), ETL (5 years), SSRS (5 years), SSIS (5 years), SSAS (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Master Database Administrator Certification