CRM Administrator CRM <span class="hl">Administrator</span> CRM Administrator - Health Advances LLC North Reading, MA Work Experience CRM Administrator Health Advances LLC - Weston, MA October 2016 to Present Manage day-to-day technical support for system users by troubleshooting various items, such as import  errors and data synchronization issues  ? Work closely with multiple internal teams to ensure a positive user experience in CRM, collaborating on development of documentation and best practices, as well as brainstorming potential enhancements to  improve system performance for users  ? Design and develop solutions to enhance current Dynamics CRM functionality through creating new  entities, forms, fields, views, javascript web resources, workflows, dialogs, and business rules  ? Develop reports and Excel templates to give senior management team members easy access to essential  metrics and KPIs  ? Implement ClickDimensions Email Marketing Solution in Dynamics 365 On-premise environment, building customizations to enhance user interface and provide central hub for campaign management Marketing Database Analyst Center for Corporate Citizenship - Chestnut Hill, MA January 2013 to October 2016 Assess and develop new integrations using Scribe Online to ensure consistency of data across platforms  and reduce necessity for manual data updates  ? Develop and maintain expertise regarding organization's Microsoft Dynamics CRM instance, building  customizations, workflows, dashboards, and reports as needed  ? Write SQL Statements to perform batch updates to CRM System records and retrieve data from database  ? Provide staff with insights into data trends with regards to web traffic, email marketing and blog  performance, ecommerce, course registration, and characteristics of records in CRM  ? Create workflows using Hubspot Email Marketing tool to automate shopping cart abandonment, lead  nurturing processes, and contact management Digitization Specialist Center for Corporate Citizenship - Chestnut Hill, MA June 2009 to January 2013 Used multiple combinations of hardware and software to create and store digital copies of books, magazines, manuscripts, photographic prints, and photographs  ? Made modifications to XSLT files to improve the layout of finding aids generated through Archivists'  Toolkit 2.0  ? Edit Perl scripts to explore methods for expediting insertion of metadata into image files; primarily for use  with images uploaded to library's Flickr site Education MBA Carroll School of Management Evening Program, Boston College March 2013 Bachelor of Arts in Communications Susquehanna University - Selinsgrove, PA 2007 Skills MICROSOFT DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS, CRM, SQL, MARKETING