Sr. SQL DBA (Consultant) Sr. SQL DBA (Consultant) Sr. Database Administrator San Jose, CA Database Expert providing solutions in installation, design, development, administration, upgrades of database systems.  Handled Administration of SQL Server 7.0, SQL 2000, SQL 2005, SQL 2008(R2), 2012, 2014, Sybase and Informix  Responsible for DR/HA topologies like failover clustering (2+ nodes), Database Mirroring, Replication and Log Shipping  Introduced/implemented Full Text Search for a broader and semantic based search of data.  Planned and executed upgrade exercises such as Service Pack, Hot fixes etc.  Handled fine-tuning databases in-coordination with application owners to utilize the maximum resources for Database(s) and Applications.  Introduced and implemented partitioning of data to reduce performance issues like deadlocking, and performance degradation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL DBA (Consultant) ZAG Technical Services - San Jose, CA November 2015 to June 2016 Provide consultancy services and support for ZAG's clientele across the nation related to Microsoft SQL Server database systems: capacity planning, performance tuning, HA/DR technologies, maintenance solutions and development as required. Sr. Database Engineer Virtual PBX - San Jose, CA March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  . Analyzing performance problems using native and third-party tools within their clustered production environment (SQL Server) with regard to:  - hardware infrastructure  - database configuration  - I/O bottlenecks  - Indexes (duplicate, unused, overlapping), and statistics  - Query optimization  . Documenting the analysis and recommendations for overcoming/mitigating the performance issues   . Provide a hardware/software upgrade road map as part of capacity planning  . Provide tips for developers and mentor them to write better and optimized queries as part of the applications  . Provide recommendations for using alternate ways of implementing high-availability and disaster-recovery solutions (AlwaysOn Availability groups, clustering/mirroring, replication and log-shipping as required), and thus reduce the overall expenditures.  . Implement ways to archive historical data and reduce traffic on the production system.    Accomplishments  Brought in stability to the system by reducing performance bottlenecks, and suggesting complementary methodologies like archival to reduce traffic overload on a heavy OLTP database.    Skills Used  Performance tuning, capacity planning, and knowledge of the current trends of Microsoft SQL Server (from 2005 -> 2014) Database Consultant Echelon Corporation - San Jose, CA January 2014 to February 2014 Responsibilities  Diagnose the problems with their reporting system which was triggered off by scheduled jobs driven by SQL Server Agent.    Accomplishments  - Analyzed the problems with the generation of their daily/weekly reporting system that generated Test Yield and Capacity/Throughput reports  - Redefined and implemented the solutions for the scheduled jobs invoked by SQL Server Agent, by resolving conflicts in schedules.  - Generated detailed documentation explaining what these jobs do while mapping out the relationships between the databases/tables involved in the process.    Skills Used  Analysis, and documentation of results. Sr. Database Administrator Boardwalktech, Inc November 2009 to September 2013 As DBA, provided innovative technical knowhow and solutions to support the company's patented product (BCP - Boardwalk Collaborative Platform) with specific regard to the backend database requirements (MS-SQL Server (2005/2008/2012) which include:  • Establishing security of all databases used by the organization. Windows authentication (both with and without Active Directory) was used along with Mixed mode authentication for applications to access the database, where the logins were encrypted.  • Developing SSIS/DTS packages to import from, and export to heterogeneous databases like Oracle etc., as part of the integration process  • Developing and automating standard administration tasks (dbcc, database full/tran backups, update stats, re-indexing/re-organization error-log monitoring, etc.)  • Developing standard "Installation Checklist" and used it to build all new servers  • Creating a template for capacity planning for recommendation with clients based on their requirements.  • Analyzing several SQL Admin tools (LiteSpeed, SQLSafe, RedGate, Ignite, etc.) and recommending them to management.  • Performing SQL Server upgrades from versions 2000->2005->2008 R2->2012  • Assisting developers with Showplan analysis and suggest/make necessary changes to improve query performance  • Using Full Text Search feature of SQL Server to perform DML operations faster  • Implementing new features of SQL Server 2005 (and above) including table data-types, table-valued UDFs, CTEs, partitioning (where the volume of data is high) for clients Sr. Database Engineer/Consultant CA Inc May 2008 to April 2009 Solutions provided for clients with large database environments, wide customer base across the globe, in association with Clarity, CA's platform-independent Project and Portfolio Management solution.  * Identify performance bottlenecks and provide technical solutions as part of upgrades/migrations to higher versions of the base product, or the underlying database (MS SQL Server 2005/Oracle).  * Provide query Optimizations.  * Provide database support for hosted environments by CA Inc.  * Provide customized stored procedures/triggers. Systems Manager UCSF Medical Center December 2002 to May 2008 Provide database administration, consultancy, design, and development services for MS SQL Server, and Sybase for different subsystems within the organization. Manage database instances, monitor server performance, tune the database server and applications, and perform backup and recovery.  * Handle projects for departments within the Medical Center (Anatomic Pathology, Oral Pathology) and outside (Women's Health Care) by offering and implementing solutions in- house solutions. Expenditures to the department savings amounted to more than $50K.  * Provide administrative support (liaising with vendor for upgrades, evaluations etc), technical support (customizations, enhancements to existing functionality and management reporting) for CoPath Plus (Anatomic Pathology Information System), and other desktop applications. Database Consultant Solectron Corporation - Fremont, CA March 2002 to November 2002 Provided consultancy services for: capacity planning due to changes in infrastructure, performance-related issues, managing Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 databases for Gentran (EDI Translation Software) and WIPTrack(Shop Floor Control System), database maintenance plans for backup, integrity checks and optimization, recovery procedures, proposed policies for administration, management reporting, and implementing upgrades on development/production servers for RiverOne Connector software, testing and documentation. Database Administrator Agile Software Corporation - San Jose, CA February 1999 to February 2002 Provided Microsoft SQL Server database administration encompassing regular backups, recovery, integrity checks, performance tuning, upgrades/migrations to higher versions, managing cluster, replication, log-shipping, formulating and monitoring policies for database maintenance plans and creation of standby servers for disaster recovery.  * Also provided operational support for in-house users, enhancement requests, procedural changes for business rules/policies, management reporting, support of Agile Customer Support Websites, monitoring NT servers using NetIQ software for performance/ availability/resource usage etc., evaluation of new software, QA tests, and developing applications for Intranet/Internet Database Consultant PeopleSoft Inc - Pleasanton, CA April 1998 to January 1999 Involved in porting PeopleSoft Performance toolkits from Oracle to Informix 7.3, for their product suite (General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Payroll, Accounts Payable etc). Chief activities included setting up of PeopleSoft database, expansion using the Data Expansion Tool, benchmark runs and documentation of the test results. As DBA, was responsible for maintenance of database(s) created for the benchmark runs, installation of Informix products, tuning parameters - system configuration and database objects for optimizing OLTP performance. Education Master in Computer Applications Birla Institute of Technology Bachelor of Science in Physics and Chemistry Osmania University - Osmania University, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills SQL Server Database Administration (10+ years), SQL Server Development (10+ years), Performance Improvement (7 years)