President President President - Beacon Consulting Boca Raton, FL Operations management and project consulting, using innovative technology, to  maximize efficiency of medium to large size businesses. Served as CTO responsibilities for companies on  a temporary or permanent time-frame. Provide disaster and recovery plans. Designed and  implemented software for full vertical solutions from sales, back office, accounting, secularization, and  reports. Integrated accounting software with servicing platforms. Work Experience President Beacon Consulting - Boca Raton, FL July 1999 to Present 20 Plus years experience providing companies both technological and operational leadership and guidance. Perform complete business and financial  analyses including operations, process, procedures, and accounting systems, disaster recovery, hurricane preparations. Served as CTO for companies  performing duties and tasks for Operations and Technology. Liaison with audit  companies for internal and external audits including accounting and business  practice for investor reports.  Perform complete business and financial analyses including operations, process, procedures, and accounting systems, disaster recovery, hurricane  preparations. Provided to companies COO duties and tasks  Manage software design, training, and implementation for 200-person  company  Develop specialized reports for revenue analysis  Create disaster recovery systems, call centers, and databases  Designed and tested hurricane plans, for multi contingency and off site  recovery  Identify and coordinate hardware and software upgrade, moves, cloud  changes and migrations  Developed specialized functionality for portfolio reporting, calculations for valuations, scenario calculations based on criteria, threshold or trigger  warnings for default  Created functionality between servicing system platform and accounting  software  Created servicing system to manage billion dollar portfolio with ability to process lock boxes, ach, wire transfers. Manage default triggers. Calculate  scenario based on input criteria. Analyze data for marketing potential.  Reporting for Investors and auditors  Managed 100,000 square foot build out office projects in Miami and Ft  Lauderdale. Worked extensively with Architect, Building Owner, GC, Additional Subs. Maintained budgets, and build out calendar. Worked with  design firm on furniture, office layout, specialty systems Consultant 777 Partners - Miami, FL January 2018 to December 2018 Consultant SuttonPark Captial - Boca Raton, FL October 2017 to January 2018 Consultant SingerAsset Finance - Boca Raton, FL January 2000 to October 2017 Database Administrator LRP Publications - Palm Beach Gardens, FL December 1996 to May 1998 Performed comparative analysis of Department of Labor's 1.2 million record  database  • Customized software products for national 401 K and brokerage companies  • Created and maintained 200,000 record database  • Developed marketing strategies for database products and provided  customer support  • Established vendor contacts to develop front-end database application Education Bachelor of Science Boston University - Boston, MA Skills Microsoft Server (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Azure (4 years), Microsoft SQL (5 years)