Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Cedars-Sinai Medical Center • Broad experience in a diverse set of industries, ranging from e-commerce, software, entertainment to health care.  • Database and enterprise application system management - architecting, building, 24x7 support, tuning of complex multi-tier systems in large, high-availability environments.  • Extensive experience in tuning databases with proactive monitoring and risk mitigation. Patching, upgrades, data mapping, conversions & migrations.  • Design and implement high-availability architectures, failover and backup/disaster recovery strategies.  • Complete life-cycle experience - data modeling, normalization, database design & implementation.  • Oracle certified professional - from Oracle 8 to Oracle 12c. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Cedars-Sinai Medical Center - Beverly Hills, CA January 2009 to Present • Work in a team consisting of 6 DBAs, install and maintain around 200 Oracle database instances (include 8 RAC databases), around 400 MS SQL instances and several mySQL instances. Provide 24x7 support to assure highest reliability and availability of database services. Help and mentor less experienced DBAs. Set up standard procedures for new Oracle instance deployment.  • Setup and maintain RAC databases containing clinical data repository. Architect the Oracle database configuration for Veritas Cluster. Complete the complex project to upgrade large-size data warehouse databases to 12c in a clustered HACMP high-availability environment. Setup Dataguard for tier 1 databases between primary and failover datacenters, later on changed to utilize EMC SDRF to save license cost.  • Work closely with database analysts, system administrators, storage management and network engineers to troubleshoot various Oracle database issues, to fulfill the performance required by business and data operations. Function as the most favorable DBA in the team to be consulted whenever databases have performance issues.  • Implement database auditing for patient health information. The original process generated around 300G audit data each week, for more than 9 months it even became a hot topic in the weekly team meeting and the storage team warned DBAs about the constant storage request for non-operational data. After the deployment of my implementation consisting of PL/SQL codes, auditing data quantity is dramatically reduced by removing redundant entries generated by the queries from the database links. This self-motivated project got excellent rating in my employee's annual review.  • Upgrade Oracle Internet Directory to 12c with 2-node 2-way duplication. Based on OID, implement database enterprise user access using Active-Directory password.  • Actively participate in operational committee planning to convert on-premises databases to AWS RDS and EC2 instances. Complete training in HANA database administration.  • Strong programming skills in writing reliable scripts, with error detection and notification. The purpose is to increase DBA's productivity and efficiency. My programming skills earns me "exceeding expectation" rating every year. Those scripts include but not limit to  ? Oracle log file purging and trimming scripts, configurable.  ? Resource monitoring for Veritas Cluster for Oracle. Cluster admin scripts for HACMP clusters.  ? Data warehouse database active duplication on weekly schedule, LADP swapping and RMAN repository cleanup.  ? Oracle software version, ASM storage device comparison between databases at the primary and failover datacenters.  ? Automated the out-of-sync table repairing of Shareplex between PeopleSoft primary and report instances.  ? Epic external table data loading script for around 200 tables. Automate the SQL loader control file generation.  ? Construct web interface for the less- database-proficient analysts to change their expired password initially assigned by DBA.  ? Various PL/SQL codes to construct a reliable way to archive audit data.  ? Automate the data file addition whenever the tablespace usage reaches some configurable threshold.  ? Scripts for Ansible automation to bring up/down Oracle databases and check HAS status, to alleviate DBA's working load from OS patching. Senior Database Administrator CarsDirect.com - El Segundo, CA January 2007 to January 2009 El Segundo, CA.    • Administrated more than 20 Oracle 8i/9i/10g instances in Solaris and Linux platforms. Provided 24x7 support for in-house built applications, Siebel, Lawson, Informatica and Crystal Report.  • Lead the conversion of Oracle databases from old Sun server to commodity Linux server, the database performance was greatly enhanced. CEO was happy about the online transactional performance so that every team member involved got special rewards.  • Converted several production databases from dedicated server mode to shared sever mode, to meet the steadily increased capacity requirement. Tuned the memory parameters associated with these changes.  • Setup 10g RAC and 8i/9i/10g Standby databases using Oracle 8i/9i/10g Dataguard, respectively.  • Involved in partition planning, index rebuilding and spatial index administration.  • Administrated MS SQL database, backup and replications. Senior Database Administrator Buena Vista Datacasting LLC, Disney Corporation - Burbank, CA December 2002 to December 2006 • As the sole DBA, administrated 19 Oracle 9i & 10g instances of various development, testing and production databases, in both Windows and Unix (Red Hat Linux) platforms.  • Systematical RAC training in Oracle University. Constructed two production RAC databases, one in Windows and one in Linux platform. Setup replication from production database to data warehousing database using Oracle Streams, with the utilization of data transformation to encrypt customers' sensitive information.  • Wrote various shell and Perl scripts to load external data into data warehouse, using either SQL loader or Perl DBI. Wrote PL/SQL procedures to transform transaction data into data warehouse. Administrated Business Object server as the front-end of data warehouse.  • Administrated TestDirector servers. Customized TestDirector to have both intranet and public interfaces through various tricks in MS Access and Oracle database. Wrote PL/SQL packages and developed procedures to migrate bug data from Bugzilla (MySQL DB) to TestDirector DB (Oracle DB). Senior Database Engineer iBaset - Lake Forest, CA July 2002 to November 2002 • Documented and participated in database design, analysis and architecture. Recommended modifications and enhancements to database objects, triggers, indexes, etc. to ensure database integrity and performance while maintaining application design goals. Documented database design through schema diagrams, data dictionary and other types of documentation as required by department procedures.  • Converted complex business rule requirements / specifications into SQL, PL/SQL on Oracle RDBMS platform for Unix and Windows. Interpret database schemas, pseudo code, and general directions to write procedures, functions, packages, triggers, etc. Created installation and updated scripts for database and object changes. Utilized specified source code control tools. Lead DBA / Senior Software Engineer Checkout.com - Los Angeles, CA May 1999 to July 2002 Los Angeles, CA.    • Worked in a team of 2 DBAs. Planed and coordinated 24x7 mission critical database support in a fast-paced e-commerce environment.  • Proactively monitored and tuned database to ensure maximum system efficiency and 24x7 uptime for high throughput OLTP systems.  • Implemented load and stress testing on the application server and database server.  • Created packages, stored procedures, functions and triggers for the client's content and commerce data loading. Implemented procedures to manage changes and source code control.  • Administrated TimesTen databases as the cache server for Oracle database in a replication environment.  • Developed C++/Java applications to monitor the connection between Oracle and iPlanet application server. Education Ph.D. in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering University of California - Irvine, CA 1999 Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Rman, Veritas, Hana, Aix, Hacmp, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Sap, Change management