Lead Oracle Database Administrator Lead Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Oracle Database Administrator - AT&T San Diego, CA • Over 15 years of IT experience as Oracle Database Administrator / Solutions Architect / Technical Lead on VLDB production, development databases and expertise on Oracle Real Application clusters, Exadata, Data Guard, Enterprise manager 12c Cloud Control and Oracle VM.  • Build credibility, establish rapport, and maintain communication with stakeholders at multiple levels, including higher management and those external to the organization.  • Design and Architect End-to-End Oracle Database and Cloud Solutions based on commodity server, storage and network components.  • Testing and Validation of Oracle 12c/11g RAC databases on Hardware Stack which include RAC and Blade Servers with networking Force 10 switches and storages like EMC and Compellent.  • Performing Fault Injection Test Cases for verifying the High Availability at each layer of RAC stack like port failover, instance failover, ASM failover and Node failover.  • Design and configuration of Oracle Exadata Server for best performance and scalability.  • Hands on experience on Exadata Storage Cells, InfiniBand networks, Smart Flash Cache, Smart Scan, IORM, consolidation etc.  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication. Implanted Bi-directional replication using golden gate.  • Implementation of Oracle Private Cloud using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c Cloud Control and hypervisor Oracle VM for Internal clients.  • Setting up Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Database as a Service (DBaaS) using Enterprise Manager 12c Cloud Control.  • Implementation of Oracle Flash cache and different host based caching technologies like Dell Fluid Cache/Fusion IO to improve Oracle database performance.  • Design and Implementation of Oracle Disaster Recovery Solutions using Oracle Data Guard and Storage based replication technologies.  • Hands on experience on configuring Dell Storages like Dell Compellent, Equal logic and Power Vault.  • Controlling the life cycle management of the entire data center using Bare Metal Provisioning, Database provisioning and application provisioning.  • Perform Database Tuning, Instance tuning and monitoring of Oracle Databases using OEM, Toad etc.  • Writing and reviewing technical as well as business white papers, data sheets, articles, documentation, and support notes.  • Assisting sales teams with pre-sales technical consultations, solution architecture design recommendations, proof of concepts, benchmarking & lab tours. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Oracle Database Administrator AT&T - San Diego, CA September 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Prepare and delivered technical POV's and architecture presentations to customers.  • Size & Architect Delphix Solution for Complex customer use cases.  • Deploy Delphix Virtualization, masking solutions to reduce refresh times, automate database deployments and improve productivity.  • Assisted customers with evaluations and benchmarks, system configurations, and system installations.  • Installation and Configuration of Oracle 12c Multitenant container and pluggable databases with Flex Cluster and Flex ASM.  • Upgrading and migrating Oracle 11gR2 RAC Databases running on legacy infrastructure to Oracle 12c Pluggable Databases running on the latest platforms.  • Installation, configuration and support of Oracle Exadata V2, X3-2 databases. Troubleshoot exadata technical issues, plan and co-ordinate migration of EBS from standalone to Exadata database.  • Install and Configure Delphix Enterprise Data Platform to virtualize databases and to leverage faster refresh cycles.  • Architect & Enable customers to migrate Oracle/SQL Server databases into AWS  • Integrate & Automate Database deployments with Orchestration tools like Jenkins, Chef & Puppet  • Develop Linux shell scripts, Windows Powershell Scripts for automating database tasks  • Validate and provide best practices around Customer's VMWare platform and other Cloud Technologies  • Installation and configuration of 10g and 11g RAC on Linux, HP UNIX, IBM AIX in RAW devices and ASM.  • Doing the RCA (Root Cause Analysis) for Node Eviction (ORA-29740) also for CRS reboots & other issues.    Environment: OEL 6, Oracle 12c and Oracle 11g R2 RAC, Oracle Exadata Senior Database Administrator Bank of America - San Diego, CA August 2008 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Configure and support Exadata and clustered Linux servers (RHEL and OEL) to host Oracle 11g RAC technology stack supporting both OLTP and DSS (data mart/data warehouse) databases  • Mentored DBA team for Exadata migration of BI databases from IBM platform to Exadata X3-2. This project involves DB migration, consolidation of multi-platform databases into Exadata server. Activities includes along with DB migration, implementing many Exadata features such as DBFS file system, DBRM, IORM, hybrid compression.  • Consolidation of Oracle databases onto Oracle VM  • Installation, configuration, patching and upgrading oracle Oracle10g & 11g databases, performance tuning, backup and recovery management, estimate and plan hardware and software resource considering long term project need.  • Troubleshoot any database issues, work closely with Oracle support for resolution of core Oracle issues.    Environment: OEL 5, Solaris, Oracle 11g Oracle Solutions Engineer EMC Corp - Atlanta, GA January 2003 to August 2008 Responsibilities:  • Implementation, Testing, Validation and Performance Characterization of Oracle Real Application Clusters and Oracle VM on Servers and Storages involving FC/SAS/iSCSI protocol.  • Providing reference architecture and best practices for configuring Oracle Databases on EMC Hardware  • Implemented Stream, Golden Gates for Active-Active Replication between the Datacenter for High Availability.  • Deploy and configure Oracle VM and performing benchmarking using Quest Benchmark Factory.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle Exadata machine  • Good understanding of Exadata features like smart scans, HCC, flash cache, Infiniband, ILOM.  • Publish Oracle Validated Configurations (OLT) of EMC hardware in Oracle site.  • Prototyped Fluid Cache software as an extended cache to the storage LUN, providing 4 x improvements in Oracle Database performance and response time.  • ASM Intelligent Data Placement for best optimizing the EMC Storage.  • Complete Cloud Lifecycle Management by creating and managing complete set of cloud services like Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Database as a Service (DBaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) with metering and chargeback features.  • Gold Image cloning and standardized software deployment via Provisioning Profiles  • Interacting with Sales& Marketing for customer presentations, Demos, Sales Deals etc.  • Create reports, ad-hoc queries using different querying tools and Oracle EM    Environment: OEL 6, Oracle 12c and Oracle 11g R2 RAC Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Andhra University 2002 Skills Oracle, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Oracle Dba Additional Information SKILLS & TOOLS:    Operating systems: Linux, IBM AIX, HP-UX, Sun Solaris 10, Windows 2008  Databases: Oracle 12c/11gR2/11gR1/10g/9i  Specialization: Oracle RAC, Oracle Cloud Control 12c, Oracle Exadata, Oracle VM  Storages: EMC Clarion, Compellent, Equal logic, Power Vault  Networking: Force 10, Power Connect Switches