SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Denver, CO Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Douglas County School District - Castle Rock, CO March 2016 to May 2018 Daily tasks include monitoring SQL Server performance, performance tuning, replication, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS, implementing new code, creating and exporting reports, troubleshooting data integrity issues, architecting a data warehouse environment for state reporting. Other day-to-day tasks included backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning. SQL Server Database Administrator Trizetto, Inc - Englewood, CO November 2011 to October 2015 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2005, 2008 & 2012; SSIS; Team Foundation Server;   • Employed full-time as a SQL Server Database Administrator at Trizetto, a healthcare insurance software company based in Englewood, Colorado. Daily tasks include monitoring SQL Server performance, performance tuning, replication, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS, implementing new code, creating and exporting reports. Other day-to-day tasks included backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning. SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer Employers Unity, Inc February 2010 to November 2011 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2005 & 2008; SSIS  • Employed part-time as the SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer at Employers' Unity, at the Westminster, Colorado location - ongoing contract. Daily tasks include monitoring SQL Server performance, loading data feeds from customers, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS. Daily development tasks including building stored procedures, data mapping and table creation, creating reports, and building ETL processes using SSIS. Other day-to-day tasks included performance tuning, backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning. I also meet with management regarding new projects as to provide status of current projects. SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer D-4 Networks, Inc February 2010 to October 2011 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2005 & 2008; SSIS; Team Foundation Server;  • Employed part-time as the SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer at D-4, which is based out of California. Daily tasks include monitoring SQL Server performance, replication and database mirroring, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS. Daily development tasks including creating stored procedures, data mapping and table creation, creating and exporting reports, and building ETL processes using SSIS. Other day-to-day tasks included performance tuning, backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning (primary data site is in San Diego and the DR site is in Seattle). SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer Specialized Loan Servicing, Inc September 2010 to April 2011 SQL Server 2005 & 2008; SSIS; Idera; Team Foundation Server;  • Employed as a SQL Server Database Administrator and Developer at SLS, at the Highlands Ranch, Colorado location until April 28, 2011. Daily tasks include monitoring overnight load processes, SQL Server performance, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS. Daily development tasks including building stored procedures, data mapping and table creation, creating data feeds, and building ETL processes using SSIS. Other day-to-day tasks included performance tuning, backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning. I also met with project managers regarding new projects as well as with management to provide status of current projects. Other tasks included bi-weekly code releases for projects, as well as a month-end load process. I was also a member of the technology committee, which met monthly to discuss new technologies which might be utilized to improve our processes, such as Team Foundation Server. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Lender Processing Services, Inc March 2010 to July 2010 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2005 & 2008  • Employed as the Senior SQL Server Database Administrator at LPS, at the Westminster, Colorado location until July 30, 2010. Daily tasks include monitoring overnight load processes, SQL Server performance, installation and configuration of instances of SQL Server, SSRS, SSAS, and SSIS. Other day-to-day tasks included performance tuning, backup and restore operations, and disaster recovery planning. I developed custom scripts and stored procedures to improve the efficiency of performing day-to-day, weekly, and monthly tasks, including the automation of several processes which had previously been accomplished manually. I also met with project managers regarding new projects as well as with management to provide status of current operations. Other tasks included weekly code releases for projects, as well as a month-end load process. SQL Server Database Administrator team lead MPhasis Corporation May 2008 to March 2010 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2000 & 2005  • Employed as the team lead/manager for SQL Server Database Administration at Molson-Coors, at the Golden, Colorado location until August, 2009. Daily tasks include delegating tasks to both onshore and off-shore members of the SQL Server DBA team. Managed 3 full-time employees, as well as several leveraged employees who cover the on-call rotation. Handled several day-to-day tasks including performance tuning, backup and restore operations, disaster recovery planning, and meeting with project managers to develop timelines for new projects as well as with management to provide reports of current operations. Custom SQL scripts and stored procedures were created to accomplish administration tasks as well as for troubleshooting issues. SQL Server Database Administrator /ASP.Net Developer Rocky Mountain SER/Jobs for Progress, Inc - Denver, CO December 2007 to May 2008 • SQL Server 2005, HTML, DHTML, ASP, ASP.Net, T-SQL, Flash; Dreamweaver, Flash  • Functioned as both SQL Server Database Administrator as well as ASP (classic) and ASP.Net Developer for Rocky Mountain SER, a non-profit organization which provides opportunities to disadvantaged individuals through programs including Head Start, Migrant Farm Workers Program and Senior Community Service Education Program.  • Built out a brand new SQL Server 2005 environment from the ground up, which supports an entirely dynamic ASP.Net web site, including intranet, which I also designed and built. In addition, I began the process of converting all of the Microsoft Access databases to SQL Server, and the associated MS Access forms to .Net applications, accessible both from workstations and the internet.  • Provided sole support for the SQL Server environment, including data architecture and schema design, backup and restore, disaster recovery, and all SQL development. Reported directly to the CEO of Rocky Mountain SER,and met with the board of directors as projects developed for feedback, suggestions and to provide training. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator 2-10 Home Buyers Warranty August 2007 to November 2007 SQL Server 2000 & 2005  • Worked on contract at 2-10 Homebuyer's Warranty as a Senior SQL Server database administrator. Responsibilities included migrating from a SQL Server 2000 environment to a SQL Server 2005 environment, implementing a security model based on windows security groups (everyone used individual logins), creating a QA environment, and eliminating single points of failure for production environments, including a disaster recovery plan based on real-time replication of production databases to DR servers.  • The database environment included 26 servers, and approximately 350 databases, most having several million records. Daily responsibilities included managing security and user permissions, implementing schema changes, backup and restore, query tuning, code review, as well as extensive analysis of data issues utilizing ad hoc queries to fix errant data, determine the source of the error and, if the error originates on the database side, implement a solution. Senior Production SQL Server Database Administrator Lehman Brothers/Aurora Loan Services March 2006 to August 2007 • T-SQL; SQL Server 2000 & 2005  • Liaising with database users for advice and needs, procuring and maintaining database software and related documents and tools, liaising with other information technology professionals for information exchange, liaising with the database software vendor and, when applicable, database content vendor; security responsibilities included monitoring and maintaining security of databases and database software on corporate, application, database, role, program, and when applicable, table, view and column levels, granting highest level access rights, monitoring use of these rights and revoking these rights, maintaining database software licenses, when applicable, database content licenses. Day-today responsibilities included maintaining development, test and production database environments, starting and stopping databases, monitoring the databases and optimizing database performance and use of resources, including selecting optimal physical implementations of databases, maintaining availability and integrity of databases, including referential integrity checking and multiple access schemes (locking), installing database software, backup and restore, overseeing the maintenance of the database content with persons responsible for the application, creating and deleting databases and public database objects. Planning responsibilities included database capacity planning: processing capacity, storage capacity and back-up capacity, database security and integrity planning with security experts, systems programmers and network managers, reviewing and developing data models and database designs with development teams; entity-relationship models are used with relational databases, normalizing, renormalizing, indexing, and defining views. SQL Developer; Development DBA Health Grades, Inc October 2005 to January 2006 • T-SQL; SQL Server  • Health Grades, maintains physician and hospital data for an umbrella insurance company, including overall performance reports and geographical data, so this information could be passed on to the insurance company's customers. I was Involved in designing the schema, business rules, and stored procedures for importing physician and hospital data feeds from healthcare providers, mapping them to the appropriate tables, and running cleaning and matching rules on that data. I Created DTS packages, wrote scripts and stored procedures, managed indices and implemented replication across servers. SQL Analyst Vercuity, Inc May 2005 to August 2005 • T-SQL; SQL Server  • Responsible for creating and running SQL scripts and stored procedures to audit data, find and correct bad data and the source of the errors. In addition, updated legacy stored procedures and scripts to work with a new software release (July 28, 2005), which included a new database schema. Created DTS packages to perform date-specific manipulations on data, and was responsible for the smooth migration of several databases to a new demo server, ensuring faithful replication of data. Another facet of working with SQL Server involved the implementation and maintenance of the database backend of the company's demo web site.  Consultant Self-Employed Self-Employed November 2003 to May 2005 • SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, ASP, ASP.Net, T-SQL, Flash; Dreamweaver, PhotoShop  • Developed numerous data-driven web sites, including Mullen High School. Key features include online application, alumni registration and search, sports announcements, daily and weekly announcements, and a template for teachers to use a web-based to build their own web sites, without having to know anything about development or design. Admin pages include group's management, user management and rights management functions. Within SQL Server, developed the schema, stored procedures, and DTS packages to push data from SQL Server to a Microsoft Access database used by school administrators. Other projects included an online catalog for a local coffee shop, online self-testing web site for anatomy students, and dynamic web site for Butler Rents, including online catalog and inventory availability. Project Developer Pioneer Systems May 2003 to January 2004 • SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, ASP, T-SQL; Dreamweaver, Flash  • Development utilizing both SQL Server and MS Access back-ends, for web applications and stand-alone applications. Online access to data included real-time data reporting for sales figures and mortgage interest rates.  • Stand-alone applications were developed for Project Head Start and demographic research for Coors Brewing Company, including processes to automatically read hourly text streams, validate data format, check against existing data, insert into tables, and generate summaries using triggers and stored procedures. Lead Developer Jones International University March 2001 to April 2003 • HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, PERL, Java, PL-SQL; HomeSite, SQL+  • Development of online course software for Jones International University, the first fully accredited online university, as well as the training site for United Nations Development Programme. Daily routine mainly consisted of SQL programming, CGI and UNIX shell programming, as well as integration of JSP technology. Responsible for evaluating business needs of software, SCORM/learning object compliance, designing and developing all tools and templates that other developers used to develop content, including database front ends developed in Java. Production was done on Sun Solaris servers. Utilized PL-SQL (Oracle 8i) to deliver dynamic web-based. Responsible for writing SQL queries which were used by web developers for course content and localization, in addition to evaluating development needs to continually improve course delivery, and developing applications that served as SQL-builders for use by web developers. Web Developer Softec Solutions, Inc September 2000 to March 2001 • HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, ColdFusion, PERL; Dreamweaver, HomeSite  • Developed numerous dynamic web sites for the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, which is committed to developing clean, long-lasting renewable energy. A great deal of their research and progress is available online through many different web sites. Responsibilities included site development from concept through completion, site updates and content changes, and quality assurance. Utilized both ColdFusion and Perl to interact with Microsoft Access and MySQL databases. Owner The Insight Group 1998 to 2001 Developed various data-driven web applications using JSP, PhotoShop, Dreamweaver and SQL Server 2000 Web Consultant ViCorp.com May 2000 to August 2000 Contract  • HTML, ASP, DHTML, JavaScript, Flash; Dreamweaver HomeSite  • Vicorp.com, wholly owned subsidiary of Qwest communications, offering a variety of wireless communication technologies. At ViCorp, responsible for the development of the (secure) corporate intranet, which was very dynamic and interactive. Highlights include verification and validation pages, a JavaScript search engine, as well as corporate white pages. Web Developer Achieve.com April 2000 to May 2000 • HTML, DHTML, JavaScript; Dreamweaver, HomeSite  • Achieve.com is an online community for students, parents, and teachers to share information and stay informed. Developed HTML pages (with a little JavaScript/DHTML) for several channels contained within JSP modules accessed through the Portal Page. Web Developer Digital Education Systems 1998 to 1999 • HTML, JavaScript, PERL, PhotoShop, Flash, HomeSite  • While at DES, developed and maintained the corporate site, as well as numerous online educational curricula, each of which was developed as a sixteen week course. There were 12 complete courses, each of which existed in a Flash/Shockwave version, and a JavaScript version (for older browsers), as well as customized versions for educational institutions. Education Bachelor's in Biology Metropolitan State College of Denver - Denver, CO January 2002 to August 2004 Nuclear Power Electronics Technician in Nuclear Engineering U.S. Navy Nuclear Power School - Orlando, FL Skills Data migration, Data transformation, Database, Database design, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Relational database, Replication, Sql, Stored procedures, Ssrs, Tableau, Etl, Tableau server, .net, C#, Node.js, .net core, DBA, Ssis, Sql Dba Additional Information Skills    MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), PERFORMANCE TUNING (10+ years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS  SQL Server (2000 through 2016) development and administration including:    • Installation/Configuration  • Custom SQL Scripts  • Custom Stored Procedures  • Functions  • Triggers  • Relational Database Design  • Performance Tuning  • SQL Profiler  • Managing Indices  • High Availability  • Always-on (2012/2014)  • SQL Mail/ Database Mail  • Change Data Tracking  • User/process monitoring  • Security    • Login / User Management  • SSAS  • ETL/Data Transformation Services/SSIS  • Job Creation/Scheduling  • Data Migration / Replication  • Backing up/Restoring  • Disk Space Management  • SSRS  • Data Warehousing  • MySQL  • Tableau/Tableau Server  • .Net Core (C#)  • Node.js  • JIRA  • Agile workflow    • I am working on acquiring skills in Oracle OEM, Blockchain Development, and RedShift