DBA Engineer DBA Engineer DBA Engineer Boulder, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DBA Engineer Comcast VIPER - Denver, CO 2019 to 2019 2019  Accomplishments:  ? Conducted review of existing SMOPs after MemSQL upgrade, and tested for accuracy of the procedures, being proactive in eliminating downtime, thereby bringing customer satisfaction  ? Developed scripts to collect the distributed database systems configuration across multiple sites to identify  discrepancies in order to integrate to the existing monitoring system  ? Created Service Method of Procedures (SMOPs) for Infrastructure changes, tested under LAB  environment and handed over to Operations for deployment  ? Provided technical recommendations on improving the application query performances and system  security Senior Database Developer TD Ameritrade / Scottrade - Westminster, CO 2011 to 2018 Accomplishments:  ? Interacted with Business Sponsors and Information Technology Development teams in providing project  solutions and support for the data migration & outsourcing projects  ? Performed database developer Lead role on regulatory development projects including modeling, designing, developing and implementing database objects and data access methods  ? Orchestrated Build Coordinator role for the source code control of the SQL Database Objects for the team  of 40+ database developers and mentored the team on Team Foundation Server  ? Provided solutions for Business Intelligence / Data Analytics queries, Extract, Transform and Load (ETL)  using SSIS, and other Import/Export processes  ? Migrated SQL Server database to Azure cloud, and tested Continuous Integration and Deployment of database dacpacs  ajithapai@gmail.com / 303-803-0362  ? Experienced in providing development solutions for continuous delivery using Agile methodology and DevOps concepts  ? Provided recommendations on database performance, database development best practices and policies Senior DB2 Database Administrator IBM - Boulder, CO 2004 to 2011 Accomplishments:  ? Performed Subject Matter Expert (SME) Production DBA role, involving 24 X 7 support on problem  determination and resolution of IBM internal and external customer databases  ? Created and enhanced the automation scripts for database monitoring and maintenance  ? Proven team management skills involving global resources and raising the team performance level  ? Experienced in data and database migration across platforms, security, maintenance, system monitoring  and performance tuning  ? Implemented long term solution for backup and recovery process for the databases using TSM and LAN  free backup technologies with database sizes in TeraBytes  ? Implemented and maintained High Availability Disaster Recovery (HADR) in High Availability Cluster  Multiprocessing (HACMP) environment, query patroller, extenders, replication and Database Partitioning  Feature (DPF) Education Master's Degree in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Bharathidasan University - Tiruchchirappalli, Tamil Nadu Certification in programming University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO Skills DB2, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  Platforms: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Red Hat Linux, zLinux, AIX, Solaris, HP  UNIX, Windows Family, VMWare, AS400 / iSeries    Databases: MemSQL, DynamoDB, Microsoft SQL server, SSIS, Oracle 11g/12c, DB2 UDB LUW  [ESE/ DPF], DB2 for iSeries, PostgreSQL, Redshift    Software/Languages: Python, Java, Microsoft Visual C#, C/C++, XML, JavaScript, T-SQL, Microsoft  Team Foundation Server (TFS), Shell script, Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM), Sybase Power Designer    Tools: AWS Services (EC2 / S3 / IAM / VPC / SNS / RDS / Cloud Formation), Splunk, Jenkins,  Docker, Jira, Git / GitHub, Visual Studio, Message Queue (MQ)