SR Oracle/MsSQL Server / AWS Cloud Administrator SR Oracle/MsSQL Server / AWS Cloud <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SR Oracle/MsSQL Server / AWS Cloud Administrator - SOLUTIONS BY DESIGN II LLC Washington, DC Work Experience SR Oracle/MsSQL Server / AWS Cloud Administrator SOLUTIONS BY DESIGN II LLC - Fairfax, VA September 2018 to Present Over the years I have been involved in large number of projects development, managed large number of Projects & been a DBA with large number of Database Servers.  •Lead, Trained and Mentored a team of over 4 DBA's and other IT staffs  • Senior Oracle and MsSQL Server DBA for taking care of all legacy application for 150+ Oracle (11g/12c) and SQL (2008/2012/2014/2016) databases of 50+ applications (including platforms like BI, in the organization to ensure their availability 24/7.  •Lead to Build and Manage On-Shore and Off-Shore technical teams to provide operational support for day to day activities and allocate resources to manage large mission critical projects  • Implemented, configured, administered postgresql both on premises and on AWS RDS instance  • Expert level of experience to develop database solutions by designing proposed systems, defining database physical structure and functional capabilities, security, back-up, and recovery modes.  • Configured DMS ( Database Migration Services ) to perform CDC Onoing replication of data between RDS and ECS instances  • Creating alarm in cloudwatch service for monitoring the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage etc.  •Install, Configure and intergrate New Rellic with AWS for monitoring purposes, managing application's performance, identify and troubleshoot bottlenecks,analyze data about customers' usage and experience, Monitor your technical resources and ecosystem as well as getting alert notifications about problems before they affect our customers  •Setup VPCs and security groups for EC2 and RDS instances  •Configurd IAM roles and Database encryption keys to be used on Database instances for both EC2 and RDS instances  •Installed postgresql 10.4 on AWS RDS instance for JBOSS to run on and setup PgAdmin tool to establish connection  •Installed and configured mqsql 5.5 ON AWS RDS instance for application to run on and setup workbench tool for for user to establish connection  •Extensively worked Oracle ASMLib Utility for managing ASM disk storage & Oracle 12c ASMCA.  •Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases..  •Mentor team as Lead and prepare team members for onboarding process.  •Implemented Oracle ASM 12c software installation and configuration (Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning Disks in Linux.  •Provide recommendations and strategies to application owners on how to improve performance and scalability of their database components  • Installed and configured AWS CLI on windows and linux platforms for coping database backups within environments as well as to S3 buckets for restoration.  •Configured and enable Windows Integrated Authentication for SQL Server RDS Using On-Premises Active Directory  •Setup ongoing replication of data between RDS db and EC2 with the use of CDC(Change Data Capture)  • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, SG, AutoScalingGroups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.  •Created availability groups for the database like CRD, MOP & RMSA on SQL Server 2012 ,2014 and 2016 and also create maintenance jobs for different activity like backup, profiler and performance monitoring.  • I have worked on the creation of the database, tables, schema in the SQL server 2012 . Worked on the database mirroring, failover clustering and setup high availability for the SQL Server database.  • Migrated Oracle and sql server databases from on premises to AWS cloud for both EC2 and RDS instances  • Hands-on experience in Oracle 11gR2 and 12c implementation, maintenance, administration and 24x7 support in multi data center environments that includes development, UAT and Productions infrastructure.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Query Optimization and Security.  • Monitored database (RAC and STANDBY) and SQL performance, OEM, EXPLAIN PLAN and tuned problem areas to enhance performance.    • Experienced in monitoring the health and performance of Oracle and SQL servers as well as home grown applications using SQL Server native tools, OEM and several other third party solutions.  • Adept at T-SQL, stored procedures, tables, indexes, views, functions, and triggers.  • Good understanding in developing, troubleshooting SSIS (ETL) DTS packages using best practice methodologies and in a manner consistent with existing database design objectives.  • Expert in using DTA/Extended Events/PerfMon/SQL Profiler/Scripts and other third party tools to resolve bottlenecks, dead locks and slow running queries.  • Able to benchmark and load test new instance builds for performance with DB load simulators.  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, assigning permissions and roles.  • Expert in VMware virtualization, Hardware/Software Clustering, RAID and SAN/NAS technology.  • Strong System Administration background in Windows environments.  • Experienced in creating technical documentations and process archiving and change management.  • Experienced in supporting and maintaining large databases and troubleshooting their problems.  •Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  •Develop methods for integrating different products so they work properly together such as customizing commercial databases to fit specific needs.  •Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g, 11g and 12c environments  • Involved in construction of DR sites for all the Production environments.  • Installed 12c databases and worked on Multitenant databases.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  •Created availability groups for the database like CRD, MOP & RMSA on SQL Server 2012 & 2014 and also create maintenance jobs for different activity like backup, profiler and performance monitoring.  • I have worked on the creation of the database, tables, schema in the SQL server 2012  •Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  •Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  •Installed and configured OEM cloud control 12c for monitoring oracle database prod and preprod environments    • Install and configure block change tracking to work with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  • Applied patches 10g R1&2, 11gR1&2 and 12c both container and pluggable databases  • Performed Database Refresh from Production to QA, UAT and Development databases. SR SQL SERVER & ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR TECHNATOMY CORPORATION - Fairfax, VA October 2014 to Present Over the years I have been involved in large number of projects development, managed large number of Projects & been a DBA with large number of Database Servers.  • Using Performance Monitor/Profiler to solve Dead Locks/Long running queries, implemented  • Experience in the Agile software development process including working with the business teams to prioritize requirements into logical and manageable groups for rapid intake into the Agile development process, based on development resource capacity.  • Implemented High Availability & Disaster Recovery techniques like Always ON Availability Groups, Clustering (Both Active-Active and Active-Passive), Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Implemented Always ON Availability Groups (AAG) on SQL Server 2012 SP2 CU5 and sql server 2016.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2012 to 2016.  •Schedule Incremental Database backup Jobs on sql server RDS to run hourly and captured on s3 bucket  • Configured DMS ( Database Migration Services ) to perform CDC Onoing replication of data between RDS and ECS instances  •Provide recommendations and strategies to application owners on how to improve performance and scalability of their database components  • Installed and configured AWS CLI on windows and linux platforms for coping database backups within environments as well as to S3 buckets for restoration.  • Migrated Oracle and sql server databases from on premises to AWS cloud for both EC2 and RDS instances  • Hands-on experience in Oracle 11gR2 and 12c implementation, maintenance, administration and 24x7 support in multi data center environments that includes development, UAT and Productions infrastructure.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Query Optimization and Security.  • Setup and configured mysql database systems on AWS RDS instances  • Experienced in monitoring the health and performance of Oracle and SQL servers as well as home grown applications using SQL Server native tools, OEM and several other third party solutions.  • Adept at T-SQL, stored procedures, tables, indexes, views, functions, and triggers.  • Good understanding in developing, troubleshooting SSIS (ETL) DTS packages using best practice methodologies and in a manner consistent with existing database design objectives.  • Expert in using DTA/Extended Events/PerfMon/SQL Profiler/Scripts and other third party tools to resolve bottlenecks, dead locks and slow running queries.  • Able to benchmark and load test new instance builds for performance with DB load simulators.  • Responsible for securing SQL Server, user management, assigning permissions and roles.  • Expert in VMware virtualization, Hardware/Software Clustering, RAID and SAN/NAS technology.  • Strong System Administration background in Windows environments.  • Experienced in creating technical documentations and process archiving and change management.  • Experienced in supporting and maintaining large databases and troubleshooting their problems.  •Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  •Develop methods for integrating different products so they work properly together such as customizing commercial databases to fit specific needs.  •Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance. ORACLE / MS SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR T-MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATION - Greenbelt, MD October 2011 to October 2014 Installs Configures, and Manages SQL Server 2014, 2012 and 2008R2 in development, test, and production environments and installs and configures SQL Server 2016 for testing different features and stability.  •AWS Oracle RDS, Aurora Postgres SQL, MySQL as well as experience managing a large Oracle database on EMC Storage in a data center environment  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008R2/2008.  • Extensively worked in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Extensively worked in data transformation services and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations.  • Exquisite skills in SSMS-Creating and scheduling jobs, alerts and operators with SQL Server Agent, handling Backup/Recovery of databases and Database Maintenance.  • Expertise in Performance Tuning, Index Tuning, Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Query Optimization, Client/Server connectivity and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, DMVs and DMFs.  • Hands-on experience in extensively worked with SQL Profiler, Activity monitor, Performance monitor, DMVs, and DMFs to tune the databases, queries, performance related issues like memory, CPU and I/O bottlenecks.  •Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  • Experience in planning and implementing Database Security by creating Logins, Users, Roles and assigning permissions according to the requirement.  • Implemented the new SQL Server 2012 mechanisms like data compression, online indexing, Contained Databases, security principals and AAG.  • Experience on 64 bit SQL Server 2012 / SQL Server 2008 R2 systems and MSCS Configurations.  • Experience of Application Code Review.  • Configured Internet Information Services.  • Having Experience on Data center servers and handling 1TB databases.  • Upgraded DEV/Qa and Production databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2  • Managed DSS (Decision Support System) and OLTP (On Line Transaction Processing system) full life cycle projects with multiple databases at one time, biggest database around 10 TBytes  • Responsible for Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues  • Deployed Grid Control to monitor and manage all the databases on clients  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, EMC (Time finder and SRDF), RAID, RAW Devices.  • Handling large database environments (Data warehouse) using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis observing the performance of the production database and constantly active regarding performance and space management issues and accordingly providing recommendations to make database healthy and running.  • Installed and configured oracle Enterprise manager cloud control 12c for monitoring oracle database instances on both single instances and rac nodes  • Involved in setting up disaster recovery sites using Data Guard technology. Configuring the Physical Standby, active data guard and snapshot standby database  • Used Shell Scripts to automate database operation and schedule jobs using CRONTAB  • Created and managed the RAC clustered databases on Solaris and HP-UX used ASM  • Working with Oracle Support to fix the production issues and also to get the merge patches.  • Providing application support to create database objects and apply database changes.  • Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption.  • Setting up physical Standby/Data Guard for disaster and recovery. ORACLE & SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR GLOBAL HEALTHCARE SERVICE - Washington, DC August 2009 to October 2011 Configured relevant SQL Server components including database backup, consistency, integrity and network utilities to ensure health and access of each database.  • Implement and maintain MySQL.  • Resolved the day to day maintenance tasks.  • Applied service packs on SQL Server 2008.  • Worked extensively with OEM to automate DBA tasks.  • Worked extensively with backup and restore requests.  • Responded and resolved database access and performance issues to meet business SLA's.  • Monitored database system details within the database, including the stored procedures and execution times and implemented efficiency improvements. Also, able to perform a database transaction and security audit.  • Supported redundant systems for disaster recovery and data archiving to ensure effective protection and integrity of data assets.  • Created a mirrored database on the report server using database mirroring.  • Ability to quickly troubleshoot and conduct root cause analysis.  • Ownership and accountability for production level issues.  • Implement and troubleshoot Oracle Cloud Control 12c and multiple Agent deployments.  • Monitored daily backups using RMAN and Export/Import.  • Establish refresh jobs for test databases using Export-Import and RMAN DUPLICATE option.  •Moving large amount of data Administered (12c RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR. backups.  •Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF BUEA 2007 Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Hp-ux, Ux, Solaris, Linux, Ec2, Dms, Migrations, Jira, Command line interface, Technical support, Performance tuning, Oem, Mentor Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • DBA Support  • Database Management  • Postgresql and Mysql setup on RDS  • Agile Methodology  • New Relic Installation & Configuration  • Team Building & Mentor/Leadership  • 12c OEM & multitenant Architecture  • Windows & Linux systems  • Performance Tuning  • Installation and Troubleshooting  • McAfee EPO Migration from On-Prem to AWS Cloud  • AWS Management (EC2,RDS,DMS,S3,SG,CDC,VPC )  • AWS CLI (Command Line Interface)  • Linux & windows OS Support  • Ms Sql Server Management  • Technical Support  • System Migrations& Upgrades    TECHNOLOGICAL SKILLS    • Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c  • Performance Tuning  • DATAGUARD 10g, 11g, 12c  • McAfee EPO Migration from On-Prem to AWS Cloud  • Oracle RAC on Solaris, HP-UX and Linux  • Oracle Enterprise Manager (10g, 11g, 12c)  • AWS EC2 instances, S3, etc.  • High Availability (RAC)  • Agile, Jira tool  • New Relic Installation & Configuration  • New Relic Integration with AWS  • Linux OS & RedHat enterprise Linux , Oracle Linux 5, 6 and 7  • Windows Operating systems