Lead DBA Lead DBA Lead DBA - BJS Whole Sale Club Hopkinton, MA Expertise level skill in database administration, performance fine-tuning and database design. Strongly committed to providing hands-on expertise in mission critical VLDB solutions with high availability architectural design. Implementations of RDS in AWS cloud and administration of massive SAP Hana landscape.    ? Provide architectural design for database solutions for enterprise applications and exceed customer expectations in designing high availability database solutions.  ? Adoption to cloud technology related to database services and cloud managed services  ? Implemented and administer SAP HANA databases both on-premises and in AWS cloud.  ? Architect and implement DR strategy for site availability both on-premises and Cloud.  ? Commended for excellent analytical and communication skills as well as exceptional talent in planning, decision-making, problem solving exceeding customer satisfaction.  ? Vast experience working in information technology applications and enterprise solutions spanning database Administration, Design, Analysis and Implementation using MSSQL, Oracle, DB2 and Sybase Server on Unix and Windows platforms.  ? Hands-on in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 and Sybase Database Administration. Extensive experience working with Production Support in 24X7 and large enterprise applications. Strong in Database Design, problem solving techniques and troubleshooting and performance fine-tuning.    Career Highlights  ? Implemented enterprise level high availability database solutions for several client projects  ? Experience in resolving performance issues at customer sites and recommend database best practices related to the application solution.  ? Lead and mentor team of database engineers.  ? Hands-on with database performance optimization, troubleshooting bottlenecks and database backup recovery solutions of SQL Server, Oracle and DB2.  ? Extensive IT experience working with 24X7 Production Support and VLDB's spanning to terabytes.  ? Experience developing & implementing Disaster Recovery solutions spanning across the geography.  ? Hands on with Linux / Unix systems and shell scripting & windows operating system.  ? Implemented major ERP database solutions meeting strict deadlines.  ? Highly informative with new database releases and features and its implementations.    Career Overview  ? Implemented complex enterprise database solutions at several customer locations.  ? Managed highly complex database solutions providing efficient backup and point in time recovery solutions.  ? Lead team of database engineers in identifying and minimizing database performance bottleneck.  ? Strategically implemented clustering database solution for high availability at several customer locations.  ? Wrote several documents to customers on database performance tuning and best practices related to their applications and infrastructure  ? Recommendation of suitable infrastructure layout to customers carefully benchmarking various hardware, storage and database vendor products.    Skill Set    ? IBM DB2 - LUW database administration and database performance tuning at customer / client site, usage of Data Server Manager, hands-on with DB2 10.5 clustering and HADR, database backup and recovery solutions.  ? Hands-on in SQL Server database administration, performance-tuning using SQL profiler and SQL Server management views, usage of database tuning advisor, SQL Server clustering and replication for high availability, log shipping & database mirroring for disaster recovery solutions, database installation and upgrades, database security management, backup and recovery solutions, very large dataset migrations and SSIS.  ? Expertise level in Oracle database administration, performance tuning and usage of enterprise grid for AWR & ADDM reports, setting up and administration of Oracle RAC 11G, Oracle installations of both stand-alone and RAC using both ASM (Automatic Storage Management of disk groups with ASM instances) as well as regular cooked file systems, database migration using data pumps and transportable tablespaces for cross-platform migrations, RMAN usage for backup, restore and recovery. Work Experience Lead DBA BJS Whole Sale Club - Westborough, MA 2014 to Present Sr. Database Administrator Software Group - Littleton, MA 2006 to 2014 Lead Database Administrator EMC Corporation - Hopkinton, MA 2000 to 2006 Consultant - Database Engineer Professional Access Limited - New York, NY 1999 to 2000 JR. MANAGER - Information Technology Whirlpool 1995 to 1999 Database Analyst GRASIM INDUSTRIES - Bengaluru, Karnataka 1993 to 1995 Education Bachelor of Engineer in Computer Science & Engineering Annamalai University Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, PERFORMANCE TUNING Additional Information Technical Skills  20 + years of Database Technolgy:  Database Design * Database Analyst  Database Administration * Performance Tuning  Backup & Recovery * High Availability Solutions