Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator Savannah, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator T.G.I Fridays - Dallas, TX March 2019 to Present SQL Server database administrator within an on-premise and cloud technology environment. Primary support entails Azure SQL databases, Azure Virtual Machines (VMs); and the setup, configuration, and documentation from an architect position for Azure SQL Managed Instances. SSIS support, system maintenance via Windows server and SQL Server patching, disaster recovery implementation via backup/recovery, AlwaysOn, and Azure snapshots. Updating VM servers to utilize managed disk for better support and management of BLOB storage regarding SQL Server drive space management. SQL Server replication configuration and deployment utilizing MS best practices. On-call support and team leader for the creation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that drives Policies and Procedures for DBA functions. Senior Database Administrator / Web Administrator. Parsons Parsons Corporations - Richardson, TX July 2009 to March 2019 Database administration, management, and support of Enterprise environment utilizing Microsoft SQL2008R2-2017 and Oracle (9i-12c) Servers via Windows Server 2008R2 thru 2016R2; within cluster and standalone environments; On-premise and AWS RDS/EC2. SSIS development and support; SSIS package development and support (migration/upgrade), Enterprise replication, log shipping, mirroring, (HA), AlwaysOn, SQL Tuning, SQL Server Reporting Services setup and administration. Security patching of database servers and application tools. Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements. Modifying database structures, as necessary, from information via application developers. Enrolling users and maintaining system security. Ensuring compliance with database vendor license agreements. Controlling and monitoring user access and monitoring for optimizing performance of the databases. Setup, migration, upgrade, decommissioning of databases and servers (Dev/Test/Cert/UAT/Production). Maintaining archived data. Contacting database vendor for technical support. Administer AWS database environments for Development - Production either via RDS or EC2 in connection emerging database platforms (PostgresDB, Aurora, MySQL). Senior Database Administrator/Systems Engineer. Parsons Parsons Corporations - Newport, IN 2006 to 2009 Development and management of database architectures via Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g and Microsoft SQL 2000 - 2008R2. Visual Studio 2003-2008 development of .NET and ASP.Net applications for Department of Defense - Army facility. Maintain, support, and programmatically design management system for Waste Tracking, Condition Reporting, and Object-Oriented data clusters - within multiple arenas for chemical destruction; to include, the development and administration of off-of-the-shelf and proprietary data tracking systems. Microsoft Reporting Services development and continued support of the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). In-Direct mentoring of peers and within the direct organizational mentoring program from Executive Level Staff. Overseer of day-to-day application development efforts in connection and direction from my Manager on the goals and objectives for the department. LIMS Management and Data Analyst Parsons Corporations - Newport, IN 2003 to 2006 Maintain, support, and customized off the shelf design of management system for air monitoring and chemical destruction data management. Report writer and systems manipulation via Actuate Server/Report Writer; Actuate administrator, report generation via PL/SQL – SQL script writing; data corrections and verification from internal/external sample analysis. Oracle database administrator, Microsoft SQL and networking, Management of information systems and data in multiple data environments for data mining, and report generation. Data migration, import/export, backup recovery via Veritas and Nugenarch Archiving systems, to include networking administration. Oracle Developer 2000/Forms administration - (PC Workstation) repair, hardware/software configuration; Analyst of single and collocated monitoring device data extraction designed via MS.Net on Microsoft SQL 2000 and Oracle 8i-9i platform. Application development and management of LIMS systems; Microsoft Reporting Services via SQL 2005. Remedy Development and Support Bridgestone Firestone - Akron, OH 2001 to 2003 Member of a team responsible for administration and maintenance of an ITSM Remedy solution used to support Bridgestone-Firestone Call Center user community. Administer application data daily; process queries and reports as requested by users, and monitor server logs to ensure that all system transactions are processed. Manage Remedy user accounts and process access requests. Ensure the Remedy applications are properly patched and on the most current versions. Assist in the development, change, test and deployment of processes into Remedy and work with Remedy developers within Bridgestone-Firestone. Perform analysis and documentation of requirements and processes. Assist in planning and scheduling of changes to the Remedy system and applications. Assist in the analysis and documentation of requirements and corresponding process analysis; Monitor and manage the operating systems supporting the Remedy servers and back-end databases and web servers; maintain and manage the Remedy support and maintenance contract to ensure that all available support is current.  Education Community College of the Air Force Skills DBA (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), AWS (3 years), AZURE (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/damitchell http://verify.CompTIA.org Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E2 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Certification Number# E072-3839 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) SQL Server Database Development  Certification Number# D447-7884 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) SQL Server Implementation and Maintenance  Certification Number# C975-1400 Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Database Administrator  Certification Number# C975-1399 Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Business Intelligence Developer on SQL Server  Certification Number# C975-1380 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) SQL Server Business Intelligence Development  Certification Number# C975-1382 Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) SQL Server Database Administrator  Certification Number# C975-1379 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) Microsoft Office SharePoint Server, Configuration  Certification Number# C975-1383 Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) SQL Server  Certification Number# C975-1381 ITIL v3 Certification Number# c.904461 CompTIA Security+ ce May 2012 to May 2021 Certification Number# B6H36G6CRHQEYCWR  Verification Code# B6H36G6CRHQEYCWR EXIN Business Information Management Foundation Reference to BISL  Certification Number# 5704724.20541990 Oracle Certified Associate Certificate Available Certified Scrum Master November 2007 to December 2029 CSM-Agile  Certification Number# 000020810 Groups Professional Association for SQL Server (DALPass) Professional Association for SQL Server (IndyPass) Information Systems Security Association International Oracle Users Group (IOUG) Indiana Maximo Users Group Indiana Oracle Users Group (INOUG) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society (IEEE) Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) Additional Information Identifies database requirements and configuration; evaluating existing and designing proposed systems. Recommends solutions by defining physical structure and functional capabilities, security, backup and recovery specifications; including disaster recovery cradle to grave. Maintains database performance by calculating optimum values parameters; implementing new releases; completing maintenance requirements; evaluating computer operating systems and hardware products. Prepares users by conducting training; providing information; resolving problems. Maintaining professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing professional publications; establishing personal networks; benchmarking state-of-the-art practices; and participating in professional societies.