System Analyst for SQL Server DBA System Analyst for SQL Server DBA System Analyst for SQL Server DBA - HCL Client - Teradata San Diego, CA Having 9+ years Solid hands on experience for the overall SQL Server Database architecture, design, installation, configuration, technical support, and maintenance with complex interdependencies and high availability, security, performance, and scalability requirements in. Creative attitude with a strong orientation to customer service, organizational efficiency, and profitability. Strong determination and ambition to reach the zenith of perfection and heights of the Organization through dedication and hard work.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE:    • Installed, Configured, Administered SQL server 2000,2005,2008,2012,2014,2016 on production and development environments.  • Pro-actively and regularly monitoring of CPU, Disk, I/O, memory related bottlenecks, deadlock and carried out similar other tasks.  • Installed and Configured window server 2012 and 2016 failover cluster Active/Passive and configured Always -ON for High availability and disaster recovery (DR) solution.  • Installed and configured a SQL 2012 clustered environment with availability groups.  • Installed and configured a SQL 2008 clustered test environment.  • Configured and supported replication and log shipping in both SQL 2008 and 2012.  • Creates Jobs, Alert, and Notifications for systems error, insufficient resources, fatl database error, hardware errors, security breach-technical guidance, task management, and tracking.  • Managed database Maintenance tasks  • Performance Tuning and Monitoring/Managed around 4000 databases and good experience on database tuning in 300 windows servers  • Cost Savings for instances and SQL server database consolidated up to $1Million per annum  • Preparing Capacity planning document based on the database growth.  • Installed, Maintained & monitored production SQL server and making sure they are up-to-date with the latest Patch and service packs.  • Worked in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Worked in developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using DTS/SSIS, Import Export Wizard, and Bulk Insert.  • High Level Design of ETL DTS Packages & SSIS Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources like (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, Merge and union all.  • Implementing the Authentication Mode for Data security after installation SQL database  • Proactive operation management and provided 24x7 support.  • MSSQL server database monitoring in a single script in centralized servers (T-SQL, VB Scripts, Windows Batch Scripts, PowerShell)  • Created linked server to Perform distributed queried and transfer data  • Created SQL Server SOX audits and policies to monitor activity on SQL databases to ensure databases were complying and met the Service Level requirements of our clients.  • Optimized T-SQL query performance using SQL Profiler, Execution Plans and SQL Performance dashboard in Sigle scripts to monitor all the issues.  • Installed and Configured SQL server 2005,2012 and 2014 real time standby (Log shipping)  • Configured on ALWAYSON MSSQL SERVER 2012 and 2014  • Configured on availability replica, Availability group from Always on database in MSSQL server 2012 and 2014  • Configuration of Failover like Automatic, Manual and Forced with the clustered environment  • Configured Synchronization and asynchronization on SQL server  • Adding SQL server into Clustered Server  • Adding SQL server database into Always on group  • Created SQL Listener on SQL server Availability replica Node  • Configured on Application Intent in SQL server for reading only access on Secondary database  • Strongly using T-SQL code from Query Analyzer along with DDL, DML, DCL, TCL statements  • Proactive monitoring in a single PowerShell and VB script all the production servers  • Notifying the Alert like (SQL Server and SQL server Agent status  • Event viewer error logs from Windows  • Database and Instance status  • DB size growth and Data integrity status monitoring  • Network connectivity checks  • Health Checks DB and Disk space from Server  • Backup Jobs Success or Failure alert  • Responsibilities & Deliverables: SQL DBA  • Providing end-to-end Technical support to the users and maintaining the Service level agreement (SLA).  • User Administration (Create user, reset password, Access grand and revoke  • To overcome the high load performance issues, I have created a standby database through Log shipping to avoid the over load in the production database while generating the report. Standby databases can be available for read-only queries. This provides Maximum protection and availability. Maximum performance this protection mode to provide the highest level of data protection that is possible without affecting the performance of the primary database.  • Handled Dev, Test and Production Databases.  • Creation of new database, deciding the location of data, index, temporary, redo log and control files on the disks.  • Creating the Users, Granting Roles and Privileges to Users and passwords.  • As a DBA monitoring the database activity daily to ensure smooth data operations on all production databases. Ensure quality implementation of new database systems or ensure the consistent, efficient operation of existing database systems.  • Monitoring the archive files to ensure the disk is having enough space.  • Provide technical guidance to PSA application developers on areas and opportunities to improve SQL code.  • Strong analytical skills with the ability to analyze the resolves database problems on time without business impact.  • Worked collaboratively with other support and application team members and  • Communicated effectively with top level management as per their business requirement.    Responsibilities & Deliverables -DBA: -  A database administrator (DBA) directs performs all activities related to maintaining a successful database environment. And responsibilities include designing, implementing, and maintaining the database system; establishing policies and procedures pertaining to the management, security, maintenance, and use of the database management system; and training employees in database management like Software installation and Maintenance, Data Extraction, Transformation, Data Loading, Specialized Data Handling, Database Backup and Recovery, Security Authentication. Capacity Planning, Performance Monitoring, Database Tuning, and Troubleshooting and end to end customer support and satisfaction.    Additional AWS Technical Knowledge:  • Amazon Security Administration like Access Control/IAM Policies  • AWS EC2 instance/S3 storage design, provisioning, and performance monitoring  • RDS Backups, Multi-AZ & Read Replicas  • IAM and DB Account Management  • Amazon Security Groups  • AWS Management Console, Amazon CloudWatch, , Amazon RDS Console, Amazon Event Notification, Enhanced Monitoring Option.  • RDS Maintenance Windows, DB Snapshots, Backup Windows  • Amazon Database Log Files (DB Events)  • Performance Tuning in RDS  • CloudWatch Alarm Administration Work Experience System Analyst for SQL Server DBA HCL Client - Teradata - San Diego, CA September 2018 to Present • Set up new databases and provided all database-related support for a Business requirement.  • Consolidate smaller databases in one servers.  • All database instances less than 50 GB has been consolidated.  • Reduced License Cost, Hardware Cost easy Maintenance, Lesser Monitoring, Easy future growth projections, reduces upgrade cost.  • Easier & cost effective to implement real-time replication & ALWAYSON and many other latest features of advanced SQL server versions.  • And SQL DBA regular supports. Database Administrator -Team Lead HCL Client - Biolab Inc June 2017 to August 2018 • Formulated recommendations about optimal storage configurations for senior management.  • Identified and reduced/ eliminated non-idle wait events such as scattered file read, sequential file read wait for the event, log file completion, in the queue, and buffer latch waits.  • Identified, led, and established automation of repetitive processes to minimize errors.  • Completely eliminated space errors by implementing proactive space monitoring and effective space allocation.  • Greatly improved performance in daily transforms by identifying and reorganizing indexes on major tables.  • User Administration on SQL server Databases.  • Created Availability Replica from MSSQL server database  • Created Always on Group in Clustered Server  • Configured Synchronization and asynchronization on SQL server  • Adding SQL server into Clustered Server  • Adding SQL server database into Always on group  • Created SQL Listener on SQL server Availability replica Node  • Index rebuilding to improve query performance and Index usage monitoring.  • Creating roles, granting privileges  • Cloning Database for Testing.  • Performed SQL Query tuning by using utility SQL TRACE.  • Checking alert log errors and make the necessary steps to rectify.  • Monitoring the alert log and trace files to monitor the day-to-day DBA activities.  • Providing end-to-end Technical support to the users and maintaining the Service level agreement (SLA). Lead Database Administrator HCL Client - MERCK INC December 2016 to June 2017 • Strong analytical, planning, and organizational skills with the ability to manage competing demands and knowledge of SQL Azure  • Knowledge of High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options for SQL Server  • Provide development and design assistance to development and other application support teams  • Perform all database management responsibilities in Microsoft Azure for production and non-production workloads  • Provide database administration, performance tuning support for Markets Business  • Acts as an expert technical resource to client and development staff in all phases of the development and implementation process  • Perform database hygiene and maintenance to ensure optimum performance  • Implementation of new Projects  • Implementation of Backup strategic for new projects  • Installation and upgrade SQL Server to a higher version  • Database production support of 24x7 Site (SQL & Oracle)  • Implemented Instance and Database check alert send to DBA team through SQL Mail for all SQL Server Instances  • Monitoring the disk space on all the SQL Servers in single scripts  • Implemented OS event logs for any SQL Server error messages  • Monitoring SQL Error Logs for any errors occurring within SQL Server  • Record the weekly Database growth of SQL Server Databases in the centralized monitoring database  • Reorganizing the table data and index pages (Large Databases - every Month) Database Administrator -Team lead HCL Client - SingTel Telecommunications - Singapore January 2014 to November 2016 • Provide technical support to databases, including system management, backup/recovery, account management, configuration management, and trouble calls  • Estimate effort to complete software development activities and provide input that adds value to the management of software development projects  • Work with application development staff to develop database architectures, coding standards, and quality assurance policies and procedures  • Assist with Windows Server configuration and management as it relates to MS SQL Server installation and performance  • Perform and manage daily database maintenance, monitoring, and performance tuning tasks/jobs Sr Database Administrator HCL Client - Teradyne - Boston, MA November 2010 to December 2013 • Reviews database design and integration of systems provides backup recovery and makes recommendations regarding enhancements and/or improvements  • Evaluate and implement products to enhance existing database solutions (reduce costs, improve efficiency, improve performance)  • Interfaces with user departments remotely and on-site to assist in the implementation of work requests and provide operational support  • Design, develop, maintain and execute SSIS packages for database automation and cross-network connectivity  • Provide technical guidance to PSA application developers on areas and opportunities to improve SQL code.  • Creating a user account and roles in SQL Server  • Implementing the Authentication Mode for Data security  • The weekly schedule for Optimization & integrity to better performance  • Query Based Truncation and updated in the Weekly Report  • Generating the Query Based Weekly Report for Database Growth  • Generating the Query Based Weekly Report for Database Log File Growth  • Sending monthly database growth Report to the application user.  • Implemented a Standby database through Log shipping in SQL Server 2005  • There is a Business requirement to generate reports from the production database for every 4 hrs. the database had slow performance and high utilization  • At the time of report generation, the production. Database Administrator HCL Client - Standard Chartered Bank Ltd India March 2008 to October 2010 • Work with the development team to resolve bug-fixes and assist in relevant testing through various environments  • Monitor SQL server and database performance and proactively address potential performance issues, review, design, and develop data models in conjunction with application development teams, working knowledge of PowerShell and/or .NET Framework, Provide solutions for database issues including capacity, redundancy, replication, and performance.  • Proactive monitoring in a single PowerShell and VB script all the production servers  • Notifying the Alert like (SQL Server and SQL server Agent status  • Event viewer error logs from Windows  • Database and Instance status  • DB size growth and Data integrity status monitoring  • Network connectivity checks  • Health Checks DB and Disk space from Server  • Backup Jobs Success or Failure alert    CERTIFICATION OF APPRECIATION AWARDS FROM CLIENTS:  ? Received SPOT AWARD in 2009 for excellent service delivery (PSA)  ? Received SPOT AWARD on 2011 for Outstanding Contribution to DBA Track  ? Received SPOT AWARD on 2012 Excellent Works Support for DBA  ? Received SPOT AWARD on 2013 for MSSQL Database Upgrade  ? Received SPOT AWARD in 2014 for Storage Migration.  ? Received SPOT AWARD on 2017 for New Project Implémentation (for New Company Acquiers)    REWARDS AT WORK  ? Certificate of Excellence TechCEED Certified Trainer for MSSQL Server.    ? Certification of Appreciation for on time Training Delivery. Education Master's Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA, Oracle Dba