Senior Cloud DBA Senior Cloud DBA Senior Cloud DBA - SalientCRGT - US Office of Personnel Management (OPM)- NBIB Potomac, MD Work Experience Senior Cloud DBA SalientCRGT - US Office of Personnel Management (OPM)- NBIB November 2017 to Present Wash D C    • Install Oracle Label Security (OLS), register OLS with the 12C databases, enable LBACSYS, create the Policy, authorize users for the Policy, apply the policy to the database table and add Policy to the Table Rows using Oracle 12C grid control OEM and PL/SQL Packages to enable row level data classification and assign label authorizations or security clearances to database and application users.    • Design and install multiple Tera bytes size of Oracle 12C Data Warehouse Repository RHEL7 server, encrypt tablespaces, partition huge tables, create Bitmap and B-tree indexes, Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) from different DB2, SQL server databases into data warehouse repository.    • Deploy Oracle 12C R2 databases on AWS EC2 instance, create key pair, install Yum and Perl for installation of utilities, create volume and attach volume for Oracle database software, run Oracle provided scripts for pre-configurations and Oracle required RPMs packages, use tool MobaXterm for Oracle graphical installations, Migrate Oracle 12C R1 database to 12C R2 on AWS EC2 instance.    • Install Oracle 13C R2 OEM Cloud Control, create Prod and non-Prod Groups for 200+ hosts and targets and upgrade 12C OEM and to 13C OMS and Agent, install 13C and 12C Agents on RHEL 7 and prior RHEL7 hosts and promote targets on hosts to be manually added targets for CRS, ASM, SCAN, database instance, system and Listeners.    • Work with Application server Admin to implement Oracle J2EE based Application Development Framework (ADF) utilizing Model-View-Control (MVC) further separating the model layer from business service to enable Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)    • Utilize Oracle 13C R2 OEM to fully or partially redact sensitive PII data at the last seconds just before SQL query results are returned to the caller, and created Data Redaction Policies based on SYS_CONTEXT values of applications user groups to either exempt or non-exempt users from seeing redacted data.    • Enable Oracle Data Vault with required Realms and integrate it with Label Security features to effectively and security control access to data warehouse application tables, views and objects by privileged database users.    • Build Oracle Data Masking with custom built SQL Expression formats to mask the columns with multiple different complex formats sensitive PII data and maintain data integrity with child table's columns.    • Install and configure Oracle 12C R2 two- node RAC multitenant CDB/PDBs databases and migrate 11C RAC with AES 128 encryption to 12C RAC with AES 256 encryption tablespaces.    • Setup and use Oracle EM 13C (OEM) as a monitoring and diagnostics tool and deploy Data security to identify/resolve the database error, performance issues and build Data Masking and Data Redaction on sensitive PII data.    • Build the latest Oracle 12C R2 Primary/Physical Standby databases in ASM storage, create Oracle Transparent Database Encryption (TDE) Keystore Wallet, set up SQL net Advance Security Options (ASO) encryption, TCP and SSL ENDPOINT TCP and TCPS for server and client key certifications and create tablespace encryption.    • Redefine database RMAN backup retention policy and recovery windows and enhance RMAN processes by implementing daily incremental backup processes to better support databases backup, restore and recovery for the Prod and UAT databases.    • Validate the Oracle 12C Keystore password and backup the entire Keystore with the Oracle Wallet Master PKCS#12 file after inherited the TDE databases to be able to rotated encryption key periodically to comply with the security policies.    • Migrate databases, schemas, tables and other objects from DEV to UAT or the other way around on client's demands to meet their business needs    • Perform Oracle Quarterly Critical Security Patching (CPU) to Oracle 12C stand alone, RAC and RAC/DataGuard databases    • Trouble shoot database alerts, long running Oracle processes and perform SQL Tuning, Oracle memory, Kernel parameters and Disk I/O reviews.    • Provide Expert Analysis and Advise and perform ETL on Data Warehousing loads, extracts and transforming among different vender databases and operating system servers. Principal Database Admin SAIC May 2014 to November 2017 SEC)- OIT Wash D C  • Worked as a principal DBA to install/configure Oracle 11g/12C databases, maintained and upgraded existing Oracle 11g 2-nodes to 12C RAC ASM DataGuard Primary and Physical Standby servers for SEC's Productions, Staging, and Development/Testing platforms.    • Maintained and upgraded the SEC's Risk Assessment Exam (RAE) multiple Tera bytes Production database with partitioned big tables over hundreds Giga bytes, extract/transform/load big data among Oracle RAC and data warehouses, perform Oracle performance tuning to improve long running queries from long hours to minutes, Range and List Partition big tables with size over 2G and/or 10 million records, run Explain Plan, SQL Trace, ASH and AWR to tune SQL using SQLHC and OEM, alter system to allocate session memory PGA and sort_area_size for parallel server processes and create Temporally Tablespace Group to improve very complex and heavy query with UNION ALL, and INNER JOIN against multiple big tables with multiple hundreds million records.    • Performed yearly Disaster Recovery (DR) to practice both of Oracle RAC and switch over of the Primary/Physical Standby databases from Production to the COOP site and utilize Oracle Grid Control (EM) 12C to check and monitor the databases, use Oracle cluster utility HAS to shutdown/startup Cluster, ASM and RAC databases, and perform SQL statements and Oracle DataGuard DGMRGL commands to failover databases.    • Installed and configured Oracle Golden Gate to replicate/synchronize schemas/tables and whole database on source database to destination repository data warehouses    • Configured Oracle 12C Transparent Application Failover (TAF) service for Pluggable databases (PDBs) in 12C RAC for client automatic reconnect when lost node instance. Created Oracle Keystore (Wallet) and encryption key for Oracle 12C Tablespace Encryption (TDE) to secure SEC's critical sensitive databases.    • Utilized Oracle Control Enterprise Manager (EM) 12C Cloud to monitor/maintain multiple database instances, and tune database and SQL long running reports, schedule recurring automation database jobs and perform rolling scheduled Oracle Patching for RAC nodes and single instances.    • Coded UNIX shell scripts, Windows PowerShell and set up cron jobs and Task Scheduler to raise database alerts, perform RMAN daily backups, materialized view (MV) refreshing among different databases using database links and refresh testing and staging databases.    • Worked with System Admins to utilize VMware ESXi to create or replicate required Linux Operating Systems with latest OS and Oracle Patching and needed RPMs, cores of CPU, RAM memory and ASM disk space to shorten processes and saving time for installations of new database servers.    • Performed daily and weekly database backup/recovery; executed AWR Report Snap shoot interval load profile after large DSS batch jobs ran on the database to tune the database and long running database processes and users' ad-hoc and custom built reports.    • Upgraded 11g Oracle 2-nodes RAC to 12C R2(12.1.0.2) 2-node RAC Non-Container databases, upgrade/migrate Oracle 11g single instances to Oracle 12C Multitenant Container DB with Pluggable databases using Oracle GUI DBUA and Parallel Upgrade Utility.    • Enable and configured Oracle 12C Label Security, Data Vault for manager and non-manager roles users to query production data and use Oracle 12C grid OEM to build Schema Column Data Masking and sub-setting production sensitive data for the testing team and the third party reviews. Senior Database Administrator CACI - Fort Belvoir, VA February 2013 to May 2014 • Worked as a primary senior DBA to support classified database servers in SCIF room to support Army FMS, AOS, TDA and SAMAS databases in SIPR network. Participated in data warehouse design, develop GreenPlum PostgreSQL database use CASE tools to data modeling and configure Oracle Data Mining to allow Army Data Analysts quickly access data using Oracle Data Miner work flow based graphical user interface and explore their data to find patterns, relationships and hidden insights to solve a wide range of business problems.    • Installed, configured and maintained 10+ Oracle 11g Web Logic Servers to integrate with Oracle 11g 2- nodes RAC database servers to support Army FMS applications.    • Upgraded/migrated 50+ Oracle 11g R2 database servers to Oracle 12C R1 (12.1.0.1) Multitenant Container DB(CDB) and Pluggable databases on single instances and Oracle DataGuard Primary/Standby databases on development/testing platforms.    • Maintained Oracle DataGuard 11g Primary/Physical Standby databases using Redo Apply and SQL apply for Physical and Logical Standby databases on NIPR and SIPR networks. Support Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster single one database instances using Oracle ASM hosted in Solaris and Linux servers.    • Implemented Key-based reversible Data Masking for sensitive or classified data by using Oracle Data Masking Pack to a 3rd party for data analysis and reporting uses and use the same key to reverse masking and recover original data.    • Performed cold and hot primary database backup to Tape from NIPR network and refresh or replicate databases to Standby database on SIPR network.    • Supported multiple application development teams and testing teams by implementing builds to User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Integration Testing and Production databases, also perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning for long running scheduled jobs and reports.    • Tuned long running SQL, Materialized Views (MV) and Oracle scheduler jobs using collected stored Optimizer Statistics, SQL Access Advisor to verify Oracle is using Optimal Index. Also utilize Oracle EM Grid Control to monitor and tune system level performance, and run ASH reports to analyze SQL section statistics data to tune SQL.    • Maintained LDAP Oracle Internet Directory database servers to store application user's names, titles, and security credentials which are being used for single sign-on and email clients. Principal Database Admin HP July 2011 to February 2013 - DOD DCPAS contract  • Team worked with SA and network admin to Install Linux Operating systems and required RPMs, set up Oracle Kernel Parameters for Oracle RAC, configured network and RAC nodes, installed ASMlib driver and created +DATA, +FRA and +OCRDB three Oracle diskgroups, and then installed configure Oracle Grid infrastructure, and configure Singled Client Assess Name (SCAN) IP addresses using Grid Naming Service (GNS) for one place to maintain public, private and VIP rather than configuring them in each node locally for a 3- node Oracle 11g R2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) in RHEL5.5, and also worked with SA and network admin to allocate RAID 1 block to block and one to one disk mirroring for ASM 2 terabytes external shared storage and took advantage of Oracle ASM to strip data in shared storage for individual node to share Oracle data, CRS/Voting Disk and Oracle redo, archive log file s in Fast Recovery Area(FRA) and also being used for RMAN back up, and for Oracle Flashback Recovery uses..    • Built and maintained Oracle DataGuard 11g Data Protection, fault torrent and High Availability (HA) production management system with one Primary server, and one Physical Standby server using Redo Apply and one logical Standby database using SQL Apply in Linux RHEL 5 servers    • Created and configure Oracle 11g R2 databases for production, staging and development databases for DCPAS Case Management Tracking System (CMTS) in Windows servers hosted in 3 VMWare Virtual machines.    • Adapt Oracle Data Masking Pack and using remap_schema, remap_data in DataPump export to secure sensitive data to meet DoD data Extract, Load and Transform requirements.    • Installed Middle Tier SOA Oracle Single Sign On (SSO) Apache server, Oracle Identity Management (OID), DOD Public Key infrastructure (PKI) for clients sign-on through Oracle Application Servers, Java applications accessing backend Oracle 11g databases.    • Setup database alerts to monitor database performance, and perform SQL, CPU and IO using Oracle Grid Control and EM, and also setup ADDM snapshot and ADDM views and using SQL trace.    • Setup and Perform RMAN database clone, backup , restore and recovery, develop PL/SQL, shell scripts, Perl programs to automate server daily Extract, Load, Transform ( ETL) and cron jobs    • Installed and configured GreenPlum database 4.0 in HDFS and created external tables and integrated Informatica Tool for ETL processing in enterprise-wide data warehouse.    • Applied Oracle Critical Patch Updates to 100+ databases hosted in UNIX and Windows in physical and VM platforms to meet security standards every quarter.    • Ran Retina and GOLD Disk software and DISA STIG SRR scripts against every database and applied solutions to comply with DISA STIG Information Assurance (IA) Unix and Windows servers. Senior Oracle Database Admin HP February 2008 to July 2011 - DOD CPMS contract    • Installed and Configured Oracle 10G R2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Linux RHEL 4.5 cluster 2 nodes servers, Grid Control Server and EMC SAN external shared storages disk arrays for DoD CPMS DIUCS production systems.  • Installed and set up two nodes Oracle 11g R1 RAC in Windows 2008 datacenter with Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in EMC SAN external disks for CMTS critical transaction systems.  • Migrated and Configured non-cluster Oracle production 9i database hosted in HPUX to 10g RAC database servers in RedHat RHEL 4.5 Operating System.  • Upgraded 30 databases to latest Oracle 11g R2 hosted in UNIX , Windows servers and Virtual Machine (VM)  • Analyzed, debugged and tuned Oracle Form 12C and Oracle Report PL/SQL and SQL long running processes  • Established and configured Oracle 10g Primary and Standby database servers with Oracle DataGuard 10g.  • Installed Oracle patches, Critical Security Patch Updates (CPU) to Oracle cluster database servers and Grid Control Server and non-cluster database servers in timely fashion.  • Perform Oracle Data Masking to protect sensitive column data by using Oracle Remap_schema, Remap_data in extracting, transforming, loading and replicating data  • Developed Oracle DataPump backup to filesystems and custom build RMAN to backup and recovery databases in cron job shell scripts in Oracle cluster database server nodes  • Set up Oracle environments variables, user default shell, files and directories access permission for developers to work in filesystems and Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) diskgroups.  • Monitored and Responsible for minimizing downtimes on production, demo and testing databases by ensuring the daily backups/exports of database, archive logs to external media.  • Supported customers to investigate data discrepancies between our databases and the data source from other agencies and promptly provided solutions to resolve the issues.  • Set up and monitored daily monitoring jobs, automatic email alert notification when database is down, or thresholds for database objects have been exceeded, installation of new database upgrades, patches, create databases, database objects like table spaces, tables, views, synonyms, snapshots, partitioning and sizing tables, indexes etc.  • Set up database users, manage database permissions and setup database roles, and enable database auditing for database security.  • Designed database modeling, creating objects using Oracle Designer, JDeveloper, and CA ERwin data Modeler tools.  • Tuned SQL, CPU and IO using tools such as Oracle Enterprise Manager (EM), ADDM, ASH reports, SQL tracer and v$sysstat statistics system view of database performance.  • Trained new DBAs and developers on SQL tuning, analyzing and improving the SQL statement performance.  • Developed and maintain PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, packages on request from developers.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle Enterprise Manager 10.2.0.3 in EM Grid Control Server to monitor Oracle 10g R2 cluster database nodes, and centralized patches installation and software upgrades.  • Implemented Database Security resolutions to production, testing, and demo database servers to comply with the Database Security Technical Implementation Guide(STIGS) required by Defense Information Systems Agency(DISA) Oracle DBA/Developer July 2004 to February 2008 EDS Corp, DOD CPMS ISD contract    • Adapted tool ERwin to design Layer Architecture, align data models with business requirements at the logical level with the database design at the physical layer for CPMS Field Advisory Management Service (FAS) application Case Management.  • Upgraded Oracle Parallel Server (OPS) to Oracle 9i Cluster Application Server in 3 nodes Linux 4.5, Oracle ASM and SAN external storage for DOD ICUC production data management systems.  • Performed Oracle database and SQL server tuning to improve applications performance  • Worked as application database administrator and backup production database administrator for the all production and testing database instances.  • Analyzed and designed Object modeling ICUC next generation Enterprise Object Oriented Case Management database.  • Installed and configured Oracle Application Server (OAS 10g) as the mid-tier server with DoD PKI certificate to host Java, JSP, Oracle Forms and Report production applications.  • Debugged and tuned Oracle Form 12C and Oracle Reports PL/SQL long running SQL queries Oracle Database Specialist Northrop Grumman Corp July 1998 to July 2004 • Worked as a production application database administrator, supported DOD ICUC, Social Security Administration(SSA) database applications in Oracle database 7, 8 and 8i  • Installed and configured Oracle Parallel Server (OPS) and integrated Sun Cluster external clusterware for two nodes High Availability (HA) data management systems.  • Played a major role to work with DFAS data center in migration of DOD General Schedule (GS) to NSPS wage band system.  • Developed and implemented Oracle Context Indexes Search Engine for Oracle InterMedia Search modules in FAS Web system.  • Migrated legacy FAS Oracle Form and Reports applications from Form 4.5 and Report 2.5 in client server to Web based and at same time upgraded Oracle Form 10 and Report 10G. Oracle DBA Decision Resource Group Inc - Rockville, MD May 1995 to July 1998 • Was responsible for Oracle 7.3.4 database and Oracle Financial application General Ledger database administration, maintenance and tuning for telecommunication customers.  • Developed Pro*C programs and Perl scripts to load millions records in automatic fashion on UNIX database servers.  • Worked with DBA team to support developers and end users in 24/7 Oracle database applications  • Designed and maintained customer relation management MS SQL server database to support company's sales team Junior DBA/developer Intelisys System Inc - Fairfax, VA March 1992 to May 1995 • Worked with senior DBA in total 25 of Oracle 7 and SQL Server database instances to create users and maintain user accounts, process data loads and monitor tablespaces usages and availabilities  • Developed and maintained front-end client server applications using Oracle Forms and Reports  • Created Oracle database Functions, Procedures in PL/SQL programs to support production applications  • Supported end users in database connection and front-end screens runtime errors Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Northern Virginia - Falls Church, VA May 2002 Master's degree in Accounting & Taxation Catholic University of America - Washington, DC February 1992 Management Information System Bowie State Univ - Bowie, MD May 1989 Bachelor's degree in Business management Fu Jen Catholic University - Taipei, TW May 1988 Skills DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2012, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, AIX, APACHE, KORN, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTS, SOLARIS, UNIX, DATA MASKING