Database Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Charlotte, NC Looking manager role only .    Khalid Boussif has over 22 years, starting from the year 1995, of professional experience in Software Systems Industry in USA/UK, Current working in Wells Fargo BANK , ensuring the availability of business applications and technology services/, handles incident management EACO, development and maintenance of infrastructure services, management of the Data Center, and overseeing application operations to meet the objective of availability of business applications and technology services .  A highly motivated and delivery focused leader hands-on experience in IT within Fortune 500 Oracle, Bank of America, RBS, BT, AT&T, Credit Suisse , Reuters, ABN AMRO, Deutsche Bank, BNP, Rabo Bank, ING Bank,google, Amazon, Homeland Security with USA security clearance.  Responsible for certain aspects of Plan, build run the bank, people, finance, vendor management, governance and risk across IT strategy, architecture, and infrastructure. Proficient in operational assessment to pinpoints areas for improvement and opportunities to capitalize on, contingency planning,resource allocation, cost-benefit analysis and IT governance/control. Savvy and hands-on technology; routinely strategize and innovate with insight. Proven ability to communicate on both business and technology issues, bridging comprehension gap between pure business people and technologists to build consensus and help business understand technology efforts. Recognized for commitment,hardworking, adaptable, motivational team leadership and ability to consistently achieve results.  The current key projects Architect and design consolidation platform for 450 SQL databases to Hyper-V and Oracle to reduce license cost of OPEX to $5 Millions for Oracle, Implement high availability and robust recovery systems across databases to reduce RPO/RTO. Redesign High availability for Trade System, a bank-wide CRM/MDM/FACTA/FGBonline/Big Data implementation, Wealth Management, as well as a Digital risk and compliance on very fast moving milieu.SQL Server Consolidation to Hyper-V.   Responsible for managing the availability of the database environment for the Bank for ensuring that the Bank’s security policies are adhered to and that the SLAs between the Bank and suppliers are met. Support on technology selection specifically for the database and associated solutions for enterprise level monitor.  Provided advanced support with aggressive SLAs to on-demand customers.Established close working relationship with key accounts like: Bank of America, RBS, Credit Suisse, Reuters, ABN-AMRO, AT&T, Verizon, JP Morgan.  He has very rarely expertise with Zero Downtime Migration using Oracle GoldenGate or streams and worked extensively on Golden gate /streams/replication with over 60+ streams projects between USA , UK and Netherlands. Design Streams Bi-directional replication between Hub and 4 spokes RAC databases.   Manage database administration teams / Unix administrators medium size of 15 members. Highly skilled in implementing Business Continuity solutions, Define client business requirements to instrument system design, First implemented Exadata v1 and v2 migration in Netherlands on 2008 using streams-golden gate.   Proficient in Oracle Database Architect’s activity includes Design of Hardware/Software, Installation and configuration of Oracle databases, Tuning, Logical/physical Standby (Data Guard), Streams (9i 10g,11g,12c), Backup/Recovery, Data warehouse, ETL, RAC 9i/10g/12c, migration, Worked on numerous implementations Oracle Applications and Oracle E-business suite and has in-depth knowledge of the technical architecture and various modules.  ? Work Experience Database Manager Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2017 to Present provides senior level capabilities relative to database administration for the company. Responsibilities:  Develop and maintain implementation guides and maintenance processes and documentation  Database software certifications, roadmap planning and maintenance management  Collaborate with partners to resolve company database policy compliance and vulnerability violations  Consult with and advise senior management on high impact database solutions and database management topics  Consults extensively with multiple groups, to lead initiatives that could have enterprise impact  Provide oversight, mentoring, and leadership to less experienced staff  Consults with and advises senior management and multiple clients on high impact data or database management issues, influencing strategic direction    The current key projects  • Implemented Resource Manager on very high critical database with more 160 application on Exadata  • Deliver many drown Bags presentations like Database tuning , resource manager , SQL Profiler, SQL plan management, OEM, SQL performance tuning and Hardware Sizing with Exadata. CPU utilization.  • Work with PDBA-LDBA processes to build RAT environments, Thin Clone and sensitive Data discovery and Data Compression HCC.  • Create many proactive OEM alerts to detect a performance issue with database  • Worked as team member of an enterprise organization supporting all LOBs within EDM, focused on performance related incident resolution, proactive performance monitoring and optimization, knowledge sharing among performance analysts and training on performance related topics.  • Maintain relationships with product vendors like Oracle , IBM, Dell etc and ensure updates and upgrades are done in line with the vendor's schedule  • Manage production support to deliver full-time support (24x7) in an environment where uptime is critical    The current key projects  • Implemented Resource Manager on very high critical database with more 160 application on Exadata  • Deliver many drown Bags presentations like Database tuning , resource manager , SQL Profiler, SQL plan management, OEM, SQL performance tuning and Hardware Sizing with Exadata. CPU utilization.  • Work with PDBA-LDBA processes to build RAT environments, Thin Clone and sensitive Data discovery and Data Compression HCC.  • Create many proactive OEM alerts to detect a performance issue with database  • Worked as team member of an enterprise organization supporting all LOBs within EDM, focused on performance related incident resolution, proactive performance monitoring and optimization, knowledge sharing among performance analysts and training on performance related topics.  • Maintain relationships with product vendors like Oracle , IBM, Dell etc and ensure updates and upgrades are done in line with the vendor's schedule  • Manage production support to deliver full-time support (24x7) in an environment where uptime is critical    Senior Principal Software Oracle Corp ( Database) Technical Database Manager Wells fargo - Abu Dhabi, AE July 2015 to November 2017 UAE    Responsible for managing the availability of the database environment for the Bank. Monitor and manage incidents using best practices to ensure timely and accurate support is delivered. Responsible for ensuring that the Bank's security policies are adhered to and that the SLAs between the Bank and suppliers are met. Support on technology selection specifically for the database and associated solutions for enterprise level monitoring with Oracle Cloud Control and HP tools. Single point of contact for Oracle licenses and ACS.    • Budget in excess of $14m including projects  • Negotiated three years renewal Oracle license reducing it to $5 Millioncutting $360K as part of phase one.  • Architect and design consolidation platform for SQL reducing the license cost of 350 databases.  • Implemented robust recovery systems and DR across databases to reduce RPO  • Support the Implementation of big data in social media  • Implementation of Oracle Flashback and IBM Tivoli Storage FlashCopy Manager to reduce RTP/RPO  • Upgraded all Database to current and support releaseof 12c  • Enabled Oracle Cloud Control for all Databases    The current key projects    • Implemented Oracle E-Business Suite (EBS)/ Siebel CRM solutions with a broader level of expertise by developing Architecture Solutions and IT strategies across a variety of platforms and systems.  • Supported Murex on RACdatabase, redesigned on ASM storage and migrated to AIX platform.  • Comparing the cost of ownership of the Oracle Exadata to a traditional build-your-own (BYO) solution, in this case an IBM Power 880 and Fujitsu SPARC M10.Review benchmark from three vendors and redesign capacity based TPS for 5 years.  • Good knowledge in core banking T24 architecture design on XML database on 12c.  • Performance and tuning of T24 by implementation of partition table and tuning XML Query based on Binary XML storage.  • Implemented Oracle Enterprise Manager as Oracle's on-premises management platform, providing a single pane of glass for managing all for Oracle all database of the bank with deep integration with Oracle's product stack, with management and automation support.    As Head of database services, I was responsible for support and release for all services provided to FGB and its subsidiaries for both local and international locations.    • Managing a team of 20+ outsourced and direct staff comprising of DBA's, PMOs, Application Operations, Networks, Transformation Program, Storage, Systems, Service Desk, and Change Management & IT Security.  • Currently working on building Fabric Infrastructure through implementation of automation, virtualization, private cloud and converged infrastructure.  • Architect and design consolidation platform for more than 350 SQL databases to Hyper-V and Oracle to reduce OPEX to $5 Million.  • Implementation of high availability and robust recovery systems across databases to reduce RPO/RTO.  • Redesign High availability for Trade System Murex, a bank-wide EBS/CRM/MDM/FACTA/FGBonline/Big Data implementation, Wealth Management, as well as a Digital risk and compliance on very fast moving milieu.  • Single point of contract for Oracle controlling license cost. Senior Principal Software Oracle Corp locationWashington DC - London January 2000 to June 2015 Amsterdam Area  Over 15 years with Oracle since 2004 of professional experience in Software Systems Industry with special expertise7 on Replication of Databases and RAC/Dataguard/Golden gate/Streams/ Exadata as Database Administration and Data Architect.    Teach, plan, design, develop high-quality and timely training materials. worked with "Oracle customer and consultant" to deliver training materials and write Oracle Support Notes. Troubleshoot and resolve highly complex techno-functional problems and resolving highly complex and mission-critical issues the average of 105 service requests per month and Handle large number of escalations for key customers Bank of America , BT, Yahoo, AT&T, Citigroup.    Hold very rarely expertise with Zero Downtime Migration using Oracle GoldenGate or streams and worked extensively on Golden gate /streams/replication with over 60+ streams projects between USA, UK and The Netherlands. Design using Streams Bi-directional replication between Hub and spokes RAC databases.Provide advanced support with aggressive SLAs to top account customers.    Leading architecture database administration teams. Highly skilled in implementing Business Continuity solutions, Define client business requirements to instrument system design, implemented Exadata v1 and v2 migration using streams-golden gate.    Proficient in Oracle Database Architect's activity includes Design of Hardware/Software, Installation and configuration of Oracle databases, Tuning, Logical/physical Standby (Data Guard), Streams (9i 10g,11g,12c), Backup/Recovery, Data warehouse, OBIEE, ETL, RAC 9i/10g, migration, Worked on numerous implementations Oracle Applications and Oracle E-business suite and has in-depth knowledge of the technical architecture and various modules.    Update to date with new technology and involved in Beta 12c release Senior Database Administrator Revlon - New York, NY January 1998 to January 2000 Worked with the team of 7 DBAs on 54 servers at a time; including 12 production servers range from 10 gigs to 700 gigs. 70% of the time spent working on production and support and 30% of the time focusing on schema, design and PL/SQL Development.    Migrate, Redesign and implement production Sale and Marketing Datawharehouse database (500 GB and 250 GB with some tables size over 120 million rows) AIX environment from IBM rs6000 R30 to R80 with EMC Symmetrix storage.    Also had Oracle DBA responsibility for a massively parallel Oracle/SAP database using Oracle Parallel Server. Supported Oracle developers, performed database tuning, created database reorganization procedures, database alert scripts, monitoring scripts and backup procedures. Also developed a method for configuring EMC disk arrays for data warehouses and created a system for detecting I/O bottlenecks  Provided ORACLE database administration support, managing many different databases included SAP, Oracle financials/HR, manugistics, GEMMS, Viewstar,EDI. Major responsibilities other than user management, space management, and object management included maintaining performance, instituting measures to minimize down time, helping analysts with their logical to physical data modeling. Mentored junior staff to trouble-shoot SQL,PL/SQL and Database problems. Oracle Database Administrator Computer System Technologies United State of America - Columbia, SC December 1995 to January 1998 South Carolina United State of America  Assisted in the design of project plans and implementation of all phases in a project life cycle. Interacted extensively with clients (Carolina Power & Light Company, PNM New Mexico, Bangor Hydro - Maine, Citizens' Electric Company, Con Edison New York, Green Mountain Power Corporation Vermont, SCANA Corporation -SCE&G, PS Jamaica) and authored technical specifications to modify the company's custom utility application  24X7 administration of the production databases (oracle7, Oracle8i on various platform Sun Enterprise Servers, HP, AIX, VAX)  Development of Database Security Schema providing for multi-role and multi-profile access control  Expertise in Oracle Advance Queuing, SQL*Loader, writing triggers, procedures in PL/SQL , programming in Pro*C and UNIX Shell scripting to create batch jobs.  Developing Data Models and Designing Databases using Oracle Designer/2000  Backups database procedures with Oracle EBU/Shell script with (HP Omniback, Veritus Netbackup, Legato, ADSM).    Oracle Software Experience  Products and Techniques:  9i/10R1/10R2  Streams    * Database Configuration for Streams  * Streams on RAC Database  * Downstreams with Declarative LCR Transformations  * Apply and Apply Handlers  * Hub and spoke Streams  * Troubleshooting Streams Replication  * 3-way multimaster with Streams and RAC with Customized Streams to convert LOBs to XMLType  * Performing Database Point-in-Time Recovery in a Streams Environment  * Monitoring Streams with Oracle Streams Commander.  * AQ setup and performance    10g,11g 12c Experience  * Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  * OFS Oracle File System  * Netapps File System  * Explain the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM)  * Active Session History (ASH)  * Automatic Workload Repository (AWR)  * Data Pump ( Export / Import )  * Flashback features  * Partition  * Proactive Tablespace Monitoring  * Streams Enhancements Education USC in EE Columbia South carolina - Columbia, SC Certifications/Licenses OCP Oracle