Senior Database Administrator, Lead DBA Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Lead DBA Microsoft Solutions Expert SQL Server Irmo, SC • 14+ years of IT experience as a MS SQL Server Database Administrator 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008/2005/2000.  • I am also a regular speaker and events like SQL Saturday, SQL Community, SQL meetings at Microsoft.  • Strong knowledge working with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation.  • Worked in collaborative team environment with other developers, business analysts, and a project management team.  • Extensive experience in MS SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008/2005/2000, Business Intelligence in MS SQL Server Integration Services, MS SQL Server Reporting Services, and MS SQL Server Analysis Services.  • Strong experience working with BCP, Bulk Insert, OPENROWSET (BULK) , SSIS packages, creating jobs and linked servers for MS SQL Server/ Sybase databases.  • Experience in SQL Azure and AWS-using containers, setting up provisional VMs  • Strong experience in  ? Optimizing and troubleshooting SQL Server, Designing SQL Server Security, Event notification  ? Failover Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, AlwaysOn and Availability, capacity planning  ? TSQL, DAX, MDX, Data Encryption, Data Compression, SQL Azure, Parallel Data Warehouse  ? Linked Servers, Disaster Recovery Planning, Data Quality Services, Master Data Services, Change Data Capture  ? Service Broker; Activation, Contracts, Conversation Troubleshooting and Designing SQL Server Endpoints  ? Database Backup and Restore Strategies  ? Policy Based Management, SQL Server Auditing, Predictive Analysis with Data Mining Models, Implementing Slowly Changing Dimension  ? SQL Server Integration services, SQL Server Reporting services, SQL Server Analysis Service  ? Six Sigma process improvement methodology  • Experience in designing and developing large number of enterprise reports (SSRS/Business Objects) using the data from ETL loads and various heterogeneous data sources.  • Expert in using MDX, DMX queries and using SQL Server data mining algorithms e.g. Association algorithm, Clustering algorithm, Decision trees, Linear regression logistics, Naïve Bayes, Neural network, Sequence clustering, Time series and plugin algorithms.  • Expert in creating and deploying SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports on the portal for user accessibility.  • Highly experienced in writing advanced parameterized queries for generating tabular reports, formatting report layout, sub-reports using global variables, expressions, functions, sorting the data, defining data source and subtotals for the reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Expertise in web designing using HTML, CSS and ASP.Net to display reports on the server.  • Stronger experience in logical and physical database design and development, normalization and data modeling and SQL server Enterprise Manager/SQL Server Management Studio.  • Expert in using tools like MS SQL Profiler, Index tuning wizard, Windows performance for monitoring and tuning SQL server performance.  • Extensive experience in using T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, views, user functions, user profiles, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing.  • Strong experience in database installation, capacity planning, implementing backup and recovery strategy for application and database.  • Hands on experience with IDE's like Visual Studio.Net Work Experience Senior Database Administrator, Lead DBA HireRight/ General Information Services - Chapin, SC March 2018 to Present ·        Perform the duties of a Manager/lead of the Database Administration team and senior DBA. I am also a part of CAB (Change Advisory board) of the company. I work very closely with Project Management team to identify resources needed and scheduling needed.  ·        I also manage SQL code deployments and moves as well as provide 24x7 support for production databases as well as provide assistance to developers for complex queries tuning efforts as well as schema refinement.  ·        Perform resource planning for all our DBA resources as well as time allocation for projects.  ·        Migrating on prem databases to SQL Azure and AWS using pre built templates  ·        Perform migration efforts as well as setting up disaster and high availability efforts for our production systems.  ·        I am responsible for optimizing and troubleshooting SQL Server, designing SQL Server Security, Event notification, Failover Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, AlwaysOn and Availability   ·        I am responsible for creating Data Encryption, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Parallel Data Warehouse, Linked Servers, Disaster Recovery Planning   ·        I lead efforts to implement Data Quality Services, Change Data Capture, Service Broker, troubleshooting and designing SQL Server Endpoints, Database Backup and Restore Strategies.  ·        I introduced Policy Based Management, SQL Server Auditing, predictive Analysis with Data Mining Models/algorithms, Implementing Slowly Changing Dimension  ·        I also lead projects efforts for SQL Server Integration services, Server Reporting services, SQL Server Analysis Service  ·        Perform scheduled maintenance and support release deployment after hours.  ·        I am also responsible for introducing/ and reviewing all new technology that will affect our database landscape.  ·        Lead efforts of planning, architecting and developing databases, based on business requirements, with key executives, architects and users.  ·        I am also a part of a team that evaluate who gets hired at a management level in the IT department, including those that get hired on the Database, ETL and Reporting team.  ·        I am also responsible for checking Daily SQL Server Job status, performing database integrity checks, resolving production issues related to databases. Planning the database migration process, creating indexes, implementing views, backing up and setting up backup schedules, working with SQL Server Agent Jobs, creating database Snapshots. Implementing database layered security. Resolving Service Oriented Architecture problems for SQL Server Service broker and create new strategies for auditing via Service Broker.  ·        I am responsible for troubleshooting SQL Server issues using different tools. I monitor sections of the system e.g. disk usage-e.g. high disk queue length, monitoring memory usage e.g. page life expectance and other items.   ·        Manage users, database roles and applications roles where applicable. Configured database permissions, managed securables, assigned permissions on objects. I am also responsible for troubleshooting all SQL Server security issues e.g. authentication, certificates, keys and endpoints etc.  ·        Responsible for reviewing hundreds upon hundreds of lines of SQL code and tuning the code - identifying options for improving performances. Implemented table level partitioning. Used SQL profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Dynamic management view, Query Execution plan. This increased the performance of the database by 96 percent. I used metric counters/measures and SQL Server database metrics to implement and identify best IT database strategies.  ·        I am also responsible for approving all database level access requests and providing oversight over all production level deployments. Manager Database Administration, Manager Reporting and Manager Offshore Team American Credit Acceptance - Spartanburg, SC March 2017 to March 2018 ·        Perform the duties of a Manager of the Database Administration team, Manager of the Reporting team and Manager of valueLabs Offshore team. I am also a part of PCB (Production change board) of the company. I work very closely with Project Management team to identify resources needed and scheduling needed.  ·        I am also a part of a team that evaluate who gets hired at a management level in the IT department, including those that get hired on the Database, ETL and Reporting team.  ·        I am also responsible for checking Daily SQL Server Job status, performing database integrity checks, resolving production issues related to databases. Planning the database migration process, creating indexes, implementing views, backing up and setting up backup schedules, working with SQL Server Agent Jobs, creating database Snapshots. Implementing database layered security. Resolving Service Oriented Architecture problems for SQL Server Service broker and create new strategies for auditing via Service Broker.  ·        Responsible for troubleshooting SQL Server issues using different tools. I monitor sections of the system e.g. disk usage-e.g. high disk queue length, monitoring memory usage e.g. page life expectance and other items.   ·        Responsible for reviewing code and making improvements.  ·        I am also responsible for approving all database level access requests and providing oversight over all production level deployments.  ·        Manage users, database roles and applications roles where applicable. Configured database permissions, managed securables, assigned permissions on objects. I am also responsible for troubleshooting all SQL Server security issues e.g. authentication, certificates, keys and endpoints etc. Senior Database Administrator Imagine Software & Technology Partners - Charlotte, NC February 2012 to March 2017 ·        Perform duties of a Senior Database Administrator/ Database Trainer; Checking Daily SQL Server Job status, performing database integrity checks, resolving production issues related to databases. Planning the database migration process, creating indexes, implementing views, backing up and setting up backup schedules, working with SQL Server Agent Jobs, creating database Snapshots. Implementing database layered security. Resolving Service Oriented Architecture problems for SQL Server Service broker and create new strategies for auditing via Service Broker.  ·        Manage 70+ clients each of whom can have an average of 200+ databases spread across different servers.   ·        Manage users, database roles and applications roles where applicable. Configured database permissions, managed securables, assigned permissions on objects. I am also responsible for troubleshooting all SQL Server security issues e.g. authentication, certificates, keys and endpoints etc.  ·        Responsible for reviewing hundreds upon hundreds of lines of SQL code and tuning the code - identifying options for improving performances. Implemented table level partitioning. Used SQL profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Dynamic management view, Query Execution plan. This increased the performance of the database by 96 percent. I used metric counters/measures and SQL Server database metrics to implement and identify best IT database strategies.    o   maintained and created indexes.   o   Performed query tuning and monitored index fragmentation.   ·        Introduced/ Led Six sigma efforts to improve the database platform as well as train other junior DBAs on the implementations of Six Sigma.  ·        Refine the requirements to best represent the customer’s wishes. Review and translate high level requirements into technical solutions. Help users understand their desired requirements. Increase customer confidence in the-to-be system.   ·        Create Database based SSIS packages to help transform, extract and load data from multiple sources.  ·        Train Senior Databases administrators, mentored Senior/Junior DBAs and train regular staff member on SQL Server. Principle consultant for all advanced SQL Server concepts. Strong Problem-solving skills for all SQL Server errors/issues or possible projects.  ·        Utilize database mirroring techniques and replication techniques high availability techniques. Replication; implemented snapshot replication, transactional replication, peer-to-peer transaction replication. Merge replication.  Mirroring; implemented different operating modes, role switching and failover techniques  ·        Implemented and maintained SQL Service Broker solution on the system. Created SQL Server service-oriented solution to help the company abide to the HIPPA laws. Created Service broker services, queues, activation stored procedures and audit trail databases. Implemented Service broker contracts via stored procedures.  ·        Created a layered SQL Server Security solution. Separated the regular users from the admin user and implemented switched execution context for regular users.  ·        Evaluated current practices to provide base for new technology for better performance  ·        Enforced security across the network by forcing encryption and implemented transparent database encryption as well as column level encryption.   ·        Migrated production systems from the SQL Server 2000 platform to the SQL Server 2005, 2005 to 2008 R2,2012, 2014 and 2016 platforms.  ·        Created and maintained the nightly reporting platform that would displayed pre-calculated results to management and clients.  ·        Designed and led efforts to implement Big data using SQL Server analysis services data mining algorithm.   ·        Evaluated and made recommendations to management regarding the best installation process based current technology domains. Communicated best database practices to executive management. The recommendation was made such as side by side installation to allow test to be done on the new system before we moved to it.   ·        Designed and led efforts to implement a maintenance plan to automate the index management process that reduced time for query retrieval process.   ·        Recommended implementation of best practices for ad hoc Data retrieval and reporting. The recommendation helped tens of thousands of people to be able to interact with the software to build report solutions. Trained thousands of base end users and hundreds of technical resources on how to interact with report model so that they would have more power on what they wanted to see.   ·        Implemented Database high availability solution from a software perspective. This increased the database availability by 300 percent and provided a constant presence of the system. The down time of the system was reduced to milli seconds. This increased the number of clients turn over, and return clients by 200 percent. Implemented Database mirroring and replication for high availability configuring end points to ensure database security.   ·        Designed and implemented stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks for backup and recovery, index maintenance task. The processes were taking 1 hour to do when done by hand and improved to running from few minutes to few seconds.  ·        Led effort of planning, architecting and developing databases, based on business requirements, with key executives, architects and users.  ·        Designed and developed documentation for further reference.   ·        Interfaced with various stake holders, key executives and technical resources to gather and refine requirements.   o   Mapped these requirements to functional technical solutions by identifying by identifying possible code solutions that would be created to resolve requirement   ·        Created numerous stored procedures and triggers, implemented error checking and transaction control in the T-SQL code for reporting. The reports that were generated were used by management to make important business and strategy decisions.   ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, and Derived column.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS 2005/2008.  ·        Generated sub-reports, drill down reports, drill through reports and Parameterized reports using SSRS 20005/2008.  o   Created reports to retrieve data using stored procedures that accept parameters.  o   Fine-tuned SQL queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  o   Implemented various formatting tasks to enhance the feel of the reports  o   Implemented parameters grouping   ·        Installed and Configured MS SQL Server 2005/2008.  Senior Database Administrator Mayor’s Office City of Baltimore - Baltimore, MD March 2011 to March 2012 ·        Performed duties of a Senior Database Administrator; Checking Daily SQL Server Job status, performing database integrity checks, resolving production issues related to databases. Planning Migration process, creating indexes, implementing views, backing up and setting up backup schedules, moving and migration databases, working with SQL Server Agent Jobs, creating database Snapshots. Implementing database security.  ·        Designed and implemented stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks for backup and recovery, index maintenance task. The processes were taking 1 hour to do when done by hand and improved to running from few minutes to few seconds.  ·        Created Database based SSIS packages to help transform, extract and load data.   ·        Led scaled-out deployment of enterprise databases through the migration of both applications and their respective databases.   ·        Created multiple complex reports that would be used by executive management team. These were used for important financial reviews and projections that would be utilized to make key business decisions.   ·        Architected and implemented Database High availability techniques.   ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, Derived column etc.  ·        Responsible for reviewing hundred lines of SQL code and tuning the code - identifying options for improving performances. Used SQL profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Dynamic management view, Query Execution plan. Used metric counters and SQL Server database metrics to implement and identify best IT database strategies.  o   Created and maintained indexes.   o   Monitored index fragmentation and performed query tuning.   o   Monitored the Database System to record and tune any performance issues.  ·        Designed and led effort to implement a maintenance plan to automate the index management process that reduced time for query retrieval process.   ·        Recommended implementation of best practices for ad hoc Data retrieval and reporting. The recommendation helped tens of thousands of people to be able to interact with the software to build report solutions. Trained thousands of base end users and hundreds of technical resources on how to interact with report model so that they would have more power on what they wanted to see.   ·        Implemented Database high availability solution from a software perspective. This increased the database availability by 300 percent and provided a constant presence of the system. The down time of the system was reduced to milli seconds. This increased the number of clients turn over, and return clients by 250 percent. Implemented Database mirroring and replication for high availability configuring end points to ensure database security.   ·        Evaluated current practices to provide base for new technology for better performance  ·        Evaluated and made recommendations to management regarding the best installation process based current technology domains. Communicated best database practices to executive management. The recommendation was made such as side by side installation to allow test to be done on the new system before we moved to it. The recommended practices were the best database practices. The recommendation was to have a test server that would mirror the current old system and various tests would be done on the test server.  ·        Led effort of planning, architecting and developing databases, based on business requirements, with key executives, architects and users.  ·        Designed and developed documentation for further reference.   ·        Created numerous stored procedures and triggers, implemented error checking and transaction control in the T-SQL code for reporting.   ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, and Derived column.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS 2005/2008.  ·        Generated sub-reports, drill down reports, drill through reports and Parameterized reports using SSRS 20005/2008.  o   Created reports to retrieve data using stored procedures that accept parameters.  o   Fine-tuned SQL queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  o   Implemented various formatting tasks to enhance the feel of the reports  o   Implemented parameters grouping   ·        Installed and Configured MS SQL Server 2005/2008.  Expert SQL Server Reporting Services BI Skills 2010 to 2012 SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services(ETL-SSIS), SQL Analysis Services Skills  Third-Party Tools MS Visio 2007/2003/2008/2010/2012/2018 DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR / REPORT DEVEOPER /ANALYST & DATABASE DEVELOPER BGE Home / Technisource - Baltimore, MD December 2010 to March 2011 ·        Led effort of planning, architecting and developing databases, based on business requirements, with key executives, architects and users.  ·        Designed and developed technical SSRS Report solutions that would determine how millions of dollars would be spent every month based on marketing solicitations campaigns.  ·        Interfaced with various stake holders, key executives and technical resources to gather and refine requirements.  ·        Created numerous stored procedures and triggers, implemented error checking and transaction control in the T-SQL code for reporting. The reports that were generated were used by management to make important business and strategy decisions.   ·        Cleansed the data using T-SQL code and SSIS techniques.  ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, and Derived column.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS 2005/2008/2012/2014.  ·        Generated sub-reports, drill down reports, drill through reports and Parameterized reports using SSRS 20005/2008.  ·        Created reports to retrieve data using stored procedures that accept parameters.  ·        Fine-tuned SQL queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  o   Implemented various formatting tasks to enhance the feel of the reports  o   Implemented parameters grouping   ·         Expert in developing SSIS Packages to Extract, Transform and Load (ETL)/DTS data into the Data warehouse from Heterogeneous databases such as Oracle, DB2, Sybase and MS Access.   ·        Evaluated and made recommendations to management regarding the best installation process based current technology domains.  ·        Created and maintained indexes. Monitored index fragmentation and performed query tuning.   ·        Designed and led effort to implement a maintenance plan to automate the index management process that reduced time for query retrieval process   ·        Architected and implemented Database High availability techniques.   ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, Derived column etc.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS 2005/2008/2012/2014.  ·        Interfaced with various stake holders, key executives and technical resources to gather and refine requirements.   o   Mapped these requirements to functional technical solutions by identifying by identifying possible code solutions that would be created to resolve requirement   ·          ·        Created reports to retrieve data using stored procedures that accept parameters.  ·        Fine-tuned SQL queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  ·        Designed and implemented stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks.  ·        Implemented various formatting tasks to enhance the feel of the reports  ·        Implemented parameters grouping  Database Administrator Sogeti USA LLC - Baltimore, MD September 2008 to November 2010 ·        Involved in planning, defining and designing data based on business requirement and provided documentation for further reference.  ·        Involved in installation and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014.  ·        Created numerous stored procedures and triggers, implemented error checking and transaction control in the T-SQL code for reporting purposes.  ·        Created and maintained numerous claims Databases. Configured Reporting Server. Utilized Database Modeling techniques.  ·        Created and maintained indexes. Monitored index fragmentation and performed query tuning   ·        Implemented Database High availability techniques. Enforced security across the network by forcing encryption.  ·        Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension (SCD), Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional split, Derived column etc.  ·        Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS 2005/2008/2012/2014.  ·        Generated sub-reports, drill down reports, drill through reports and Parameterized reports using SSRS 20005/2008//2012/2014and Crystal Reports.  ·        Created numerous reports emphasizing on the look and feel of reports. Utilized advanced stored procedures, and plain text queries to create datasets. Created reports using Crystal Reports and SSRS. Implemented database High availability techniques, backup and recovery.  ·        Fine tuned SQL queries for maximum efficiency and performance.  ·        Designed and implemented stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks.  ·        Implemented various formatting tasks to enhance the feel of the reports  ·        Implemented parameters, grouping DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR /MS SQL DEVELOPER/ ETL DEVELOPER Towson University - Towson, MD January 2006 to August 2008 • Transformed data from MS SQL server 2000/2005/2008 to MS SQL server 2005/2008/2012/2014 using OLE DB connection by creating various SSIS packages.   • Used the execute DTS package task to execute DTS packages to prepare university data.  • Utilized the System Development Life Cycle. Created and maintained the backend database. Implemented stored procedures, triggers, replication. Used data mining techniques.  • Created data transformation tasks like BCP, BULK INSERT to import/export data from clients.       • Expert in developing SSIS Packages to Extract, Transform and Load (ETL)/DTS data into the Data warehouse from Heterogeneous databases such as Oracle, DB2, Sybase and MS Access.   • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse and data mart databases.  • Designed a new schema for the data mart databases.  • Generated dynamic reports from cubes (SSAS) using SSRS.  • Designed, developed and deployed reports in MS SQL server environment using SSRS.  • Generated various reports like cascade type reports, tabular reports, and drill down reports.  • Created store procedures, functions and triggers for retrieval and update of data in the database.  • Performed Full, Differential, Transactional log and File grouped backup of databases and restore them as needed.  • Implemented SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Used Index tuning wizard, SQL profiler and SQL query analyzer for performance tuning. STUDENDT DATABASE RESEARCHER University of Maryland Eastern Shore, Princess Anne, Maryland - Princess Anne, MD January 2002 to December 2002 ·        Extensively interfaced with a large Database and used Data Mining  techniques to analyze and give future prediction in the luminosity of stars.   ·        Received an award for this research at a research conference    ·        Utilized MySQL, Oracle and later SQL Server.  ·        Create numerous Stored Procedures, Performed Database Tuning   ·        Created Triggers for data integrity  ·        Created reports using Microsoft products Education Masters in Applied Information Technology Towson State University - Towson, MD January 2008 to May 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science Computer Science University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD March 2002 to 2006 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses Microsoft® Certified Solutions Expert: Data Management and Analytics June 2019 to Present Microsoft® Certified Solutions Expert: Data Management and Analytics Microsoft® Certified Solutions Associate: SQL 2016 Database Administration June 2018 to Present Microsoft® Certified Solutions Associate: SQL 2016 Database Administration Microsoft Certified Professional: Microsoft Certified Professional October 2018 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional: Microsoft Certified Professional Master Six Sigma Blackbelt February 2017 to Present Master Six Sigma Blackbelt DevOps Microsoft Badge July 2018 to Present DevOps Microsoft Badge  Chief of Security Microsoft Badge June 2018 to Present Chief of Security Microsoft Badge Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) September 2018 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist SQL Server March 2005 to Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist SQL Server Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) SQL Server February 2006 to Present Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) SQL Server