Senior Specialist - Database Administration Senior Specialist - <span class="hl">Database</span> Administration Senior Specialist - Database Administration - IBM Odenton, MD As a Senior Specialist- Database Administration, configured, optimized and managed several databases with size upto 75 TB on 7/24 schedule under HP/UX, SUN,Linux and Windows platforms in Private, Public and Hybrid Cloud Environment.    • Over 15 years of professional experience in Full DBA Life Cycle in a variety of UNIX and Windows based environments - HP, Solaris, Unix, Linux, Windows NT/2000 with Strong knowledge and experience on Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g/11g/12c/18c Database Server Architecture.  • Installation, configuration of several databases in non-RAC and RAC nodes - Oracle 10g/11g/12c/18c RAC environment on Sun/Intel Platforms.  • Installation, configuration and administration of databases - DB2, MySQL and MS-SQLSERVER, MongoDB, AWS-RDS.  • Configured, optimized and managed Two and Tri-Directional Goldengate replication with Conflict Detection and Resolution (CDR) using exceptions table in Oracle RAC environment.  • Configured and managed SQLSERVER - Logshipping, Mirroring, AlwaysON  • Configured and managed SQL AlwaysON with Failover Groups and DR spread across two Datacenters.  • Configured and managed Physical Standby Databases and DataGuard and performed periodic DR tests with flashback feature.  • Configured and managed DB2 HADR with and without TSAMP.  • Configured, optimized and managed MySQL - Master-Master (Active - Passive) and (Active - Active) replication.  • Configured, optimized and managed MySQL NDB Cluster with Data Nodes and Replicas.  • Configured, optimized and managed MongoDB Replicasets distributed across two Datacenters.  • Configured, optimized and managed MongoDB Sharded Cluster.  • Configured and automated backups for production databases on MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, SQLSERVER.  • Performed successful database restore and recoveries (full and point-in-time) for databases on Oracle, DB2, MySQL, SQLSERVER, MongoDB, AWS-RDS.  • Configured and managed SHAREPLEX.  • Moved Database monitoring from iLA to Nagios for about 3000 Databases.  • Certification of DBMS technologies and establishing standards for offering and delivery teams.  • Expert knowledge of SQL & Datgabase Performance tuning; PL/SQL, database security.  • Production support of large databases of sizes more than 25 TB.  • Configured backup and recovery operations with RMAN/Commvalut backup systems  • Migration of several databases from Oracle 9i into Oracle 10g and 11g environment.  • Installation and configuration of ASM storage Manager.  • Migration of terabytes of data into ASM Disk groups.  • Coordinated RAC configuration with UNIX System Administrators, Storage Administrators, and Network Administrators.  • Production support of more than 3000 Databases on 7/24 routine.  • Backup and recovery of databases with RMAN and EMC Symmetry, with ASM storage.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures for all DBMS technologies  • Experience of scripting with UNIX, PERL and PYTHON to generate capacity planning reports, database server performance reports and backup and recovery procedures and automation of configuration of DBMS technologies.  • Responsible for complex software installations, upgrades and license verifications, fault detection, escalation and repair, assisting developers with code roll-out and operational troubleshooting, performance metrics collection  • Design of logical, physical data models with Erwin data modeling tool.  • Solid skills in database performance factors, monitoring tools and tuning procedures.  • 6 years of professional experience in Software Development using D2K and VB5 and in Electronic Data Processing. Work Experience Senior Specialist - Database Administration IBM - Annapolis, MD April 2016 to Present My position was transitioned from AT&T to IBM and there is no change in my functions and responsibilities.    Achievements:  Lead the team for moving the monitoring from iLA to Nagios for about 3000 Databases in a shortest possible time.    Took lead in certification of various DBMS technologies - Oracle RAC, Dataguard, Goldengate, MySQL Replication, SQLSERVER AlwaysON, DB2, DB2-HADR with TSAMP, etc on new versions and establishing standards for offering team and delivery teams. AT&T - Annapolis, MD November 2008 to April 2016 AT&T Inc. is the largest provider of fixed telephony in the United States, and is also a provider of broadband and subscription television services. As of 2010, AT&T is the 7th largest company in the United States by total revenue, as well as the 4th largest non-oil company in the US (behind Walmart, General Electric and Bank of America).    AT&T also delivers application outsourcing, remote management, professional services, ISV enablement, eBusiness development and hosting and information security and risk management services.    Environment: DBMS - Oracle RAC 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, 18c DB2, MySQL, MS-SQLSERVER, AWS-RDS, MongoDB.    Clustering - MSSQL AlwaysON, MySQL, DB2 HADR with TSAMP, AWS-RDS, MongoDB Replicaset, Shareplex, Golden Gate, Oracle Dataguard.    OEM , Shell scripting, PERL, PHYTHON, RMAN, Nagios, Commvalut, SQL/PLSQL,Toad, HPUNIX 10/11, EMC, RAID, SAN, UNIX, Linux, , HP, RS 6000, SUN 2900, SUN 6800, etc.    Title: DATABASE ENGINEER - Architect  Responsibilities  • Setup, installation, configuration of Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c,18c RAC, DB2, MySQL, MSSQLSERVER, AWS-RDS, MongoDB databases on HP/Sun, Linux and WINDOWS environment.  • Setup, installation, configuration and managing of AWS-RDS, MongoDB-Replicaset, Oracle Goldengate, SHAREPLEX, STREAMS, and AQ.  • Setup, installation, configuration and managing of DB2 HADR with TSAMP.  • Setup, installation, configuration and managing of Oracle Dataguard.  • Setup, installation, configuration and managing of MSSQL AlwaysON.  • Setup, installation, configuration and managing of MySQL Clustering.  • Administering more than 3000 production databases - Oracle, MySQL, SQL SERVER and DB2, AWS-RDS, MongoDB with 7/24 support, as part of operations support.  • As part of operational support, closely worked with System Administrators, Network Administrators and Storage Administrators.  • Backup and recovery of databases with RMAN  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures and standards for the data in excess of 70 TB in capacity.  • Conducting COA (Client Operational Acceptance) checks. Analyzing the physical designs using Erwin data modelling tool. Builds and implements test, quality assurance, and production databases and environments.  • Configuring and managing backup and recovery for all DBMS technologies.  • Plans and coordinates backup and recovery strategies to restore database operations after failures.  • Partitioned large tables with RANGE, HASH, LIST and composite partition methods for several data mart schemas.  • Resource of application team in PL/SQL coding and query optimization.  • Extensive experience with performance tuning at systems and application level.  • Executes strategies for database migration and changes; Coordinates strategies to move data between databases.  • Plans, coordinates, and executes strategies to optimize database performance.  • Monitors database space requirements and adjusts for future needs.  • Assists in the planning and installation of database management system upgrades  • Supporting the databases with Applications - Oracle e-Business Suite, PeopleSoft Enterprise, Siebel, Ariba,etc.    Environment: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c/18c databases, 9i/10g/11g/12c/18c DataGuard, 10g/11g/12c/18c RAC, Datapump, Export/Import, Physical Backups, DB2, DB2 HADR with TSAMP, MySQL, MySQL-Cluster, SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, SQLAlwaysON, AWS-RDS, MongoDB, HP 700 Series, Sun 3500,3800,6800, Sun Enterprise 450 & 880, Veritas Clusters, Solaris 2.6 to 10.0, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x, 7.x Windows 2000,Windows XP,TCP/IP, HTTP, LDAP, NetBEUI Protocols, Netcool, Erwin, Shell and perl scripting, OEM, Orbit/Oasis, DSView, F-Secure SSH, F-Secure FTP,iLA, Nagios. Sr. Oracle DBA ( DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR) AMDOCS - Champaign, IL March 2008 to October 2008 Champaign (IL),U.S.A. March,2008 - Oct,2008  Environment: Oracle 9i, 10 G 10.2.3.0, HPUNIX 10/11, OEM , PLSQL, EMC, RAID, SAN, UNIX, Linux, Shell scripting, Clustering, RMAN, Commvalut, HP Integrity Superdome, RS 6000, SUN 2900, SUN 6800, SQL/PLSQL, Timesten, fastcopy, fastunload, Shareplex, Golden Gate, Toad, etc.    Title: Sr. Oracle DBA ( DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR)  Project Description:  AMDOCS is a growing public company with a revenue of $2.84 billion in fiscal year 2007 and workforce of more than 16000 professions in more than 50 countries. It is the market leader in customer experience systems innovation. The AMDOCS centre at Champaign, IL provides software services to Sprint and AT&T Telecom. There are about 200 databases with a complex architecture.    Responsibilities:  • Function as a Senior Oracle DBA, participating in the design and implementation of about 200 databases and systems that can support the ongoing company growth.  • Administer, maintain, and implement policies and procedures for ensuring the availability, security and integrity of the Oracle databases.  • Assist in developing and administering backup and recovery procedures.  • Mentor other DBAs in connection with their skill development objectives.  • Providing Production support of large, 7x24 Oracle database with a size 18TB supporting an active online applications, with rotating on-call duties after hours.  • Troubleshooting Production problems and working effectively with other team members to identify and address problems.  • Scripting for database monitoring and to automate routine tasks.  • Performing data analysis to provide management with timely and accurate information.  • Performing data management tasks as required loading, editing, restoring and removing data at the requests of our clients.  • Performing Oracle patches/upgrades.  • Upgraded and coordinated upgrading of 9i databases to 10g.  • Tuning of SQL code and assisting developers in writing and tuning SQL queries.  • Logical and physical database design. Sr. Oracle DBA UBS - Stamford, CT September 2007 to February 2008 Stamford (CT),U.S.A. Sep,2007 - Feb,2008  Environment: Oracle 9i/10G, Solaris 8/9x, OEM , PLSQL, EMC, SAN, UNIX, Linux, Shell scripting, Clustering, RMAN, SQL/PLSQL,    Title: Sr. Oracle DBA  Project Description:  UBS is the leading global wealth manager, a top tier investment banking and securities firm, and one of the largest global asset managers. With headquarters in Zurich and Basel, Switzerland, UBS operates in over 50 countries and from all major international centers.  There are OLTP and DW databases. My primary responsibility is Performance Tuning of databases supporting L&C Dept.. The size of databases is about 5 TB.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for review of database architectural design, testing and implementation of any new requirements.  * Administering all database objects, including tables, indexes, views, schemas, packages and procedures.  * Monitors and analyzes database performance indicators, resolve problems and recommends improvement actions.  * Analyzing assigned tasks and provide estimate time frames to complete.  * Standardizing the implementation of ORACLE databases and improve the management and maintenance for the ORACLE production development, and test environments.  * Providing technical support and troubleshooting assistance to developers. Identifying production anomalies to developers for their corrective actions for all production releases.  * Provided optimal system and database configuration.  * Providing technical services to monitor and maintain production, development, and test databases.  * Working with internal development team in solving complicated issues for mission critical deliverables.  * Identifying high load or top SQL statements that are responsible for a large share of the application workload and system resources, by reviewing past SQL execution history available in the system.  * Verifying that the execution plans produced by the query optimizer for these statements perform reasonably.  * Implementing corrective actions to generate better execution plans for poorly performing SQL statements.  * Verifying Optimizer Statistics and ensuring representative statistics in the database.  * Verified Index structures and created missing indexes.  * Identifying and resolving database fragmentation by setting object storage parameters, following good code practices, moving segments out from the fragmented tablespace, defragment the tablespace and move the segments back into the tablespace.  * Configured the Optimizer Mode for the database.  * Tuned the Optimizer parameters for the database.  * Balanced the load on the database by reorganizing the hot segments into separate tablespaces.  * Space Management.  * Capacity Management.  * Periodical Data archiving and purging.  * Implemented Login Trigger on production systems.  * Tuned *Work Areas by moving manual to automatic PGA management by configuring PGA_AGGREGATE_TARGET and WORK_AREA_SIZE policy.  * Identified the objects that are making small table FTS, pinned them in KEEP pool and configured KEEP cache.  * Identified the object that are making large table FTS and pinned them in RECYCLE pool.  * Identified the large tables, which were not partitioned and implemented PARTITIONING. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 8, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Mongodb, Gui, Perl, Scripting, Visual basic, Netcool, Tcp/ip, Ftp, Postgresql, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, ETL, DBA Additional Information Technical Skills    OS: HPUNIX 10/11, Solaris 9,10, RedHat 3.x/4x./5x./6x./7x. Windows  Databases: Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g,10g/11g/12c/18c RAC, 10g/11g/12c/18c DataGuard, DB2, SQL server, MySQL, Timesten, MongoDB, AWS-RDS.  Replication/HA: Goldengate, Streams, Dataguard, SQLAlwaysON, DB2 HADR with TSAMP, MySQL Replication, AWS-RDS, MongoDB Replication.  Programming Languages: C, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting,PERL,PHYTHON  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, LDAP, NetBEUI Protocols  Database Servers: HP Integrity Superdome, HP 700 Series, Sun 3500,3800,6800, Sun Enterprise 450 & 880, Sun E2900, E4900, E6500  GUI tools: Visual Basic, Developer 6i  Tools: Netcool, Orbit/Oasis, DSView, F-Secure SSH, FTP, OEM,TOAD,SQL*Plus,D2K,Imp/Exp Utility, RMAN, Analyze Comand,MIG80,DBVERIFY,Trace/TKPROF,REPORT.Txt,Statspack,ADDM,ASH,SQL*Loader,SQL*Net, fastcopy, fastunload