Senior PostgreSQL Database Administrator (Remote) Senior PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Remote) Blacksburg, VA • Over 12 years of experience in Oracle Database, Data Warehouse and Oracle Applications DBA to include over four years PostgreSQL Database Administrator.  • experience as Senior Database Administrator related to Higher Education, Financial, Insurance, Health Care domains and worked on various database including community PostgreSQL 9.x, 10.x 11.x and edb advanced server as10.x, as11.x on Linux OS  • A thorough understanding of Oracle and PostgreSQL database installs, patches, management, monitoring, backup and recovery, security, and replication skills.  • In depth knowledge of Postgres, and Oracle Database Architecture, Data Structures, Automatic Partition Management, Bloat Diagnostics and resolution, Database Backup/Restore, and DR Planning, Change Management and Monitoring Utilities.  • Excellent knowledge of Oracle, Postgres File Systems and Character-Sets.  • In depth knowledge of Data Modeling, including logical and physical design, re-engineer existing models for data mart, data warehouse, OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) databases using Oracle and PostgreSQL database technologies.  • Installed, Administered and configured PostgreSQL Cluster including Backup, Restore, Replication, Migration from Oracle Database and Troubleshooting as required.  • Set performance Tuning Parameters in the PostgreSQL database including auto-vacuuming for BLOAT and other performance related issues.  • Perform advanced health check (ACH) and performance tuning for PostgreSQL databases.  • Major and Minor Upgradation PostgreSQL., Setup Security baseline for PostgreSQL server and Setup Streaming Replication.  • Proficient with PostgreSQL, EDB's PostgreSQL Enterprise Manager (PEM), EDB's Backup and Recovery Tool (BART)  • Proficient with PostgreSQL database architecture  • Familiarity with Greenplum database architecture  • Proficient with database design and building applications for PostgreSQL, Oracle, or other databases  • Working knowledge of scripting languages like BASH, KSH, Python, JAVA, JSON and JSONB  • Setup EDB Failover Management (EFM), Setup EDB PostgreSQL Enterprise (PEM) for monitoring  • Experience in Shell scripting and automation  • Maintain custom vacuum strategies at table, schema and database level.  • Working knowledge on Database Migration Assessment (DMA) report.  • Migrate the PostgreSQL Database using EDB Migration Tool Kit & XDB.  • Proficient in BART Backup & Recovery for PostgreSQL databases.  • Familiarity with Red Hat Ansible Engine and Red Hat Ansible Tower  • Experience in Deploying PostgreSQL on a Docker Container  • Experience in Cloud deployment on Docker container with kubernetes  • Experience in EDB Postgres Containers and Integration with OpenShift  • Familiarity in AWS cloud deployment  • Migrated Oracle RDBMS to PostgreSQL using ora2pg tool.  • Installation and Configuration of Oracle Instances (9i/10g/11g/12c) on Linux environments.  • Managed and administered oracle 11Gr2 and 12C databases  • Configured Oracle physical standby database.  • Test the Performance for clustering with various in-built tools  • Strong interpersonal, motivational, writing and verbal communication skills. Work Experience Senior PostgreSQL Database Administrator (Remote) Ply Gem - Rocky Mount, VA July 2019 to Present Project Description/Scope: Setup, install and upgrade, replicate PostgreSQL database 10 and 11 to meet client's requirements for setting up database architecture environment High availability protocol. Prepare capacity planning, database assessment and implement/ deploy community PostgreSQL and related applications, including database administration, troubleshoot for database performance and query optimization with vacuum, analyze, explain and explain execution.    • Implement and monitor replication for high availability and disaster recovery scenarios.  • Query errors logs, debug errors, export logs, and export sql statements errors logs for troubleshoot. Evaluate functions evaluate overall database performance and query optimization.  • Load data from a text file or csv files or from flat files in a PostgreSQL database  • Troubleshoot database server disconnection errors or timed out errors as it happens.  • Use PgAdmin 4 for database maintenance and user management.  • Upgrade PostgreSQL 10x to PostgreSQL 11x with Zero Downtime  Environment: Community PostgreSQL 10.x, 11.x, PostgreSQL community version, PL/SQL, PL/pgSQL, SQL, Python, Windows Server 2012 R2. Pg_Admin, SQL Shell (psql), PSQL, Windows PoerShell, and Windows Command Line Senior PostgreSQL Database Consultant (Remote) EnterpriseDB - Bedford, MA October 2018 to June 2019 Project Description/Scope: Setup, install and upgrade to meet client's requirements for setting up database architecture environment with edb readiness package. Prepare capacity planning, database assessment and implement/ deploy community PostgreSQL and EDB PostgreSQL Advanced server as10 OR as11 databases and related applications, including database administration, troubleshoot for database performance and query optimization.    • Assisting Clients with DMA assessments, hardware compatibility architecture and design, install, setup, migration and upgrade databases and applications to PostgreSQL standard and EPAS10x and EPAS11x.  • Implementation readiness software package for enterprisedb client's requirements for engagement. The enterprisedb readiness package includes community Postgres or Postgres Advanced Server installation.  • Setup up synchronous or asynchronous streaming replication, efm failover manager, BART backups and recovery tool, and PEM monitoring installation and configuration.  • Install & configure EPAS cluster 9.5, 9.6, 10.5, 11.1, 11.2  • Maintain all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization.  • Setup streaming replication, Install & configure Enterprise Failover Management (EFM)  • Install & configure Postgres Enterprise Manager (PEM), Setup alerts in PEM  • Setup Security Baselines Parameters in PostgreSQL  • Prepare AHC report in PostgreSQL, Working on performance related issue in PostgreSQL  • Minor/Major Upgradation in PostgreSQL  • Installed & configured BART in PostgreSQL, Working on PG_BACKUP & PG_RESTORE  • Provide the training and knowledgebase on PostgreSQL to Customer.  • Prepare the Documentation for all the project level work.  • Work on Oracle to PostgreSQL Migration, Prepare DMA report in PostgreSQL.  • Collaborate with the database administration team to implement EDB PostgreSQL Advanced Servers epas10X and epas11X.  • Implementing and administering backup and recovery (BART), setting up and administering edb-postgres failover and replication cluster.  • Synchronous and asynchronous replication and failover for High Availability (HA) protocol. Setup streaming replication for open source PostgreSQL database.  • Install & configure Enterprise Failover Manager (EFM), Install & configure Postgres Enterprise Manager (PEM), Setup alerts in PEM  • Setup Security Baseline Parameters in PostgreSQL, Prepare AHC report in PostgreSQL, Working on performance related issue in PostgreSQL  • Minor/Major Upgradation in PostgreSQL, Setup Replication using XDB.  • Provide the training and knowledgebase on PostgreSQL to Customer, Prepare the Documentation for all the project level work.  • Implement data models, database designs, data access, table maintenance and code changes together with our development team.  • Working on Oracle to PostgreSQL Migration, Prepare DMA report in PostgreSQL.  • Setup up of PEM (Postgres Enterprise Manager) servers with agent connection configuration, adding agents and clients and importing alert templates for continuous monitoring process.  • Working to migrate mongodb to Postgres. Creating new table structures using java, java scripts, and json and jsonb data type.  • Configuration of postgresql.conf for database server configuration and pg_hba.conf for controlling client connections and authentication  • Implementation of Load Balancer-Connection-Pooling-pgBouncer with edb fail over architecture.  • Create and manage edb advanced server as10X and as11X and PostgreSQL databases including create database, create schema, and create roles, create indexes, create database users and authentication roles, manage security with encrypted password for edb advanced server architectures,  • Load flat files load external files into databases, and perform export and import of datafiles as needed with Pg_Dump and copy command.  • Implement and monitor replication for high availability and disaster recovery scenarios.  • Query errors logs, debug errors, export logs, and export sql statements errors logs for troubleshoot.  • Load data from a text file or csv files or from flat files in a PostgreSQL database  • Troubleshoot database server disconnection errors or timed out errors as it happens.  • Use PgAdmin 4 for database maintenance and user management.  • Upgrade PostgreSQL 10x to PostgreSQL 11x with Zero Downtime  • Upgrade edb database server using pg_upgrade utility  • Migrate from an earlier version of Advanced Server 10 to Advanced Server 11    Environment: Community PostgreSQL 10.x, 11.x, EPAS10, EPAS 11, Bitbucket, Atlassian, sharepoint, sharefile, Confluence, Jira, DMAT, OKTA, github, ansible, PostgreSQL community version, Enterprisedb, BART, Pem, EFM, PS tools. PL/SQL, PL/pgSQL, SQL, Python, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6x, and 7x Manager of Database and Application Admin Radford University - Radford, VA April 2014 to September 2018 IT-Enterprise Systems    Project Description/Scope: Oracle, Greenplum and PostgreSQL database install, patch, management, monitoring, backup and recovery, security, replication and integration.    • Acts as project liaison for team and coordinate with other departments regarding installations, upgrades, patches, and other maintenance activities. Plan for system outages and coordinate communications with Enterprise Systems management and campus user groups.  • Collaborated with the data warehousing team to plan, design dimensional models, and implement ETL processes for Data Marts including source to target mapping, table/partition creation with appropriate compression algorithms, function-to-table mapping in line with Load and Transformation best practices.  • PostgreSQL database creation, management, patching, upgrades, data migration, backup and restore of schemas, and database, including Stored Functions development for Data Warehouse environments.  • Collaborating with ETL and Business Intelligence teams for performance tuning Data Warehouse related databases. Database audit - managing to PCI, PII, and SOX compliance in Oracle and PostgreSQL databases.  • Identified deficiencies in resource queues definitions and workload. Recommended and created database resource queues to optimally manage system resources and workload.  • Defined shell to diagnose bloat and missing statistics in large tables, and resolved excessive space usage, with vacuum analyze of system catalog, and schema objects.  • Configuring and Managing DataGuard and Standby Databases in a High Availability environment. Managing Enterprise Data Warehouse environments that integrate with OBIEE, Informatica, and Pentaho for data analytics and ETL processing with interfaces to Oracle 11g, and PostgreSQL databases.  • Working with Cloud Ops. to optimize & manage virtual & hardware resources  • Create tools and processes to automate administration and monitoring  • Experienced in data transformation services and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations. Created DTS package for data transfer between the two environments including Microsoft 2008 R2 and Microsoft SQL 2016 servers.  • Worked on DR processes including Log Shipping and Database Mirroring. Worked on logical and physical data base modeling with UML and ERWIN tools,  • Operational Data Storage (ODS), Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW), Ellucian Banner ERP, Banner 9/XE Administration, Banner Enterprise Identity Services (BEIS), Single Sign-on Configuration/Support (SSO), Degree Works, BDM, RMAN, Automic Applications Manager (UC4), Ellucian Solution Manager (ESM), Application Navigator, Appworks, WebLogic, apache, Tomcat and Shell scripting  • Worked on upgrading banner 8 to Banner 9 in a team effort. Transforming custom INB forms to Admin Pages in Java. Setting up Github to manage code (Banner-related Java, Groovy/Grails, PL/SQL, etc.). Implementing Banner 9 Self-Service Banner (SSB) and Registration.  • Monitor database, middleware and application audit tables, log files, resource utilization and user activity. Develop, maintain and document procedures, programs and scripts needed in support of projects and environments.  • Provide support and assistance to development teams in the design, development, testing, tuning and implementation of database applications;  • Actively worked on database security options and data transfer and integrations using Oracle Data Integrator ODI utility.    Environment: PostgreSQL, Greenplum, Oracle 11gR2, 12c, Ellucian Banner 8X, Banner 9, Ellucian Degree Works, Oracle OEM, Hadoop Distributed Programming Framework, HDFS, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, apache, Tomcat, Java, java scripts (Jason), PL SQL Developer, SQL Loader, Windows 10, RMAN, SQL*Plus, SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle OEM, Import/Export Data pump, Linux 7 server with Oracle 11gR2 and Oracle Fusion Middleware, Informatica ETL tools, Docker, Puppet, Oracle WebLogic, Banner Data defense, Oracle Firewalls, Operational Data Store (ODS) and Data ware house, Cognos Reporting, Odyssey-HMS, AEM 6.2, CMS repositories, WhatsUpGold (WUG), LDAP and Active Directory. Manager of Database and Administration Concord University - Athens, WV October 2012 to April 2014 IT-Enterprise Systems    • Provide guidance and direction to DBA, oracle and banner programming staff and coordinate projects and tasks for the team. Troubleshoot and resolve complex or critical technical issues. Provide guidance and direction to the Database & Administration team for the development, implementation and administration of oracle database and Ellucian banner enterprise application systems.  • Create, maintain and refresh required Oracle databases for development, test and production environments and Collaborate with the IT Technology Committee and Directors of related Administrative offices to establish and manage user access and implement/maintain identity architecture.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump. Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN. Worked on cloning or duplicating databases manually for developer. Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, and Enterprise Manager Grid control and oracle provided ADDM and AWR tools. Resolves data redundancy and facilitates data normalization and rationalization. Evaluates and implements new initiatives on technology and process improvement.  • Manage Banner ERP application update process and oversee patches and update process. Respond to issues, trouble-shoot, and repair issues with Oracle databases and associated applications including Banner.  • Monitor IT systems, report suspicious events, and take appropriate action to resolve security issues  • Assist in the planning and design of database physical structures to accommodate large transaction processing and high availability. Perform database and application monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshoot performance issues. Assist in the analysis for database sizing/capacity, server requirements and space requirements.  • Performs database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database. Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2, Banner 8X, Oracle 11gR2 and Oracle Fusion Middleware Sr. Oracle DBA and Banner Programmer Stetson University - DeLand, FL June 2008 to October 2012 Information Technology    • Daily Operations including Tuning, Error Monitoring, Space usage and monitoring, Performance Monitoring, Patching and Upgrading, identification and resolution of hardware, alert logs monitoring and debugging, software and database problems/outages.  • Built cluster with three instances of Oracle 11gR2 RAC, ASM and Data Guard administration and configuration and worked on backup/recovery with Oracle RMAN. Strong performance tuning skill leveraging AWR and SQL profiling.  • Modified database structures including table spaces, tables, views, triggers, stored Procedures as well as configuration and storage allocation to support application enhancement. Upgraded from PeopleSoft 8.9 to PeopleSoft Enterprise HRMS 9.1. Provided on-call support regarding production-related database problems.  • Worked with IT managers and application developers to ensure the database integrity, high availability and security  Environment: 10gR2, Oracle 9i, SCT Banner 8X, MS Access, MS Word, TOAD, SQL* Plus, SQL Loader, Windows10, Solaris 5-9, ODBC, Oracle 10g forms builders, Oracle 10g Report Builders, IBM SPSS 2016 Analytical, RMAN, SQL*Plus, SQL, PL/SQL, Visio, UNIX Shell Scripting, Oracle OEM, Import/Export Data pump, STATSPACK.  TECHNICAL HIGHLIGHTS:    • DATABASES: PostgreSQL 10, 11, EDB postgreSQL as10, as11, Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, 11g RAC, MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2016, Degree Works, CQ5, CMS Repository, GreenPlum, PostgreSQL.  • TOOLS and APPS: gpload, gppkg, gpconfig, gp_dump, gp_restore, gpscp, gpfilespace, Hadoop Distributed Programming Framework, HDFS, loading, and managed unstructured data, as well as writing basic to advanced MapReduce Programs, SQL, Import/Export, SQL*LOADER, SQL*PLUS, SRVCTL, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Oracle Procedure Builder, DBCA, DBUA, OEM, RMAN, UTLSTAT, Explain plan & TKPROF, expdp and impdp, ASM, AWR, ADDM, ADRCI, Data Pump, Data Guard, STATSPACK, Oracle Grid Control, Replication (Stream), ODBC, UNIX shell scripts, Korn Shell(.ksh), and Bourne-, Banner v.8, Oracle Fusion Middleware, Banner XE, Banner Data Defense (BDD). PeopleSoft 8x, Docker, Puppet, Jenkins, WUG, Citrix, CRDB, CMS, Visio, CRXDE Lite, JDBC, Java Script, JSP, J2EE, Eclipse, Net Beans, HTML, Java Servlets, JBoss, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, EJB. TOAD dba tools, SQL, and PL/SQL ERWIN, COGNOS Reporting, Adobe Experience Manager 6.2, Adobe CQ5, Adobe Content Management Systems (CMS) and Jackrabbit Oak repository for web developments, NetBeans, IBM SPSS 2016, GitLab, and GitHub, Oracle Data Integrator (ODI), Putty, WinSCP, SFTP, LDAP, Active Directory (AD).  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: REDHAT Linux 7X, Sun Solaris 5.9, UNIX, Windows 10 and Microsoft Servers 2008R2 and 2016.  • PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, C/C++, Groovy, Grails, Python, and java, jsonb  • NETWORK TOPOLOGYS: TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP, SNMP, SMTP, Education Master of Science (MS) in Management in Information Systems Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Florida Southern College - Lakeland, FL Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammad98