Software Engineer Software Engineer Professional Web and Applications Developer and Software Engineer Yorktown, VA Ken Thomann is a capable applications/web designer and developer. His broad skill set includes, Software Development Lifecycle; Testing & Troubleshooting; Data Structures & Algorithms; Large-Scale Web Application Development (C#, VB.  NET, ColdFusion, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON); Code Debugging; Custom-Built Software Development; Application Architecture; Data Modeling; incident response and forensics; familiarity with the latest Internet and database tools and technology trends, and extensive web and desktop intranet application development solutions affecting a wide range of users. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Janus Research Group - Fort Eustis, VA July 2015 to Present Provides research and guidance on technologies as they relate to web-based, SCORM compliant courseware for the US Army. Preform analysis, diagnoses, and maintenance of distance learning products. Maintains and provides upgrades for a suite of testing tools, developed using C# and Java, and used by the US Army in acceptance of SCORM based courseware. Develop and moderate a courseware repository that helps in the tracking of hundreds of distance learning products.  Platform: Windows 7/10, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Flash, vbscript, C#, VBA for Applications Web Application Developer Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) - Hampton, VA June 2001 to June 2015 General Dynamics AIS (Jan 2003 – June 2003, August 2003 – July 2006, Aug 2012 – June 2015)  • ACT  Help to make modifications and updates to the Automated Change Tool. Added new features and processes to improve performance.  Platform: ColdFusion 10, SQL Server, IIS    • General Software and Web server support  Created several web applications for adding and removing local administrative rights to Windows desktops without user intervention. Provided software programing support for multiple internal websites for software distribution. Also, served as back up to both the Coldfusion server and Remedy administrators and assisted with server upgrades and site maintenance.  Platform: ColdFusion 10, BMC Remedy, SQL Server, T-SQL, IIS, ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET    • Real Helix Media server  Re-Installed, helped configure and maintain the Real Helix media server and library software. Streams video and audio presentations via a web interface.  Platform: Windows server 2008, IIS, SQL Server 2010, Real Helix media Server    • DeskActive Installation  Helped to install and maintain DeskActive a health and stretching program from Human Resources.  Platform: Windows server 2008, IIS, SQL Server 2010    • Geoscout Proposal  Set up a modified version of General Dynamics AIS’s Process Improvement website for use in the proposal group. Included in this was a modified version of the website’s Process Improvement Request (PIR) system. This application allows feed back to process creators and suggestions/discussions for new processes. An discussion board was added to the PIR to allow new discussions for each item created in the PIR. The project assisted with setting up and testing the proposals web portal with Yahoo’s Portal builder.  Platform: Windows NT, MS Access, Cold Fusion Studio, SQL Server, Yahoo Portal Builder  Modified a copy of an existing Action Items recording website for the General Dynamics Oracle Financials team as a first step in creating a version of the Action items/Events website for use across General Dynamics AIS. Updated the Common Problem Reporting System (CPRS), also done using ASP. Added some new functionality to the CPRS such as a logging mechanism, expanded e-mail notification, reformatting the forms in the system and updating the search and report functions for the system.  Platform: Windows NT, MS Access, SQL Server, Macromedia Dreamweaver     Educational Testing Services (ETS) (January 2004 – June 2015)  Maintain and modify their Service Request system which is written in ColdFusion. Duties include windows server maintenance, user maintenance, and creating reports for various departments using SQL server Enterprise manager and excel.  Platform: Windows 2000, IIS, ColdFusion 9, Dreamweaver, SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005     GulfStream (July 2006 – Dec 2013)  VBscript developer for SalesLogix application. The work included developing and adding forms and reports to the Salelogix application environment. This is a modified VBScript/VB.NET/Crystal Reports environment with an SQL server backend. Developed and maintained several interfaces (written in VB.NET) to import to and from the system. The tasks the forms perform are everything from database read/writes to file manipulation. There is also a small amount of weekly windows server maintenance. Also, helped with web site maintenance, debugging, and development.  Platform: Saleslogix IDE, web on Unix, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2005, VB.NET     NASA Wallops Island (June 2003 – August 2003)  Created a document creation system that dynamically generates web based forms (written in Active Server Pages) based on a structure defined in a database. The system only used one type of document but could be easily expanded to support others. The dynamic nature of the website was designed to allow the users the ability to add new form fields with out having to have a developer modify ASP code.  Platform: Windows NT, MS Access, Macromedia Dreamweaver     BAE SR (Jul 2002 – Dec 2002)  Two roles in this project. First was to help to maintain the web based BAE Service Request system. This includes modifying Cold Fusion templates and diagnosing any problems to the system. Second was to create and maintain a “reporting tool” in MS access 97 for use with the SR system’s DataMart to provide off-line access to the SR information.             Platform: Windows NT, MS Access, Cold Fusion Studio, MS Visual Source Safe, SQL Server     Nortel Networks (Jun 2002)  Created Cold Fusion reports for the Nortel Networks WinCenter web-based Application.  Platform: Windows NT, Cold Fusion Studio     General Dynamics CIO’s office (Jun 2001 – Jun 2002)  Create a Java servlet based application to change or reset passwords in a Netscape LDAP server and in the company Oracle database via a web based self-service HR application and thru the General Dynamics HR help desk. Also maintained and modified the “bulk loader” Java application that makes mass updates, adds, or deletes to employee entries in the LDAP directory and in the Oracle database.  Platform: Windows NT, Solaris, Java, Netscape LDAP server, GetAccess, Computer Associates Unicenter Remote control, Forte for Java, Macromedia JRun Web/ Database Application Developer Comso - Hampton, VA January 2000 to June 2001 Modified and created web based metrics data collection systems using Cold Fusion with Oracle and Informix databases for NASA. Created a web based proposal entry system for NASA Langley using Cold Fusion with an Informix database. Served as a point of contact for Cold Fusion development. Maintain and upgrade the NASA Langley Research Center's Software Process Improvement Initiative website.  Platform: Windows NT, Solaris, Cold Fusion Studio, Netscape Enterprise Server, Oracle, Informix Web/ Database Administrator/Developer SAIC - Hampton, VA April 1996 to January 2000 Designed and implemented NASA Langley Research Center's Environmental Engineering Office interactive website. Developed, using Cold Fusion, NASA Langley Research Center's web-based hazardous materials tracking system which is now used in over 200 labs. Created and maintained page design and graphics for NASA Langley's web-based monthly environmental newsletter. Administered both the Netscape Enterprise NT web server and Cold Fusion server.  Platform: Windows NT, Solaris, Cold Fusion Studio, Netscape Enterprise Server, MS Access, MS SQL Server Education BS in Computer Science Christopher Newport University - Newport News, VA December 1995 Skills Data modeling, Database, Ms access, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Asp, Cold fusion, Coldfusion, Css, Dreamweaver, Iis, Intranet, Iplanet, Macromedia, Asp.net, Netscape, .net, Ms visual studio, Ms visual studio .net Additional Information Skills: VB.NET, C#, ASP.NET, VB Script, SQL, Adobe Cold Fusion, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, LDAP, Active Server Pages (ASP), Java, C++, C, Visual Basic for Applications, Macromedia Homesite, MS Visual Studio .NET 2003-2015, Adobe PhotoShop, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Dreamweaver, IIS, Netscape Enterprise Server, IPlanet webserver, Sun Forte for Java, Real Helix media Server, MS Office, MS Access, MS-DOS, Windows 95/98/ME/XP/7/8/10, Windows NT/2000/2003, Oracle, SQL server 7/2000/2005/20008/2010    Third degree black belt in Shorin-ryu Karate, Second degree black belt in Ryukyu Kubudo.