Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Alcon Manufacturing Houston, TX Microsoft Professional in Administrating SQL Server Database with over six (6) years of cumulative experience in RDBMS administration across different versions and editions of MS SQL Servers. Designed and deployed a variety of technologies to meet high availability and disaster recovery (HA/DR) requirements of applications. Among other technologies in databases, experience in administering Microsoft Windows Servers, Network infrastructures, help desk, and System Administration. Work Experience Database Administrator Alcon Manufacturing - Houston, TX September 2015 to Present Among other IT related tasks assigned to me, I am responsible for installation, configuration, and management of multiple clustered instances of SQL Server. Analyze, design, and creating new databases and database objects. Designed and deployed Failover Clustering and Always-On availability groups based on business's RPO and RTO. Provided 24/7 support for production, development and test servers and responding to tickets as required. SQL Server Database Administrator Buffalo Commercial Bank- Juba, South Sudan November 2012 to May 2015 Being part of a team of highly talented professionals, I have resolved design and user requirement challenges. Installed, configured, and administered standalone and clustered MS SQL instances and Implemented server and database level security, auditing, and Data Encryption. Respond to ticketing based on the requirement. Supported HA and DR strategies (Mirroring, Replication and Always On)  Key Project:  • As a DBA, I was responsible for on data migration from various data sources such as access, excel, flat file to SQL Server database systems. As well as involved in Database Maintenance Plans for the performance of SQL Server. We have also used ETL operations to & from MS SQL server databases.  Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, and 2012.  • Responsible for migration and support of databases for Production, Integration, and Development environments.  • Thorough knowledge of Transforms logical database models into physical database designs using Erwin.  • Implementation of Point in time Backup and recovery plans of all databases and maintain documentation.  • Working with DB partitioning (partition function/scheme/table & indexes and querying partitions) in MS SQL Server 2012.  • Work with technology features such as File Groups, Replication, and Materialized Views in MS SQL Server 2008/2012.  • Used DAC (Dedicated Administrator Connection) in MS SQL Server 2012 while resolving blocking issues.  • Worked on the creation and maintenance of Users security permissions and Migrating the entire database objects from one server to another server.  • Maintain and manage the company's new and current users, managed computers and organizational groups in the Active Directory.  • Writing & debugging T-SQL, stored procedures and triggers, troubleshooting database issues.  • Used Windows PowerShell script to easily query information from SQL Server and schedule tasks.  • Implemented disaster recovery for SQL Server Production Database as Fail-Over or Standby servers. Used Log Shipping Technique for a warm backup solution for MS SQL Server databases.  • Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining high availability solution like Replication, Database mirroring, Log shipping and Clustering in MS SQL Server  • Worked on Storage Area Network(SAN) and VMware server.  • Provide 24/7 on-call Production support after migration.  Environment: MS SQL server 2008/R2/2012 Windows Server 2003/2008, PowerShell, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, Erwin. Customer Service Representative/Loan Consultant Commercial Bank of Ethiopia - Addis Ababa, ET April 2011 to October 2012 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia  The biggest bank in Ethiopia with 1,100 branches across the country and 29,000 employees  Customer Service Representative/Loan Consultant Apr/2011 - Oct/2012  • Promoted branch products and services to existing and prospective customers to meet individual and branch sales goal  • Monitored accounts and sought opportunities to develop client relationship further  • Managed customer accounts, received incoming telephone calls, and greeted walk-in customers  • Reduced None Performing Loan by20% by restructuring loan with new terms and asking for additional collateral  • Submit NPL documents to head office for restructuring, rescheduling, and write-off  • Analyzed risks and suggested appropriate solutions; collected outstanding loan Accountant Commercial Bank of Ethiopia October 2009 to April 2011 • Prepared and analyzed monthly journal entries, cash flow, balance sheet, income statement, and trial balance financial statements; performed Earnings Per Share calculations according to FAS 128 guidelines  • Prepared and submitted monthly, quarterly and yearly reports to Finance Director  • Ensured accuracy of cash including collections, disbursement, and debt by working with Treasury department  • Maintained domestic fixed asset ledger including the recording of assets and calculation of depreciation  • Reconciled financial discrepancies by collecting and analyzing account information  • Worked closely with internal audit for differences as well as with external auditors during quarterly reviews and annual integrated audit  • Supervised payroll, accounts receivable and accounts payable, and federal government reporting Customer Service Officer Commercial Bank of Ethiopia March 2006 to September 2009 • Identified opportunities to cross-sell products and services, ensured needs of key customers were met  • Handled cash deposits and withdrawals in an accurate and professional manner  • Processed new account transactions and assisted customers in the selection of accounts & financial services  • Assisted customer service manager with overseeing all aspects of day-to-day branch operations  • Monitored computer application and answered telephone calls Education Bachelor's in Accounting and Information System MicroLink Information Technology College - Addis Ababa, ET 2008 Skills Data integrity, Database administration, Database, Ddl, Relational database, Sql, Active directory, Optimization, T-sql, Ms office, Security, Outlook, Documentation, Maintenance, Goal-oriented, Problem-solving, Performance tuning, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Ssis, ETL Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  • Relational Database Administration  • Installation and Configuration  • Process Optimization  • Managing Data Integrity  • Implement Security  • Windows Active Directory  • Create Database & Database Objects  • DDL, DML, & DCL  • T-SQL  • Maintenance Plan  • Query Performance Tuning  • MS office  • Outlook    PERSONAL SKILLS:  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Goal-oriented & strong documentation skill  • Excellent communication & interpersonal skills.  • Play essential role in Team environment.  • Quick learner and go-getter.