Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator West Chester, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Wini Gas Agency April 2007 to Present Responsibilities include configuration, installation and administration of the oracle database systems and tools.  Develop, implement and maintain the methodology and procedure standards for the effectiveness in the access,  backups and recoveries. Write complex SQL queries. Monitor performance of database using Oracle  Enterprise Manager (OCM) & through certain scripts. Reviewed and debugged error log files. Monitor the extent growth and reorganize the tables of necessary to improve the performance. Create roles, assign system or  object level privileges to these roles and assign these roles to users. Proven ability to deliver high quality and services on schedule and under budget. Self-motivated team player with excellent verbal and writing  communication skills. Database Administrator Amrit Database Solutions, Incorporated - New Delhi, Delhi April 2005 to March 2007 Managed Oracle database, conducted server performance tuning, backup and recovery, and troubleshooting in  LINUX platform. Developed client/server database applications that were used by city governments to analyze,  audit, and recover tax revenues. Solid skills in database optimization and performance tuning for servers, appli- cations, and SQL queries. Extensive experience working with all aspects of in-house developed systems. Team  player dedicated to managing operations and projects. Mathematics Teacher Saraswati Model Middle School - Patiala, India April 2002 to March 2005 As a mathematics instructor, it was my duty to plan, record, and teach lessons on a regular basis while giving  special attention to those in need and informing parents and guardians of their students' academic progress.  Devised lesson plans that reinforced technical skills and drew connections between the classroom and the real  world. Promoted proper classroom etiquette. Coordinated with colleagues to share best practices, and ad- dressed academic and behavioral methods. Coached school soccer team. Senior Civil Engineer JACK Constructions Private Limited January 1996 to February 2002 As supervisor of this company, it was my duty to prepare and execute plans for residential and commercial  buildings. Oversee the construction of framed structures, pre-cast concrete slabs, erections and placement of gantry girders, storm drains, sewer lines, water lines, streets and building foundations to ensure structural integ-  rity. Maintained highest standards as per government codes. Construction Engineer Sant Construction Company November 1990 to December 1995 Performed calculations and inspected concrete, reinforced cement concrete, foundation, and brick work for resi- dential and commercial buildings. Created plans after doing complicated calculations to construct plumbing and electrical lines throughout commercial and residential properties. Other aspects of this position included  office management including the presentation of weekly reports and project updates. Site Engineer Bhullar Construction Private Limited January 1988 to September 1990 As construction engineer, my responsibilities included the supervision of site layout, environmental control,  concrete finishing, and erosion control. Ensured highest level of workmanship. Collaborated a smooth inter- face among architects, contractors, electrical engineers, and governments officials. Site Engineer Inca Builders Private Limited - New Delhi, Delhi December 1985 to November 1987 Supervised site layouts, excavations of foundations, reinforced cement concrete, and steel work. Advanced  scheduling of work with project managers and contractors for material requisitions. Supervised construction of industrial civil engineering projects. Conducted safety and quality checks for adherence to codes and standards,  accuracy and completeness. Wrote technical reports and all forms of communication required for the successful  implementation of the project. Education Bachelors Degree in Civil Engineering Institution of Engineers - Patiala, Punjab January 1995 to January 1999 Skills Oracle Certified Professional 8i & 9i Additional Information Areas of Expertise:    • Project Management • Strategic and Tactical Planning • Configuration and Implementation  • Solid Leadership Skills • Security, Backup, & Recovery • Diagnosis and Troubleshooting  • SQL Tuning • Design Solutions • Data Analysis & Profiling