Business Associate Business Associate Business Associate - Beacon Mental Health Services Lake Monroe, FL Computer Science and Database expert with 13 years of experience in Health Care Administration. Work Experience Business Associate Beacon Mental Health Services - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present • Contracting and credentialing of Providers for Medicare, Medicaid, Commercial Insurances and Medicaid HMOs.  • Scheduling patient appointments, verifying insurance eligibility, collection of copays, coinsurance and deductibles.  • Ensuring claims are submitted and processed in a timely manner for payment. Practice Administrator Lakeland Physicians & Associates - Lakeland, FL September 2015 to Present • Responsible for the overall operations, development and success of the practice. Responsible for compliance with medical clinic regulations and licensure requirements.  • Manage all aspects of medical claims processing - from the creation of the encounter to the timely payment of the claims.  • Contracting and credentialing of Providers for Medicare, Medicaid, Commercial Insurances and Medicaid HMOs.  • Responsible for all Payroll, HR, Budget, Book-Keeping, Accounts Receivable. Managing Member Healthventures - Altamonte Springs, FL April 2006 to September 2015 • Managed day to day operations of five medical offices (4 Primary Care offices and 1 Home Care office) to ensure our patients had an exceptional experience while maximizing revenues and resource efficiency.  • Hired, trained, managed and coached all medical and non-medical staff to keep them motivated to work efficiently and provide exceptional service to our patients.  • Managed all aspects of HR, including payroll. Scheduled and lead staff meetings. Managed account payables and payments using Quick Books. Created and managed marketing plan and operations budget.  • Created and executed supply management plan to ensure practice maintains supplies to satisfy needs of patients.  • Developed and monitored service level, operations and financial metrics; developed corrective action when needed to maintain superior patient service level and profitability.  • Managed all aspects of our medical claims processing using Avisena/Kareo. Worked with clearing houses and insurance companies to ensure that all claims submitted were paid in a timely manner.  • Managed the patient scheduling and follow up using Electronic Medical Records Management - Practice Fusion.  • Developed positive working relationships with MDs and Mid Level Providers.  • Implemented actions needed to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements (HIPPA, VFC, State, County and City Licensing board, etc.).  • Negotiated contracts with insurance carriers, vendors, and providers. Supervised and assisted in new office startups.  • Resolved medical-administrative issues including patient complaints and staff and/or business partner concerns.  • Performed initial and re credentialing functions for all providers. Used CAQH system to submit provider data to insurance companies. Database Administrator Bost Communications Group - Portland, ME July 2000 to June 2003 • Installed Sybase Adapative Server 12.5 and new releases of Sybase patches UNIX servers. Upgraded servers from ASE 11.9.2 to 12.5. Administered Sybase Replication 11.5.1 for warm standby. Tuned Sybase servers for better performance.  • Administered dbcc procedures to verify the internal database structural integrity. Created UNIX shell and SQL data query scripts for system monitoring and to perform various database tasks. Education Certificate Data Science University of California - Davis, CA 2018 MS in Computer Science City University of New York - College of Staten Island 1993 to 1995 BS in Engineering and Computer Science Manipal Institute of Technology 1988 to 1992 Skills Accounts payable/receivable, Bookkeeping, Payroll, Accounts payable, Quickbooks, Records management, Event planning, Organizational skills, Business process improvement, Inventory, Database administration, Database, Microsoft access, Sql, Sybase, Korn, Qa testing, Software qa, Crystal reports, C++ Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeanannthomas