Oracle RDBMS Database Administrator Oracle RDBMS <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle RDBMS Database Administrator - Robert Half Technology Atlanta, GA Oracle Certified Professional Database Administrator with proven success and professional experience supporting, analyzing, designing, consulting, deploying and administering advanced technical solutions in diverse environments. Proven track in implementing complete life cycle client servers and Oracle database technology starting with Oracle RDBMS version 9i up to 12c with various development tools and languages. Extremely eager and keen learner, dedicated to keeping current on techniques, hardware and technology.    Core Database Experiences:    Technology and Systems  Data Processes and Migration  Oracle 9i, 10G, 11G, 12c (CDB & PDB), OEM Cloud control 12c & 13c, GRID control.  Database Upgrade, Patching, Cloning and Consolidation (Oracle CPU/PSU security patches).  Performance Tuning (AWR, ADDM, Stats pack & Sql Trace).  High Availability Solutions (Data Guard, RAC)  Disaster Recovery Planning. RMAN Backup and Recovery  Data Storage, Data Modeling and Partitioning.  Sql & PL/Sql Tuning, Shell Script (Bash)  Database Schema, Object Security and Oracle Transparent Encryption (TDE)  PostgreSQL Work Experience Oracle RDBMS Database Administrator Robert Half Technology - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to Present Atlanta) Aug 2017 - Till date  Oracle Database Administration  Responsible for the support and maintenance of the Oracle database Infrastructures and Banner application.  • Oracle RDBMS Database Administrator worked with Technical College System of Georgia (TCSG) Banner Enterprise team to ensure client and Oracle database technologies are functioning as efficiently as possible.  • Deployed a virtual server running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and Tomcat 8.  • Responsible for patching, upgrade, database trouble shooting and supporting development effort regarding production deployment releases, database schema, role, user, and objects, database hardening and baseline per security policy to improve database security.  • DB installation/upgrade from current deployment to dual data center active-active replication using Oracle DataGuard and GoldenGate.  • Perform Migrations, Clones and Upgrades of Banner Systems. Deployed monthly security patches and updates.  • Support includes responding to system management alerts, database maintenance, performance modifications and other database related issues and problems.  • Maintained Database availability 100% of the time for user roles validation and Manage database users at all levels.  • Initiated and managed several projects related to administrative Banner (Ellucian) user access. This included the development, implementation and documentation of these security programs and policies.  • Performed and monitored daily RMAN backup.  • Installed, configured and updated database hardware and software.  • Operated and maintained all integrated systems to support mission critical operations.  • Performed daily application updates and maintenance functions. Responded to after-hours trouble-calls.  • Responded to Tier 3 and Tier 4 trouble tickets. Managed, escalated and resolved issue tickets and calls.  • Created, Monitor, and ran audit queries to ensure compliance with the institution's policies and data integrity.  Environment: Oracle Enterprise, Golden Gate, UNIX (Linux & AIX), Ellucian Banner, Evisions Argos, Tomcat , ServiceNow, and VMware. Oracle Database Consultant/ Administrator Pacific Institute of Tech - McDonough, GA November 2015 to May 2017 • Conducted Oracle 11gR2 database classroom instruction and hands-on lab training to give students a firm foundation in basic administration of Oracle Database 11g.  • Prepared classes, notes, workshops, and technical environment to effectively conduct training sessions.  • Trained new Oracle DBA to perform the daily tasks required by the job. Training included SQL fundamental, performance, backup and recovery, database maintenance, CPU/PSU patches.  • Responsible for installing and configuring Golden Gate for Oracle RDBMS using 11gR2 and 12c.  • Oversaw the performance testing and staging / production environment (application / system) performance monitoring activities to ensure that the applications meet the performance objectives in Oracle environment.  • Performed database capacity planning required to create and maintain Oracle databases.  • Created and maintained standards and best-practices for installing and maintaining Oracle database in all environments.  • Built, Installed and tested data Extraction and Replication Using Oracle Golden Gate 12c application on Linux.  • Provided technical leadership to Oracle Implementation Engineers and Oracle Analysts.  • Database Change Management review member for all database applications development and implementation before go-live.  • Performed Oracle RAC design, Oracle DataGuard development, configuration and installation on VmWare.  • Consulted with various Oracle consultants in the Golden Gate transition  • Installed, setup and deployed OEM Cloud Control 12c tooling to manage and monitor different areas of database administration such as storage, backups, recovery, security, performance.  • Evaluated and installed Oracle 12cR1 features (CDB&PDB) and Oracle related products.  • Responsible for setting up Oracle Golden Gate to help in propagating information between databases.  • Collaborated with the backup team to established and maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.  Environment: EMCC12c Rel 4, 12c (CDB & PDB), Dataguard, Golden Gate, UNIX (Linux & AIX) VMware, and Windows Server. Senior Oracle Database Consultant FirstData - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to October 2015 Responsible for Oracle database administration of several Oracle databases requiring 24x7 availability for Development, Staging, Testing and Production environments in a highly regulated financial industry.  • Night and Weekend duties along with 24X7 on call to support Oracle database environments.  • Supported system alerts, database maintenance, performance modifications, & other database related events in a reasonable response time.  • Performed database tuning, database health check, created database reorganization procedures, scripted database alerts, and monitored scripts.  • Worked with the Client business and application development to implement change request in the production database.  • A key contributor in the Database Change Management Committee review meetings for all new application development.  • Developed, installed and configured Oracle database. Configured and supported Oracle DataGuard for High Availability environment.  • Supported development team by creating objects (tables, procedures, functions, packages, views, triggers, indexes).  • Implemented backup and recovery methods using RMAN.  • Managed different areas of database administration such as storage, backups, recovery, security, performance and monitoring through the OEM 12c Cloud console tool.  • Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.  • Cloned, installed and configured database for Oracle Application development environment.  • Performed database maintenance such as upgrades and patches.  • Performed disaster recovery using Oracle Recovery Manager.  • Networked Oracle databases Servers and Client applications using Oracle*Net.  • Migrated Sql Server databases to Oracle using Oracle Migration Workbench.  • Interfaced with Oracle Corporation for technical support engineers through Service Request tickets and Technical Assistance Requests (TARs) to resolve complicated issues.  Environment: Oracle Enterprise, UNIX (Linux & AIX) and Windows Server. Performance Engineer -Oracle Database Systems Diagnostics Accenture Client - Toronto, ON June 2012 to August 2013 • Worked with the Client business and application development / support teams throughout the application development lifecycle to define the performance requirements / SLAs for new applications / application changes in Oracle clustered environment.  • Analyzed database storage with strong emphasis for future growth.  • Utilized Data Pump for import and export of data. Query performance analysis and optimization.  • Extracted data for testing and analysis. Ran reports and translated for decision makers.  • Supported development team by creating objects (tables, procedures, functions, packages, views, triggers, indexes). Provided performance related guidance to the application development teams.  • Configured and supported Oracle Standby databases for High Availability in RAC environment.  • Implemented backup and recovery methods using RMAN  • Oversaw the performance testing and staging / production environment (application / system) performance monitoring activities to ensure that the applications met the performance objectives. Application Architect - Information Systems Accenture Client - Boston, MA January 2011 to May 2012 • Responsible for supporting the technical lead in Meditech Stabilization efforts. Engaged with client in creating technical documentation and blueprints for current and future state, manage issues and change control processes.  • Performed database capacity planning required to create and maintain Oracle databases.  • Work with Application Architects, client and vendors to coordinate various activities on applications  • Responsibilities include designing and maintaining Oracle databases for client's customized applications.  • Led and worked with client's DBA to implement Oracle DataGuard for high availability environment.  • Provided Application DBA support during different development life cycle phases including performance testing and implementation.  • Interfaced with application developers, unit testers, and operations to ensure efficient development and delivery of database solutions. Analyzed, isolated and resolved any Oracle database performance issues or errors. Oracle Database Consultant Accenture Client - Chicago, IL August 2011 to December 2011 • Provided database supports and technical inputs regarding database Backup & Restore procedures.  • Worked closely with client DBAs and application administrators to implement changes into dev/test/prod environments. Actively a key contributor in review meetings and conference calls.  • Supporting development team by creating objects (tables, procedures, functions, packages, views, triggers, indexes)  • Provided blueprints for SQL tuning, Oracle database performance tuning and recommended changes in the Database parameter settings for optimal performance gains.  • Worked with client's DBA on the project for production moves, migrating code bases, and applying patches. Oracle Database Administrator Pacific Systems, Inc - McDonough, GA November 2009 to April 2011 • Designed and implemented logical and physical database architecture using ErWin, Oracle Data Modeler and information ETL tool. Implementation of Oracle replication using Oracle (10&11g) Streams.  • Cloned databases using RMAN, OEM and manual copy, backup and disaster recovery.  • Managed high availability solution centers using Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) with several nodes with ASM Storage. Configured and supported DataGuard (Primary and Standby databases).  • Provided technical leadership to Oracle Implementation Engineers and Oracle Analysts.  • In charge of the Database Change Committee which reviews all development and report queries for approval before they ran against Oracle production box.  • Supported development team by creating objects (tables, procedures, functions, packages, views, triggers, indexes). Experienced in using databases features such Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ADDM.  • Participate in the design and implementation of new Oracle Database platforms. Install and configure Oracle Database products including Diagnostic and Tuning Packs, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Partitioning, Real Application Cluster (RAC) and implemented Oracle Database backup strategy.  • Experience in Oracle database cross-platform migration. Performed database maintenance such as upgrades and patches. Managed database security using Oracle and third-party tools such as kerberos, biometric data.  • Networked Oracle databases Servers and Client applications using Oracle*Net.  • Configured and Maintained Oracle shared servers with connection pooling and multiplexing capability.  • Managed very large databases (VLDBs) using table and index partitioning. Performed schema changes in development instances and migrated same to other environments such as test and production database instances. System Analyst Unilever - Atlanta, GA June 2008 to July 2009 • Oracle database point of contact on a team responsible for new Self-Service Suite in the PeopleSoft Human Resources application development to meet the changing needs of HRPB requirements.  • Coordinated with testing team and client to ensure that all changes are satisfactory.  • Created work-unit documentation based on project and Accenture Delivery Methodology standards.  • Produced Project status reports to Project Manager and identified risk areas. Principal Consultant World Access Service Corporation - Richmond, VA April 2007 to June 2008 A key contributor on a team responsible for new application development for the required changing needs of business processes requirements and enhancement of existing applications for Corporate General Transactions. Principal Consultant Baxter Healthcare - Deerfield, IL February 2006 to November 2007 • Developed functional requirements from business requirements, wrote design specifications, unit tested, and provided support for integrations of data quality technology into PeopleSoft Enterprise HCM 8.8 that delivered a business processes based on best practices.  • Performed data planning and data conversion activities.  • Worked closely with project DBA and application administrator to implement changes into test environments.  • Analyze, design, and create reports to identify potential data integrity errors with PeopleSoft Database and provide audit reports for high-level Management.  • Created, Monitor, and ran audit queries to ensure compliance with Organization's policies and data integrity.  • Merged data tables in Oracle database, designed, and formatted intricate Crystal and Excel reports including compensation data, performance reviews, forecasting, and headcount reports.  • Coordinated the efforts in the reporting area by organizing the report structure and led Excel training workshops for the reporting team.  • Made complex modifications to existing report applications and objects in accordance with high-level specifications and division standards; reviews effort to ensure compliance to application standards.  • A key contributor in project planning sessions with clients, business analysts, and team members to analyze development requirements, provide report design recommendations for complex project, and recommended methodology paths for project implementation. Education B.Sc. in Computer Information Systems Kennesaw State University 1996 to 2000