Systems Specialist II Systems Specialist II Systems Specialist II - Leidos Tacoma, WA • Over 10 years of experience in data/record management, data analysis, reporting,  administrative and bookkeeping management. Work Experience Systems Specialist II Leidos - Bremerton, WA April 2019 to Present • Assist end-users with questions, problems, and requests for support.  • Convey problems to appropriate individuals based on established guidelines and procedures. Software Support Specialist III CQuest (formerly Starling Systems) - Olympia, WA March 2010 to November 2018 Database Administrator Jr level CQuest (formerly Starling Systems) February 2007 to March 2010 Intermittent)    • Provided database administration and operations support for the WIC (Women, Infant, Children)  program systems for the states of Kansas, New Hampshire, Hawaii, and the Inter-Tribal Council of Arizona (ITCA).  • Monitored daily operations of scheduled activities such as replication, mobile WIC database  check-in/check-out, and data exchange with two WIC banking services.  • Account Security Management (Manage users, user feature security, and user data security  requirements; Manage activation and de-activation of user names and passwords)  • Defined, implemented, and documented internal procedures and processes.  • Researched and implemented database migration procedures.  • Performed data administration and database architecture changes.  • Performed database backup and restoration; data analysis and verified data integrity; database  analysis and tuning.  • Assisted with the development, testing, and support of internal and user acceptance testing.  • Provided assistance in deployment of statewide implementations of application releases.  • Prepared status reports (daily/weekly), monthly operation reports, and other documentation;  developed and ran system queries and reports using SQL.  • Analyzed, diagnosed, and provided Tier III technical support and assisted with problem  resolution on help desk calls; monitored help desk incident tickets to ensure all open tickets  came to full resolution.  • Collaborated closely with multiple departments to maximize workflow and efficiency, including  IT and Business Development departments. SalesLogix Administrator PAR3 Communications - Seattle, WA June 2006 to December 2007 Intermittent)    • Managed SalesLogix users, user feature security, and user data security requirements.  • Devised data management policies to maintain the integrity of the Sales and Marketing  databases.  • Simplified and streamlined Daily Sales reports by reducing run time from 3 hours to 15 minutes.  • Developed and ran system queries and reports using Excel, Access, Crystal Reports, SQL and VB  6.0  • Incorporated Crystal Reports into Excel spreadsheets, some using macros, for more flexibility  and changing abilities. Sales Database Support Administrator NoteWorld - Tacoma, WA April 2001 to June 2006 Intermittent)    • Managed SalesLogix users, user feature security, and user data security requirements.  • Defined, implemented and documented internal procedures and processes (e.g., sales process, entering new contact information).  • Researched and implemented Sales database migration from TeleMagic to SalesLogix.  • Performed administration and database architecture changes on both TeleMagic and SalesLogix  databases.  • Created instruction manual and performed training on the system on both TeleMagic and SalesLogix databases.  • Designed and implemented the TeleMagic Sales database. Data Analyst Tiny Computers, Inc - Tacoma, WA May 2000 to March 2001 Designed and scheduled Crystal Reports to run for Daily Sales of 48 showrooms in 5 regions to run and export into nightly and daily reports. Education Certified Administrator Tacoma Community College - Tacoma, WA Clover Park Technical College - Tacoma, WA Skills ADAPTIVE SERVER, DATA ANALYSIS, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, SYBASE, SYSTEMS DESIGN, CLIENT/SERVER, SYSTEMS ANALYSIS, VISUAL BASIC, CRYSTAL REPORTS, WEB BASED, SAP, WINDOWS 95 Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    • SQL • Adaptive Server Enterprise • Systems Design  • SQL Remote • SAP Crystal Reports • Data Analysis  • MS SQL Server • Client/Server Development • MS Access  • Database Replication • Database Conversion • Visual Basic  • Sybase • Database Administration • Web based Applications  • SQL Anywhere • Systems Analysis • Windows 95, NT, 2000, XP, 2007, 2008, 10