Senior Database Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Consultant Senior Database Consultant - MAR Professional Services -- Retired Pittsburgh, PA Retirement has not done good. I need to work . Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Consultant MAR Professional Services - Jeffersonville, PA January 2004 to Present Sr. Database Consultant MAR Professional Services - Philadelphia, PA January 2004 to Present PA, Chicago, IL. Minneapolis, MN, San Diego, CA    I've consulted in industries such as Pharmaceuticals, Banking, Financial Institutions, Healthcare, supply chain Manufacturing, Telecommunications, and Utilities. Highlights include:    • Handled the tasks of designing, developing and maintaining optimized databases during the logical and physical design. Implemented new technologies where appropriate to facilitate greater production. Word with customers on detailed design by education and results were buy into the project.  • Coordinated internal audit on recommended security enhancements for client's databases based on Sarbanes-Oxley and HIPPA rules.  • Tasked with using JAD (Joint Application Development) sessions with Programmers/Users to create a logical database design for applications using tools such as Oracle's Data Modeler, ERWIN, etc. and converting to a physical oracle database.  • Extensive experience in coding and debugging of PL/SQL, PERL, Python, DCL and Shell scripts to facilitate data movement. Extremely proficient in when to use the right tool for the right job.  • Implemented MySQL data marts and PL/SQL the tool for offloading data from Oracle and scrubbing data before loading using Oracle LOAD  • Management of the team's efforts including coordination activities along with active technical participation in development including logical/physical database design sessions with customers. Tasked to present to the customer the functionality of the software design.  • Developed documents including test plans, architecture & design, and periodic management progress reports.  • Developed migration/upgrade path to newest Oracle release as well as document desirable new features  • I Created extensive shell scripts to do successful/unsuccessful reporting on nightly batch jobs. Created and maintained shell scripts to monitor the databases for performance analysis.  • Installed and implemented Oracle Enterprise Manager and subsequent monitoring and job scheduling.  • Converted outsourced data warehouse to in-house RHEL/Oracle 10g. In addition, used for hosting Data Marts in the environment. Day to day duties include managing the production environment. Position required all aspects of ORACLE Design, Implementation, Backup, Recovery, SQL Tuning, and Instance Tuning.  • Generally, I automated repetitive tasks and automated monitoring where appropriate Lead and implemented physical database design MAR Professional Services - Pittsburgh, PA October 2017 to October 2018 Pittsburgh, PA    Worked on project to modernize database automated systems from AIX/Shell and Linux Shell to Python where appropriate. Configured, monitored, and tuned RAC on EXADATA machines. Also, I wrote python scripts and PL/SQL to move data between Oracle and SQL Server V7 through 2008 for small to medium data marts. I managed R12 Containers and Pluggable databases on RAC architecture. I migrated to databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.2.0.1 using Pluggable Databases. I migrated Oracle/ IX to Oracle Enterprise Linux (OEL) operating systems on Exadata using Containers and pluggable databases. I monitored/repaired Data Guard databases for backup and querying. In Addition: worked with developers who were using Devops.    • Provided senior level technical and operational database administration. Installed, maintained, developed and implemented policies and procedures for ensuring the security, availability and integrity of the company databases and large data warehouse database environments.  • Provided analysis and design for new and existing systems.  • Lead and implemented physical database design. I have heavy experience in performance and tuning in order to resolve database performance issues. I created and monitored backup and recovery procedures, database capacity issues, replication, and other distributed data issues.  • Supported monitoring and maintenance of Golden Gate and Dataguard Senior Database Consultant Gateway Health Plan - Pittsburgh, PA April 2016 to September 2017 I consulted on various projects for best use of technology; I contributed as a business analyst and Oracle Database Administrator in the Windows environment. Created and maintained PL/SQL to migrate data from external data to warehouses and data marts. Assisted in the JAD sessions with Customers, Business Analysts, Program Engineers to consult on Physical/Logical design. Senior Database Consultant GMAC - Fort Washington, PA April 2016 to September 2017 Assigned to migrate 9i, 10x Oracle Databases to 11.2.0.4. Installed and maintained MySQL and setup environment on the Windows platform for Business Analysts and Applications Programmers. I provided PL/SQL, scripts, external tables, sql*loader for moving data from flat files to the datawarehouse. Surveillance Data Sr. Consultant Company supported "Big Pharma" - Plymouth Meeting, PA September 2013 to May 2016 PA    Company supported "Big Pharma" by supplying doctors, scripts, and prescription information usage for marketing purposes. Used many systems including RHEL, Windows and AIX for Oracle and MySQL. Data transfers back and forth were initiated by scripts including PL/SQL, Shell, and Perl from/to Oracle and MySql. Tuned loading processes into the Data Warehouse and Data marts. Troubleshot "hot spots" in SQL and related scripts. Philadelphia, PA Senior Database and Infrastructure Consultant Southeastern PA Transportation Authority (SEPTA) - Southeastern, PA June 2014 to February 2016 I supported various systems including scheduling, real time vehicle location, parts inventory, crew scheduling and coin/card conversion (SEPTA Key initiative). I supported their RAC environment and upgraded from 10.2 to 10.2.0.4. I supported MySQL databases. I supported backups, timing, recovery, all oracle databases automating tasks using shell, PERL, power shell, and Python scripts. I converted flat file "Databases" from OpenVMS to RHEL using Oracle including conversion of scripts to PERL, Powershell or Unix shell scripts depending on application vs. system. Assisted in logical/physical design. Conversion was simplified by extensive use of Python public "functions". I did extensive debugging of problematic SQL working with programmers to educate them on proper SQL. Worked with MySQL on data marts for Warehouse projects. Sr. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR, SR. SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER, SR. SECURITY Administrator PJM Interconnection - Norristown, PA April 1993 to April 2001 Originally hired as an IDMS DBA and quickly progressed to cutting edge technologies which have included all aspects of ORACLE technology within IBM/UNIX/AIX and Windows/2000 platforms. In addition, used in "hotspot" positions to fill vacancies or personnel shortages in Networking, SAN administration. Assigned as temporary Manager of company HELPDESK.    • Lead DBA for ORACLE several ground up projects using Oracle as the OLTP. Worked alongside Business Analysts to deliver data models including data warehouse and subsequent physical implementations. Sample projects included Energy Management System, FERC Warehouse, eMeter, Line Outage, and Market Monitoring Databases used by dispatchers to manage the Power Grid in the Northeast.  • Lead DBA to create Best Practices, Policies, Standards, and Procedural documentation for Database implementation of Sarbanes/Oxley practices. Interfaced with external auditors on behalf of DBAs for auditing the corporation.  • All Aspects of ORACLE Design, Implementation, Backup, Recovery and Tuning (SQL and Instance).  • Certified as an Oracle Parallel Server (OPS) professional using Windows NT technology and later AIX/Oracle RAC. Project Lead/DBA Designed and developed data structures to store enterprise data. Managed database processes supporting PJM's first Data warehouse sized at 10 terabytes using Oracle and OPS. Used Sagent as the ETL and SQLServer Database as the data mart repository.  • DBA for design and development of company's Energy Management System (EMS) Databases using Oracle RAC on IBM/AIX using HACMP clusters. Extensive JAD sessions with Customers and Developers.  • Lead DBA in developing PJM's Policies, Procedures and Audit Standards for all relational databases.  • Lead DBA for evaluating and implementing PJM's first ORACLE Database.  • Created and maintained the first Red-Hat/Linux Oracle 9.i Database for a Network Monitoring tool (Intruder Detection System) Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Widener University - Chester, PA Skills AIX (10+ years), C+ (Less than 1 year), Database (10+ years), database design. (10+ years), databases (10+ years), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Linux (9 years), Microsoft Windows (Less than 1 year), migrations (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), MySQL (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), PERL (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), Python (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (1 year), Unix (9 years)