Shift Leader Shift Leader Shift Leader - Dunkin' Donuts & Baskin Robbins Staten Island, NY Seeking a suitable position to utilize my strong technical background and critical thinking  and problem-solving skills.    Skills and Work Experience  Personable and Approachable, Collaborative Team Involvement, Accurate and Detail Oriented  Understanding people, planning, Management, Automated System Configuration & Administrate, ERP  Systems Client installation, Budget & Cost Control, Technical: Oracle Database Administrator, SQL,  MySQL, TAS & EPKS Administrator, C #, C++ & C languages, HTML & Java Script understanding and  also Programming Technics. Currently, I am following up Cisco CCNA online certification course. Work Experience Shift Leader Dunkin' Donuts & Baskin Robbins January 2019 to Present Network Administrator Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Limited September 2014 to October 2018 • Evaluating, Installing & Maintaining LAN Controllers Hardware and Software.  • Designing & Installing LAN infrastructure.  • Performing layer 2 administration including VLANs, inter VLAN routing.  • Worked on CISCO 2960, 2960G, 3560 series catalyst switches, configured with putty.  • Performed network troubleshooting & monitoring network.  • Designed IP addressing scheme depending on the number of current users & scope of future growth.  • Connecting VPN to LAN and Monitoring & Securing the connectivity. Database Analyst Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Limited March 2007 to September 2014 • Installing & Configured Database of Terminal Automated Systems  • Maintaining existing database architecture for Information Systems and Database Management  Systems.  • Development & implement data administration policy, standards and models.  • Creating data access & Security policies for ERP system and Terminal Automated Systems(TAS)  • Modify Script of User Roles and User accounts files and granting the user access authentication.  • Monitoring servers, client's software & hardware and rectifying their errors and solving them.  • Maintaining Backup procedures and taking backups.  • Develop & Administrate disaster recovery plans. Programmer Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal Limited 1999 to March 2007 • Designed & developed "Budgetary Control and Purchasing System" for CPC & CPSTL.  • Monitoring, maintaining and resolve issues arising on use of the system and made improvements using  mainframe language Visual Age TIU & GIU.  • Worked with RPG II & COBOL language    1  Branch Manager & Senior Lecturer: Technical (TEC Sri Lanka & Technical College)  • Worked as a Branch Manager and Senior Lecture in Computer Science and Operational Research. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Colombo - Colombo, LK March 2011 Diploma in Computer System Design University of Colombo - Colombo, LK September 1995