Lead Database Administor Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> Administor Lead Database Administor Des Moines, IA • Successful management experience in Information Technology (IT) roles in diverse industries.  • Currently serve in a Database Administrator/Analyst role in a fast-paced and ever-changing business environment.  • Proven leadership skills with seasoned judgment and expertise in a highly competitive industry.  • Extensive knowledge of data management using SQL Server and Oracle, implementing replication between the environments.  • Seven-plus years of management experience, accountable for hiring, performance, systems integration, and purchasing. Consistently deliver results for employer and team members.  • Database Administrator traits: adept problem solver; good listener who asks tough technical questions; decisive in making quality, timely decisions; collaborative; respect for team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administor DIRECT COMMUNICATIONS, INC 2010 to April 2019 DIRECT COMMUNICATIONS, INC - Urbandale, IA 2001 to April 2019 Data Base Administrator III DIRECT COMMUNICATIONS, INC 2001 to 2010 Provide overall management and supervision of the database management and administration for an electronic cataloging company serving the automotive aftermarket; DCi is a division of ARI, an international business enterprise.    Key Contributions / Accountabilities:  • Eighteen-plus years experience in SQL Server and Oracle database management and development.  • Analyzed and developed 200+ custom data formats to increase customer base and grow revenues.  • Architected new data structures to enhance DCi electronic cataloging database to meet changing business requirements  • Built relationships with large national customer base, earning high rates of business retention.  • Achieved competitive industry advantage by developing ACES and PIES industry standard exports for 300+ manufacturers.  • Introduced initiatives to drive revenue growth and support business expansion for offshore data development, more cost efficient processes and proprietary, custom-built services.    Data Management to Deliver Revenue Growth  • Lead technical team to develop and implement data management tools to achieve business goals.  • Built various backend processes to aid in import and efficiency of data development for multiple manufacturers.  • Perform analysis on various sectors of data to determine usability within DCi sales network with exposure to millions of types of product applications.    New Business Development to Optimize Customer Satisfaction / Retention  • Collaborate with business team to build new parts lookup services for retailers and distributors.  • Interact with prospective customers to explain services from a technical perspective and answer questions on integrations.  • Partner with marketplace listing agents such as Channel Advisor, SureDone and Volo eCommerce to develop data formats for use on eBay, Amazon and NewEgg.  • Research various eBay store front design companies to partner with for DCi's internet marketplace customers.  • Investigate offshore firms to help with data development, reporting findings to executive team.  • Currently leading the data development partnership with an offshore development team.    Employee Retention and Development for Sustained Business Success  • Motivate and coach employees to set goals for knowledge and skill development.  • Facilitate weekly individual and team scrum meetings to discuss project status.  • Create an environment for a productive, flexible and responsive team. Database Administrator Freedom Group Insurance Software - Des Moines, IA 1995 to 2001 Application Developer III Allied Insurance - Des Moines, IA 1992 to 1995 Application Designer II Greyhound Transportation Lines - West Des Moines, IA 1990 to 1992 Application Developer I Continental Western Insurance - Urbandale, IA 1988 to 1990 Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO 1988 Links http://linkedin.com/in/Julie-mcnees