Sr. SQL Database Administrator Sr. SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Database Administrator - Deloitte Chicago, IL • 10+ Year Excellent skills in database Back Up, Restore, Recovery, Updating statistics, Rebuilding and Reorganizing indexes, Defragging Tables, Replication, Linked Servers and Database Maintenance Plan.  • Created Linked Servers between SQL Servers and other RDBMS like Oracle/Sybase/DB2 Databases.  • Maintained User Permissions, Logins and Security Issues. Monitored Event Viewer's, SQL Error logs and Log FilesViewer for S/W and H/W errors.  • Documented Disaster recovery plans and participated in Disaster Recovery Drills by implementing Root Cause Analysis (RCA) for troubleshooting and resolving the issues.  • Involved in Change Control Management Process for maintaining the consistency of databases.  • Working knowledge of SOX Compliance for maintaining roles and responsibilities, data integrity and database management.  • Proven background translating cell formulas in Excel into VBA code and using Excel-based VBA to design, analyze, and deploy programs for finance industry.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Database Administrator, in with hands-on experience in installing, configuring, managing, monitoring, migrating and applying SQL Service Pack and troubleshooting SQL Server 2005 / 2008 / 2008 R2 /2012 /2014 / 2016 instances in Prod, UAT, Test and Dev environments  • Practice with implementing, configuring and troubleshooting in Standalone, Windows Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering, Backup/Recovery, SQL Server Security, Replication, Log shipping, Mirroring and SQL server 2012/2014 AlwaysOn failover High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions  • Knowledge in various ETL, Reporting and strong SQL coding skills with SSIS and SSRS.  • Knowledge of NOSQL and MONGODB databases.  • Constantly involved in SQL Server T-SQL in construction in Triggers, Tables, Store Procedure, User Defined Functions, Views, Indexes, relational databases models, and data integrity.  • Investigated and resolved the critical issues of significance including Query Performance Tuning and cpu, memory, in bottleneck issues  • Provided technical support for various databases and applications to assure full operational conditions 24/7  • Solid understanding of Azure SQL db and cloud computing service models (IaaS,PaaS,SaaS) and proficient in using Microsoft Azure pricing calculators to forecast pricing, peak time usage pricing & future growth  • Implemented large HA/DR Azure Cloud (Private & Public) environments for mission critical applications using Express route and 24x7 monitoring using Microsoft Azure monitoring solution.  • Familiarity with IGNITE8, Red gate SQL Data Compare 10, SQL Backup7, Share Point, DB Artisan 7.2, 8.1.5, BMC. IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Database Administrator Deloitte - Chicago, IL October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented custom Maintenance jobs-schedule to run daily and on weekends (tasks like rebuilding. Indexes, defragmenting Databases, Shrink Database, and Database complete backup)  • Responsible for all project lifecycle phases, from specifications and coding through deployment, testing, debugging, documentation, and maintenance.  • Database design, develop, configure and implement for new/existing application projects.  • Installed/configured SQL Server 2016/2014/2012 Instances and applied Service Packs/Hotfixes  • Designed, implemented Always ON Availability Groups (AAG), HA/DR setup for 2 Node and 3 Node servers for SQL Server 2016/2014/2012 and configured for SSRS HA setup.  • Developed scripts, jobs to one click Install SQL/SP/Hotfixes and create DB for VRA automation  • Created and implemented database design solutions in collaboration with Application team.  • Configured and tested In-Memory OLTP for POC servers for high performance.  • Worked database certifications as per Enterprise Standards for new versions/service packs.  • Migrated databases, Logins, Jobs from SQL Server 2012/2014 to SQL Server 2016.  • Setup and configured Always on Availability Groups for DR and Reporting.  • Worked extensively on data refreshes from production to test environments, automated the whole data refresh process at database level using PowerShell scripts, stored procedures, Backups and SQL Agent jobs without having any performance impact on Production server.  • Responsible for installing SQL Server on the new build Standalone and Clustered servers  • Disaster Recovery for critical database with compliance for HIPAA  • Monitored strategies, processes, and procedures to ensure data integrity; optimized/reduced data redundancy; maintained required level of security for all production and tested database  • Hands on experience in Install, Upgrade, Migration, Performance Tuning, Patching in all SQL Server 2008/2008R2, SQL2012/2014 and SQL Server 2016 etc.  • Proficient with infrastructure automation techniques using PowerShell  • Knowledge of NOSQL and MONGODB databases  • Migrating On-premises SQL databases to Azure cloud VM and Azure SQL  • Configured and implemented detailed monitoring of the MS Azure cloud networks, monitoring all the different fabric of Azure.  • Created public, private & hybrid clouds based upon Microsoft Azure technology for JRI America in different continents.    Environment: SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2, BMC Bladelogic, Guardiam, Foglight, BDA, GIT, Dbprotect, Vormetric, Autosys, Dbartisan, Power BI, Powershell, Batch/NSH Scripts, Java, IIS, Putty, MS Visio, SQL Plus, Servicenow, Remedy, Version One, Informatica DDM, Beyond Compare, Dashboard, Comparison Tool, BAP/VRA Tool, Weblogic, Infoblox, Sybase, DB2, Vmware Horizon Client, UNIX/Linux, Windows Server 2016/2012/2008. Sr. SQL Database Administrator Rean Cloud - Herndon, VA March 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Provided Expert level services as core SQL DBA, performance Tuning and backup/recovery  • Handled orphan users while moving databases.  • Extensive experience in Oracle Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Database Triggers using PL/SQL. Efficiently used Oracle utilities like SQL Loader, Export/Import in UNIX environment.  • Created DB objects such as Tables, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers as required.  • Used SSRS to create reports that draw content from a variety of data sources  • DefinedDB scripts versioning system to keep track of database versions for all environments.  • Develop a business continuity plan for the SQL Server Databases.  • Developed re-usable components in Informatica, Oracle and UNIX.  • Prepared the reports for the day-to-day as well as weekly/monthly purposes.  • Used Performance Monitor/Profiler, trace flags to solve Dead Locks/Long running queries.  • Developed automated daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, database integrity verification and indexing.  • Maintained a stable process of database refresh from production to internal servers.  • Involved in CDC (change data capture) and CT (change tracking) process.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Always-on availability on SQL server 2012/2014 and 2016  • Maintained a stable process of database refresh from production to internal  • Used Performance Monitor/Profiler, trace flags to solve Dead Locks/Long running queries using SQL DMV and third party software IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager.  • Developed automated daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, database integrity verification and indexing.  • Involved in CDC (change data capture) and CT (change tracking) process.  • Configuration of Mirroring (Synchronous &Asynchronous)  • Controlled and coordinated the installations (Security Patches, Service packs) and evaluated the performance before Pre-deployment.  • Developed automated daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, database integrity verification and indexing  • Maintained a stable process of database refresh from production to internal  • Involved in CDC (change data capture) and CT (change tracking) process.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Always-on availability    Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014, Windows 2003/2008R2/2012, TSQL, RED GATE, AlwaysON, Mirroring, Clustering and Log Shipping SQL Server DBA Kering - Secaucus, NJ June 2013 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Perform level III incident on call 24X7 support and troubleshot day-to-day problems encountered on production databases and custom application issues  • Worked closely with development team for performance enhancements, code reviews and provided vital inputs in terms of index optimization, schema structures, data changes, file layouts etc.  • Providing backup and restore functions using both standard database backup methods as well as filer/NAS based technologies.  • Designed logical and physical databases and database objects for DB2 UDB on Development, Test and Production environments.  • Extracted data from various sources like SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle, Teradata, .CSV, Excel and Text file from Client servers and through FTP.  • Working with Nexus Tickets (Any changes on staging and development environment need to Create Nexus Tickets).  • Working with MaximoChangeRequest (Any changes in Production database need to Create Maximo Tickets this should be approved by Global DBA team after changes made in stage and development environment).  • Developed and deployed stored procedures, created triggers and audits.  • Developed Jobs for maintenance in terms of updating statistics, rebuilding indexes, scheduled full/diff/log backups, refreshing database environments periodically or on demand. Also set up notifications for failure of jobs etc.  • Implement and troubleshoot in Performance tuning using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and System Catalog Views, Profiler and Server-side Traces, Windows Performances Monitor and built in performance reports in SSMS, Query Plans, and Database Tuning Advisor  • Responsible for applying service pack and hot fix to all version of SQL Server  • Implement and maintain databases, perform software installations and upgrades, monitor database performance, perform capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and manage database Quality Assurance including database consistency check  • Used PowerShell to automate admin tasks.  • Responsible for maintaining database security, and high availability such as transactional replication, SQL Clustering, Log shipping  • Review/apply Stored Procedures, Triggers, and other TSQL code developed by developers  • Monitored and ensured Disaster Recovery for critical database  • Ensured developers coordinated their efforts in managing and maintaining different application databases  • Manage the granting of access to testing, development application and system databases  • Implement various automated scripts to monitor disk space, fragmentation, failed jobs step, backup and mirroring activities, and configured various job alerts for immediate notifications  Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014 SQL Server DBA Valintry Services - Lake Buena Vista, FL September 2010 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production Support for Large (VLDB) and Complex Databases up to 2 Terabytes.  • Involved in the migration of the data across different databases and different servers using SSIS, BCP and Import/export tools.  • Architecting hybrid AWS and on premise solutions for technology clusters and patterns.  • Experienced in performance tuning using windows performance monitor and SQL profiler of SQL server. Used SQL Server error logs and event viewer to troubleshoot issues.  • Monitored, maintained database systems and troubleshoot problems that may arise  • Maintained data integrity and security (managed roles and permissions of database users)  • Use tools like SQL Profiler for database tuning  • Conducted Database mirroring in High Performance and High Availability mode and troubleshooted issues with witness servers.  • Created and managed constraints and indexes  • Supported software developers with database operations including the development of complex SQL, tuning of DML and the creation of stored procedures  • Created detailed documentation including diagrams of database infrastructure  • Learn relevant business processes and understand the data flow, critically and dependencies  • Effectively coordinated and communicated with all the stakeholders  • Set up and maintained database infrastructure for the company's Power BI needs  • Developed SSIS packages to load data from different source systems in to data warehouse.  • Implemented Change data capture (CDC) to enable auditing of table changes and for incremental load to data warehouse (Slowly changing dimensions) using SSIS.  • Worked with business users, application developers for consolidation effort of several instances to VM Ware, resolved issues during consolidation.  • Worked in migration of Non - Clustered instances from physical environment to VM Ware environment.  • Worked extensively on two node cluster setup on Windows Server 2008R2 and SQL Server 2008 R2 as Active/Active Failover Cluster.  • Analyzed database growths for Capacity Planning, Normalized the data for efficient performance and also Partitioned data into multiple Files and File groups.  • Upgraded and migrated several instances from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 r2 and SharePoint instance from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  • Implemented SQL Server 2012 new features like AlwaysOn Availability Groups for high availability of multiple databases in place of database mirroring.  • Created complex DTS Packages for Data Migration and Transformation. Experience in data migration from Oracle/Access/Excel Sheets to SQL Server 2005/2000/7.0  • Monitored strategies, processes, and procedures to ensure data integrity; optimized/reduced data redundancy; maintained required level of security for all production and tested databases  • Extensive experience in SQL Query Performance tuning by Using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and System Catalog Views, Profiler and Server-side Traces, Windows Performance Monitor, built in performance reports in SSMS, Query Plans, and Database Tuning Advisor to optimize the queries and enhance the performance of database servers for SQL Query Performance tuning  • Managed the granting of access to testing, development application and system databases  • Created and managed schema objects such as Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers to handle complex business rules, history data and audit analysis  Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2 SQL Server DBA Symantec Corporation - Herndon, VA June 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Maintained databases, performed software installations and upgrades, monitored database performances, performed capacity planning and SQL Server clustering, and managed database quality assurance including database consistency check  • Performed performance tuning using Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and System Catalog Views, Profiler and Server-side Traces, Windows Performance Monitor, DBCC commands and in-built SQL tools like SQL Profiler, DTA ( Database Engine Tuning Advisor)  • Migrated DTS packages in SQL Server 2000 to SSIS of SQL Server 2005  • Implemented various automated scripts to monitor disk space, fragmentation, failed jobs step, backup and mirroring activities, and configured various job alerts for immediate notifications  • Monitored database performance and rebuilt indexes on tables using various SQL Server commands to reduce fragmentation  • Implemented and supported over 40 SQL replications and Clusters (active-active and active-passive) for all critical databases in the company.  • Reviewed, approved, and implemented production modifications to database objects and data.  • Created and managed multiple databases and assisted in capacity planning  • Actively involved in setting up Active-Active/Active-Passive clustering in production and Testing Environments and also troubleshooted issues with the same. Applied hot fixes and Service Packs in clustering environments.  • Knowledge of Linux OS and UNIX shell scripting.  • Assisting application teams with all DB2 issues and questions during ON and OFF peak hours.  • Previous experience of AWSRDS deployment, management and configuration.  • Assisted with automation of finance department's manual processes by writing VBA code and using macros and formulas to speed processes and maximize accuracy.  • Developed plans for Sharepoint 2010 rollout by department.  • Developed and supported DTS packages and trans-act sql store-procedures for ETL integration between application databases.  • Handled any critical database conditions, database locking, low disk space, and performance issues.  • Enforced enterprise policies and standards to secure access and data in SQL Sever databases in accordance with company IT policies, procedures, and database standards.  • Performing backup and recovery tasks and restoring databases (when database is moved from one environment to other or database is crashed and needs manual recovery)  Environment: Tsql, Mssql Server 2005/2008r2/2012/2014, Ssrs, Ssms, Visual Studio 2010/2012, Windows Enterprise Server 2003/2008/2012,Iis. Education Bachelor's Skills Database (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), Ms sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases MS-SQL Server 2005/2008R/2012/2014, MS Access  Languages T-SQL,C, C+, VB Script, Java Script, HTML, XML  SQL Server Tools  Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Index Tuning Wizard, Database Tuning Wizard, Profiler, Query Analyser, Export &Import.    Operating systems Windows 2012/2008/2003  Software Packages MS Office 97/2000/XP,2003,2007, MS Outlook 2003,2007,Visio