Metro Rail Train Operator Metro Rail Train Operator Metro Rail Train Operator - Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority TAKOMA PARK, Maryland, 20912, US I am a graduate in Information Technology and a software engineer. I am an experienced programmer in many languages, experienced developer, and experienced project manager. I am also experienced in database creation management. I am a great critical thinker and a good group leader, a hard worker, with outstanding experience in transportation. I have had many oral and written appreciations during my whole career. I analyze and fix programs, analyze businesses and advise companies. Work Experience Metro Rail Train Operator Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority - Washington, DC May 2015 to Present I operate trains and buses; I also have the capacity to troubleshoot and fix a train whenever it breaks down. I acquire impeccable customer service skills including patience and listening skills. It helps me focus and be strict about what I am doing. Database Administrator/Project Manager COMPUTECH - Libreville, GA May 2016 to February 2019 I was creating and administrating their database from right here in the US. I also worked as a project manager through tele connect. I did most of the work using SQL; sometimes, we used MySQL. Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority - Washington, DC June 2012 to May 2015 I had a couple of awards and appreciations working for this company. I was operating buses for Metro at this time; this helps your brain remember a lot quicker than a normal brain, learn quickly, and exercise great patience with customers. It also helped me improve in my problem-solving skills because of the multiple problems I was faced with by both customers and coworkers. It helped with customer service skills also. Software Developer SOCOTECH September 2003 to December 2006 I was creating websites from scratch, building onto websites that were already created that customers were not happy about, maintaining websites, implementing and updating them. I was also building applications from scratch. I built so many software applications for our clients and for our own company too when we needed them to make our tasks easier. I was also implementing them. I was building databases both for our clients and for ourselves. I maintained, updated and replaced. I was also working in group with other engineers in the IT department. We sold hardware and software equipment that we made ourselves. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to February 2019 Skills Excel, Machine Operator, Communications, Maintenance, Microsoft Excel, Communications, Excel, Forklift, Inventory, Maintenance, Microsoft Excel, Machine Operator, Receptionist, Quality Control Certifications/Licenses CDL Class B June 2012 to Present I currently have a Passenger endorsement with air brakes. Advanced Software Developer September 2018 to Present I got this certificate from University of Phoenix. I am an advanced developer. Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    I can diagnose and fix computers, I can build tools and other types of materials to help me go through my daily life, I can help friends and other IT students with their homework, I can also give effective advice about security and analyze situations very fast. I can install very hard to install materials; I even do it for other people. I can build websites from scratch and much more.