Senior Database Developer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Senior Database Developer - Catholic Health Services Middle Island, NY An accomplished and highly skilled Information Technology (IT) Professional focusing on Database Development. Strengths include Development, System Support, Implementation, Data validation and Database migration. An adaptable, resourceful, detail and deadline oriented self starter with excellent troubleshooting and communication abilities. Excels in performance through both individual and in team settings. Work Experience Senior Database Developer Catholic Health Services - Melville, NY 2017 to Present EPIC Caboodle Administration/Developer Certified. SME for all SSIS packages.  Developed SSIS Packages extractions for the Finance Department from EPIC Contractual Database Developer Comtech - Melville, NY 2016 to 2017 • Performed Migration from Legacy DTS to SSIS packages. Migrated SSIS applications to AWS Cloud Based.  • Managed data flows to and from Concur expense management system.  • Created PowerShell scripts to read ADP (HR) Demographic database changes and populate Active Directory Attributes, updating intranet and Exchange GAL.  • Created Automated Alerts for HR and IT for account discrepancies improving system integrity.  • Worked with HR and Payroll to troubleshoot Expense/Payroll extract issues resulting in improved data quality. Database Developer Natures Bounty - Holbrook, NY 2015 to 2015 Worked with Marketing and Merchandising departments staff to maintain an ecommerce catalog with various time sensitive deadlines. Database Analyst Suffolk Federal Credit Union - Medford, NY 2014 to 2015 Worked with management staff to develop marketing reports based on customer data  using Crystal Enterprise, SSRS, Data Warehouse.  • Developed, documented, tested, deployed, supported and trained in custom applications. Senior Database Developer MML Software - East Setauket, NY 2012 to 2014 Supported in the development of ERP fund accounting suites sold to NYS Public School Districts for HR, GL, AR, AP, Payroll, Bidding, Requisitioning, Payroll, Budget, Accounting and Time Tracking.  • Migrated Application from SQL2008R2 to SQL 2014 achieving minimal downtime.  • Added Auditing functionality to the ERP suite.  • Collaborated extensively with application designers, quality assurance, and GUI Developers in application development. Consultant (Contract) HRIS 2009 to 2010 Implemented Database Feed to Bank of America for Stock Equity Plan DBA/Senior HRIS Developer Standard Microsystems - Hauppauge, NY 2006 to 2009 • Migrated from SQL 2005 to SQL 2008 R2.  • Re-wrote all custom Stored Procedures and views to adhere to new application standards.  • Upgraded reports from Crystal Reports to SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Performed a Migration from Spectrum Ivantage 4.3 to Epicor HCM 5.5.  • Implemented an enhanced version of Employee Self Service.  • Increase work flow by automations and process improvement by 15% by eliminating duplicate data entry to various systems. Database Administrator/Developer HR Department HRIS 2006 to 2009 • Supported the HR Department HRIS database with various database, stored procedure, views and Crystal Reports. Data integration of HRIS Database Feeds to Business Critical Applications. Applications included SAP BPC (Budget Process and Consolidation), Spectrum Ivantage HRIS.  • Implemented an ADP Payroll Module System which eliminated dual payroll data entry that resulted in a cost saving of 30% per year.  • Reduced annual benefit enrollment entry expense cost over 30% through a HRIS Employee Self Service Open Enrollment Module eliminating paper work. Senior Database Administrator Teledata Communications - Hauppauge, NY 2004 to 2006 • Developed SSIS Packages for daily importation subscription data that required Data Cleansing & Migration.  • Supported the Administration and Operation of ASP Products which included integration with Major Credit Bureaus such as Equifax, Experian, TransUnion and Choice Point.  • Provided extensive knowledge of Transact SQL and DTS. Experience in installation, tuning, maintaining, backing up, connectivity and restoring SQL Server Databases. Senior Database Developer & Systems Specialist SIAC - Great River, NY 2001 to 2003 Supported U.S. Military Units by developing a product catalog to facilitate time-sensitive, high-volume equipment procurement, reducing annual expenses by 50%. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Dowling College - Oakdale, NY 2000 Links http://www.lenkalman.com Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS  Software: EPIC. Caboodle, SQL 2017/2014, RedGate Tools, HRIS Epicor HCM (Ivantage), SSRS, Crystal Reports, Report Builder, T-SQL, BCP, DTS, SSRS, SSIS, Amazon RDS, ADP HRB / Work Force    Languages: SQL, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, ETL