Manager Database Administration Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> Administration West Sand Lake, NY 15 + years database professional, with managerial experience. (Sybase, MSSQL, MySQL, Postgesql) looking for opportunities. Work Experience Manager Database Administration Fidleis Care, New York April 2017 to Present ? Manage international team of 25 administrators, Database Architects, and contractor resources (on and off-shore).  Maintained staffing levels as needed.  ? Keep Monthly KPI to track the database department metrics  ? Maintain / Establish support contracts for existing / emerging technologies.  ? License management for the database administration team.  ? Evaluate / Implement new database, and replication technology.  ? Motivate, Mentor, Evolve the Database Administration team into agents of change  ? Create, and lead collaborative work teams with DevOps, Development, Operations, and Infrastructure teams  ? Collaborate with Solution, App Dev, Data, and Infrastructure Architects to ensure the solutions requested are correct  for the project and assign DBA resources as appropriate.  ? Keep road map of the future state of database / replication services and align with corporate initiatives. Database Administrator III Centene corporation - Latham, NY April 2014 to March 2017 April 2014 - March 2017  Administration of 200+ MSSQL Database instances, 30 Sybase ASE instance, 4 Sybase IQ data warehouses, and 2 Greenplum, MPP data warehouses for a billion-dollar Health Care company    ? Administration of MSSQL High availability Groups, lead on ASE to ASE replication, ASE to IQ replication, and ASE to ODBC (GP) replication through ETL process  ? Assist Development in optimization of database code in MSSQL, ASE, IQ, and PostgreSQL  ? Review \ Process of change management requests  ? Process user account creation termination requests, and user support  ? Automated several processes with PowerShell (DB refresh, getting refresh dates for lower environments, terminations, DR scripts to validate recovery status)  ? Perform disaster recovery testing on a semi-annual basis  ? Played leading roles in the following deployments  o Sybase upgrade to version 15.7  o Numerous Updates to Managed Care application  o Production deployment of Salesforce, and Fidelis Transportation Module  o Deployment of new GP Dev environment  o Production Rollouts of HIPAA Gateway  o Facets Upgrades to 5.1, 5.3 & 5.5 (5.5 was a major upgrade due to changed to the UI and accumulators)  ? Mentor / Train new hires, and act as supervisor to the DBA team when Manager is unavailable. Team lead (Developer III) Multimedia Games - Schenectady, NY September 2003 to October 2014 Primary contact for tier II and tier III events involving troubleshooting network, server, or application processing errors  ? Primary contact with customer shareholder for project priority and operational support.  ? Maintained databases &servers for operations department of an international Gaming Corporation.  ? Responsible for correction of conflicts and failures as well as escalating unresolved issues to appropriate third-party  support  ? Diagnosed and resolved problems / bottlenecks within database, as well as application errors and network  connectivity problems  ? Develop, dev test, and deploy new content / features to be used with the New York state video lottery, Player Tracking, and Business Intelligence reporting suites to internal, and external customer specifications.  ? Work with third party vendors to assist them in troubleshooting their high priority problems for timely resolution  ? Maintain and support a test system for development with lottery vendors, and in-house development  ? Proactively performed routine DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity  analysis, Space management, Database Security, Copy/ Modification Creating Databases in all environments, Troubleshooting defragmentation of objects and databases  ? Managed the products and development, Test and Production databases including performance tuning, capacity  planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity  ? Work with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements  ? Assisted in the design, coding, testing and implementation of SQL databases instances  ? Taken an important role in a critical situation of restoring a corrupted database from a point in time with zero loss of data  ? Resolving Tickets in compliance with meeting clients SLA and having effective communication with client customers in resolving all SQL issues  ? Demonstrated an understanding of database internals and application database components  ? Used SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL code  ? Generated the weekly, monthly, and quarterly report by using SQL Reporting Services and created our own health  reports  ? Developed, modified, and optimized complex stored procedures, triggers, views, indices, functions, and complex SSIS  packages for databases to handle complex business rules, history data and audit analysis  ? Managed the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity  ? Participated and coordinated the creation, modification and maintenance of database structures with minimal supervision  ? Wrote, evaluated and optimized complex SQL codes, stored procedures and scripts for maintenance and reporting  purposes  ? Train / Mentor new hires  ? Previously worked within the Network Operations Center as the Data Center Supervisor (September 2003-October Education High school or equivalent Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Postgresql, ETL, Sybase, Ssis, Sql Database, RAC, Oracle Database, Rman