Computer Science teacher Computer Science teacher Computer Science teacher Rockville, MD Work Experience Computer Science teacher Satree IPC - phuket January 2018 to January 2019 Satree government school  Create a course of study for computer science and present the material to students. Assist them in developing web sites in the Computer Lab. Classroom management, motivation. teacher Science TEFL May 2017 to December 2017 ECC - provide science lessons in English for 5th and 6th grade students in the English program in primary school in Kathu. Science curriculum provides an overview of many topics including Sexual reproduction of animals and plants, study of rocks, materials, heredity, etc. Database Management Administrator NASA May 2014 to March 2017 contractor ASRC - Provide Automation support on SharePoint and MS Access for Business Management team for a 500 member contract team. Maintained and modified the Employee database, and developing a system for projecting budget calculations to provide business intelligence for the managers. Spent time evaluating the needs of the users of the Employee database and the weaknesses in the existing structure that was handed to me when I started. The Employee database had been implemented by an inexperienced developer and I was able to improve function, speed and reliability based on my experience. I also polled users for improvement suggestions to evaluate what future and growing needs would be. I have implemented the changes requested using the standard SDLC processes. Data coming in from our corporate SQL Server had to be cleaned, realigned, and adapted to match our local SharePoint data that was imported to MS Access for processing    Application Developer/IT Security, NASA sub-contractor Critical Hire  Develop IT security report tracking transition of a security upgrade polling the Active Directory system to track changes. The technology is PostgreSQL which I'm learning on the job and Python which I learned and installed at that time. The previous implementation of the report was created by a non-programmer who used some unconventional ideas to produce his reports. NASA has a very complex business layout and organization layout consisting of the full gamut of computers, networks from Linux, OS X, Windows 7. I have built the server, installed the database software, designed the database and reports, and I'm currently working on configuring and implementing the Python aspect in preparation of developing the web application. Developing this reporting engine gave us a predictive tool to determine when the security solution would be fully implemented.    Provided support as we transitioned to a new version of our access and credentialing software was updated. Helped to provide a plan to transition Oracle SSO software that was going offline to CA Siteminder software. Working on integrating new and existing web applications into the new security configuration. Interfaced with Active Directory to pull computer status for various criteria required for security reporting. Data had to be validated, cleaned and converted from the Excel version of the macro driven spreadsheet to the PostgreSQL version. Database Systems Analyst, 21CT contractor Department of Labor August 2012 to May 2014 Use TOAD for Oracle database automation to extract data from Oracle 9i to update 15 Microsoft Access databases on a daily basis for reporting and data users. Maintain and update a high profile Excel dashboard for our office. With my expert knowledge I created VBA code to import/export data to other Microsoft Office 2007 applications - rtf reports, Excel reports. Accelerated daily processing time from over an hour to about 25 minutes to provide data results when the client arrives for work. Debugged complex PL/SQL queries and operations to update data processing as needs changed. Recommmended various TOAD applications, researched purchase options for web dashboard products. Maintained an Access VBA system which used abstract connections to remote database objects and allowed for easy movement to development areas for update and testing. Participated in Agile method planning and status sessions with our development team. senior programmer Social & Scientific Systems - Silver Spring, MD September 2006 to August 2012 April 2010 to August 2012  Automate import process of various types of data from various sources to produce a scorecard reports in Access. Manage portal of website for Leadership group. Provide liaison with Web staff for Leadership group. Took a C#.NET web development course to sharpen and advance my skills.    September 2006 to April 2010  Provide client facing programming/analysis and ad hoc reporting. Developed web survey data collection process. Enhance database speed and efficiency on several existing projects. Investigated, proposed and outlined conversion process to SQL server for a major FDA project. I am the source for those interested in using SQL server 2005 encryption for our company of 500. Programmer/Analyst Service Management Group May 2000 to September 2006 Provide programming and analysis for 16 clients using Access, SQL, ASP, JavaScript and Visual Basic for Access. Provide analysis of statistics gathered from IVR phone/Web surveys of customers and employees. Developed web sites using ASP, JavaScript and SQL that allows editing by the client and integrated it with other web sites. Developed a mass emailing system in C#. Created a DLL to be used in Access VBA. The focus of this work was to provide analytics for market research. Create stoplight and dashboard reports based on the needs of my clients. Various ad hoc queries and data analysis were performed as needed for specific requests. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Technical Experience University of Missouri