Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Health Services Advisory Group (HSAG) Phoenix, AZ Highly motivated, very experience SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer with over 15 years of hands on experience ranging from building highly available servers, complex performance tuning, hardware configuration for optimal performance, backend development, mirror, clustering, publishing/subscribing solutions, SSIS, data modeling, data warehousing, etc.  Will relocate for the right position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Health Services Advisory Group (HSAG) March 2017 to Present • Leading and supporting over 100 databases ranging from 1GB to 50TB for Transaction and Analytical environments for external and internal customers   • Identify and recommending methods to protect personal health information   • Consolidating backups reduce the number of software solutions and simplify disaster recovery  • Performance tuning and T-SQL application development  • Systems Center Operations Manager  • Building, migrating, upgrading and supporting SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016, AZURE IaaS & PaaS  • Azure database migrations  • Reporting Services, migrations, installs and management  • Database Replication  • Disaster recover, EMC data domain, Avamar, DDBoost, Azure Backup and MS Data Protection Manager  • Code refactoring, code review  • Change control, release management, agile development  • High Availability, AlwaysOn and shared storage multi-node clustering Contractor American Express October 2016 to March 2017 • Performance tuning  • T-SQL development and automation  • Database design  • Disaster recovery  • Database Administration Database Administrator Apriva Inc April 2012 to August 2016 • Extensive performance tuning  • Very solid understanding of SQL Server internals and diagnosing complicated performance issues  • T-SQL programing  • Code refactoring and review  • Idera Diagnostic Manager and Compliance Manager  • SANS & ISCI Environment  • Clustering and availability groups (planning and configuring highly available databases) supporting remote locations  • Disaster recovery  • Design, Implementation and support for transactional replication  • SQL Server upgrades from 2005 to 2012, 2014  • SQL Server Reporting Services upgrades from 2005 to 2014    Insight Global Contractor for Dignity Health, formally Catholic Healthcare West November 2011 to April 2012 Database Administrator Consultant    • Performance tuning on very large sized databases  • SSIS packages  • Disaster recovery  • T-SQL Programing  • Over 300 database servers  • SANS Environment  • Clustering  • Central Server Management Database Administrator Consultant Stryker Medical Reprocessing Company August 2011 to October 2011 • Performance tuning on very large sized databases  • SSIS packages  • Disaster recovery  • T-SQL Programing Database Administrator Consultant for a government agency Government Agency May 2011 to July 2011 • Upgrades  • SSIS packages for importing legacy data  • Reporting services  • T-SQL Programing  • Schema strategies for permissions  • JD Edwards    Health Insurance Provider Database Administrator Consultant February 2011 to April 2011 for health insurance provider  • Analyzed database performance reports, provided hardware and code modification recommendations  • Built data models based on software requirements  • Worked with vendors to solve problematic software issues SQL Server related Database Administrator/Vice President of Information Technology NextStudent, Inc April 2003 to February 2011 SQL SERVER EXPERIENCE  • Database design, implementation, administration, hardware configuration and performance tuning expertise.  • MS SQL Server 7, 2000, 2005 & 2008  • Database mirroring  • Replication and Log Shipping  • Optimal hardware configuration  • Complex backend development for Stored Procedures, Triggers, SSIS and/or DTS scripts  • Solving complex SQL Server issues and problems  • Extensive customer interaction and providing complex reporting solutions for difficult business problems  • Integration in heterogeneous environments  • Administration of transaction environments  • MS Dynamics GP    OTHER AREAS OF IT  • Extensive network knowledge ranging from firewalls, routers, switches, etc.  • Project portfolio management  • 7 Years of software development project management utilizing state-side and off-shore teams.  • Orchestrated a flexible culture in IT department that could better respond to opportunities and the needs of the organization.  • Designed and implemented a disaster recovery plan based on the organizations sustainability and goals.  • Negotiated and managed Microsoft Enterprise Volume License Agreement.  • Data center planning, implantation and management.  • Extensive custom CRM and ERP integration and feature enhancement.  • Leading the IT department in supporting the company fund a hundred thousand loans annually.  • Implemented mail-archiving strategy to comply with E-Discovery laws.  • IT governance, security, and audit. Extensive experience with technology partnerships with major financial firms. Strong knowledge of Sarbanes Oxley 404, IT audit, compliance policies and procedures.  • Manages and supports a website that lands an average of 50,000 new leads a month and handles about a 60% increase during peak seasons.  • Prepares and monitor 4.5 million dollar budget.  • Initiated an offshore software development team in China, while maintaining analysis, functional design and implementation locally. This resulted in significant cut in support and development costs. Implemented COBIT with our development team. They are currently at level 3.  • Used ITIL standards to develop a functional service desk and defining Service Level Agreements with various departments.  • Implements a telecommunications strategy that allowed NextStudent Inc. to open and outsource various call centers throughout the U.S. Integrated Avaya PBX, Avaya AES Server, and Avaya SIP with CRM. Implemented VOIP and SIP extensively in this strategy.  • Executed a data-warehousing project that resulted in the reduction of reporting costs by half.  • Implemented a data department that supported our direct marketing efforts which cut costs by 50%.  • Maintained an environment of 99.9% up time using tried and true control methods, while identifying new ones through regularly planned departmental reviews and internal audits.  • Planned and executed a highly secured network. Implemented network, data and information security policies.  • Initiated successful internal and external change management policies and procedures. Database Administrator Capital Communications 2002 to 2003 • Reported directly to company president.  • Developed, executed and support all database network administration initiatives.  • Responsible for developers and consultants assigned to database team.  • Reconfigured software and hardware on a one terabyte database that yielded an increase in performance by 80%.  • Designed and implemented a disaster recovery plan for data and network.  • Negotiated and managed all vendor contracts for IT Department.  • Provided expertise to assist company with data scrubbing activities for direct marketing campaigns.  • Designed network and database security. Database Administrator Arizona Department of Corrections 2001 to 2002 • Managed all of the Department of Corrections eight SQL Server databases.  • Designed and implemented a data in SQL SERVER  • Utilized tools such as DTS to integrate IMS data and IBM DB2 data to a central SQL Server database.  • Moved platforms from IBM DB2 to SQL SERVER.  • Reduced production reporting run times from three weeks to an hour.  • Implemented change management controls and policies that reduced problems in software pushes.  • Mentored staff using tools such as SQL language and Visual Basic .NET for analytics and reporting.  • Acting project manager for all department's software development projects  • Improved data quality for the department utilizing data scrubbing tools in SQL Server.  • Software Requirements analysis using tools such as Visio and UML. Database Administrator Conseco Finance Corporation 2000 to 2001 • Made significant contributions to a data warehousing team that combined delinquency and subprime data. This project was part of Conseco's collection and servicing efforts.  • Developed profit and loss reports for the HUD department.  • Built and managed ETL Packages on a data-warehousing project that managed subprime delinquencies using SQL Server DTS.  • Reversed engineered and verified data for over 300 access queries to convert them to crystal reports and utilize data from the newly implemented data warehouse.  • Complex SQL programming for performance tuning, report writing and data scrubbing.  • Provided database performance tuning for two databases.  • Mentored a staff with no SQL/reporting experience and assisted the team in evolving into the Reporting Department. CDI Consultant First American Title 1999 to 2000 • Provided network administration and technical support for geographical diverse office locations.  • Managed and maintained Novell and Windows Servers.  • Managed and Maintained Win-frame and Meta-frame servers.  • Supported Btrieve databases.  • Planned and executed office relocations. Network Analyst National Tech Team - Southfield, MI 1998 to 1999 • Carried support for Daimler-Chrysler's dealership networks. These networks were a critical component the dealerships operating model.  • Supported all network servers for the dealerships.  • Responsible for their disaster recover.  • Provided troubleshooting for complex network problems. Desktop Support Healthcore - Southfield, MI 1996 to 1998 • Supported end users with desktop and network problems for this division of Henry Ford Medical Center.  • Installed new P.C.s.  • Resolved standard helpdesk issues.  • Designed access database that aided in medical equipment procurement. Education Bachelor of Science in E-Business University of Phoenix Skills Avaya (7 years), COBIT (7 years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Sql Dba, DBA, Ssis Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Windows, Novell, Unix, Solaris, Linux (Fedora & OpenSuse), Avaya, CTI, Visio, .Net programming, Erwin, Embarcadero, Crystal Reports, MS Reporting Services, Sql Server 7, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, Idera diagnostic manager and sql safe, IBM DB2 UDB, MySql, Btrieve, Access, PostgreSQL, Idera Diagnostic Manager, MS Office, CMS, NICS, SharePoint Portal Services, UML, COBIT, Search Engine Optimization, Use Cases, Backup Exec 8,9,10,11d, LTO 1,2 & 3, Autoloaders, Great Plains, Enterprise Resource Planning Systems, Customer Relationship Management Systems, Exchange 5.5, 2003 & 2007. GFI Mail Archiver, VOIP and SIP PBX technologies, OC3 Setup, Cisco ASA, .NET,