Business Analyst Salesforce/Pardot Business Analyst Salesforce/Pardot Salesforce Systems Administrator Winterset, IA Work Experience Business Analyst Salesforce/Pardot LightEdge Solutions - Des Moines, IA 2019 to Present -Lead Administrator of Pardot which is a B2B Marketing Automation Application. Develop automated dynamic Marketing programs.  -Report and analyze key marketing measurements to determine success of Marketing initiatives.  -Strategically plan ongoing nurturing programs to funnel a high percentage of quality leads to Sales.  -Develop email content for all B2B emails  - Administration of Salesforce, ensure processes are in place to create an efficient data environment for my team to work in when performing their Sales duty.  - Salesforce Systems Administrator American Equity - West Des Moines, IA 2017 to 2018 • Worked with key stakeholders and project teams to define the scope of the Salesforce implementation.  • Served as the subject matter expert on Salesforce configuration and implementation. I brought unique knowledge of not only implementing Salesforce but also implementing Salesforce within a company that sells annuities previously. I made recommendations from learnings from experience from a variety of views such as: technical, product, marketing, sales, compliance, legal and client perspectives.  • Defined and documented requirements and specifications on how Salesforce was to be configured to meet the needs to the company.  • Researched additional software the could be used in tangent with Salesforce to make business processes more efficient. Submitted business cases or proposals on suggested solutions to senior leaders.  • Configured Salesforce as processes were defined in the sandbox for leadership and end users to review. Database Marketing Consultant Engagement Studio - West Des Moines, IA 2014 to 2017 • With allocated training funds I was interested in Salesforce so I took a Salesforce Admin class and immediately was able to create efficiencies by streamlining processes. Simple example is my team provided daily marketing campaign list to load to Salesforce, the format we provided the admin was not in the data structure needed to directly load to Salesforce because of misalignment with teams and lack of communication or knowledge. After learning this, we modified our code and created the campaign files in an appropriate format to load directly into Salesforce. This cut out one person's time for every campaign or file loaded to Salesforce, it removed a un-needed touch point and also automated to remove human error.  • Part of two Salesforce implementation teams in which Sales Cloud was implemented. We met with business leaders and their teams to gather information on their needs and processes already in place, discussed efficiencies and enhancements that could make their current processes better, obtained all requirements and data elements necessary, translated these needs into process flows showing we could use Sales Cloud for the requirements, configured Salesforce, created test plans, demonstrated Salesforce to all business leaders and users for feedback, obtained signoff, developed training for the users, and created an user adoption strategy to help with managing change.  • Served as a liaison between the Marketing and Sales teams and the technical team to ensure that our Salesforce technical projects were aligned with overall business goals, marketing and sales strategies, prioritized appropriately, documented process workflows and data elements needed, ensure proper training with training material for reference, monitored the use and success of new processes used within Salesforce, and created reporting and dashboards and various user profiles.  • Able to sync Salesforce and Pardot so that we could use automated functionality. I went to Dreamforce and started asking questions about Pardot's Engagement Studio. This is a game changer in the ability to get marketing campaigns out the door timely, utilizing dynamic content so sending a more personalized message to the right person, and create different path depending on openings of email, Pardot score, and other data factors. (We had been trying to utilize SAS coding with Simba to extract and import data in an automation fashion not knowing we had already purchased an application to help.)  • Migration of database processes and code from IBM's Unica application from a 3rd party vendor to in house coding utilizing SAS and SQL saving the company 10's of thousands of dollars.  • Utilizing SAS, coding complex processes to support marketing initiatives.  • Providing reporting and analytical knowledge to business partners to establish effective business protocol.  • Collaborate, design, and implement targeted marketing programs to drive ROI.  • Implementing efficient quality management standards to ensure business policies and regulations are followed.  • Managed projects and ensured the all were delivered in timely manner as originally scoped. Enforced, redefined, and documented as needed. Documented learnings or new best practices after completion of projects. VP, Marketing Database Consultant II Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA 2013 to 2014 • Developed application solutions to support business processes for Mortgage, eBusiness, Legal, and Compliance departments.  • Colloborated with stakeholders to translated business needs to technical solutions.  • Determined and directed resources to obtain business goals.  • Negotiated service level agreements with clients.  • Presented and demonstrated solutions to small and large audiences utilizing Microsoft office products such as PowerPoint and Visio.  • Participated in UAT testing.  • Created training material and led training sessions for end users.  • Developed and mentored direct reports.  • Responsible for employee reviews and various administrative duties. AVP, Marketing Database Consultant I 2012 to 2013 • Led a team of data analysts to ensure that Wells Fargo Home Mortgage conducts marketing in compliance with all mortgage related laws and regulations.  • Validated marketing campaign code in SAS and SQL to determine if the data captured was accurate and matched the marketing strategy defined.  • Central point of communication for marketing campaign execution and reporting teams using a variety of methods: PowerPoint presentations, leading meetings, one on one training, classroom training, maintaining a SharePoint site, and email communications.  • Served as project lead on various initiatives to support business goals.  • Administered all privacy and solicitation scrubs for marketing lists.  • Pulled campaign lists for various marketing programs using Multi-Channel Campaign Management (Aprimo MCM), SQL and SAS. Marketing Database Analyst II-III, QA Database Analyst Business Objects 2003 to 2012 • Collaborated with Marketing Strategists to define a targeted audience to market to by strategizing, identify economic shifts, and marketing trends.  • Wrote SQL, SAS, Unica Affinium, and Aprimo MCM to pull marketing lists that were used for Direct to Consumer Marketing campaigns.  • Analyzed campaign performance data to determine marketing lift and ROI.  • Create reporting to display performance metrics with SQL and Business Objects.  • Presented analytical findings to all levels of business. Database Specialist Sears.com - West Des Moines, IA 2000 to 2003 • Used ColdFusion in conjunction with SQL Server, created an attendance tracking system used by multiple operating centers which reduced workload on staff.  • Evaluated business needs, planned, and developed an intranet site, which increased the service level provided to customers while allowing greater operating efficiencies and reduction of personnel resource hours necessary to achieve the desired service levels.  • Responsible for the Database Management of a nationally accessed intranet site; initiated and implemented the migration of company databases from MS Access to SQL Server 2000.  • Managed a team of associates on the planning and development of web applications used by sears.com associates. Education Associate in Business Information Systems Des Moines Area Community College - Ankeny, IA September 1998 to May 2000 Skills Salesforce Admin, Apex, COM, Visualforce, Salesforce, SQL (10+ years), Strategic Planning (5 years), Agile (2 years), Quality Assurance (5 years), SAS (7 years), Management (5 years), Marketing (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Oracle (5 years), Business Objects (4 years), Unica (5 years), Tableau (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Workday (1 year), Sharepoint Designer (3 years), Pardof (5 years), Data Loader (2 years), Toad (5 years) Certifications/Licenses SAS Certified Base Programmer for SAS 9 Present SAS Certified Advanced Programmer for SAS 9 Present Aprimo Marketing Studios Certification Present Programming Languages Certification Present