Data Specialist/Product Recall Officer Data Specialist/Product Recall Officer Data Specialist/Product Recall Officer - Temple University Hospital Levittown, PA • To leverage my 16+ years of healthcare information technology experience into a Data Management position with opportunities for career growth. Work Experience Data Specialist/Product Recall Officer Temple University Hospital - Philadelphia, PA April 2012 to Present • Associated Roles:  * Database Administrator, MIDAS+ Incident Reporting System  * Data Manager, ECRI Alerts Tracker Recall Tracking System  * Project Manager, iMed Consent Electronic Consenting System Roll-out  * Project Manager, Bi-annual Culture of Safety Survey Administration  • Daily Tasks:  * Perform database administrator functions for the MIDAS+ Incident Reporting System, serving the Risk Management, Case Management and Patient Relations departments.  * Analyze and trend data entered into the MIDAS system to identify issues that impact patient and employee safety.  * Receive and respond to vendor and FDA issued recalls and medical device corrections in accordance with federal and state guidelines.  * Provide technical support for users of the iMed Consent Electronic Consenting System (i.e. correcting EMR interface errors, verifying accuracy of patient data, updating consent language, etc.).  • Achievements:  * I have overseen the successful roll-out of an EMR-integrated electronic consent system in over 70 physician practices throughout the health system.  * Facilitated Temple Hospital's application process for ANCC Magnet Recognition by providing stringent data analysis of patient events for all nursing care areas. Magnet Recognition status was achieved in January 2019.  * As Product Recall Officer, I have overseen a 40% increase in the hospital's recall response rate, and aided in the implementation of an inventory matching system to improve the relevance of device correction notices that are received. Database Administrator Christiana Care Health Services - Wilmington, DE September 2002 to April 2012 • Daily Tasks:  * Create data reports and reporting tools in support of the Finance and Medical Research departments.  * Monitor interface (HL7) activity between requisitioning, surgical documentation and sterile instrument processing systems.  * Maintain chargeable item, instrument and equipment databases to ensure accurate patient billing and usage tracking.    • Achievements:  * In the role of Project Manager, I have spearheaded a number of successful initiatives to improve the efficiency with which surgical cases are performed.  * I have been a key contributor in the implementation and subsequent upgrading of the SurgiNet Surgical Scheduling and Documentation System. Education Associate of the Arts in IT in IT/Network Administration University of Phoenix February 2011 Diploma Delcastle Technical High School - Wilmington, DE June 1996 Skills MYSQL, CISCO, MICROSOFT OFFICE, SQL, Excel, access, testing