Oracle Data Analyst - Knowledge Manager Oracle Data Analyst - Knowledge Manager Oracle Data Analyst - Knowledge Manager - ASRC Federal, InuTeq, LLC Dumfries, VA Work Experience Oracle Data Analyst - Knowledge Manager ASRC Federal, InuTeq, LLC - Quantico, VA January 2015 to Present Provide mission performance metrics for completed and in progress tasks for adhoc requests and routine deliverables. Provide technical support integrating system security parameters, PKI, and analysis in support of Counter-Intelligence Operations for a close group of over 50 users. Provide working knowledge of WebTAS tools; technical, analytical design ideas, and sole data management support to the customer. Review and validate data is accurate, correcting any missing or incorrect data when necessary. Actively manage knowledge using a "push strategy" via a virtual repository where analysts upload their reports to the teams shared knowledge database to track workflow. Develop and document processes consistent with security requirements and perform cross-domain data transfers. Support customers' evolving requirements by altering table structures when requested. Create and execute sql scripts performing data manipulation to multiple records at once eliminating time spent to manually update a single record at a time. Create new user accounts for various groups as approved requests come in granting access with proper roles. Purge user accounts for those personnel no longer requiring access to the system. Perform analysis of data and provide detailed metrics used to identify resolutions or provide recommendations for the team. Use business analytic techniques to extract specific data by creating sql scripts or using application tools and evaluating the data to determine if any potential patterns exist ultimately displaying the data in a format that is easy to interpret for the customer to report for briefings or high level meetings. Plan and coordinate meetings as needed. Support and actively participate in working groups to share knowledge and provide recommendations used to improve productivity. Routinely apply database practices backing up critical data in the database before performing any application changes to the system reducing the risk of data loss. Supply statistical data to the customer by using my background in Computer Science and Mathematics for example producing metrics showing the amount RFIs answered over several years and calculating the change in percentage of whether productivity increased or decreased from the other years. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Ace Info Solutions/ ICF International - Quantico, VA February 2011 to January 2015 Database Team Lead that supported a large Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) in 11gr2 for DoD customer where provided 24x7 database support for scheduled and unscheduled outages. Provided expertise in the engineering and design for Oracle solutions with their RAC configuration. Provided Oracle database support for backup and restore, performance monitoring and tuning using Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control. Created & maintained Oracle databases, where builds include everything from installing Oracle software and patching to desired levels including one off patches, creating instances, recompiling invalid objects, and gathering statistics. Experiences with STIG and IAVA compliancy tools, as well as experience working with storage area networks and network attached storage. Created technical documents for disaster recovery purposes. Provided SQL server 2008/2012 database support by using the Microsoft SQL server Management Studio and the Failover Cluster Manager. Performed backup and restoration of sqlserver databases as needed. Managed Oracle 11gr2 RAC database enterprise system consisting of 2 nodes with multiple database instances, as well as configured data guard adding physical standby databases with failover capability. Experience with using data guard broker management and monitoring component in production environment. Experience with Oracle security solutions, including encryption and key management. Performed DBA task such as backup and recovery of full and partial databases when needed using RMAN/NetBackup or export/import by using data pump in Oracle or the Management studio for SQL server. Set up crontab jobs to monitor file systems usage, setup backups and monitor RMAN scripts. Provided support to developers for code enhancements in both the test and production databases across multiple service layers. Lead engineering and implementation efforts for data migration of several Oracle databases from old to new hardware in test environment. Successfully installed and configured Oracle RAC, ASM, and non-RAC databases on Sun Solaris and RedHat Linux hardware. Managed ASM file system storage on StorageTek and NetApps. Successfully applied Oracle database CPU patches for 11gr2 RAC and single instance databases quarterly as recommended in both test and production enterprise systems. Spearheaded new procedures for downtime outage "run" book for all database administrative duties the team would be faced with in critical situations. Lead the comprehensive knowledge base for the team providing solutions to common issues for database efficiency. Senior Lead Database Design Engineer BAE Systems Information Systems - Fort Belvoir, VA July 2009 to February 2011 Provide on-call support for Oracle, Sybase and DB2 databases for both scheduled (segment level transitions and/or testing) and non-scheduled activities (critical operational situations that require attention immediately) for NRO/NGA customers. Provide solutions to complex problems which require the regular use of ingenuity and innovation. Create and/or work discrepancy reports (DR) and problem reports (PR) as needed to resolve issues that may impact our mission to the customer. Monitor database health and is pro/reactive with responses if necessary. Provide backup recovery and maintain security and integrity controls. Plan and coordinate specific activities requiring database administration attention, ensuring accurate, appropriate, and effective use of data in tables and various support tools, such as database dictionaries. Provide analytical and problem solving skills. Interface equally well with various levels of technical personnel. Completed course 'Getting Started as a new leader'. Completed course 'Essentials of Leader'. Senior Database Administrator Lockheed Martin - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2004 to July 2009 Ran a daily status meeting in the mornings, where I interacted with higher management as well as government officials at NRO/NGA operational and development sites. Interacted with senior internal and external personnel on significant matters often requiring coordination between other organizations.  Regularly contributed to the development of new concepts, techniques, and standards where I worked on developing and presenting strategic proposals to senior management. Ensured solutions are consistent with organization objectives. Implemented and maintained smooth operation and physical design of databases within a development database environment. Provided backup recovery and maintained security and integrity controls. Aided in formulating policies as well as updating procedures as needed. Created and/or worked discrepancy reports (DR) and problem reports (PR) as needed to resolve issues that may impact the mission to the customer. Assisted with developing solutions to a variety of complex problems. Completed a week long Oracle Database 10g: Backup and Recovery Workshop. Completed a week long Oracle Database 10g: Performance and Tuning Workshop. Was responsible for database upgrades and software patch installs Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVAs), (i.e. Oracle 10g), daily maintenance (i.e. verifying backups completed successfully and if not troubleshooting why not and correcting the problem). Compiled, linked, troubleshoot, distributed, and implemented code for the customer. Completed a week long Oracle Database 10g: Administration Workshop. Integrated Product Team (IPT) Leader Backup, for two groups which are Database Administration & Software Configuration Management and Wintel. Education Master's in Management Information Systems Strayer University Skills DATA BACKUP (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE (10+ years), ORACLE 10G, REPLICATION (5 years), SQL (10+ years), BUSINESS CONTINUITY (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SOLARIS, UNIX, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX SHELL (7 years), SCRIPTING (7 years), STRATEGIC PLANNING, EXCEL (10+ years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate Certification CompTIA Security+ Additional Information Over fifteen years of Information Technology experience supporting core business systems.  TS/SCI/CI Poly security clearance  * Self-starter capable of working independently producing high quality standards while utilizing interpersonal, coordination, organizational, problem solving and team building skills.  * Excel in challenging positions where learning new aspects in IT are a must.  * Results-driven professional offering a progressively extensive fifteen-year career in information technology mostly as a lead database administrator.  * Repeated success supporting IT projects as the lead database administrator from inception to execution, strategically allocating team resources and delegating tasks to achieve on-time, delivery.  * Diligently troubleshoot issues to identify root causes as well as prevent recurrences through lessons learned.    - Areas of Expertise -  Data Backup & Recovery Oracle Database Lifecycle STIG management  Team Leadership Testing & Troubleshooting  Business Continuity Strategic Planning Effective Communication  Technical Proficiencies  Platforms Linux, Unix, Solaris 9, 10, AIX, Windows XP/Vista/7/10  Databases Oracle 10g, 11gr2 RAC, SQL server 2008/2008R2/2012  High Availability OPS, RAC using ASM, CRS, Grid Infrastructure, Replication, Failover  Software  Oracle ( RMAN, Data Guard 11g, Grid Control), WebTAS, Vi Editor, TOAD, Putty, OpenText14, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Project)    Languages SQL, ISQL, Unix Shell scripting