SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR • Contract SQL <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> • Contract SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR • Contract Austin, TX Work Experience SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR • Contract Lexmark - Lexington, KY November 2018 to June 2019 • Imported, exported, consolidated and cleansed SAP global revenue data with SSIS packages.  • Created dozens of tables & stored procedures in SQL 2017 for staging 1 million customer contracts.  • Tested and validated Power BI graphs & metadata integrity with SQL views as data sources. SQL DATABASE ARCHITECT • Contract CUNA Mutual - Chicago, IL May 2017 to October 2018 • Loaded SSAS data warehouse for use in customer projection analysis with Power BI dashboards.  • Updated stored procedures and charted data trends in SQL databases for all credit union customers.  • Created and tested SSRS reports with BI analytics; implemented SSIS scripts & stored procedures.  • Deployed credit union NoSQL databases & PowerBI graphs on AWS & Azure cloud servers.  • Implemented 300 primary/foreign keys for table joins and data integrity in new data warehouse. SQL SERVER DEVELOPER • Contract Health First - Rockledge, FL February 2016 to April 2017 • Created and updated dozens of SQL Server 2014 tables, views, SSRS reports & stored procedures.  • Managed data migrations for Oracle/NoSQL databases and XML files using SQL tasks in SSIS packages.  • Trained 3 junior software developers & 2 business analysts; implemented code refactoring. SQL DATABASE ARCHITECT • Contract Lockheed Martin - Baltimore, MD May 2015 to December 2015 • Developed SSAS data warehouse for use in project bid tracking analysis with PowerBI dashboards.  • Utilized Visual Basic.NET & Git for source control; implemented subqueries and CTEs in stored procs.  • Documented all unit testing procedures and created data flow diagrams in MS Visio for entire project. SQL DATABASE ARCHITECT • Contract Triumph Group - Arlington, TX November 2014 to March 2015 • Completed agile/scrum pilot migration project for 200 Oracle tables and data with Visual Studio 2010.  • Replicated table schemas and synchronized surrogate key attributes for SQL Server 2012 databases.  • Automated data imports for development & production servers using SSIS & merge stored procedures. SQL / SSRS DEVELOPER • Contract Babson Capital - Charlotte, NC May 2014 to September 2014 • Optimized stored procedures for Everest financial application and improved management dashboards.  • Ported numerous complex PowerPivot & SSRS drill-down reports and wrote custom functions.  • Developed & tested new Tableau reports with user input parameters in SharePoint user environment. SR. SQL DEVELOPER • Contract Bank of America - Charlotte, NC December 2013 to March 2014 • Updated and tested SQL Server 2012 SSIS data mining packages & stored procedures for intranet applications that allowed portfolio managers real-time access to customer detail and summary views.  • Revised SSRS reports and JAMS setups to integrate current ATA deployment and utilization data. SQL DATABASE ARCHITECT • Contract Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC May 2013 to November 2013 • Created new T-SQL scripts, databases, tables, pivots, functions & stored procedures for tracking hundreds of HRIT internet applications for any time period based on response time and availability.  • Implemented SSIS scripts for creating entire database and importing Oracle data for ongoing updates. SQL SSIS / SSRS DEVELOPER • Contract Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2012 to April 2013 • Utilized Business Intelligence Project designer and Visual Studio 2008 to develop SSIS ETL jobs and SQL 2008 R2 SSRS reports for use with SharePoint & Broadridge financial management software.  • Completed table design and data modeling using surrogate keys from 4 TB Sybase SQL databases.  • Updated dozens of tables, views & T-SQL stored procedures with complex joins and user parameters.  • Optimized stored procedure performance and Excel output formats based on user acceptance testing. DATA WAREHOUSE ARCHITECT • Contract F.E.I. Company - Hillsboro, OR March 2012 to May 2012 • Migrated Excel spreadsheets and Access databases to new SQL Server 2008 SSAS data warehouses.  • Streamlined Excel dashboard graphs with PowerPivot tables and links to SSRS BI reports.  • Created SSIS packages for detection & removal of foreign language letters from daily data imports. SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR McCormick & Schmick's - Portland, OR February 2008 to January 2012 • Added execute-on-demand functionality for Great Plains Dynamics 10 accounting database updates.  • Enhanced SQL Server 2005 performance by minimizing blocking and adding indexes to all databases.  • Designed indexed views and parameterized T-SQL stored procedures for Cognos 8 BI data warehouse hosted on a SharePoint web site for end-user access to 60 months of accounting data by unit & period.  • Optimized SSRS ad-hoc unit report execution time from 5 minutes to less than 10 seconds. SQL SSAS WAREHOUSE DEVELOPER • Contract Nike - Beaverton, OR April 2007 to December 2007 • Improved and supported the Build-a-Report Business Intelligence application on SQL Server SSAS cubes; used Excel PowerPivot tables with clothing/shoe marketing data from all Nike product lines.  • Added new SSAS cubes for European data; verified integrity of 9 million new NPD records imported monthly. Modified MDX/DAX formulas to allow display constraints on data sets with less than 35 records. SQL DATABASE DEVELOPER • Contract BPB Gypsum - Blue Diamond, NV October 2005 to February 2007 • Designed a new Access 2003 database with unique indexes & wrote dozens of SQL stored procedures.  • Modeled BPB's entire sheetrock production line by completing conversion from Excel spreadsheets.  • Generated screens to capture all possible reason codes for down time, maintenance and product culls.  • Linked Access data to Excel graphs with VBA to generate AS/400 reports, shift summary dashboards.  • Prevented costly production line shutdowns by proactively tracking daily loss reasons and trends. SQL/ BI DEVELOPER • Contract Harrahs - Las Vegas, NV April 2005 to September 2005 • Created Excel dashboard for hotel management to track revenue & incentive program effectiveness.  • Wrote SQL queries to summarize enterprise data from nightly batch downloads and to automatically refresh 99,000 new records each day (up to 4,760 per hotel) from an Access database backend.  • Generated VBA procedures with dynamic SQL that allowed over 10,000 unique graphs combinations. SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Inova Management - Las Vegas, NV June 2004 to April 2005 • Supervised creation & maintenance of all SQL databases, VB6 applications & Access databases.  • Optimized and tuned performance & indexes for all SQL Server 2000 OLTP databases and log files.  • Created scripts for replication of VB.NET & SQL databases for new health care / fertility clinics.  • Documented 300 pages of application features to allow medical staff training & manager summaries.    https://www.linkedin.com/in/trexcel-store-80325739 Education Bachelor of Science in Accounting Oral Roberts University - Tulsa, OK Skills Stored procedures, Ssrs, Data warehouse, Etl, Data quality Additional Information Summary of technical skills -  ? Eliminate blocking on production servers  ? Resolve locking issues / deadlock contentions  ? Manage size of transaction logs and truncate if too large  ? Convert procedures with table reads to views or functions  ? Improve performance of complex stored procedures  ? Use parameters to avoid table scans of large tables  ? Add appropriate primary key indexes to tables  ? Add foreign key table joins for referential integrity  ? Create SSAS data warehouse for data quality / reliability  ? Create SSIS packages to automate scheduled ETL jobs  ? Create SSRS reports to track baseline performance / trends  ? Create PowerBI dashboards with key performance indicators    Timothy L. Mc Irvin    Architect & Sr. Developer-level skills - last used in 2019