Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Boeing Aircraft - Seattle, WA September 2018 to June 2019 • Management of multiple database environments.  • Database tuning using SQLTXplain, SQLHC, Statspack, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR). Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM).  • Data Guard support  • Patches and upgrades of Oracle database environments.  • 12c and 13c Grid Control Server and agents.  • Oracle RAC and ASM management.  • RMAN configuration and backups.  • Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g, 11g and 12c Cloud Control.  • Oracle Multitenant architecture. 12c Multitenant Container Databases (CDB) and Pluggable Databases (PDB) support. Senior Database Administrator, Account Management datavail - New York, NY November 2012 to November 2017 • AWS RDS configuration and support in Oracle and SQL Server enviromments.  • Support and management of 50+ database instances in 24/7 environment.  • Support and implementation of Data Guard.  • Patches and upgrades of Oracle database environments.  • Install and configure Grid Control Server and agents.  • Oracle RAC and ASM installation, monitoring and management.  • RMAN configuration and backups.  • Database tuning using SQLTXplain, SQLHC, Statspack, Automatic Workload  • Repository (AWR). Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM). Active  • Session History (ASH) analytics in Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g, 11g and 12c Cloud Control.  • Oracle Multitenant architecture. 12c Multitenant Container Databases (CDB)  • and Pluggable Databases (PDB) support. Senior Database Administrator (Oracle) Bluewolf LLC - New York, NY 2006 to 2012 • Management of up to 15 customers simultaneously. And the maintenance of 50+ database instances in 24/7 managed services environment.   • SQLT, SQLHC, Stats Pack, AWR and ADDM, ASH diagnostics.  • Patches and upgrades for all Oracle environments.  • Support and implementation of Data Guard environment.   • Management of multiple ASM instances.  • Oracle RAC environment installation, monitoring and management.  • RMAN configuration and backups.  • AWS RDS configuration and support in   • Oracle and SQL Server enviromments  • Database monitoring and advanced tuning. Database Architect/ Administrator America Online Inc 2005 to 2006 Data Architect and Administrator for AOL's education portal.  • Responsible for the installation and configuration of SQL Server 2005 on multiple servers.  • Designed AOL Parent Center ERD, employing 1st -3rd normal form.  • Responsible for the creation of schemas, indexes, user level security, triggers and stored procedures.  • Database performance tuning and monitoring.  • Designed tested and documented backup and recovery plan.  • Provided documentation of existing database environments. Senior Database Architect/ Administrator (Oracle) Edgesoft Inc - Los Angeles, CA 2001 to 2005 Database management of multiple EdgeSoft Inc. Customers.  • Database tuning using SQLTXplain, SQLHC, Statspack, Automatic Workload  • Repository (AWR). Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM). Active Session History (ASH) analytics and SQL tuning.  • Responsible for the design of city's permit database. Design of logical and physical database models employing 1st-3rd normal form including Use cases,  • UML, Rational Rose and ERwin.  • Deployed multiple installations and configuration of Oracle RMAN software.  • Orchestrated the design and testing of backup and recovery plan.  • Member of a multidisciplinary team implementing an online procurement application for the City's purchasing department. This implementation included addressing enterprise-wide issues, including integration issues with PeopleSoft and Oracle databases. Senior Database Administrator Warner Brothers Online - Los Angeles, CA 1998 to 2000 Managed WB Online Oracle Internet environment.  • Responsible for deploying advanced performance tuning methodologies.  • Engaged in the design of logical and physical database models employing 1st-3rd normal form.  • Mentoring of staff on Oracle database and Internet technology.  • Programmed custom UNIX shell scripts, PL/SQL packages.  • Provided documentation of existing database systems.  • Designed and testing backup and recovery plan. Education Associate Skills Database (10+ years), mentoring (10+ years), offshore (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), Sql Database, DBA, MYSQL, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS  10+ years designing and administering database systems. Experience managing and  mentoring a staff of 50+ DBA's. Excellent communication skills (active member of  Toastmasters International.)    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Database Experience: Oracle Database versions 7-12c, SQL Server, MySQL.    Database Skills: Database Administration. Database Tuning and Support.  Back-Up and Recovery: RMAN, RAC, ASM, Data Guard.  Operating Systems/Platforms: UNIX, SUN 250, 450, HP-UX 9000, DOS,  MS-Windows, Linux.  Software: Microsoft Office Suite.  Programming Languages and Tools: SQL, PL/SQL, RMAN, C, HTML, UNIX shell  scripts, Perl, Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g - 12c, Cloud technology, ERwin, Toad.  Management/Leadership Skills: Project and Team Lead. Management of multiple  customer accounts in the managed services sector. Management and mentoring of  offshore DBA support team.