Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - First Tek Inc Clarksburg, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator First Tek Inc January 2014 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  * Supporting Production, QC and Development of FINRA's applications such as PeopleSoft, MPPR, TDR, Confluence, FAST applications, etc. Datacenter migration, migrating the complex database structure and data in Oracle to PostgreSQL (AWS), etc. and automating the DMS process using tools like Github & Jenkins  * Works with customers and vendors to architect, design, validate and implement effective solutions for their needs. Researches and validates/recommends innovative solutions to enhance and/or help with efficiency. Leads the automation of data flow and procedures via scripting or programming with software development tools.  * Engineering, Implementing and supporting various database products on premises datacenter and cloud.  * Managing multi-terabyte Oracle database, perform capacity planning and growth statistics to determine best architecture to accommodate current and future growth.  * Conducted proof of concepts.  * Benchmarking Google Big query performance Vs Presto, Redshift and Hive.  * Analyze and report on database metrics; administer and control data resources; monitor and ensure database integrity, security, and performance; and implement tools to improve database performance.  * Researches and recommends product enhancements for major systems. Researches and develops solutions to resolve particular issues and determine and implement industry best practices for reliability, availability, performance, and compliance using tools like OEM, Splunk etc  * Performs ongoing administration, configuration, optimization, performance tuning, patching, upgrades, DB refresh and resource optimization as required and ensure production systems and devices are online and available within defined service level agreements  * Team management for smooth delivery of the services; escalation management; working across the Service Delivery Lifecycle on engineering solutions for new system roll-outs, major/minor enhancements; and ongoing maintenance of existing applications  * Prepare and lead presentations for management, stakeholders and customers to articulate program status, key risks, and mitigations, and technical milestones. Sr. Database Administrator Emtec Corporation November 2011 to December 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Point of contact for projects responsible to identify, design and deliver project infrastructure needs  * Partners with Project Managers, Technical Architects, Technical Managers, Developers, QA, Operations to ensure infrastructure deliverables has been deployed, validated and operational guidelines and documentation has been handed over.  * Any role within infrastructure or in the assigned project to drive delivery of the project within the standards set in infrastructure  * Datacenter migration from Solaris / Windows to Linux and from datacenter to new datacenter.  * Setup 12c OEM for Oracle databases and setup MySQL enterprise monitor for MySQL databases.  * Responsible for implementing MySQL in internal cloud (VMWARE environment) and external cloud (AWS and Eucalyptus).  * Manage multi-terabyte Oracle database, perform capacity planning and growth statistics to determine best architecture to accommodate current and future growth.  * Database Backup and Recovery and Disaster Recovery Planning. Technology Consultant III Hewlett Packard April 2010 to November 2011 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Installing, Configuring, Maintaining Oracle Database more than 250 databases in Solaris based Zones and LDOMs environment  * Creating and maintaining Oracle Internet Directory (OID) and Oracle Enterprise Manger Grid Control (OEM).  * Analyze and report on database metrics; administer and control data resources; monitor and ensure database integrity, security, and performance; and implement tools to improve database performance. Programmer Analyst - DBA Luceo Inc July 2009 to March 2010 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Maintain Oracle & SQL Server databases in FINRA DEV Lab  * Addressing DB issues including performance tuning and various DB errors.  * Worked on DB migration from Sybase and SQL Server to Oracle. Database Administrator Reveille Technologies June 2008 to July 2009 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Work with customers to establish and maintain excellent working relationships, resolve issues, and promote team services and capabilities.  * Data Migration from Windows to Solaris OS  * Backup & Restore Job both logical and physical and performance monitoring and Daily DB health check Database Administrator Wisor Telecom August 2003 to January 2008 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Data modeling, Creating Data Definition Language, Data Manipulation language using Erwin.  * Reverse Engineering using Erwin tool.  * Gathered the business requirements and executed Data Migration from Embarq's Legacy application data in Mainframe to Oracle RDBMS.  * Conducted Technical presentation about various components of the database operations and technologies.  * Worked on Real Application Cluster (RAC) Data Guard, Physical standby DB and RMAN in LINUX, SOLARIS and HPUX in various environments.  * Perform Database / Data migration tasks for release management. Software Engineer Maintec Technologies December 2002 to August 2003 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Front end designing, portals, graphics  * Database & Website support Software Engineer Samtech Infonet June 1998 to December 2002 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Created and maintained websites and presentation softwares  * Performed User management, space management, and defragmentation of the database, extent management and DB block management. Education Bachelor's Skills Data transformation, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Replication, Sql, Dms, Hadoop, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Srdf, Data cleansing, Data management, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Database, Rman, RAC Additional Information Core Competencies:  * Engineered multi-disciplinary complex data systems, Ensures consistent use of IT enterprise architecture strategy, framework and supporting processes  * Deep knowledge and hands-on experience with core AWS services - EC2, ELB, LAMBDA, Route 53, IAM, S3, EBS, IAM, RDS, Glacier, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail, AWS Landing Zones, AWS Backup, Direct Connect, Redshift, Kinesis and EMR.  * Interacting and coordinating with various team and work closely with the project managers to deliver the project needs.  * Conducted vendor evaluations, established database benchmarks and performance reporting.  * Implement, performance tune, and support multiple multi-terabyte databases using Oracle products, and integrating other COTS products related to database operations in Datacenter and Cloud VMWARE virtual infrastructure, AWS and Eucalyptus  * Interfaces with upper management to understand and provide solutions consistent with business needs.  * Implemented Backup & Recovery strategies using RMAN and Hot/Cold backup for Oracle 10g/9i databases in Windows and LINUX environment.  * Design and implement strategies for data security as well as design and implement meta-data management, data extraction, data cleansing, data transformation, data loading, and replication/distribution.  * Implemented DataGuard, StandBy, Oracle Streams technologies in mission critical systems and configured Switch over and Failovers with Physical standby database on Windows and UNIX environments.  * Exposure to processes consistent with Project Management Professional (PMP) using AGILE best practices and SCRUM methodologies.  * Exposure in Java based web application, in WebLogic server environment.  * Strong Database Auditing skills, Risk Management skills, Database Security.  * Cloning and Re-building the databases from Production to other Environments in a short time using various methods like BCV/SRDF, Transportable Tablespaces.  * Exposure to Database capacity planning and Volumetric Analysis for the databases which are more than 80 TB.    Technology: OS RHEL Linux; Solaris; Centos; Windows; AIX.  Database Oracle 12c; SQL Server 2012; MySQL, PostgreSQL  Cloud technologies AWS, Google Cloud, DMS, Big Query, EC2, RDS, Cloud Formation, Oracle cloud, etc  Clusters Hadoop Cluster, EMR, Veritas Cluster, RAC, Red hat cluster  Backup RMAN, SqlServer Log shipping, Glacier, S3  Monitoring Tools OEM, Nagios, BMC, AppDynamics, Splunk, Jira  Others Vormetric, TripWire