Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Truenorth Corporation Carolina, PR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Truenorth Corporation - Guaynabo, PR May 2018 to Present • Perform database server installations, database administration, maintenance, performance monitoring and SQL tuning activities, and disaster recovery planning, documentation and testing.  • Establish standards and best practices for database design; consult with development team for database  design best practices. Provide off hours support, to support product enhancements and technical issues.  • Develop and maintain data security best practices including data encryption, data access  logging/monitoring. Communicates data security risks to the Supervisor. Support data migration projects,  conversions and product upgrades. Perform database refresh operations.  • Perform Database Migration from AIX Platform to Linux Redhat; Native Tools used.  • Configure High Availability Topologies including Replication Services and clustering services.  • Perform troubleshooting and resolve database issues; performance Tuning and Optimization (PTO) using  Native tools. Configure and maintain automated Windows scheduled tasks and database jobs.  • Configure Backups, restores and recovery models including API TSM TDP for databases and Tivoli Data  Protection for Databases. Create and maintain technical and procedural documentation.  • Effectively control access to data. Implement of automation script for maintenance. Index management,  and statistics. Identify capacity and performance needs for database server. Perform regular log reviews and health checks. Proactively monitor database system operations and activity.  • Configure SQL Instances and Databases, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) installation, configuration,  maintenance, upgrade and migrations. Sr System Administrator MMM Holdings - San Juan, PR March 2017 to April 2018 Planned, analyzed, and obtained the highest level of performance as a subject Matter Expert in the system  administration role.  • Manage and monitoring Database engines SQL SERVER, Oracle with CA Products Spectrum Infrastructure  and Unified Infrastructure management.    • 70% of daily responsibilities were Database Administration tasks including checking database health,  monitoring disk space on database servers, generating reports and notifies to DBA team.  • Collaborated with other System administrators to detect and resolve issues on production environment.  • Supervise It Operations team in third shift.  • Train new system administrators and setup their accounts on Production applications.  • Installed and configured Windows, Linux Servers. Provided technical support and guidance.  • Monitored Performance of servers on production environment.  • Deployment of Production applications in IT Operations Department.  • Generate Technical documentation.  • Performed system maintenance and server patching.  • Installing, configuring netbackup clients and customize scripts for Database backups including sql server,  Oracle database 11G, DB2, MYSQL. IT Consultant Truenorth Corporation - Hato Rey, PR December 2007 to April 2018 • Performed Database administration tasks as a Consultant managing different projects and clients.  • Perform installation, configuration and administration of Windows Server Clustering.  • Working with Sql Server database installation, configuration, administration.  • Ensuring production OLTP database in good health and performance.  • Monitoring User access and working with the development of stored procedures and triggers.  • Configured High Availability of production database with Windows Clustering.  • Performed troubleshooting and resolved alerts, incidents on production environment.  • Configure backups and recovery procedures.  • Automation of regular processes and maintenance.  • Assist developers with query tuning.  • Provide 24x7 support on production environments.  • Patching Sql Servers.  • Designed process with DTS and SSIS packages for custom projects.  • Developed functions, scripts and reports instrumental to the success of high-priority development projects.  • Implement Data Security Standar including use permissions.  • Optimize database indexes through performance tuning. Database Administrator MMM Holdings - San Juan, PR April 2010 to March 2017 • Managed SQL and Oracle database administration assignments.  • Enhanced database performance.  • Performed database restores of Sql server databases, Oracle, DB2.  • Implemented recovery procedures.  • Handled performance tuning.  • Ensured technical and functional designs met business requirements.  • Experienced with Ca products Workload Automation DE, Insight Database Performance Manager, Spectrum  IM, Ehealth, WebSphere Process Server V.7. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Universidad of Salta - Salta, AR Skills Database (10+ years), database administration (10+ years), Ms sql server (10+ years), performance tuning (10+ years), Sql (10+ years)