Project Manager and Engineer Project Manager and Engineer Senior Mechanical R&D Engineer and Project Manager San Antonio, TX Dynamic, problem-solving self-starter with proven track record of successful project management, engineering, and team leadership. Seeking to transition to a challenging design, testing, or manufacturing-oriented position and to utilize business and engineering acumen to produce better, more efficient products and technologies. Work Experience Project Manager and Engineer The Acorn Group - San Antonio, TX April 2001 to March 2012 Utilized business acumen, project management techniques, and advanced mechanical engineering knowledge to lead several unique site-specific property improvement projects in residential, ranch, warehouse and commercial ventures at a time. Planned, sourced, funded, and modified projects for specific criteria. Employed outside-ofthe-box engineering solutions for a wide variety of technical issues and projects resulting in reduced project expenses. Developed methodology to build $500k of property access roads for $100k, leaving a more robust, longer-lasting roadway than conventional methods. Completed projects on time and under budget, frequently increasing ROI 50-100% while building customer and client relationships. Negotiated legal obstacles and state/county requirements. Claims Adjuster & Database Administrator Neodyme Technologies Corp 1999 to 2001 Medical device insurance adjusting and claims processing. Negotiated avg 30% savings on device repair costs.  Developed database to track $2M of claims and improved claims processing time by 50%. Education Masters of Science in Mechanical Engineering University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX 2006 to 2012 Bachelors of Science in Mechanical Engineering University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX December 2003 Bachelors of Business Administration in Business Management University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX December 1998 Skills • CAD • Finite Element Analysis • Materials testing • Hands-on design, fabrication, machining • Compressible fluid dynamics • Thermodynamics and heat transfer • Mechanical design and prototyping • Composite materials design and analysis • Pneumatic/hydraulic system design and repair • 3D printing • Use, maintain, and repair off-highway machinery • Welding (GMAW, GTAW, gas, spot, arc) • Electronic circuits, electrical systems • Technical writing, documentation, BOM, CAPA • Lean and Sustainable manufacturing concepts Additional Information PROJECTS  • Built, tested, and validated a Kolsky Bar materials impact testing device for UTSA ME Dept.  • Designed, built, and tested a unique hydraulic gate system.  • Cost-saving improvements to high-speed carbide forestry-cutter teeth. 50% savings/unit.  • Designed and built unique equipment to increase water flow rates from natural springs. 100% flow increase. Saved $50,000. Added min. $40,000 value.  • Designed and built custom pneumatic systems for off-highway equipment repairs.  • Designed, sourced, and installed photovoltaic-powered water well saving $71,000 in capital costs.  • Novel valve design for internal combustion engineer.  • Designing belt-less continuously variable transmission rated for constant input-power.