Administrative Officer Administrative Officer 30% Disabled Vet with Secret Clearance Sumter, SC With over nine years combined experience as a database manager and database analyst for the United States Air Force and Database Report Writer for Palmetto GBA, I possess a great amount of skills and knowledge in IT field. I'm skilled at making and conducting presentations, writing very descriptive reports, and performing data analysis. I am an analytical thinker with the will, desire, and patience to take on demanding long-term projects. I've proven my leadership abilities as a Non-Commissioned Officer in the United States Air Force and as a Commissioned Officer in the United States Marine Corps. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Officer United States Marine Corps - Quantico, VA August 2017 to July 2019 • Create, update, and maintains records of 300+ Marines  • Preparing correspondence, documentation, and presentations  • Supports company staff and higher Delivery Driver FedEx Ground - Columbia, SC January 2016 to May 2017 • Delivered 100+ packages daily to customers throughout the Columbia, SC area.  • Secured all packages safely inside truck to prevent damages.  • Maintained delivery log for pickup and delivery of products to various locations. Senior Database Report Writer/Analyst Palmetto GBA - Columbia, SC June 2014 to December 2016 • Monitor and optimized database performance and tuning of database operations.  • Generated complex queries and reports.  • Ensured compliance with data management standards.  • Planned and coordinated the migration of data to a newer version of a database management system.  • Performed many database administration functions such as running test queries, troubleshooting database problems, maintained version control of database entities, and advise customers/staff on new database features.  • Responsible for creating database reports based on the needs of end users.   • Retrieves and manipulates data using various data manipulation and extraction techniques. Analyzes current reporting methodologies. Consult with analyst and customers to develop clear policies and procedural documentation using business writing skills.    Accomplishments:  • Reorganized filing system to make documents more easily accessible.  • Managed project for new employee presentations (total of seven people)  • Successfully facilitated monthly meetings Database Administrator United States Air Force - Shaw AFB, SC June 2007 to June 2014 • Preserved security and integrity of the database by managing 4K system user accounts and workstations.  • Resolved 400+ documentation and program issues facilitating updates for 1K maintenance records of the aircraft.  • Assisted with new terminal ID database by validating 34K access files. Streamlined process cutting time by 99.3%.     Accomplishments:  • Processed 1.4K new user accounts and 3.5K password resets enabling access to 500K records.  • Retooled monthly newsletter for 4K users by advising users on login procedures. Cut trouble call man hours by 850 per year. Maintenance Data Systems Analyst United States Air Force - Shaw AFB, SC June 2007 to June 2014 • Determined reliability/mission capability of 82 assigned F-15 and 5 HH-60G aircraft valued more than $4 Billion.  • Monitored aircraft performance, material consumption, and resources for the Fighter Wing's $304 Million flying hour program.  • Cut the aircraft failure rate by 3.7% by comparing FY07 and FY08 historical data and empowering proactive management decision making increasing the efficiency of the fighter wing.  • Surveyed 1.4K Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU - 26 Aircraft per AMU) data records and built 310 recurring reports. Management used the reports to pair the best aircraft to the mission for 29 deployments for a total of 1.7K flights.  • Researched, maintained, and reported on 1K records, 11 metrics, and 28 F-15's. Key role in supporting 3K flights and 5.5K flying hours.     Accomplishments:  • Inspected 3K flight records, found and resolved 120 incomplete discrepancies. The fighter wing reclaimed +$800K on aircraft maintenance. Education Master's in Cyber Security - IT Management SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY - Hooksett, NH November 2018 to Present B.A. in Law Enforcement Administration in Law Enforcement Administration ASHFORD UNIVERSITY - Clinton, IA 2016 Skills Management, Excel, MS Office, Project Management, Data Entry, Windows, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, access, Technical Support, Networking, DBA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/irassalem Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: 2ndLt June 2017 to Present Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2019 to Present Exam passed on July 23, 2019 CCNA May 2019 to Present Currently pursuing Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8ddxey8a2bpaqv-b Technical Support — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bdkitoqegl8jxwj8 Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jg1laifdbqyqsdlb Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ubdadyyjpo01nzl7 Email — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xupzecsksiocec8b Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jfzjvqidiz9gajs9 Problem Solving — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4n-x55n-plyl-wse Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mvwfa53ka9z7oi6f Research — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rytdiuynlh4erya2 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qx54ar04-km-2opf Data Analysis — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/l5q4-ovhkibj94ph Search Engine Optimization — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t-eoyb-awcja7cwz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information 30% Disabled Veteran