Database Administrator/Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer 427 Chandler Drive Dayton, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Eglin AFB, FL June 2007 to May 2012 Database Administrator  • Composite Health Care System (CHCS), Outside Provider Clean up Database.   • Researched National Provider Identifier (NPI) through NPPES for provider match for Third Party Billing at Military Training Facility (MTF).  • Responsible for the Administration of existing Enterprise Databases and the Analysis, Design, and Maintenance of New Databases.    • Implements the design and coding of software products.    • Monitor, Troubleshoot, Maintain and Resolve System failures.    • Continue Education of Computer course work in Software Systems, Programming Languages, Remote Databases, Network Programming, Oracle Application Express, and Oracle Enterprise Manager.    • Update and maintain compilers, assemblers, utility programs, and operating systems.  • Troubleshoots problems and provides customer support for software operating systems and application issues.    • Completion of special projects and performs additional duties as needed.   • Update passwords as needed.    • Run queries on existing employee for Upper Management.    • Enter employee data into Oracle Enterprise Manager and Visual Studio 2005 as needed for Employee Training, Security, Notifications and Updates within the MTF home page.  • Assisted in creating, migrating and implementing SharePoint for the new home page for the 96MDG site.    • Continue to give access and download documentation as needed.    • Ensures account creations, password and access for Referral Management, Tricare Referrals, Internal Referrals, and Medical Databases within Oracle Application Express for ICDB.    • Create Standard Operating Procedures updating technical documentation such as user manuals, system documentation, and training material Education High school High school or equivalent Skills DBA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2009 to Present Security+ October 2009 to Present