Payroll and Accounting Administrator Payroll and Accounting <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Concordia, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Payroll and Accounting Administrator LIGHTHOUSE SHELTER - Marshall, MO March 2019 to Present PAYROLL AND ACCOUNTING RESPONSIBILITIES  ? Maintain accounts by verifying, allocating, and posting transactions.  ? Balance accounts through reconciliation on a monthly and annual basis.  ? Prepare and analyze monthly and annual budget information.  ? Prepare and present financial reports to the governance board.  ? Handle all aspects of payroll including but not limited to preparation, processing, disbursement of payroll and tax forms, documentation, and payments  ? Tracks and Analyzes profit and loss information for monthly review.  ? Maintains all employee files in compliance with all governing guidelines.  ? Researches new programs and services that may be beneficial to the organization and its participants  ? Compiles and verifies operation information and prepares appropriate forms submitted monthly for reimbursement from government grant funding and ensure that all information is compliant and accurate. Volunteer Coordinator LIGHTHOUSE SHELTER - Marshall, MO March 2019 to Present VOLUNTEER COORDINATOR RESPONSIBILITIES  ? Source and recruit volunteers for the organization to assist in daily operations, fundraising events, special projects and anywhere a need has been defined.   ? Collect information regarding availabilities and skills and arrange for appropriate training, volunteer schedules and assigning  of responsibilities.  ? Coordinate, communicate and organize volunteer individuals and teams to as to area of need has been defined. (Such as daily  operations, fundraising events, special projects and anywhere a need has been defined. Program and Event Coordinator Lighthouse Shelter - Marshall, MO March 2019 to Present Program/Event coordinator Responsibilities  • Maintain accounts by verifying, allocating, and posting transactions.  • Develop and monitor fundraising and program development opportunities.  • Compile information and recruit sponsors, participants, and volunteers for fundraising events.  • Develop strategies to increase the donor database and awareness to the mission of the organization.  • Initiate, plan and coordinate fundraising events. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT MIDWEST ACCIDENT RECONSTRUCTION SERVICES-CONCORDIA - Concordia, MO June 2018 to June 2019 Establish and open new reconstruction cases.  ? Log and prepare all documentation including but not limited to post collision reports, vehicle data analysis, accident analysis, long and short form letters and correspondence.  ? Uploading and submission of file correspondence to the client.  ? Research, prepare and edit quarterly newsletter.  ? Request, receive and review accident and reconstruction reports for information pertinent or incomplete in an active case file.  ? Understand, identify and exhibit the highest level of confidentiality and recognize any biases or conflicts.  ? Prepare "Notebook" files both in hard copy and digital form.  ? Review, label and distribute post collision photographs.  ? Manage and maintain office inventory. ASSISTANT MANAGER/HEAD BARTENDER SHAWNEE BLUFF WINERY AND VINEYARD - Lake Ozark, MO July 2016 to June 2018 Assessment of Customer Service.  ? Delegating responsibilities and tasks to other staff members through training, education and orientation of new employees.  ? Estimating food and beverage consumption to anticipate inventory needs.  ? Establishing and meeting sales goals.  ? Establishment of customer rapport.  ? Monitoring the flow of business; including but not limited to customer and staff satisfaction, turnaround time of beverage and menu item tickets, event planning.  ? Attending to Customer, Guest, and Staff requests.  ? Accomplished human resource objectives by recruiting, selecting, orienting, training, assigning, scheduling, coaching, counseling, and disciplining employees; communication job expectations, planning, monitoring, appraising, and reviewing job  contributions; planning and reviewing compensation actions, enforcing policies and procedures.  ? Achieved restaurant operational objectives by contributing information and recommendations to strategic plans and reviews;  prepared and completed action plans; implemented production, productivity, quality; and customer service standards;  resolved problems; completed audits, identified trends; determined system improvements; implemented change.  ? Met financial objectives by forecasting requirements; prepared daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reports and budgets; schedule expenditure, payroll, inventory and supply ordering, accounts receivable and payable accounts.    Field Practicum/Volunteer Experience CORRECTIONS OFFICER I FRDC July 2017 to November 2017 Monitored inmate behavior and ensure their safety and security.  ? Escort offenders when necessary from one location to another.  ? Assisted other officers with offender management.  ? Wrote reports as necessary.  ? De-escalated confrontations and situations as they arose.  ? Acted as a change agent for the offenders.  ? Operated general security equipment in housing units.  ? Conducted security checks, offender counts, and searches of both the person and of housing and general locations. Social Work Intern FIELD PRACTICUM - Kansas City, MO August 2012 to May 2013 Supportive counseling to patients, family members and caretakers; Life Review, active listening and socialization of patients, family members and caretakers.  ? Educate on funeral planning, financial assistance, government and state resources, advance directives, nursing home or respite  placement, and end of life issues.    ? Complete all necessary documentation or charting as required by all federal, state and company policies. Case management  assistance with admission, transitioning care and discharge from the hospice program. LONG TERM CARE MANAGEMENT DATABASE COORDINATOR NATIONAL MS SOCIETY August 2011 to January 2012 Updated and maintained the National MS Society Altair Database system to ensure accuracy of reported information on record  of the Long Term Care Programs and Facilities.  ? Created, implemented and monitored emotional support group tracking.  ? Managed and facilitated relationships between residents, staff and volunteers at Long Term Care facilities. Education Bachelor's in Social Work PARK UNIVERSITY - Parkville, MO August 2010 to May 2013 Bachelor's in Sociology Park University - Parkville, MO August 2010 to May 2013 Skills Accounting (10+ years), Accounts payable (5 years), Payroll (5 years), Quick books (5 years), Fundraising (3 years), Data entry (10+ years), General office (10+ years), Documentation (3 years), Case management (2 years), Charting (1 year), Excel (10+ years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Publisher (3 years), Human Resource (4 years) Additional Information General Professional Knowledge and Skills    ? Microsoft Office Programs (Word, Excel, Point, ? Documentation and Charting  Publisher)-Proficient ? Positive Interpersonal Communication  ? Quick Books-Proficient ? Engagement, Monitoring and Goal Setting  ? Several Data Entry Systems-Remote Servers ? Resource Management  ? General Office Equipment Operational Knowledge ? Case Management  ? Website-Webpage Updating and Creation  ? Social Media site updating and promotion  ? Financial Accounts Payable and Receivable  ? Fundraising Foundation and Principles ? Self Determination and Independence  ? Advocacy ? Open communication skills  ? Accounting and Payroll ? Critical Thinking and Brainstorming  ? Research and Development