Application Production Support Associate Application Production Support Associate Application Production Support Associate - TESLA Gigafactory Carson City, NV Experienced Technical Support Specialist who is passionate about new technologies, loves solving technical problems and always up to take on new challenges. Expert and highly familiar with a wide variety of operating system software, programing languages, security, cloud and networking. Always make valuable contributions to achieve organization goals in a dynamic and constantly changing environment. Work Experience Application Production Support Associate TESLA Gigafactory - Sparks, NV August 2018 to Present • Support applications in production. Note interruptions or bugs in operation and perform problem solving exercise to determine problem and ensure continued use of the application.  • Provides timely support for hardware, software and network-related issues, responding to and solving over 50 tickets weekly.  • Install, test and troubleshoot regular and custom made applications and train staff on different functions of the application.  • Provides hardware and operating system support for the computer systems environment including Linux & Windows.  • Provides update patches for operating systems and update system configuration to improve efficiency.  • Communicate with all team members about technical issues, progress and status.  • Work closely with internal staff and other stakeholders to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.  • Collaborate with software vendors to determine need and devise appropriate software solutions. Database Administrator Technical Assistance - Sao Paulo, BR October 2017 to June 2018 Brazil    • Wrote and coded logical and physical database descriptions.    • Modified existing databases to meet unique needs.    • Implemented database designs and data models.    • Specified users and user access levels for each database segment.    • Tested programs and databases and made necessary modifications.    • Planned and implemented security measures to safeguard data.    • Administered 150 + MS SQL Servers in development, staging and production environments using versions 2005/2008/2012/2016.    • Monitored database and server performances using SQL Server utilities, Idera SQL diagnostic mgr. and Solarwinds applications to ensure efficient performance.    • Performed database installation and configuration settings as well as conducting upgrades, restores, backup and recovery of database systems.    • Optimized database access and allocated database resources for optimum configuration, performance and cost.    • Documented policy standards, and design of physical data storage, maintenance, access and security administration.    • Collaborated with vendors and project managers to aid in all aspects of requirements, policies and procedures of the database design.    • Experienced with secure environments, handling PHI and HIPAA data and data encryption.    • Supported all sizes of databases for API, GIS, and IIS applications.    • T-SQL skills, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016, Power BI.    • Always On High Availability Groups, Idera SQL applications, VMWare, Tivoli Storage Manager, ChangeGear, SolarWinds, SharePoint, Tableau, Microsoft Business Solutions (Exchange/Skype for Business/etc).    • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements. Systems Engineer Foreign NGO - Sao Paulo, BR October 2015 to December 2016 Brazil.    • Worked closely with customers, internal staff and other stakeholders to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.    • Collaborated with clients to determine need and devise appropriate software and hardware solutions.    • Configured and managed servers with complex network operating systems and application software, scheduled installations and upgrades.    • Conducted advanced diagnostics and troubleshot network hardware components, system software and hardware using server utilities and Solarwinds.  • Implemented policies and standards to ensure approved security and disaster recovery procedures.  • Developed and maintained system operations and backup procedures to ensure data/media recoverability using Tivoli Storage manager    • Acquired, tested and applied system software/hardware rollout project lifecycle such as updates, releases and patches.    • Comfortable working with Windows Servers 2008-2012, VMware, SCCM, Solarwinds, Tivoli Storage Manager, Active Directory, Change Gear, SQL Server 2005/2008, Exchange Systems Mgr, SharePoint    • Built and maintained a network infrastructure consisting of Windows, Linux and virtual products. System Analyst FPT SOFTWARE - VN May 2011 to November 2011 Vietnam.  • Collaborated successfully with cross-functional development teams to design and manufacture new products.    • Provide custom reporting using PL/SQL stored procedures and Crystal Reports and/or ad-hoc PL/SQL queries.    • Continually improved methods and procedures for processes, measurement, documenting and work flow techniques.    • Managed engineering changes using SAP systems.    • Data Warehouse development on Oracle 11g through PL/SQL stored procedures, packages, and scripts. ETL (Extract, transform, load) data from transaction donor database system into custom designed star schema driven data warehouse to meet analytical, functional, and reporting needs. Partial work also involved Unix server andSQL Server 2012 using SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services).    • Developed tools to perform CRUD operations on data.  • Performed in-depth electrical acceptance testing of completed hardware, including continuity and high potential isolation testing.    • Verified data integrity and accuracy. Software Development Intern University of Greenwich - London June 2010 to November 2011 • Collaborated with other developers to identify and alleviate the number of bugs in the software.    • Developed and implemented a scanning component using SQL Server.    • Modified existing company applications to serve corporate goals.    • Carefully documented technical workflows in a private wiki for education of newly hired employees.    • Coordinated build integrations tasks with multiple teams.    • Designed and developed reports in SQL Server Reporting Services.    • Wrote all technical documentation for new software in development. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Greenwich - London 2011 Associate of Science in Computer engineering NIIT INDIAN 2010 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, .net, C#, Microsoft visual c#, Microsoft visual c# .net, Visual c#, Visual c# .net, Html, Javascript, Microsoft .net, Php, Unix, Apache, Linux, Asp, Asp.net, Systems administration, Assembly Line, Warehouse Associate, Assembly Line, Inspecting