Database Administrator/Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer DBA/Developer (MSBI/PI) Dallas, TX Enthusiastic Microsoft SQL Server/Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with extensive experience in designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle enterprise. Solid analytical skills for writing relational database solutions for businesses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator/Developer AS Resources September 2018 to Present • Assigns passwords and maintains database access.   • Audit database access and requests.   • Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors.  • Evaluate proposed objects and their attributes.   • Install and configure database environments and associated storage system.   • Oversee the daily performance of database systems.   • Perform backups/restores, and archive data.   • Perform optimization and tuning of data loads and extractions.   • Perform server and storage capacity management and planning for the most complex and critical systems.   • Provide technical support in the evaluation of prime object names, data elements, and other objects.   • Recommend appropriate procedure, query or package changes and optimizations to ensure and improve system performance and reliability.   • Study system requirements to determine proper server installation methods.   • Utilize system software to monitor the performance of system files; manages system data to maintain performance efficiencies. Graduate Assistant Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX February 2017 to August 2018 • Collected and analyzed quantitative and qualitative research data using internet databases and prescribed interviewing techniques  • Created two innovative design packages, to elevate and differentiate branding, marketing, and advertising initiatives for   Resolved issues regarding networking (wired, wireless, and dial-up), and email problem    Projects:  • Created a working Pet sales website with PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and Angular Js.  • Built and maintained a working customer database, ordered system, and picking and packing system with MySQL, complete with error handling and data validation.  • Analyzed client sites and provided recommendations for improvement.  • Redesigned an application of user interface design on the Texas A&M University-Commerce Website's degrees offered page  • Created a word count application with Pyspark (Big Data Analysis) DBA/Developer Identity Multimedia Company - Lagos, NG November 2015 to December 2016 • Provide consultation and troubleshooting for the development team.   • Implement and maintain database security.   • Managing DB related risks and maintain risk log.   • Creating primary objects (users, tables, views, indexes)   • Perform Database Patch Management and Version Control.   • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.   • Supporting Application Development and Maintenance teams to analyze and solve Database issues.   • Proactively monitoring DB vitals and taking necessary steps to avoid any anticipated issues.   • Configure and upgrade database software and related products.   • Perform database tuning and performance monitoring.   • Set up and maintain database documentation and standards.   • Interface with database vendors for technical support. Education M.SC in Computer Science Texas A&M University-Commerce - Commerce, TX January 2017 to August 2018 Bachelor's in Industrial Design Federal University of Technology Akure - Ondo, Nigeria November 2009 to December 2014 Skills DBA (4 years), Sql Dba (4 years), Oracle Dba (4 years), Sql Server (3 years), Ssis, MYSQL, Python (2 years), Sybase, ETL, Postgresql Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ola-idowu