MS SQL Database Administrator MS SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Database Administrator - Texas Department of Criminal Justice Houston, TX Work Experience MS SQL Database Administrator Texas Department of Criminal Justice August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed all day-to-day aspects of MS SQL database administration. Responsibilities include database design, installation, configuration, upgrades, security, managing users and logins, performance monitoring and tuning, database availability, backup and recovery, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  • Configured High Availability Solution- AlwaysOn Cluster, Traditional Failover Clustering, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Involved in ensuring data recovery, maintenance, and data integrity and space requirements for physical database. Creating and Modifying Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, User-defined Functions and Triggers etc. as requirement on SQL Server Environments.  • Respond to and resolved all database access and performance issues.  • Ensured databases adhere to corporate standards and policies, including database auditing.  • Installed SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017 on advanced servers, applied security fixes.  • SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Query Store and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA) for performance.  • In charge of Server Lease Replacement MS SQL Database Administrator CAMTEL Cameroon January 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Configured High Availability Solution- Clustering, AlwaysOn, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Planning and implementation of Database backup/restore and disaster recovery  • Installed SQL Server 2012 on advanced servers, applied security fixes.  • SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Query Store and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA) for performance.  • Configured and supported replication and log shipping in both SQL 2008 and 2012.  • Maintained database response times in 24/7 Production environments.  • Monitoring standby Databases to ensure high availability  • Automation of DBA Tasks and monitoring  • Configured and supported replication and log shipping in both SQL 2008 and 2012.  • Used Active Directory authentication Education KTECH DBA Training Program 2018 Associate Degree in Engineering in Engineering NATIONAL POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE BAMENDA 2015 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, MYSQL