Customer Specialist Customer Specialist Records Database Administrator San Antonio, TX Work Experience Customer Specialist Best Buy - San Antonio, TX July 2018 to Present • Assist clients in finding complete solutions, as compared to quick fixes.  • Address client issues both regarding appliances and throughout the store.  • Daily review of metrics to appropriately goal set for team.  • Daily training of associates on best practices and standard operating procedure.  • Ensure client has smooth process from the point of entry to well after the scope of work is completed. Records Database Administrator Marquardt Law Firm 2017 to 2018 Job Tasks:  • Oversee the firm records department.  • Manage and File client case files.  • Manage Archiving of completed case files.  • Distribute client records to records workers for filing, archiving, and delivery to assigned attorney.  • Prepared recording memos for county offices.  • Created and maintained mailing spreadsheet.  • Created and maintained supply spreadsheet.  • Created and maintained new archiving systems.  • Met with clients to ensure thorough understanding of accessing their documents in a secure and friendly manner.  • Delegated and advised record workers on daily tasks.  • Actively reviewed feedback of records workers and drafted policy to produce efficiency and reliability throughout the office. Student Assistant Texas State University International Affairs Office 2015 to 2017 Manage and file student immigration and bank documents.  • Manage International Office inbox and respond to student requests.  • Answer any questions regarding international policies and procedures for any international student.  • Complete official International Office letters for Visa Renewal, Proof of Enrollment, and Visitor Invitation letters.  • Manage Excel Tracking List spreadsheets concerning international student work authorizations.  • Manage emailing program for sending large audience emails.  • Copy, Alphabetize, and File student's sensitive documents.  • Fax and Scan documents international students' request.  • Prepare students documents for meetings with advisors.  • Organize event room and catering requests.  • Organize and replenish supplies across the office.  • Answer phone calls received by the office line and respond to student's requests and questions accordingly.  • Analyze student and faculty surveys and prepare data reports.  • Transport sensitive documents and contracts from office to the provost and/or administration across campus.  • Aid in International student outreach event planning and execution.  • Set up and repair office devices and electrical equipment that may be damaged or needs to be relocated to another area of the office.  • Assist international students, research scholars, and faculty with issues related to Department of Homeland Security regulations and procedures. Assist office Administrators Texas State University International Affairs Office 2016 to 2016 at Texas State University  Job Tasks:  • Deliver sensitive documents to offices across campus.  • Copy, Alphabetize, and File student's sensitive documents.  • Assist office Administrators in any area needed. Photo Department Lead SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment 2015 to 2015 Job Tasks:  • Photograph guests as they interact with animals.  • Manage cash safe and distribution of cash for photo locations.  • Answer any questions guests may have.  • Recommend shows and interactions to guests.  • Direct photographers across the park.  • Correct technical problems with equipment across all locations.  • Draft and finalize photo sales daily quotas and budgets. Photographer and Clerk SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment 2014 to 2014 Job Tasks:  • Greet guests as they enter the park.  • Photograph guests as they enter the main gate.  • Photograph guests as they interact with animals.  • Manage cash register and recommend products.  • Answer any questions guests may have.  • Recommend shows and interactions to guests. Education Diploma in Advanced Placement Communications Arts High School - San Antonio, TX June 2014 B.A. in Political Science Texas State University Northwest Vista College - San Antonio, TX Skills CASH (4 years), CASH REGISTER (4 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), OFFICE SUPPORT (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  • Ability to multitask accurately and efficiently.  • Special attention to the genuine and sincere care of services provided.  • Strong ability to listen and respond in a well thought out and courteous manner.  • Disciplined to work long hours with consistent high levels of energy and enthusiasm for any task given.  • Effective in managing multiple-line phones and screening calls.  • Strong proficiency in research and typing.  • Effective team member able to take direction from leaders and execute directives given accurately and efficiently.  • Effective leader able to carefully consider the overall goal of a task while carefully working closely with team members to ensure everyone is aware of their expectations and has the opportunity to succeed.  • Proficient in all programs of Microsoft Office.  • Ability to operate effectively office support services such as but not limited to Copier, Fax, Printer, Cash Register, and Computer.