Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Coral Springs, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator VIRTUOX - Coral Springs, FL September 2017 to July 2019 • Calling and Assisting Doctor office's and DME's regarding Obtaining information needed to process prescriptions.  • Creating and Entering All New patient into database via electronic prescription document received.  • Assisting with insurance Verification.  • Editing incorrect service codes on specific insurance authorizations.  • Faxing Medical reports to Physician office.  • Updating existing Patient Data in system.  • Creating and Updating Physician information in system.  • Scanning and Printing Documents, When needed.  • Reviewing Data for a Errors and Deficiencies.   • Complying with HIPAA policies regarding patient information. Front Desk / Chiropractor assistant PATH MEDICAL March 2017 to July 2017 318S. State road 7, Margate 33068  (Front Desk)  March 2017 - July 2017  Temp Position  • Answered Phone calls and set appointments.  • Create New Patient packages.  • Do all the Paperwork and Intake for New Patients.  • Input Patients information into computer.  • Registered Chiropractor assistant.  • Input Billing Codes into the system.  • Made calls to follow up Patient appointments.  • Requested Medical records for doctor when necessary. Cashier/ sales associate OFFICE DEPOT - Parkland, FL February 2016 to November 2016 • Assisted customers with checking out their products bought.  • Helped customers find products on sales floor when needed.  • Creating Labels for sales ads.  • Sold Membership/ Rewards cards to meet company goals.  • Put Returned Merchandise back to sales floor at and of night and made sure store was neat and tidy for the next day.  • Handling cash and giving customers any cashbacks requested. Merchandise Associate MARSHALLS - Coral Springs, FL February 2015 to February 2016 • Collaborated with store merchandiser creating displays for store  • Assisting all costumers with finding any necessities they needed • Multitasked in Dressing room and assisting customers at cashier when needed.  • Took merchandise from back to sales floor.  • Put returned merchandise back onto sales floor at end of night and making sure the store looks neat and presentable.  • Took inventory and did markdowns for store with upcoming holidays seasoning sales. Education High School Graduate Skills Typing, Data Entry, Data-Entry, Data Entry Operator Additional Information Great with Microsoft word and Basic excel.  Great with Data entry.  Great with fast typing.  Knowledgeable in Dentrix software.  Great customer service skills. •  Very detailed orientated.  Organized / great Multi-tasker.