Database Administrator Intern <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intern Database Administrator Intern - League of Women Voters Bloomington, MN I am hands-on software developer with 3+ years of experience and ongoing bachelor's degree in Computer Science. I am a US Permanent Resident and immediately available to start.  • Looking for a challenging opportunity to improve my software engineering skills.  • Seeking for an internship with emphasis on software developing and networking skills.  • Seeking a position that will benefit from my understanding of the OOP concepts and ability to learn quickly.  • Looking for a dynamic role that will broaden my knowledge of application and ensure steady and constant professional growth. Work Experience Database Administrator Intern League of Women Voters - Saint Paul, MN May 2019 to Present • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of database.  • Backing up and restoring databases.  • Data transfer to new platforms. Supplemental Instructor/Tutor Normandale Community College - Bloomington, MN August 2017 to December 2018 • Hold and lead study sessions for STEM related Courses.  • Tutor STEM related courses. Front Desk Assistant Normandale Dental Center - Bloomington, MN April 2017 to June 2017 Information Desk: Customer service and Event planning. Software developer Intern Saga Visions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to May 2016 Saga Visions is a company which designs bar codes and other metric based on mobile services. This application worked to provide updates to customers about the latest offers various merchants had to offer on their mobile devices.    • Directly interacted with the end users to gather requirements and documentation of the requirements.  • Was in the Development team of the Web Application developed in Java and deployed on Windows Operating Systems.  • Involved in designing set of test cases and running manual tests to detect errors  • Providing technical support to the client. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN January 2019 to Present Associates in Computer Science in Computer Science Normandale Community College - Bloomington, MN August 2016 to December 2018 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, C++, Html Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE    Languages: Java, Java Script, HTML, C++, C, R, Matlab and Python.  Operating Systems: Windows 10  Tools & IDE: Eclipse  Framework: Spring Boot  Implemented CI/CD Pipelines using Jenkins.  Created and implemented Java FX application.    Metropolitan State University April 2019  Course Project  Designed and Implemented a system using Object Oriented Principles. The system concerns with an application that does transaction management for a non-profit organization that gets funding from individuals. The application used Java technology and Windows forms.  Environment: IDE used Eclipse.    SKILLS / ACTIVITIES    • Member of Phi Theta Kappa. (Honor Society)  • Member of Academy of Math and Science. (Honor Society)  • OFFICE 365.  • Certified Peer Tutor.  • Volunteer for America and Counts.  • Excellent Communication Skills.  • Creative Problem-Solving Skills.  • Know how to work as a unit for the team.