Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - WORLD FINANCIAL GROUP Springdale, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator WORLD FINANCIAL GROUP January 2013 to Present • Provide administrative support and maintenance on Oracle 11g and 12c installations, database creation, database security, database optimization and tuning.  • Perform backup and recovery procedures using RMAN and Data Pump utility for Oracle databases  • Provide and maintain high availability and disaster recovery using ORACLE DATA GUARD.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting database performance using OEM, AWR, ADDM, ASH, Explain Plan, and TOAD  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Implement Security policy enhancement through roles, profiles, privileges and password policies as per business requirements.  • Apply Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Clone databases via RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for various Database sizes.  • Extensively use AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning.  • Setting up and managing RMAN, Hot and Cold Backups, Exports and Production database support  • Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table partitioning, Table/Index segments, and Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR reports, ADDM  • Extensive use of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid control for Performance, Administration and Maintenance of Databases  • Work with developers to diagnose database related application problems, provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data  • Establishing connectivity to databases and monitoring system performance  • Monitor AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query  • OEM Monitoring for Databases - checking AWR/ADDM reports. Understanding ADDM reports finding. Running SQL tuning adviser against the query in the Databases.  • Checking top activity for system I/O, user I/O and other processes, monitoring SQL executions for Time & wait statistic, I/O statistic  • Part of support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Oracle Database Administrator MEDSTAR June 2012 to January 2013 • Installed and configured Oracle 10g, 11g servers and created databases in Linux environments.  • Researched, tested, and made recommendations of data validation tools.  • Established and implemented backup/recovery and patch scheduling as well as exported and imported databases frequently into the development and test environments and for archiving purposes.  • Created, tracked, and closed service tickets using REMEDY ticketing system and developed a defect prevention process including but not limited to root cause analysis and corrective action.  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Implement Security policy enhancement through roles, profiles, privileges and password policies as per business requirements.  • Controlled all databases with high alertness to ensure peak performance, stability and reliability and availability.  • Perform backup and recovery procedures using RMAN and Data Pump utility for Oracle databases  • Resolved locking issues, inconsistencies and assisted in batch processes.  • Assisted developers with SQL code troubleshooting as well as tweaked applications, procedures and SQL when necessary.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment.  • worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Developed RMAN backup and recovery strategies and procedures  • Performed database patching for bug fixes, and mitigate security vulnerabilities  • Test recovery and support continuity of operations procedures  • Performed all aspect of database operations and maintenance (O&M)  • Monitor and tune Oracle database environments for improved system performance, ensure integrity and recoverability of Oracle database structures  • Work with Developer team to create interfaces for other Applications interact with Databases.  • Day to day maintenance included patching, cloning, and administration of concurrent manage process, Users, Forms, Reports and performance issues.  • Follow System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation  • 24x7 remote support and on call rotation Oracle Database Administrator CORRECT CARE SOLUTIONS (CCS) June 2009 to June 2012 • Implement Security policy enhancement through roles, profiles, privileges and password policies as per business requirements.  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Install and configure the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replications  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.  • Extensive experience in Installation, Migration, Database Upgrade, Backup and Recovery, DR, RMAN, ASM, 10g RAC administration, data pump, performance tuning of Oracle Database  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Tune database for higher performance, analyze, explained and trace sessions for bottleneck queries, and configured instance optimal parameter setting  • Supported daily Database call for maintenance and administration such as performance, connections, locks, refresh data and security issues. Education Bachelor of Science University of Yaounde 1 Skills Excel (8 years), Linux (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Red hat (8 years), Solaris (6 years), Sql (7 years), Unix (6 years), Virtual machine (10+ years), Vm (8 years), Oracle Dba (10+ years), Sql Dba (4 years), DBA (10+ years), MYSQL (4 years), Sql Database (8 years), Sql Server (4 years), Documentum (Less than 1 year), DB2 (1 year), Oracle Database (10+ years), ASM (1 year), RAC (2 years) Certifications/Licenses 12C ORACLE CERTIFIED ASSOCIATE (OCA) March 2019 to Present Additional Information Operating Systems:  • MS WINDOWS (08,12,14)  • UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10)  • LINUX (Red Hat Enterprise)    Technical competence  • Oracle Data Guard  • TOAD  • EXCEL  • SQL Developer  • Oracle Enterprise Manager  • Oracle VM Virtual Box  • Oracle RAC  • AWR, ADDM, DBCA  • Explain Plan