Senior MySQL and Oracle Database Administrator Senior MySQL and Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior MySQL and Oracle Database Administrator - VERIZON Plano, TX • 18+ Years Oracle Database Administration/Tuning/ Data Modeling experience on multiple platforms including Oracle Solaris 10  (Sparc - x86), Linux EL7 - Oracle software versions include 7.3.4 through 12.2.0.2    • Certified MySQL Database Administrator (Version 5.6) - Experience managing MySQL Versions 5.1 - 8.0 on multiple platforms  including Oracle Solaris 10 (Sparc - x86), Linux EL7, Centos Work Experience Senior MySQL and Oracle Database Administrator VERIZON January 2003 to Present assigned to the fXO/Verizon Unix Database Administration team, responsible for the operation, maintenance, and performance tuning of all enterprise Oracle and MySQL databases  deployed in the Unix operating environment.    Activities:  • Install, configure, and upgrade Oracle and MySQL databases and software on Solaris and Linux.  • Manage small, medium and large scale MySQL 5.6 - 8.0 instances where database size exceeds 1 TB.  • Interface with users and business units to resolve day to day issues, gather new requirements for new projects and capacity plan for future growth.  • Perform in-depth troubleshooting and provide consultation to systems administration and development teams.  • Establish, implement, and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using MySQL Enterprise  Backup, RMAN, Veritas Netbackup BLI, Oracle cold/hot backup to disk, and file system snapshots (ZFS).  • Monitor and tune database and SQL/PLSQL code to ensure optimal performance.  • Interface with Oracle technical support in addressing Oracle software/configuration issues.  • Establish monitoring, backup and recovery procedures for MySQL databases utilizing MySQL Enterprise Backup and MySQL Enterprise Monitor. Senior MySQL Database Consultant FOUR CORNERSTONE Present working with Four Cornerstone to provide MySQL consulting and database  administration services to current and future clients. Expertise includes:    Activities:  • Management of small and mid-sized databases to large scale (> 1TB) heavily partitioned single instance databases.  • Implementation of database replication using GTIDs and crash safe slaves in 5.6 and 5.7 for read performance, data  distribution and disaster recovery.  • Implementation of data backup and recovery strategies using MySQL Enterprise Backup in accordance with client's  recovery objectives (RPO, RTO).  • MySQL storage engine recommendations - transactional storage engines (Innodb, NDB) as well as MyISAM, memory  and archive engines where appropriate.  • Performance monitoring with MySQL Enterprise Monitor, Show Engine InnoDB Status, as well as Unix tools SAR, VMSTAT, PRSTAT and SWAP. ANCHOR ASSET MANAGEMENT February 2002 to November 2002 Database Developer/ Administrator responsible for the analysis, design, construction and testing of Financial Market Sector  analysis software and supporting Oracle and MS Access databases.    Activities:  • Acquisition and installation of Oracle 8i and 9i Server software on Windows NT 4.0 and Windows XP Servers  respectively.  • Data Modeling of mutual fund and market sectors subject area using ERWin diagramming tool.  • Forward engineering of Oracle database from logical data model using the ERWin tool to generate all Oracle DDL  creation statements for tables, indexes and constraints.  • Development of Oracle Loader scripts to load pricing data from a 3 rd party data source into Oracle database.  • Development of Oracle stored procedures in PLSQL that allowed for the historical testing of investment strategies  based on statistical analysis of pricing data (alpha, standard deviation, regression).  • Design and creation of Web intranet application utilizing Microsoft ASP with Oracle ODBC data access that called  newly developed Oracle stored procedures and functions. Database Developer/ Administrator/Analyst XO COMMUNICATIONS October 2000 to January 2002 assigned to the XO TBS (Telecom Business Solutions) data migration team.    Activities:  • Database administration for six Oracle 8i instances dedicated to the loading, transformation and preparation of existing  operational legacy data for migration into the target Oracle database supporting the TBS application.  • Upgrading older Oracle 8.0.5 instances to, at the time, current release 8.1.6 (8i).  • Data synchronization between instances through the use of Oracle transportable tablespaces and the Oracle  Import/Export utilities.  • Database resource and performance monitoring and tuning focusing on:  • Working with developers to tune SQL and PLSQL code.  • Tuning memory structures (SGA).  • Tuning physical structures (tables / indexes).  • Disk I/O optimization and utilization.  • Resource contention minimizing.  • Oracle database package development in PLSQL that transformed and loaded extracted legacy data for preparation for TBS application.  • Unix Korn shell script development to aid in database administration and ETL process automation.  • Coding of analytical SQL*Plus scripts and PLSQL procedures to assist subject matter experts in validating migrated  data. Education B.S. in Computer Science Carroll School of Management, Boston College - Chestnut Hill, MA