Realtor Realtor Data Scientist Carmichael, CA Approachable IT problem solver with an 11+ year history of providing thorough technical support to executives and end users that improves their productivity and ensures network integrity and data security. Additionally, possess enterprise achievements demonstrating team leading and technical support skills to devise and execute solutions for end-users. Advanced interpersonal and business communication skills with the ability to be the communication bridge between end-users and technology staff. Adept at defining client needs, designing solutions and implementing application plans effectively. Exceptional diagnostic and troubleshooting skills that can rectify most technical issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Realtor Realty World Connect - Elk Grove, CA April 2018 to Present • Successfully arrange real estate transactions between buyers and sellers. Desktop Support Analyst CalPERS - Sacramento, CA August 2013 to April 2018 • Provided multi-tier technical support to 21 executives, up to 1000 end-users and over 1000 desktop PC's, Macs, BYOD and CYOD devices and laptops to determine root causes and provide solutions which allowed the organization to achieve its' operational goals.  • Served as the project team leader tasked with bringing technical support onsite which saved the organization $78k annually from outsourcing Macintosh/Apple support to a 3rd party.  • Delegated the task of documenting computer imaging, and software installation to team members.  • Recognized by end users for excellent technical support receiving Team of the Quarter award.  • Worked with the Information Security Office (ISOF) to protect executive user data confidentiality.  • Complied with information security policies and procedures, HIPAA laws and regulations.  • Developed guidelines for end users on how to deal with malware such as a virus, spyware, and rogue security software.  • Worked with managers and end users to clarify and refine requirements to align project designs to satisfy business needs.  • Interfaced successfully with shipping/receiving clerks, transportation drivers, production staff, executive management, sales employees and accounting professionals regarding IT needs and client interfaces.  • Devised concise guidelines to refresh hardware with department stakeholders. Database Administrator TeleDirect Call Centers - Sacramento, CA February 2006 to August 2013 • Responsible for configuring, maintaining, upgrading and troubleshooting servers, routers, and switches required to run the company network efficiently.  • Coordinated and directed teams of up to 5 IT professionals, provided detailed project specifications, tracked progress on multiple concurrent projects and effectively balanced time and customer requirements.  • Hired and trained 2 jr. network administrators to support 250-person staff (seasonal and year-round staff) and worked directly with users to understand needs and develop appropriate solutions.  • Developed a knowledge base to resolve common technical issues which saved the company an average of 2 calls per 8 hr. shift.  • Shared and developed training materials and trained users on the proper use of hardware and software applications which improved productivity.  • Served as project team leader to migrate the company to an Active Directory infrastructure. Delegated the logical structures design i.e. objects, OU's, domains, trees, forests, shared objects, groups, printers, computers, etc., to team members.   • The benefit was a scalable, secure, and manageable infrastructure for user and resource management which reduced the network bandwidth load by 20% and simplified resource sharing.  • Demonstrated solid technical planning skills and utilized sound problem solving capabilities in coordinating network projects with budgets ranging from $5,000 to $125,000.  • Maintained servers, routers, switches, desktop computers, peripherals, printers and software applications to ensure 99.999% desktop computer uptime and 100% network efficiency using offsite and onsite failover strategy.  • Designed and developed a cloud storage strategy to utilize enterprise storage-as-a-service to reduce costs by up to 10% which optimized compliance and ensured security. Education Associate in Liberal Arts American River College - Sacramento, CA August 2000 to June 2002 Skills Mentoring (10+ years), Training (10+ years), Business analysis (10+ years), Documentation (10+ years), Help desk (5 years), Performance management (10+ years), Employee performance (10+ years), Process flow (10+ years), Needs assessment (10+ years), Active Directory (7 years), Service Desk (5 years), Macintosh (5 years), Tech Support (10+ years), SCCM (5 years), MAC, Desktop Support (5 years), Comptia (4 years), Apple (5 years), Business Intelligence (7 years), SQL (5 years), Excel (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 Specialist January 1994 to January 1998 • Communicated respectfully and effectively to all individuals, including high ranking officials and civilians with diverse backgrounds.  • Worked with and succeeded with all types of personalities.   • Understanding of when to lead and when to follow and support. Commendations: • (2) Army Achievement Medals  • Combat Lifesaver Certified Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2009 to Present Certification #: C608-7036  CompTIA A+ August 2015 to Present Course: CT-01C Comprehensive for All A+ Exams Citrix Certified Administrator April 2009 to Present Citrix XenApp 5 for Windows Server 2003 Situational Leadership I January 2005 to Present Situational leadership is an adaptive leadership style. This strategy encourages leaders to take stock of their team members, weigh the many variables in their workplace and choose the leadership style that best fits their goals and circumstances. Situational Leadership II August 2006 to Present Easy-to-understand leadership model with a practical framework that helps your managers diagnose the needs of their people and then provide the appropriate leadership style to meet those needs. Additional Information • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) Class, CalPERS, Sacramento, Ca, 2017  • ServiceNow Training, CalPERS, Sacramento, Ca, 2016  • MAV101: OS X Support Essentials, v.2 Consulting, Inc., San Jose, Ca, 2014  • Gallup Q12 Management Training, Sacramento, Ca, 2007  • 11 CE Units in Javascript Programming, CSUS, Sacramento, Ca, 2001