Senior Oracle - Consultant Senior Oracle - Consultant Senior Oracle - Consultant - BOEING New Fairfield, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle - Consultant BOEING August 2018 to Present Oracle 11g/12c Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Set up database monitoring using OEM Version 13c.  • Oracle 11g/12c, RAC Architecture, Configuration, and Administration.  • Excellent troubleshooting skills for performance issues.  • Oracle DataGuard across multi-data oracle standby instances.  • Oracle database quarterly patching.  • Oracle Exadata and Oracle Data Guard Broker/Golden Gate.  • SQL Tuning using Oracle SQL Tuning Advisor. Senior Oracle - Consultant Toll Engineering - New York City School Construction March 2017 to January 2018 Oracle 11g/12c Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Upgrading Primavera Release 7.0 to Release 16.2.0.0 on a Sun Solaris Release 5.8 environment. Migrate current Oracle environment 10.2.0.2 up to Oracle Release 12.1.0.2. Worked in all phases of migration and testing with the new releases of Oracle and Primavera.  • Supported Oracle's PeopleSoft 9.2 instances on LINUX platforms.  • PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers.  • Set up database monitoring using OEM Version 12c.  • Oracle 11g/12c, RAC Architecture, Configuration, and Administration.  • Excellent troubleshooting skills for performance issues.  • Oracle DataGuard across multi-data oracle standby instances. Senior Oracle / SYBASE / Database Administrator Bluewolf / Datavail April 2011 to February 2017 Oracle 11g / 12c Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration for various clients in an Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10, Oracle 9, and Oracle 8 environments. PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers.  • Migrated Kaplan University's Oracle databases from AT&T to Amazon AWS. Transposed instances from AT&T via Amazon's KBS environment and then up to Amazon's RDS infrastructure. Set various servers using AWS console. Use of VPC (Amazon's Virtual Private Cloud) also utilized. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Ntirety Corporation February 2010 to March 2011 Oracle 11g Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 11g RAC environment.  • PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers Senior Oracle Database Administrator IBM GLOBAL SERVICES May 2009 to December 2009 Oracle 11g Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 10g / 11g environment.  • Primary responsibilities include supporting an Oracle 10g (10.3) RAC DataMart for Kaiser Permanente.  • PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers. Senior Oracle Database Administrator OPSOURCE, INC May 2008 to December 2008 Oracle 11g Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 10g /11g RAC and Oracle Data Guard environment.  • Primary responsibilities are the design, maintenance, tuning, security, and development of Oracle Applications.  • Working knowledge of the Oracle E-Business Suite (Release 11) which contains the Oracle Human Resources Management System.  • Administered database administration in a Microsoft SQLServer 7.0 environment.  • PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers. Senior Oracle Database Administrator IBM GLOBAL SERVICES January 2005 to May 2008 Oracle 10g Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 9i and 10.3 environments.  • Primary responsibilities are the design, maintenance, tuning, security, and administration of PeopleSoft Financials residing on AIX and LINUX.  • Additional responsibilities include supporting an Oracle 10g (10.3) RAC database for Equifax, Empire Blue Cross, SONY, Discover, and AstraZeneca.    Responsibilities include the following:  • Performed tuning and optimization for database server.  • PL/SQL coding of Packages, Procedures, Functions, and Triggers.  • Installing and upgrading Oracle server and application tools.  • Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database.  • Creating primary database storage structures once developers have designed an application.  • Creating primary database objects (tables, views, and indexes) once the application designers have designed an application.  • Modifying the database structure as necessary, from information given by application developers.  • Enrolling users and maintaining system security.  • Ensuring compliance with Oracle licensing agreements.  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database.  • Planning for backup and recovery of database information using RMAN.  • Maintaining archived data on appropriate storage devices.  • Contacting Oracle Corporation for technical support.  • Management of object related features.  • Determination of LOB storage options.  • Assistance with RAID configuration.  • Determination of proper index strategy (normal, reverse, IOT, bitmapped)  • Education of Developers in Oracle features and their use.  • Management of distributed environments.  • Management of parallel server and parallel query.  • Determine and manage partitions and sub-partitions.  • Determine proper use of outlines and SQL profiles  • Create, manage and maintain resource groups.  • Create manage and maintain global temporary tables.  • Create and manage materialized views, summaries and snapshots.  • Monitoring and managing the automatic and dynamic sizing parameters.  • Monitoring and managing the automated UNDO  • Monitoring and tuning RAC environments, especially the cluster interconnect.  • Manage and maintain fine grained auditing (HIPPA/SOX requirements)  • Manage and maintain row level security  • Manage and maintain fine grained access controls. Lead Oracle Database Administrator READERS DIGEST November 2003 to December 2004 Oracle 9i Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 9i environment.  • Primary responsibility are the design, maintenance, tuning and administration of our data warehouse residing on Sun Solaris for decision support using Abinito ETL software, UNICA client selection, and Oracle Discover reporting applications.  • Schema design and modification changes for all database environments using ERWIN.  • Performed tuning and optimization for database and application server.  • Secondary responsibilities were for our Financial Systems running on Microsoft SQLServer.    Environment: Oracle 9.2.0.4, Oracle 10.1.0.2, Oracle Discover, Oracle Financials, Sun Solaris 2.8, Oracle Application Server 11.5, Abinito ETL, UNICA, Microsoft SQLServer 7.0, VERITAS, and Microsoft Windows NT Lead Oracle Database Administrator/Data Warehouse Administrator GARTNER GROUP August 2002 to October 2003 Oracle 8i & 9i Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 8i and Oracle 9i environment at Gartner, which provides research and analysis of computer hardware, software, communications and related information technology information.  • Administered, tuned, installed, and upgraded all versions of Oracle on Sun Solaris, HP-UX 11 and on Microsoft Windows NT technology.  • Primary responsibility is the maintenance and administration of our data warehouse residing on Sun Solaris for decision support using Brio software reporting applications, along with the administration of our corporate OLTP (OPS) databases and Oracle Financials.  • Writing of stored procedures, functions, and triggers.  • Created Bourne and K-Shell UNIX shell scripts using crontab, and SQL*PLUS scripts for administration purposes.  • Loading of Data Warehouse using Datastage ETL. Schema design and modification changes for all database environments using ERWIN.  • Secondary responsibilities were for our PeopleSoft (EnterpriceOne Human Capital Management) database using Oracle Forms residing on NT technology and Sun Solaris.    Environment: Siebel, Oracle 8.1.7.4, Oracle 9.2, Oracle Enterprise Manager, BRIO, CRYSTAL, Oracle Forms, Sun Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Datastage ETL, Microsoft SQLServer 7.0, and Microsoft Windows NT. Manager of Database Administration META Group October 2000 to February 2002 Oracle 8i & 9i Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Administered all phases of database administration in an Oracle 8, Oracle 8i and Oracle 9i environment at this world-class research and consulting firm focusing on information technology and business transformation strategies.  • Installed, upgraded and tuned all versions of Oracle both on NT and UNIX.  • Maintained data warehouse on Sun Solaris for decision support being used by Brio software reporting applications.  • Maintained code tables, materialized views and fact tables being loaded on a daily basis from various sources.  • Designed dimensional data models (star schemas), which consisted of both fact and dimension tables.  • Implemented data loading using daily snapshots along with Oracle 9i's external table (ETL) feature was 100 gigabytes in size.  • Aligned data and index segments on various sized tablespaces. Tuned segments so that chaining and migration was at a minimal.  • Maintained 2 Lawson databases, residing on an NT server, each was 50 gigabytes in size.  • Maintained our Internet database, which resided on a Sun Solaris platform.  • Managed group of 4 Database Administrators.    Environment: Oracle 8.1.7, Oracle 9.0.1, Sun Solaris 2.6, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle WebDB, and Microsoft SQLServer 7.0. Senior Database Administrator United Rentals August 1999 to October 2000 Oracle 8i Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Supported database environments for production and development groups using Oracle 8 and Oracle 8i.  • Responsibilities included backup, recovery, monitoring, optimizing database performance, system security, controlling, monitoring user access, installing and upgrading Oracle Server tools, and creating database objects.    Environment: Oracle 8.0.6, Oracle 8.1.5, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle WebDB, MicroSoft SQLServer 7.0 and HP/UX 11.0. Database Administrator Research Institute of America April 1998 to August 1999 Oracle7 Certified Professional for Database Administration/Oracle8 Certified Professional for Database Administration  • Installed and upgraded the Oracle7 and Oracle8 server and application tools, modified the database structures, created primary database storage structures and primary objects.  • Allocated system storage and planned future storage requirements for the database, controlled and monitored user access to the database, backed up and recovered the database, maintained system security, and monitored/optimized database performance for Data warehouse and OLTP applications.    Environment: Oracle 8.0.3, Oracle 7.3.3, Microsoft SQLServer 6.5 and Sun Solaris. Database Administrator Hyperion Software November 1995 to April 1998 • Maintained and supported database environment for development group.  • Monitored and optimized database performance, backup and recovery, maintained system security, and allocated system storage structures.  • Controlled and monitored user access, creating stored procedures/triggers as needed, established dump devices, created new tables, indexes, primary keys, created views, UNIX shell scripts and maintained the referential integrity of the database.    Environment: Oracle 8.0.3, Sybase 11.3, Microsoft SQL Server 6.5, Informix 4.0, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris and HP/UX    Additional IT experience available if needed    US Navy Veteran with security clearances Education M.A. Master of Business Information Systems in Business Information Systems Western Connecticut State University Danbury