Sql Server Database Administrator Sql Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Frederick, MD Work Experience Sql Server Database Administrator Computer Packages Inc. - Rockville, MD June 2012 to Present Implement and administer SQL Server databases within a multi-tiered env.  ? Add or modify system/user permission to databases.  ? Perform capacity planning, cluster set up, performance tuning and monitoring.  ? Troubleshoot database slowness, disk/memory/cpu utilization and suggest solutions.  ? Analyze processing issues and identify solutions.  ? Ensure availability and performance of all databases.  ? Work with infrastructure staff to ensure that needed system resources are allocated to databases and to ensure hight availability and optimal performance.  ? Configure and maintain SQL database alerts for various system usage thresholds.  ? Perform request changes, updates, and modifications to database structure and data.  ? Perform SQL Server patches, server updates without downtime.  ? Perform backup and recovery operation including disaster recovery planning.  ? Recover lost data reliably and within defined timeframes per infrastructure service level  agreement.  ? Randomly test backups to ensure that the information stored on them is still recoverable.  ? Providing reports on the status of all backup recovery procedures performed.  ? Install databases and create/restore/fixed users logins.  ? Create agent jobs and monitor execution history.  ? Implement Transparent Data Encryption.  ? Work with programmers to prioritize business and information needs. IIS Administrator Computer Packages Inc. - Rockville, MD June 2012 to Present Perform capacity planning, cluster set up, performance tuning and monitoring.  ? Analyze processing issues and identify solutions.  ? Ensure availability and performance of all sites.  ? Work with infrastructure staff to ensure that needed system resources are allocated to databases and to ensure hight availability and optimal performance.  ? Renew and Install SSL certificates to IIS Servers.  ? Perform backup web application files.  ? Install and update web applications. Average installation per month is 6 to 10 applications.  ? Restart application pool and clear shadow folder in temp DIR when needed.  ? Monitor server health and status using powershell and Barracuda Load Balancers  ? Monitor websites uptime, performance, and functionality using Uptrends.  ? Perform monthly test on site's certificate and configuration using SSL Labs  ? Perform NLB drain-stop and restart IIS if needed  3    ? Perform IIS Server patches, server updates without downtime. System Administrator Computer Packages Inc. - Rockville, MD June 2012 to Present Create and maintain Host and Virtual Machines.  ? Increase VM's resources (disk, memory, cpu) when needed.  ? Maintain windows failover clustering. 5 clusters, 2 nodes per cluster. They are protecting  SQL Server service.  ? Maintain windows network load balancer and barracuda load balancer. 6 clusters, 2 to 6  nodes per cluster.  ? Perform windows service packs, hot fixes, and cumulative updates. Backup Custodian Computer Packages Inc. - Rockville, MD June 2012 to Present Check daily database backup and ensure that nothing is missing.  ? Check daily web files backup.  ? Check weekly database backup and ensure readiness for tape transfer.  ? Provide database and/or web files backup to programmers when needed. Programmer Analyst Computer Packages Inc. - Rockville, MD December 2000 to May 2012 Ensure systems are working.  ? Perform modifications when needed.  ? Handle client support and training. Cebu, Philippines - Programmer Analyst Pag-IBIG Fund January 1997 to November 2000 Ensure systems are working.  ? Perform modifications when needed.  ? Maintain employee records on the region.  ? Prepare backup.  ? Develop programs needed for administration division.  ? Prepare request for payment.  ? Prepare monthly reports (Tardiness and absences, Plantilla, Manpower complement)  ? Assist administration staff on problems relative to computer programs and operation  including but not limited to maintaining division computers.    4 Skills Sql server, Sql, Clustering, Iis, Server administration, Docker, Vba, Visual basic, Visual basic for applications, R2, Windows server 2008, Windows server 2008 r2, Windows server 2012, Windows server 2012 r2, Excel, Microsoft office Certifications/Licenses SQL Server High Availability April 2017 to Present Additional Information Skills  SQL Server DBA, SQL Server 2014 on Win Failover Clustering, Idera SQL Windows Failover  Clustering (active/passive), Idera SQL Diagnostic Manager, Microsoft Management Studio, IIS  Server Administration, Win Network Load Balancer, Barracuda Load Balancer, Hyper V  Administration, Windows Server 2016 Datacenter, Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter,  Windows Server 2008 R2 Datacenter, Windows Powershell 5.1, Microsoft office (Access, Excel, and  Docs), Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), Basic knowledge of Docker, Basic knowledge of SQL  Server in Microsoft Azure.