Sr. Distributed Database Administrator (Oracle, Informix, MS SQL) Sr. Distributed <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Oracle, Informix, MS SQL) Sr. Distributed Database Administrator (Oracle, Informix, MS SQL) Chandler, AZ • Analytical, versatile and highly organized professional with over 15+ years of experience in IT and with 10+ years of solid experience managing complex and mission-critical databases for industries like manufacturing, telecommunications, pharmaceutical, logistic & express mail services and payment processing.  • Proficient in Incident, Change and Problem Management by applying industry standards and methodologies like ITIL v3 process. Regarded for the ability to implement analytical and process-oriented approach to achieve results and ensure compliance with corporate and client standards.  • Highly adaptable to learn other technologies and their application to business needs. Has an eye for areas that need improvement, may it be technical or process related and able to come up with solutions resulting to efficiency and less effort to be rendered.  • Spearheads changes relating to Continuous Improvement initiatives, which further streamlines processes and/or technical related effort.  • Capable to direct and develop junior colleague through training and mentoring to eliminate outages and to upscale their skills. Work Experience Sr. Distributed Database Administrator (Oracle, Informix, MS SQL) TSYS - Tempe, AZ July 2017 to January 2019 • Provides 24x7 production DBA support (Oracle & Informix) and L1 support (MS SQL) to ensure high availability and service recovery. Involve in the Installation and Configuration (Standalone, RAC, Data Guard, ASM, HDR, ER), Upgrade, Patching, Migration, Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Optimization and Backup/Recovery.  • Actively monitors database performance to identify bottlenecks, such as inefficient queries, inconsistent and/or corrupt indexes, database design, and provides recommendations for corrective actions. Monitors current usage levels of database storage to identify and report growth trends and assists in the forecasting of future storage requirements. Performs routine maintenance such as data compression, defragmentation, dropping temp tables, clearing transaction logs and evaluating server hardware to provide recommendations for performance improvements.  • Performs testing of database software, utilities and patches within a test environment prior to production roll out. Identifies and resolves issues while in the test environment. Executes database recovery task during a disaster recovery and/or disaster recovery exercises.  • Works on with auditing implementations to ensure compliance with various certifications (PCI-DSS, SOC1 and SOX), as well as ensuring compliance with security standards.  • Works in close liaison with application developers/support to ensure best practices are applied to mitigate potential impacts and performing troubleshooting to determine the source of application failures. Assess implementation changes that my impact the database and give recommendation to Change Management. Collaborates with Oracle and IBM vendor support for bugs & issue resolutions.  • Coaches/mentors less experienced Database Administrators as they begin to perform routine/basic database administration tasks. Produces and maintains operational database documentation. Sr. Database Administrator (Oracle, Informix, MySQL, MS SQL) DHL IT Services December 2009 to January 2016 3509&3511 Jalan Teknokrat 5, Cyberjaya, Selangor, Malaysia 63000    • Performs DB Installation and configuration (Standalone, RAC, Data Guard, ASM, HDR, ER), Upgrade, Patching, Migration, Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Optimization and Backup/Recovery.  • Provides 24x7 DBA L2 and L3 support (Oracle & Informix), L1 support (MS SQL & MySQL) for production DB environments to ensure high availability and service recovery. Collaborates with Oracle and IBM vendor support for bugs & issue resolutions.  • Implements and maintains database security which involves managing security for users, auditing, and checking of security gaps.  • Provides consultation services to Application Support in relation to database concerns (e.g. designs,  performance and SQL tuning, capacity planning, disaster recovery testing, scripts creation, etc.).  • Collaborates with cross-functional teams to support new infrastructure projects, including disaster recovery planning, DEV/UAT refreshes, production changes and database migration. Works with Project/Release and Change Management in the assessment of implementation changes that can have potential impact to databases (Oracle, Informix, and MySQL).  • Created scripts for OAT automation, which reduced the effort of the tester by 40%, thus lowering the cost to business. OAT scripts fully eradicated human errors resulting to quality BUILD and smooth transition to RUN. Developed scripts for maintenance, monitoring and auditing that were instrumental to the success of team’s database management.  • Prepares and contributes to the setup of operational documentation by applying best practices and industry standards and methodologies like ITIL v3.  • Pioneer in the development of database training materials. Leveraged subject matter expertise to mentor junior DBAs. Provides technical database training to application supports and developers, which enables the company to save funds for up-skilling program. Database Administrator - Senior Software Engineer Accenture Inc July 2005 to November 2009 Project: Dex Media, Levi, AT&T and Johnson & Johnson     • Successfully migrated 9 Oracle Window databases with combined size of 3TB to RHEL with minimal system downtime. Assisted application developers by optimizing database performance, handling DB refresh and replication. Performs Oracle database binaries Installations, Creation, Upgrade, Patching, database reorganization and capacity planning.  • Performs migration of codes and database objects from one environment to another and defined successful migration implementation strategies to prevent data loss during the migration process.  • Performs database backup and recovery planning from implementation process analysis to execution. Designed client’s DB disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Handles DB Security administration, which involves managing security for users, auditing, and checking for security gaps/problems.  • Provides consultation services to clients and company’s other technology service groups in relation to Database Administration (e.g. estimates, solutions, designs, performance, disaster recovery, scripts creation, documentation, etc.). Fine tunes database system and SQL statements for optimal performance.  • Administrative works includes: train junior DBA’s and conduct knowledge transfer to non-DBA team members. Participate in process improvement efforts. Prepare project deliverables / documentations. Product Support Engineer Phil September 2003 to July 2005 Project: Wyeth Philippines Inc. (September 22, 2003 to July 22, 2005) System Administrator CYO International Inc - San Juan, PR May 2001 to July 2003 Jr. System Administrator IT Pro Inc September 2000 to August 2001 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering AMA Computer College 1997 to 2000 Skills Aix (Less than 1 year), Assembly (Less than 1 year), Assembly language (Less than 1 year), Autocad (Less than 1 year), Capacity management (1 year), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Database (10+ years), database  administration (4 years), Encryption (1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Informix (8 years), Mysql (3 years), Optimization (7 years), Oracle (10+ years), Performance tuning (7 years), replication. (4 years), security (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), training (6 years) Additional Information CORE SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  • Oracle Database Administration  • Informix Database Administration  • MySQL Database Administration  • MS SQL Database Administration  • Performance Tuning, Monitoring and Capacity Management  • Oracle RAC, Data Guard, ASM Administration   • Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • SQL Tuning  • Database Installation, Upgrade, Patching and Migration  • Database Optimization  • Replication (Golden Gate, Dataguard, ER, HDR)  • Data Encryption  • Storage Optimization  • Problem Resolution  • Training & Mentoring  • Technical Support    TECHNICAL SKILLS    - DATABASE: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c/RAC/Data Guard, MS SQL Server 2008/2012, Informix Dynamic  Server 7.x/9.xx/10.00/11.xx/12.10/HDR/ER, MySQL 5.6.    - SYSTEM: Red Hat v5/v6. Oracle Linux, MS DOS, Windows (95/98, ME, NT, 2000, XP, 2003, Vista,  Window 7/10), Solaris 10, AIX 5L, Ubuntu, Mac OS X, Exadata.    - TOOLS /UTILITY /  SOFTWARE: OEM Grid/Cloud Control, ASM, AWR, TOAD, RMAN, Datapump, Golden Gate, ASMCMD,  DGMGRL, SQL+, SQL Developer, MySQL Enterprise Manager, WebLogic, Tomcat, Apache,  Server Mngt Studio, dbaccess, Connection Manager and IWA.    - LANGUAGES /  SCRIPTING: Unix/Linux Shell scripting, SQL, PL/SQL and Python.    - APPLICATION: IBM Control Desk, Global Service Now, VDI, Microsoft Office, Visio, Remedy, HPSD, Jira,  Veritas Netbackup, VirtualBox, VMWare    STRENGTHS    • Dynamic team player and works extremely well with peers, associates and customers.  • Self-motivated multi-tasker with an eye for detail.  • Proven ability to maintain confidentiality and work independently.  • Creative, Resourceful, Highly inquisitive and Proactive.  • Adaptable and flexible to changing environments and priorities.  • Resourceful in creatively using computer for research and work organization.