Sr. SQL Engineer and Technical Lead Sr. SQL Engineer and Technical Lead Sr. SQL Engineer and Technical Lead - Cloud Database Solutions Wembley 15 years of extensive Database Administration, Database Architect and Development experience in industry standard RDBMS products (Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle).    Over 3 years' experience in software analysis, design, development, maintenance, and testing and Performance Tuning database and related applications using a variety of technologies.    Most of my industry experience has been in Investment Banking, Financial Services, Insurance (Lloyds Syndicate), and with a few assignments in Revenue, Logistics, Hotel management and Auction House.    ? Expertise in Database and Application System Development Life Cycle SDLC and Agile(DevOps) approach  ? Hands on in Cloud Services - Microsoft Azure, GCP - Google Cloud Platform, and AWS  ? Conversant with change management, problem management and request management  ? Thorough in Information Security and Compliance standards including working on GDPR project  ? Experienced in interacting with stake holders at all levels including Front Office, Trading desks, Broker Gateway service providers, and vendor management  ? Capable of timely delivery of maximum throughput of value in assigned roles  ? Experienced in both Development and Production support environments  ? Excellent team player in both proactive and reactive environments  ? Contributor to blogs and various forums such as SQL Server Central and Microsoft  ? Experienced technical leader and effective mentor and pre-sales leader  ? Enjoy the challenges and problems of working in complex and rapidly changing environment  ? Executed several projects in Cloud consulting (Strategy & Road-map)  ? Experienced in prototyping and setting up Centres of Excellence's for customers.  ? Experienced in consulting, architecture and implementation of Cloud-based solutions across all deployment and service models.  ? Experienced in enterprise & solution architecture, design and implementation of large & complex enterprise systems and SOAs. Work Experience Sr. SQL Engineer and Technical Lead Cloud Database Solutions July 2018 to Present Company / Location NatWest Markets  Position Overview: In the view to exit London data centre and Cloud first strategy, migrate SQL Server legacy systems to at least version 2014/2016/2017. Engineer IaaS SQL Server builds on GCP and help in POC and data migrations. Work on cross database migration and work on PostgreSQL build.    Job Responsibilities  • Architect and implement End to end SQL Server, Azure SQL ( Single/SQL MI), Azure PostgreSQL builds using DevOPs methodology and also using toolsets on VMware  • Automate creation//deployment/maintenance of Azure IaaS and PaaS Instances with Azure Monitor configured using CI/CD pipelines  • Cloud deployment using GitLab, GitLab Runner, Terrafaorm, Artifactory, ChefDK, Chef-Solo, Inspec etc.  • Automation using Pwershell, Bash TSQL(stored procedure, triggers) scripts  • Accustomed of working with BYOL and Azure market place SQL Server VMs  • Schedule SQL Server shutdown/Start-up using Azure Runbook  • Migrating Oracle 12c to SQL Server 2017 using SSMA, also migrate using Azure DMS/DMA( Database Migration Service/Assistance) SQL Server to Azure SQL/PostgreSQL(DbaaS)/Azure VM SQL Server(Iaas)  • Configure Azure SQL using both vCore and DTUs purchasing models  • Ensure all SQL Servers are up and available with optimum performance to meet and/or exceed business expectations(SLA)  • Create Application Jobs related to SQL using Azure Scheduler.  • Worked on Analytics load migration, - SSAS Datawarehouse database and SSIS packages to Azure SQL DW and Azure ADF  • Maintain, Design, Re-engineer and Plan various DR solutions including / Backup / Restore/Log shipping/ Database Mirroring and also using Native client and Azure VM Snapshots, PowerShell DSC module  • All responsibilities of a general BAU traditional on-premise DBAs  • Install/administer/maintain Microsoft SQL Servers of all editions along with SSIS, SSRS and SSAS  • SQL Server Database security and Compliance standards  • Working on VMware virtualisation, Datacentre Exit, Consolidation and migration project for legacy systems  • Follow agile practices for all the above  • Document all works and do the Project management using JIRA/Confluence  • Mentor team about process and tech solutions  • Technical delivery lead for various Database Solutions on Azure Cloud and On-premise Sr. SQL Server DBA and Cloud Database Architect Start - End - London September 2017 to July 2018 Company / Location Hentsu Limited, London  Position Overview  Support 24 X 7 production SQL Server databases across UK and US regions, which include more than 100 SQL Server instances spread over all types of environments (UAT, DR, DEV, and SIT) both on prim and in cloud.    Job Responsibilities  • Architect and implement End to end Azure and AWS Cloud solutions and also on VMware VM instances  • Automate the spinning of new Microsoft Azure VMs and AWS EC2 instances  • Install/administer/maintain Microsoft SQL Servers of all editions(Dev/Ent/Std)  • Ensure all SQL Servers are up and available with optimum performance to meet and/or exceed business expectations(SLA)  • Maintain, Design, Implement, Re-engineer and Plan various DR solutions including Database Mirroring /Transaction Replication / Backup / Restore/Log shipping using Native client and also using NetApp Snapshots, EC2 Volume Snapshots, AzureRM and AWS PowerShell module  • Automate routine system health checks ensuring system availability and wellness, backup, restore, security management etc.  • Deploy SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS 2016) projects using Visual Studio.  • Responsible for Hybrid Cloud Solutions and commercial structure of Large Fintech IT Transformation deal with differentiated value proposition and outcome based models  • Troubleshoot performance issues and working with Developers and Testers to optimize the queries and system in order to support  • Troubleshoot, administer, maintain, and create SSIS packages, reports on SSRS  • Enforce of SQL Server Database security and Compliance standards including working on GDPR project  • Being part of DEVOPs drive, use Terraform tool to deploy and maintain Infrastructure as Code(IAC)  • Version maintenance using TFS and Github  • Create snapshots and flex-clones of SQL server volumes  • Managing SQL Server storage (such as connect/Disconnect/Expand etc.) SnapDrive storage for database LUNs and mount points, AWS Ec2/Azure VM Volumes and Snapshot management  • Automate Volume Cloning from EC2/Azure VM Snapshots to fasten the database refreshes  • POC to validate the database design, hardware smoke/stress test using HammerDB, Crystal Disk Mark  • Involved in capacity planning and environment stabilizing works and reviews  • Design and document architecture of Database and other business supporting application data access mechanism  • Choose the tools suitable for database and technology and compliant with company needs.  • Migrate Confluence, JIRA from Postgre to SQL Server 2016.  • Lead the design and implementation of database server virtualisation.  • Involvement in the Information strategy blue-printing  • Configure/Troubleshoot Spotlight SQL Server Monitoring Tools  • Migrate Dell spotlight 10.5 to 11.7.1, and work on Redgate SQL Monitor 7  • Enhancing documents of Database Standards for Developers and DBAs  • Delivering technical design document for Database Architecture and Making correction to Infrastructure Architecture diagram  • Architecting Data modelling - High Level and Low Level design/ logical and physical database designs  • Working with other Infrastructure architects on the implementation of various hardware integration layouts, such as network, disk layouts Sr. SQL Server DBA Developer Start - End - London October 2016 to September 2017 Position Overview  Worked as L3 resource with Global production support and DEVOPS Project teams that included 8000 SQL servers with different environments (UAT, COB, DEV, and SIT) hosting numerous applications from Tier 0 to Tier 5. As part of cost saving and DEVOPS drive worked on virtualisation projects both VMWare SQL farm and on public clouds (AWS and Azure) for Microsoft SQL Server. Supported SQL 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016)on Windows 2003/2008/2012. Also standardised Microsoft SQL Server BI stack(SSIS) and implemented MongoDB.  Job Responsibilities  • Install/Configure/administer/maintain Microsoft SQL Servers, SSIS, SSRS of all editions  • Server Patching and applying security fix  • Lead and Architect implementation and standardisation SQL Server BI stack - SSIS & SSRS  • Create/Modify Database architecture diagram for new and existing systems  • Troubleshooting transaction log & tempdb Space issues, Linked server issues, user access and permission  • Develop SSIS packages to run the batch loads, create reports using SSRS  • Troubleshoot performance issues(blocking, I/O, CPU), query tuning  • Maintain, Design, Implement, Re-engineer and Plan various DR solutions including Database Mirroring / Replication / Backup / Restore using Native client and SQL Litespeed  • Implementing Database compression, compressed backups and table partitioning  • Work on SQL Server version upgrade/migration projects from legacy systems and new DB server builds  • Audit Remediation for existing and new SQL Serves(Go-LIVE) candidates  • Setup replication from AWS to Microsoft Azure as DR strategy and vice versa  • Code changes in existing stored procedures and functions for bank's P&L and balance sheet substantiation  • Automate SQL Server Instance data collection to the inventory using PowerShell  • Developing, integrating and testing data feed  • Maintaining Data Archiving using SQL Server objects  • System build & code promotion through various environments  • Administer Replication, High Availability (Clustering, AlwaysOn), and LogShipping  • Maintaining Database performance, availability and Security using Standard TSQL (stored procedure/functions/DMVs/DMFs/Adhoc SQL) and PowerShell scripting  • Create and Automate Self Service SQL Server maintenance plans using PowerShell and TSQL  • Create logical and physical database designs and design database security  • Create Self Service for backup restore for application team as part of DEVOPS drive using PowerShell  • Participate Project and POC discussions  • Involved in capacity planning  • Run perfmon counter logs and Profiler to capture environment workload  • Liaise with all stake holders for the DB upgrades, and new DB server builds and do management reporting  • Deal with Change control, Incident Management, and User Requests  • Document solution design, migration run books, Disaster recovery testing (DR Plans) and Train India team Sr. Database Administrator and Architect Start - End - London February 2015 to September 2016 Position Overview  Support for 24 X 7 production SQL Server databases across EMEA regions, which include more than 3000 servers with different environments (UAT, COB, DEV, and SIT), and similar count for Oracle estate.  The project includes virtualisation of the entire Microsoft SQL Server estate and Oracle estate, where close to 1200 SQL Servers were to be consolidated and virtualised onto latest version of supported software (SQL 2014) and Windows 2012 on VMWare platform. As part of bigger hardware optimisation and datacentre move, old servers would be demised along with P2V for the ones that cannot and also unnecessary SQL servers will be discontinued. The similar work is required to be done for Oracle  4.  All other job history: Details will be provided on demand    Job Title Start - End Company / Location Sr. Database Administrator and Database Architect Aspect Capital Limited - London March 2013 to December 2014 Database Architect Christie's - London September 2012 to March 2013 Senior Database Administrator Mondrian Investment Partners Limited - London June 2011 to September 2012 Senior Database Administrator Jefferies & Company - London November 2010 to June 2011 Senior Database Administrator FSCS - London July 2010 to November 2010 Sr. Database Administrator Citi Bank - London April 2005 to July 2010 Sr. Oracle Database Administrator GTL Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2004 to March 2005 India Developer Clintus Network Ltd., Bhikaji Cama Place - Delhi, Delhi February 2003 to February 2004 India Consultant Programmer and Backup Admin Indian Airlines Ltd. Safdarjung Airport - Delhi, Delhi January 2001 to January 2003 India Freelance Corporate trainer Software Technology Group - Delhi, Delhi July 1999 to January 2001 India Freelance Y2K Tester IN April 1999 to May 1999 Duratech Solution, New Delh, India Sales Executive Vidya Garments - Ranchi, Jharkhand April 1996 to April 1999 India    Achievements:  ? Achieved Bronze status in Microsoft Social MSDN for my blogs on troubleshooting  ? Got E -Learner of the month award in May 2006 from Nalanda University, Polaris  ? Got GEM award in Polaris Software Lab Ltd. Mumbai, for my exemplary performance, which exceeded client's satisfaction Education MCA in Masters of Computer Applications Indira Gandhi National Open University - Delhi, Delhi 2005 PGDCA in Computer Applications Indira Gandhi National Open University - Delhi, Delhi 2002 Diploma in Computer in Office Management in Computer Indira Gandhi National Open University 1999 Ranchi University 1996 Skills DATABASE, DBMS, MS ACCESS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, ORION, VMWARE, DYNAMODB, MONGODB, CHEF, CHEF-SOLO, DNS, EXCHANGE, IIS Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/ajay-prakash/2/6aa/827