Project Manager and Architect, ETL Developer Project Manager and Architect, ETL Developer Actively looking for employment Tampa, FL I am an innovative and communicative IT professional with 18 + years industry experience in Managing, Designing, Implementation, Migration across various industries, client types and technical environment. Including Direct Sales and Management experience in Tea industry, Retail, Real Estate and Kitchen & Bath industry. As such, I am adept at managing project team both in house and remote, procure new sale, skilled troubleshooter capable of leveraging in-depth technical expertise and leadership capabilities to reduce down time and increase operational efficiency. Work Experience Project Manager and Architect, ETL Developer Real Estate Brokerage and Consultation, Largo, FL - Largo, FL January 2013 to Present Manager / Broker-Owner – Scott Nappier      Managed the project, wrote proposals for project. Analyzed county data and created client specific Florida property database importing data FTP and creating packages using SSIS for solicitation. Extracting data for marketing list for sales and lead generation, prepared reports on current market trends. Analyzed user workflow, user requirements, wrote system specifications, enhance current applications in use by clients to reduce costs & increase efficiency using VISIO. Designed new application and supervised contracted programmer work, deployed new applications. Develop, implement, maintain web-based software programs and SSRS reports. Created and maintained documentation for system functionality and end user workflow procedures in TFS. Wrote system and procedural documentation and provided end user training and support. Worked extensively on Dot Loop CRM. Documented guidelines for system uses, end user training and support as needed on all software enhancement and modification updates and projects. Designed brochure for mailing, created portfolio with investment information for international clients using Adobe InDesign CC.  Installed and maintained SQL server 2016, maintained other software applications and configured third party cloud backup environment as needed    Environment: Microsoft SQL server 2016, Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSIS), Adobe InDesign CC, Microsoft VISIO, Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), Dot Loop CRM (Real Estate Transaction Management Solution), Microsoft Project, Microsoft Excel Project Manager & Senior Database Administrator Applied Media Technologies Corporation - Clearwater, FL March 2011 to February 2012 Manager / Proprietor – Clayton Burton     Manage the project and Re-design a new web based e-commerce system and data structure in MS Project, MS Excel and MS Visio. Supervised a team of 5 programmers, 1 DBA and a network admin. The new system was for sale, service and management of devices for music and messaging for Businesses. Administered and maintained the application code from different programmer though MS TFS. Created new databases and table with keys, indexes and constraint using STAR schema. Scrub and import the data from the old database and vendor CRM using SQL routines to the new database. Create custom and ad-hoc reports in SSRS that were used by Sales manager, the Creative services and Accounting department. Maintained the old system with numerous different applications concurrently while the new one was developed.    Environment: Microsoft SQL 2005 - 2008, MS Project, MS Visio, MS Team Foundation Server (TFS), Reporting Services (SSRS), Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSIS) Database Administrator eMason /Clarifier, Inc - Clearwater, FL August 2010 to March 2011 Manager – Tim Davis    Lead DBA for Client FNMA & backup for STI, GreenTree, Bank of America  SQL Server 2005-2008: Created new databases and table with keys, indexes and constraint.  Automated BPO data, Mortgage data, Client Invoicing files related raw (Excel, Text, XML) files, to be imported into the system using SQL Server SSIS packages with Stored Procedures as well as re-architect other existing data import packages for efficiency. Monitoring and debugged database server performance using SQL Server Profiler for complex stored procedures and codes response issues. Wrote client specific and generic SQL scripts to scrub personal client related data from the UAT, QA and Dev databases. Created and deployed Service Pack using Visual Studio and Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Production. Debugged and enhanced Developers stored procedures for more efficient use of system resources. Created Ad-Hoc Reports for client requests and database server performance. Used RED GATE tools to do database compare, scripting, documented processes for user reference. Worked on Clarifier CRM   Trained and implemented AGILE software development on the Scrum methodology    Environment: : Microsoft SQL 2005 - 2008, SQL Server Profiler, MS Project, MS Visio, MS Team Foundation Server (TFS), Reporting Services (SSRS), Clarifier CRM, Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSIS) Project Lead/Application Systems Administrator Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office - Tampa, FL April 2008 to July 2010 Manager – Andrea Hartman     Project Lead for the CourtNotify, web based subpoena management systems which changed the process of the agency (HCSO) witnesses receiving paper subpoena through process servers to electronic notification within hours of case being schedule by the different courts. The application also helps in time tracking of Court appearance, to maximize agency performance. Created detail Project Plans with timelines of different phases and maintained aggressive deadline from Beta testing to Production rollout. Coordinated inter-agency meetings with Public Defenders Office (PDO) and Tampa Police Department (TPD) to make this project a success. Trained 1500+ deputies and HCSO employees to use CourtNotify and acknowledge electronic notification. Analyzed end user requirements and worked with vendor to modify the product to meet the Agency specification and requirements. Test the rollouts by vendor for bugs; update end users with new enhancements and specific of utilizing it. Monitoring database server for Health and Tuning for performance using SolarWinds  Made SSIS packages to routine updates and relate info back and forth between agencies, Extracted the subpoena related records from inter-agency data share  Debug code in Visual Studio as well as SQL Server Profiler for complex stored procedures  Provide management ad-hoc Reports, using SQL Queries and exporting the reports to Excel  Maintain and modify existing SQL Server 2005 and MS-Access Databases dependent on external vendor Application  Implemented SharePoint server version 2010, created library, users with profile and rights  Saving updated codes, Stored Procedures, SSIS packages in Visual SourceSafe and SourceGear Vault  Maintained PeopleSoft- HR/Payroll system. Web Administrator: Create new website, create links, virtual directory, and segregate application pools, check connectivity between servers and database; Team support on maintaining all major application of HCSO, which also includes being on-call routinely.  Other Applications with “hands on” experience in installing, upgrades, maintenances: Kronos, JD Edwards, ImageNow (document management system); Citrix server    Environment: Microsoft SQL 2005, MS Project, MS Visio, Reporting Services (SSRS), SolarWind Visual SourceSafe, SourceGear Vault, People Soft, Microsoft Word, Excel Kronos, JD Edwards, ImageNow (document management system); Citrix server, SharePoint Server 2010 IT / Database Analyst Mortgage Data Resources, INC - Saint Petersburg, FL 2006 to 2008 Programmer Analyst Grass Software - Saint Petersburg, FL 2006 to 2006 IT Analyst Progress Energy - Saint Petersburg, FL 2006 to 2006 Programmer Analyst Cognocarta GIS - Tampa, FL 2005 to 2006 Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems & Business Management Eckerd College 2000 Diploma in Software Technology & Systems Management in Software Technology & Systems Management NIIT - Guwahati, Assam 1997 Additional Information • 18 + years of Information Technology industry experience  • 8 + years of Direct Sales and Implementation in various Software and Real Estate related industry