Support Escalation Engineer(FTE) Support Escalation Engineer(FTE) Support Escalation Engineer(FTE) - Microsoft Dynamics AX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Support Escalation Engineer(FTE) Microsoft Dynamics AX March 2009 to Present Microsoft - Microsoft Mexico (Based on Mexico City)  Delivering support solutions consistent with the product roadmap and released plan milestones.  Providing support in Latam Region in Spanish, English and Portuguese.  Team member of Escalation Team in Latam.  Mentoring to SEs in my Team as part of its growth in the Tech Backbone  group.  Team member of PMC (Premier Mission Critical) Engineers.  FY17    • Actual Metrics TB 100% - BB 0% (Customer Satisfaction)  • Attending CritSit for Premier customers based on:  o United States (Hagler Systems)  o Colombia (Nalsani-Totto)  o Mexico (Kimberly Clark)  • Collaboration with Microsoft Mexico & Mexico Government  o PMC (Punto Mexico Conectado) http://www.pmc.gob.mx/  • Conferences oriented to Universities which are being  interested to learn Microsoft Dynamics AX to preparing the next generation of Dynamics AX Certificate  Consultants.  FY16    • Final Metrics TB 100% - BB 0% (Customer Satisfaction)  • Blogger of Dynamics AX Latam Blog:  o http://blogs.msdn.com/b/dynamics_latam/  • Special assignments:  o Delivering a Retail Service in Monterrey, Mexico (Architect)  • Retail Online Store with R3 + CU10  • Delivering trainings for Latam partners in Spanish (Tech Days)  o Workflow .. Level 200 Advisor Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 to 2012 2012 .. Level 100  o Performance . Level 300  o LCS  • Delivering internal trainings  o Performance  o LCS  • Attending Critical Situation for two of the most important premier customers  based on Mexico.  o Grupo Carso (Premier Customer)  o Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (Public Sector)  • Attending Critical Situation for one of the most important premier  customers based on USA  o Hewlett-Packard (Premier Customer World Wide)  • Providing Support as extended time to Canada  • Providing Support to NOAM Team during holidays and taking cases for  Pro Partners:  o UX Eclipse, Avanade & Sunrise Consult (Gold Partners in US)  FY15  • Providing Support during all fiscal year on PMC Schedule over the weekends and actually solving cases for the customers with visibility up to Dana Knipp.  This is impact at the higher level as this is PMC with WW visibility but mainly  NA and EMEA Teams.  • Providing Support to NOAM Team during holidays and taking cases for Pro  Partners/Customers:  o AnsaMcAl, BHSolutions  • I have patiently worked for CICSA (Grupo Carso) in several interactions to provide the best service possible and trying to recover the trust from  Customer and especially from Emilio Becerra (right hand of CICSA's CIO)  • In Alcione (Premier Customer) working as Advisor, provided relief to several  issues that the customer was having. I.e. Master Planning Process (Functional  Process) was taking 48 hours and after applying my suggestions the same  process was taking 10 minutes. Reports that were taking 5 hours are now in 3  minutes.    Awarded with FY15 Key Talent  Awarded with GPGP Award (Great People & Great Performance)    FY14  • Training in Brazil for AX 2012 on tech Domain in (Portuguese)  • Without formal training on AX for Retail I owned the toughest escalations for this product:  o Colombia: Customer Nalsani-Totto  o Mexico: Customer Juguetron -> 4 on site visits.  o Mexico: Customer Chilim Balam  o Chile: Customer Guante. Helped 2 times to install the product.    Awarded with FY14 Key Talent Sr. DataBase Administrator RadioMovil Dipsa (Telcel) Grupo Carso - Ciudad de México, CDMX January 2006 to March 2009 Mexico City, DF  Collaborated with designers to create clean interfaces and simple, intuitive  interactions and experiences with final customers.  Conferred with data processing to obtain information on limitations for data  processing projects inside of Telcel and across Latam. Sr. DataBase Administrator Grupo Alsea - Ciudad de México, CDMX February 2004 to January 2006 Mexico City, DF  Implemented unit and integration tests to consistently deliver high quality features for Starbucks, Burger King and Dominos' Pizza brands.  Advised customers regarding maintenance of diverse in-house software systems.  Coordinated performance assurance of software applications and automated performance test scripts for Microsoft SQL Server BI Education Bachelor's in Systems Engineer Universidad de las Americas UDLA 2004 Additional Information Technical Skills    • Microsoft SQL Server 2008, 2012  • Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services  • Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services  • Microsoft Windows Server 2008  • Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009  • Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012  • Monitoring and Performance tools  o Efficient Data Management, Data WareHouse and Analytics.