Lead software engineer Lead software engineer Lead software engineer - FactSet Research Systems Southbury, CT Database administrator, cross-functional business analyst, and data specialist, with insights into  software development, statistical performance analysis, and database design.    OMG® Certified Systems Modeling Professional who guides project teams through complex systems design  by using formal diagramming techniques to iteratively clarify stakeholder requirements and customer  delight.  ? SQL development ? Database ? Systems modeling (SysML) Work Experience Lead software engineer FactSet Research Systems - Norwalk, CT June 2011 to Present Database administrator and SQL development specialist, providing 24x7 support for four-phase SDLC.  Internal consultant for workflow design and data visualization.    ? Developed and maintained ETL and administration code written in Perl and stored procedures.  ? Led team migration from Perforce to Github.  ? Pioneered test-driven development of complex ETL business logic.  ? Championed agile development and operations methodologies for geodistributed teams.  ? Specialized in performance tuning and statistical analysis.  ? Formalized methods of requirements gathering using specification documents and SysML  diagrams. Web Ops Developer Macmillan Publishers - New York, NY October 2009 to June 2011 Scrum master and lead engineer for an agile 24x7 operations team responsible for maintenance and troubleshooting of thousands of academic websites. Code bases mostly legacy, developer-absent,  poorly documented, and written in an idiosyncratic mix of languages.    ? Triaged incoming issues from business stakeholders, developers, and quality assurance  engineers to ensure timely resolution of issues and the proper utilization of resources.  ? Tracked backlog and work-in-progress visually using Jira and physical information radiators.  ? Converted teams from ad hoc firefighting to pull-based Kanban with the help of agile coaches.  ? Took ownership of team-wide technical writing and documentation.  ? Provided statistical analysis and data visualization for executive-level reporting. Database Administrator Fidessa - New York, NY February 2007 to October 2009 Administrated and maintained a dozen warm-failover Sybase environments for multi-level SDLC.  Supported 24x7 through on-call rotation.    ? Developed and improved monitoring environments written in Tcl and Perl that centralized  maintenance and alerting through a web application.  ? Participated in logical and physical database design.  ? Analyzed performance of critical stored procedures in coordination with developers.  ? Acted as chief liaison with other support teams. Lead investigator on problems that crossed  boundaries between databases and applications.  ? Formalized and modernized disaster recovery procedures, including cross-site failover and proactive corruption detection. Education MS in Information Technology Bentley College - Waltham, MA 2006 Skills MySQL, Git, SQL, Application Support Certifications/Licenses OMG Certified Systems Modeling Professional February 2019 to Present Level 1 - model user Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nknafm7p0r4bpmwb Data Analysis — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vtirlqmhd7zqe9al Email — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gmbggaisgmenmoxo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.