Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer - F & L Galaxy Rosemead, CA • 9 years of experience in MS SQL Server database administration, including physical database design, architecture, testing, performance tuning, moving database, setting up scheduled backup, disaster recovery planning, replicating between multiple servers, implement log shipping with standby database server and database mirroring.  • 2 years of experience in writing stored procedures with SQL code optimization, using Crystal Report and wrote ad hoc TSQL-based reports for upper management.  • 2 years of experience in configured and administered Crystal Report web server with Exchange server for report delivery.  • 4 years of experience in network administration, including setup LAN, VPN, WAN networks with Cisco router, PIX firewall, IPS, MARS and VPN client connection.  • Identified and determined causes of security violations, provided corrective actions to ensure data security.  • Trained in Data Warehouse architecture with Oracle Business Intelligence application. Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer F & L Galaxy - Arcadia, CA April 2017 to Present • Migrate on-premises MS SQL database to AWS MSSQL RDS.  • Install, setup, troubleshoot performance tuning production blockchain based H2 database for web-based application.  • Integrate web application using AWS Ec2 (Windows, Linux), RDS (postgreSQL, MySQL), S3 and Cloudfront.  • Configure AWS cloud security in VPC, security group in EC2 and WAF, operation system security in Windows and Linux.  • Install, setup, using Ansible and Jenkins for CI/CD DevOps operations and using Kubernetes for orchestration. Database Engineer Xap Corporation - Culver City, CA December 2012 to April 2017 • Support production databases for nationwide application in a 24/7 environment.  • Troubleshoot, performance tuning on Oracle/ SQL server and in-house applications.  • Configure monitoring system to alert on call personal for database or system alert.  • Research Big Data technology and web services, setup proof of concept scenario.  • Troubleshoot and enhance ETL SSIS packages.  • Work with Oracle developers on various SQL Server/ Oracle database related implementation. Senior Data Analyst General Dynamic Information Technology - Fairfax, VA September 2012 to December 2012 • Support production VLDB databases for worldwide application in a 24/7 environment.  • Configure monitoring system to alert on call personal for database or system alert.  • Develop SSIS packages for ETL between SQL Server database and Oracle database.  • Troubleshoot and performance tuning on SQL server and in-house application.  • Work with Oracle database administer on various SQL Server/ Oracle database related implementation. Database Administrator Arrowpoint Corporation - Alexandria, VA October 2007 to September 2012 • Support production VLDB databases for worldwide application in a 24/7 environment.  • Configure monitoring system to alert on call personal for database or system alert.  • Optimize database queries, indexes, SSIS packages and locks.  • Develop SSIS package, scripts and stored procedures to support operation tasks.  • Perform configuration changes and database upgrade from MS SQL 2000 to MS SQL 2008.  • Troubleshoot and performance tuning on SQL server for MS Sharepoint and in-house application.  • Review release procedures to ensure data access and user privilege using the highest security measures.  • Perform quarterly audit on all SQL server instances and databases to ensure compliance with security requirement.  • Assist Operations Administrators to design, implement and test High-Availability SQL server installation and implementation.  • Convert Oracle database table structures, stored procedures, views, triggers, user permission to SQL Server environment.  • Work with Oracle database administer on various SQL Server/ Oracle database related implementation. Database Administrator Perot System Government Services - Fairfax, VA January 2007 to October 2007 • Support production VLDB databases for worldwide application in a 24/7 environment.  • Optimized database queries, indexes, DTS packages and locks.  • Recommended configuration changes to increase database performance.  • Monitor database storage, recommend architectures to ensure reliable database system.  • Performed all database related task, such as database creation, configure backup.  • Performed troubleshooting of application related issues and software release prior to deployment. IT Technician/ Network Administrator Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc - Rancho Cucamonga, CA April 2004 to January 2007 • Performed administrative tasks on MS SQL server and Oracle 9i database server such as installation, upgrade from SQL server 2000 to SQL server 2005, configure physical database design, setup scheduled backups, document disaster recovery planning.  • Create, alter, restores databases (options and other characteristics), monitoring the error log, the status of MS SQL Server Agents jobs and creating maintenance plans on MS SQL Server. Create new users and roles with proper database access authorization.  • Recommended and designed disaster recovery solution with virtualization to consolidate hardware equipment.  • Administered Cisco routers, Switches, Intrusion Prevention System (IPS), Monitoring Analysis Response System (MARS) and PIX firewall for WAN, LAN and VPN client network implementation.  • Coordinated the operations and activities associated with the company networks, telecommunications systems and services.  • Coordinated requests, acquisitions, installation, system designs/reconfigurations, maintenance, and servicing of all networks, client-servers, and telecommunications equipments.  • Perform research and analysis necessary for developing appropriate recommendations regarding hardware/software configurations and inter-connecting WANs, LANs, client servers and microcomputers.  • Identified and determined causes of security violations, and recommend corrective actions to ensure data security.  • Assisting AS400 system administrator for system upgrade and various implementations including Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) and Automated Shipment Notification (ASN). Programmer/ System Administrator Amptron International Inc - Industry, CA August 2001 to April 2004 • Performed administrative tasks on MS SQL server such as installation, upgrade from SQL server 7 to SQL server 2000, configure physical database design, setup scheduled backups, document disaster recovery planning.  • Create, alter, restores databases (options and other characteristics), setup replication, monitoring the error log, the status of MS SQL Server Agents jobs and creating maintenance plans. Create new users, roles with proper database access authorization.  • Using stored procedures and Crystal Report tools to design scheduled reports and ad hoc reports reporting business activity to upper management.  • Configured and administered Crystal Report web server with Exchange Server for report delivery.  • Maintained and administered all network component include Cisco router, Exchange Server, ISA Server, and SQL Server.  • Implemented and supported company-wide production Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system with Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and web order ability. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University - Pomona, CA Skills Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information Technical Skills    Databases: MS SQL Server 7, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012, 2016, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, DB2, SQL performance tuning, OLAP, H2, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Server Applications: MS Exchange Server, MS ISA Server, IIS, DFS, WINS, Symantec Corp. Ed. Antivirus server, Crystal Report Server.  Operation Systems: Windows 98, XP, NT4.0/2000/2003, Unix, Linux operation systems, OS400.  Network devices: Cisco router, Cisco PIX firewall, Cisco Switches, Cisco IPS, Cisco MARS.  Programming Languages: Java, C++, ASP, VB.  Applications: MS Visio, MS Office suites, Crystal Report.