Account Payable/Receivable Specialist Account Payable/Receivable Specialist ACCOUNTS PAYABLE SPECIALIST Snellville, GA Competent and driven Account Specialist with 4+ years of hands-on experience in Customer Account Management. Proactive with demonstrated ability to understand and resolve customer account related problems. Excellent communication skills and outstanding telephone etiquette. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Account Payable/Receivable Specialist Green Pastures Academy, Inc - Decatur, GA August 2014 to Present ·        Gather, sort and organize customer data to be processes for completing enrollments.  ·        Research and resolve all payment problems.  ·        Maintain proper storage of invoices, checks and other documents by logging, photocopying and filing them.  ·        Function as vendor point of contact for company.   ·        Maintain vendor files.  ·        Oversee administration of payments and checks.  ·        Verifies validity of account discrepancies by obtaining and investigating information from accounting system and from customers  ·        Ability to prepare budget and financial records and recommending optimize use of funds  ·        Analyze and process account receivables  ·        Draft and maintain business transactions and financial records  ·        Using MS Excel and accounting software, perform and review accounts for accuracy   ·        Prepare end-of-year statements for tax reporting purpose  ·        Utilizing MS Excel, generate financial spreadsheets and reports detailing daily receivable status,   ·        Resolve valid authorized deductions by entering adjusting entries  ·        Resolve collections by examining customer payment history; notifying accordingly.  ·        Protects organization’s value by keeping information confidential.  ·        Reconcile the accounts receivable records to ensure that all payments are accounted for and properly posted.  • Facilitate payment of customer accounts due by sending payment reminders and contacting customer via telephone and e-mail IT Specialist/ Database Administrator Green Pastures Academy, Inc. - Decatur, GA March 2003 to Present As IT Specialist, I install, configure and maintain software and hardware systems, and network system. Manage, configure and provide user access to computers, databases, e-mail according to company policy and standards. Serves as the primary contact tor technical issues, hardware, software and networking. Created a ticket and database system to keep track of computer related issues and resolutions. As a result of the ticket system, an able to analyze the potential need of the company’s computer system and software needs, thereby maintaining a history of resolutions, changes and user errors for future projections and training opportunities. Duties also include:  • Provide functional & technical support to ensure performance, operation and stability of database system  • Manage data import and export across database systems  • Provide high level support to customers/users on daily basis  • Monitor database activities on a daily basis to ensure reliability & security of database and data  • Ensure database is working properly & bugs are fixed appropriately  • Ensure database optimization for operational & performance efficiency  • Ensure data integrity by verifying, analyzing and correcting inaccuracies and eliminating redundancy  • Manage database technologies in accordance with company life cycle  • Provide database connectivity and access support throughout the organization  • Create & analyze various reports for management review  • Prepare documentation of all database procedures and guidelines Education MBA in Project Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Duluth, GA July 2014 Master of Science in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Duluth, GA June 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Decatur, GA February 2000 Skills Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable Assessments Technical Support — Completed May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7fhw0xfkhu7yz-ch Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    • MS Project  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Multi-tasking  • Computer proficient  • Organizational skills  • Excellent communication skills  • Quick learner  • Team leadership skills  • Strong research skills  • Adaptable learner  • Excellent time management  • Planning coordinating  • Self-starter  • Database design/development  • Excellent problem-solving abilities