Manager of Project Management, acting Senior Database Architect Manager of Project Management, acting Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Manager of Project Management, acting Senior Database Architect Middlebury, IN Work Experience Manager of Project Management, acting Senior Database Architect Goshen Health - Goshen, IN June 2017 to August 2019 Professional Key responsibilities include planning and maintaining IT service delivery. Serving as Highlights project lead for the implementation of the next generation electronic medical record  platform for the organization. Overseeing a budget of $7.7m and a total project  workforce of 43 FTEs across 104 roles and a 12month project timeline. 20% of work  hours were remote/telecommute. Responsible for database architecture, design, development and testing, as well as database management, maintenance, and  troubleshooting activities in support of daily operations. Oversight of technical systems, policies and procedures, and governance processes necessary to maintain accuracy,  reliability and availability of information in Goshen's systems.    Key accomplishments include formation of a new project management office and the successful analysis, recommendation, and proposal to replace the core acute platform. Information Technology Manager Goshen Health - Goshen, IN January 2015 to June 2017 Key responsibilities include organizing, leading, and growing the service desk team.  Customer service focused project and plan management, metrics, team performance, and data analysis. Developed and deployed previously nonexistent service delivery metrics and  goals. Shaped the security culture with collaboration of IT services to meet the data  security needs of the organization. Security assessments, vulnerability assessment, risk  mitigation, and intrusion detection.  Key accomplishments include reduced average break-fix resolution time by 50% in  2015, reduced average IS service request resolution time by 66% in 2015 while adding no  new resources. Contributed to increasing in internal customer satisfaction from 82% to  94% 2014-2015, then to scores consistently above 97% satisfaction in 2016. Successfully  lead a team of five individuals to lobby for and implement 30 security initiatives over a two-year period without additional resources. Executing a continual improvement  initiative for seven service desk support technicians and security analyst that report  directly to this position.  Middlebury, IN 46540  c. (574) 349-0785  bblosse67@gmail.com Database Administration Manager Goshen Health - Goshen, IN January 2013 to January 2015 Key responsibilities include managing the talents and responsibilities of two analysts  Professional for financial and interface support. Responsible for managing 60 SQL servers for data  Highlights warehousing and repository. Skill sets utilized include scheduling SQL backups, SQL  ) upgrades, SQL custom query writing, and database access provisioning. Created and chaired a newly formed data security team and managed a two-year data security  improvement program in this role.  Key accomplishments include expense reduction initiatives equal to 2% of the entire  IT operating budget in 2013. Eliminated labor associated with manual data extraction and secure file transfer by programming and scheduling custom script execution. Financial Systems Analyst Goshen Health - Goshen, IN January 2005 to January 2013 Key responsibilities SQL Business and data analysis, custom report writing, data  extract automation, Crystal Reports, SQL, single sign on, finance/budgeting system  support, printer programming, and audio-visual support. Developed dashboards and business decision support tools. Worked closely with customers and end users,  developed strong communication skills in this role.  Key accomplishments include creating the organizational data extraction committee, bringing together talent across several departments and areas of expertise to collectively  work on and produce data that backed strategic business decisions. Designed and lead  security training for the organization, 700+ Colleagues were trained and reported a 99.7%  training satisfaction rating. Database Administrator Goshen Health - Goshen, IN January 2002 to January 2005 Key responsibilities included the analysis and maintenance of performance, integrity, and security of all organizational database servers. Controlling access permissions and  privileges. Developing, managing, and testing back-up and recovery plans. Ensuring that  storage, archiving, back-up and recovery procedures are functioning correctly. Capacity  planning, working closely with IT project managers, database programmers, and multimedia programmers. Communicating regularly with technical, applications, and  operational staff to ensure database integrity and security.  Key accomplishments include the successful implementation of alternative reporting  solutions that brought complex and complicated data management to a simplified end  user friendly solution. Lead training for the data reporting solutions and trained 1000  Colleagues on the paperless payroll web based solution. PC Technician Goshen Health - Goshen, IN October 1999 to January 2002 Middlebury, IN 46540  c. (574) 349-0785  bblosse67@gmail.com Education Bachelor of Science in Leadership Goshen College - Goshen, IN February 2012 Skills Sql, Security, Risk analysis, Vmware, Change management, Remediation, Strategic planning, Excel, Word Additional Information Skills • Project Management • Change management  • Risk Analysis and remediation • Team development  • Technology strategic planning • SQL programming  • Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, • VMWare administration  ect..) • Data Security program  development