Job Seeker Columbus, OH I am responsible and dependable information associate, Experienced in information management with an emphasis on customer service within a hospital, government and a zoo. Highly skilled in multitasking in a very high volume, fast paced environment with excellent efficiency. I have comprehensive knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records. I am a trained volunteered at the Ohio Reformatory for Women, Columbus YMCA and Faith missions.  Supply Chain Management Database Administrator with a four year background in Supply Chain Management, which includes tenders and contracts as well as assisting in the buyer's office, desires administrative position. Core competencies and traits include organizing, planning, communications, time management, accuracy, data capturing and efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Columbus Zoo March 2016 to July 2016 Proactively greets visitors, and other members of the general public as they enter the Zoo    • Direct visitors within the zoo    • Enforce rules and regulations of the zoo at various gate points    • Assist visitors with queries and information whether in person on telephonic.    • Work at loss and found    • Work at various sections of the zoo as an information officer or manning a ride.    • Receive and process ticket and parking sales.    St. John AME Church Worthington (Volunteer)  On a regular basis assist the church office administrator with day-to-day office administration.  • Switchboard duties  • Copying, faxing and scanning documents  • Typing of documents  • Planning dinners or events for the pastor Database Administrator Saldanha Bay Municipality January 2011 to December 2014 Saldanha Bay, Western Cape  Responsible for:  • Managing all the administrative processes within the supply chain supplier database office.    • Capturing of all database application forms and update information.  • Responding to all supply chain enquiries via email or telephone.  • Reviewing the application forms on an annual basis - if policies have changed  • Keeping records of all information that has been received and applications that have been captured.  • Placement of advertisements and in local newspapers.  • Organizing and planning supplier open day and conferences annually for all providers.  • Coordinating with local business forums with regards to changes in regulations and getting information through to local businesses.  • Monitoring general performances of suppliers and recording on database non-performing suppliers.  • Drafting of various monthly and quarterly reports  • Preparing reports and documents for bid evaluation meetings, as well as minutes in the meeting; preparing bid evaluation reports and tender documents for Adjudication meeting.  • Sourcing of catering quotations for various departments.  • Assisting in the buyer office with opening of bids and recoding of information and faxing of orders.  • Preparation for internal and national (annual) audit Internship Saldanha Bay Municipality February 2010 to June 2010 6 months experiential learning (Module B) Key Performance Areas: Supply chain Management Administration functions, opening quotations, capturing of information and faxing of orders to various suppliers or to the warehouse. Design application forms and newspaper advertisement. I assisted contract and tender office with the public opening of bids above 200 000 and preparing for bid meetings. Education Bachelors University Exploration March 2018 The Ohio State University credits Cape Peninsula University of Technology Skills CLERICAL (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (Less than 1 year), TIME MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  • Clerical (including typing 45 - 48wpm)  • Event and workshop planning and coordinations    Workshop facilitator    • Customer service    • Communication skills, including public speaking    • Calendar Planning    • Preparation of minutes    • Time Management    • Multi-tasking