Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator Haymarket, VA Work Experience Senior Database Administrator VERIZON March 2010 to June 2019 Oracle Database Management for critical Logical Provisioning applications in development, test and production environments. Worked with business users and development groups to provide metrics, migration strategies, feeds and reports using SQL, PL / SQL and shell scripts. Collaborated with development teams regarding all performance tuning issues.  • Coordinated the migration of standalone database servers into Oracle RAC servers.  • Provided extended support to help and fix the database related performance issues in production instance.  • Developed data migration plans from Oracle RAC databases into AWS RDS.  • Involved in various activities such as the preparation of functional and technical documents, discussions with the development and client regarding proposed solutions, PL/SQL programs scripts, related feeds and reports. VERIZON - Ashburn, VA May 2000 to June 2019 Database Administrator / Developer VERIZON May 2007 to March 2010 Provided day-to-day database support for fGNS OSS applications.  • Designed data warehouse responsible for maintaining central repository for generating metrics using an Informatica's ETL software which was used to extract, transform and load various applications and sources.  • Developed SLATE application (SLA Trending Environment) for IDNE group where hundreds of millions of daily records were being processed to provide a near real-time statistics. Systems Engineer / Architect, VERIZON GNS VERIZON May 2000 to May 2007 Planned and managed OSS infrastructure architecture including integration with other systems, defining hardware configurations and component design.  • Designed and architected VZ GNS's Development, Test and Production Environments under SAN environment comprising of High performance HP / Sun servers, HP Surestore's XP256 / XP512 and Brocade switches.  • Developed "autologin" application as replacement for a vendor application whereby reducing company's license and maintenance cost. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Strayer University - Arlington, VA Bachelor of Science in Computer Science AMA Computer University Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, SQL, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, SCRIPTING, Cloud Computing, Software Development, Programming, System Administration, Database Administration Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rey-rabena Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer Associate March 2019 to March 2022 1. Certification Number: VXP4E5P2DMFQ13CR AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate February 2019 to February 2022 1. Certification Number: J226F75CBFE4Q2GL Additional Information KEY SKILLS  Problem Solving Hard Working Self-motivated  Team Player Dedicated Driven  Communication Organized    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Amazon Web Services (AWS) Software Development Scripting  Database Design and Administration Systems Administration Cloud Computing  Network Technologies DevOps tools Programming  Enterprise Architecture PL / SQL