Funding Manager Funding Manager Funding Manager - NY TRIBECA GROUP Brooklyn, NY Accomplished and aggressive Business Manager, Owner with more than 10 years of experience  in cost efficient organization with trained, motivated staff who enforced internal controls,  accurately and timely account for all transactions and could assist and contribute to growth and  profitability. Goal and results oriented in helping companies to increase revenue, expand  distribution channels and streamline processes.  Real Estate Professional (licensed in Minnesota State).  Excellent communication and relationship building skills. Communicate with clients and management in a professional and diplomatic manner.  Enthusiastic self-starter with a "winning, can-do attitude."  Highly organized, dedicated with positive attitude.  Information systems professional, experienced in Databases administration and a  Full Project Life Cycle from analysis of business requirements through implementation.  Strong programming and analytical skills with attention to details.    KEY RESPOSIBILITIES:    Manage outside contractors utilizing the best systems and newest technologies.  Coordinate the activities of new home construction according to the Company's standards  and processes, ensuring quality and customer satisfaction throughout the construction process.  Inspect houses during all phases of construction, acting as troubleshooter and monitoring quality, verifying the completion of change orders, contract options, and special changes from work tickets.  Conduct pre-key walk through and final inspection on a timely basis.  Communicate with homeowners throughout the construction process. Work Experience Funding Manager NY TRIBECA GROUP June 2017 to Present Business Merchant Cash Advances; Consolidating Existing Advances; Collateralized Advances; Business Lines of Credit. Business Owner, Manager OXYBORA DISTRIBUTING, LLC April 2006 to November 2016 Business Owner, Manager of the Independent Retail Pharmacy, practiced in a progressive setting, making an impact on patient care, being a part of the community.  Developed the Business from ground zero with excellent customer relationships, constantly increasing team performance, oversee product implementation; managing metrics, and coaching and mentoring staff.  I was able to multi-task with excellent time management skills while still paying close attention to the details of the assignment Database Administrator BEST BUY CO. INC April 1998 to June 2004 Databases design based on client's requirements, performance monitoring, Logical and Physical data models analyzing and creating using System Architect.  Performance tuning, back-up and recovery, setting-up test environment, working with vendors in customizing packaged software (Tivoli, POS software, Retek, etc.) Programmer / Analyst MERRILL LYNCH, N J March 1996 to April 1998 Full Life Cycle of developing, coding, testing and implementation of the Prospective Client System, Problem solving, user training and technical documentation. Education Manhattan Technical College - School of Management September 1991 to August 1992 Bachelor's Degree in Construction Management in Computer Science Moscow Institute of Technology September 1976 to August 1981