RADAR Specialist RADAR Specialist CPHRM Lemoore, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RADAR Specialist Adventist Health April 2008 to Present Evaluates, develops and maintains the effectiveness of the risk management program for the Adventist Health Central Valley Network which includes 4 hospital and more than 40 rural health clinics.  • Maintains ownership and oversight of the risk, management database (RADAR). Acts as corporate's system wide subject matter expert for risk management data management.  • Utilizes data to identify areas of high risk for trending and analysis. Analyzes incidents and identifies patterns as evidence for decision-making and process improvement.  ? Focuses on mitigating loss (finance, reputation, claims)  • Develops proactive responses to events based on early trending. Determines necessity of evidence retention and directs procedures for special handling. Including investigation and interviewing of staff, physicians and patients regarding high risk events.  • Identifies occurrences that are potentially compensable events, and works with clinical staff to obtain appropriate documentation.  • Manages patient grievance process by working with patients, families and visitors to resolve outstanding issues within the guidelines mandated by CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services).  • Supports litigation, including coordination of discovery responses and provides documentation for defense counsel along with associated discovery, including deposing of staff and physicians.  • In-depth understanding of healthcare data and operations coupled with knowledge of large data set development and quantitative data analysis utilizing analytical tools for reporting.  • Leads special projects, lending data expertise and actionable insights. Develops exception reporting and conducts drill-down analysis to proactively identify specific variances in trends.  • Develops and implements educational programs for employees, volunteers, contracted staff and medical staff based on analysis of risk assessments, historical and concurrent occurrence and data.  • Maintains an exchange of information with professional organizations, peers, and other resources to improve and update the risk program.  ? Includes Workplace Violence guidelines and reporting requirements (OSHA and California Department of Labor)  ? EOC (Environment of Care) guidelines and reporting requirements for employee health and safety initiatives  ? Includes working closely with corporate compliance regarding audits and potential violations of SOX Act, Anti-Kickback statute, EMTALA, HIPAA, Civil Rights, ADA, ethics and professional conduct requirements  • Encourages and consistently reinforces staff compliance with organizational policies, safety regulations, ethics and compliance, and risk management activities.  ? Educates and encourages reporting of events and losses during staff orientation, skills labs and safety fairs (regularly using Reason's Swiss cheese model of safety)  • Responds in writing and in person to grievances received by federal and state authorities (CMS-Centers for Medicare/Medicaid Services and CDPH-California Department of Public Health), national accreditation and compliance authorities (TJC-The Joint Commission and DNV).  • Completed training as a "Change Agent Plus" in 2014. Education through GE and used to work closely with Lean Six Sigma trained staff when implementing new processes and systems.  • Serves as equipment coordinator, verifies guidelines are followed by staff when receiving recall notices and failed equipment reports.  ? Maintains compliance data for staff who are required to drive facility owned vehicles. Annually reviews DMV record of all staff who drive facility owned vehicles and takes action when necessary  ? Contact person for accidents and damages Adventist Health January 2003 to Present Standards Coordinator Regulatory and Compliance June 2007 to April 2008 Responsible for the standardization of policies, physician orders and forms.  • Provided staff education on the hospital's process and policy database. Provided data entry assistance to risk management as needed.  • Presented policy education classes to network staff. Surgery Scheduling Supervisor/ Database Administrator Surgical Services January 2003 to June 2007 Supervised surgery schedulers at three hospitals; scheduling for 10 operating rooms and multiple Anesthesiologists while managing the surgical scheduling database.  • Administration of database included maintaining confidential patient information, patient charges, and complex scheduling grids.  • Supported department director in administrative tasks; included department budget management and revenue assessments.  • Chosen by corporate office to train surgical staff at two sister hospitals (Simi Valley Adventist Hospital and St. Helena Adventist Health Hospital) on implementing and maintaining surgical services database at their sites.  • Served as charge master lead for surgical services during the system wide charge master revision and update.  • Created and maintained monthly surgical services reporting using Crystal Reports. Education High school or equivalent Skills Risk Management, SOX, Governance, Compliance, Hospital Certifications/Licenses CPHRM September 2018 to September 2021 Certified Professional Healthcare Risk Management