Office Manager Office Manager 30+ Years Medical Experience Teaneck, NJ Practice manager with over 25 years’ experience in business development, patient satisfaction and medical billing. Strength in transitioning and training of EHR systems to achieve optimum patient experience and satisfaction. Most recent experience involved the development and implementation of a Behavioral Health clinic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office Manager Englewood Behavioral Health - Englewood, NJ February 2018 to Present Responsible for the implementation of a new Behavioral Health center, Englewood Physicians Health Network. Supervise all non-clinical staff, maintain provider schedules and staff training. Supervise daily operational responsibilities and patient flow, billing and registration, medical record retrieval, insurance patient eligibility and insurance verification/authorization process. EHR Training Specialist Englewood Hospital Medical University - Englewood, NJ March 2016 to February 2018 Developed, implemented and supported solutions and processes to meet the organizations requirements. Worked closely with internal staff, systems users, and vendors to ensure successful implementation of procedure and business applications. Client training and follow-up.  Worked on special projects to transition ambulatory departments for EPIC application.   Attended EPIC Ambulatory 100 and 400 and CLN 250/252 classes for ambulatory certification, proficiency status achieved. PRACTICE ADMINISTRATOR METROPOLITAN NEUROSURGERY ASSOCIATES - Englewood, NJ March 2015 to December 2015 Co-managed staff while in training to replace current practice administrator. Responsibilities included, staff hiring and retention, implementation and training of Intergy EHR software. Developed office processes and procedures manuals. Supported front staff with patient appointments and insurance verification. PRACTICE MANAGER THE FAMILY CENTER FOR OTOLARYNGOLOGY AND ALLERGY - Rutherford, NJ June 2013 to December 2013 Ensured the planning and achievement of goals and objectives were consistent with the company's policy and procedures. Responsibilities included, staff hiring, retention, training and coaching new hires to improve patient satisfaction and needs, payroll, accounts payable, maintaining employee work schedules and ensuring all three offices were fully staffed. Maintained computerized record management systems schedules to record and process data and generate reports. Attended worker’s compensation meeting and networked with NP to increase patient census. DATABASE SPECIALIST MILLENNIUM PRACTICE MANAGEMENT ASSOC - Upper Saddle River, NJ September 2012 to June 2013 Responsible for the Intergy database setup for over 15 new clients and performed training via webinar and onsite to staff. Registered new applicants for EFT and ERA submissions, identified and corrected performance issues. Participated in special projects, external audits, evaluations and process improvements. TRAINER VITERA HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS - Tampa, FL March 2010 to June 2012 Provided Intergy database setup and staff training via webinars and on-site for over 50 Northeast clients. Accepted additional responsibility to coordinate the training schedules for 400 trainers in the Northeast. Assigned to special project to evaluate and improve processes for a new cloud based program. PRACTICE ADMINISTRATOR ASSOCIATED EYE PHYSICIANS - Clifton, NJ March 2000 to January 2010 Oversaw the day-to-day operations for staff of 15 employees and two office locations. Responsibilities included, staff hiring, retention, training and coaching new hires to improve patient satisfaction and needs, payroll, accounts payable, maintaining employee work schedules and ensuring the two offices were fully staffed. Maintained computerized record management systems schedules to record and process data and generate reports. Implementation and training of Intergy practice management and electronic health records systems. Scheduled patient's surgical procedures. Provided marketing to improve foot-print. Credentialed physicians and implemented HIPAA laws. Education Health Care Administration ASHFORD UNIVERSITY - Clinton, OH 2008 to 2009 BACHELOR OF ARTS - In Progress in Administration and Business FAIRLEIGH DICIKINSON UNIVERSITY - Teaneck, NJ 2009 CERTIFICATE in MEDICAL ASSISTING LYON'S TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Hackensack, NJ August 1982 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Quickbooks Pro (10+ years), Training And Development (10+ years), Leadership Development (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Marketing Strategy (10+ years), Social Media Management (10+ years), Epic Ambulatory (2 years), Payroll (10+ years), Scheduling (10+ years), Billing (10+ years), Accounts Payable (10+ years), Quickbooks (10+ years), Leadership Experience, Excel, Administrative Experience, Medical Office Experience, Office Experience, Medical Terminology Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  • Independent judgment and decision maker with excellent communication skills and ability to work with shifting priorities.  • Excel in employee training and development skills  • Expert in Intergy database and end-user of Windows, MAC, social media and web applications  • Proficient in Quickbook Pro, Dragon Medical 10 and Epicare  • Write, Read and Speak Spanish