Linux Systems Administrator/ DevOps Engineer Linux Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ DevOps Engineer Linux Systems Administrator/ DevOps Engineer - AWS Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator/ DevOps Engineer AWS August 2016 to Present Xignette Technology Lanham MD,    • Provide system administration support for over 300 instances hosted in AWS Commercial cloud as well as GOV Cloud environments.  • Making the right architecture decisions to build highly available and scalable Web Application.  • Providing clients with efficient architecture solutions to their business needs.  • Helping clients to plan out and monitor their cost of using AWS services by using Trusted Advisor, Online Cost Calculator, Billing Alerts and Notifications, Reserved Instances, spot Instances etc  • Provision Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Redhat and Windows EC2 instances using private AMIs and baselines.  • Expertise in Amazon Cloud Services and its features AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, Cloud Watch, S3 etc.  • Perform LAMP installation and configuration on Ubuntu and Amazon Linux instances.  • Create Route 53 DNS entry for domain name resolution.  • Create and manage s3 buckets  • Configure Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with both public and private subnets, NAT instances, and Elastic Load Balancers.  • Implement VPC peering to ensure communication between instances in separate VPCs.  • Detach and attach volumes on EC2 instances  • Create AMI's and volume snapshots.  • Strong experience on AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications.  • Maintains the integrity and security of servers and systems, by creating and managing security groups and network ACLs to ensure controlled access to instances and subnets respectively.  • Responsible for allocating, releasing, associating, and disassociating elastic IP addresses.  • Scale up instances per customer request by changing instance type.  • Implement Autoscaling for scaling out to ensure availability and scalability of customer websites.  • Decommission websites and instances per customer request.  • Create, configure and ensure connection to RDS database running on Oracle and Mysql engines.  • Perform occasional Oracle and Mysql data dumps upon customer request.  • Install and configure Drupal and WordPress on both Amazon Linux and Ubuntu EC2 instances.  • Implemented CI/CD using Jenkins, Ansible, Docker from scratch.  • Responsible for build and managing infrastructure on AWS cloud and Creating CI/CD pipelines on Jenkins.  • Perform Patching of Linux and windows instances within a maintenance window using Ansible and occasionally perform security updates to remediate system vulnerabilities.  • Leverage Ansible for provisioning and de-provisioning user accounts on Linux instances.  • Configure websites and Production instances for monitoring using Nagios and CloudWatch.  • Install and configure Atlassian products such as JIRA and Confluence on EC2 instances.  • Utilize Confluence for technical documentation and training materials for purposes of sharing technical knowledge among team memebers.  • Install and Configure Atlassian Stash as a code repository used for collaboration.  • Automated MySQL container deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers using Nagios.  • Participate in daily stand up scrum meetings and provide weekly project status reports.  • Troubleshoot various customer technical problems. DevOps & AWS Engineer AWS - Lexington Park, MD August 2014 to May 2016 • Created AWS Cloud formation templates to create VPC architecture, EC2s, Subnets and NATS to meet high availability application and security parameters across multiple AZs.  • Configured S3 to host static web content and deployed cloud stack using AWS Opswork  • Used AWS S3 services for creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging  • Experience scripting with bash and SysAd tools Ansible, Docker, Cloud Watch, and ELK to automate and monitor resources spinning up/updating/use  • Expert in using different source code version control tools like GIT, Subversion  • Experience in Build automation tools like Jenkins, Maven  • Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Puppet, AWS.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Puppet, Maven & Nexus in Linux environment  • Strong interest in developing Python skill set to grow deeper into automation and Machine Learning.  • Designing, Installing and Configuring virtual infrastructure in various data centers on VMware Platform.  • Experience with GitHub and Atlassian suite products to share documentation and standards  • Significant experience troubleshooting and user acceptance testing; bug discovery, reproduction,  • reporting, and remediation  • Run services on Docker using ECS&Configuring the Docker Containers and Creating Docker files for different Environment.  • Installed and configured Hudson/Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution  • Monitored from end-to-end view of runtime systems CPU, bandwidth, disk space, and application logs  • Applying AWS Security Features along with traditional Information and Application Security  • Built process workflow with different levels of user access control  • Worked with Amazon IAM console to create custom users and groups  • Experience in working with AWS provided Solutions like EC2, ELB, VPC, Route 53, RDS, S3, IAM, and Cloud Watch  • Worked on AWS EBS Volumes, Cloud Formation and Cloud Watch services Database Administrator Towers Data Inc - Bethesda, MD September 2010 to August 2014 • Installed Oracle 12c and 11g database software and upgraded 10g database to 11g i.e upgraded several databases from Oracle 10g to 11g (10.2.0).  • Created and documented the following physical database objects, as well as created/granted privileges and authorizations to these physical objects and user permissions: UNIX/Oracle- Oracle tables, indexes, sequences, views, table spaces, and data files - Oracle roles, users, permissions. UNIX file permissions  • Plan, implement and troubleshooting Oracle RMAN backup, restore and recovery  • Monitor and tune Oracle database for optimum performance, assist in capacity planning of Oracle database server.  • Provide technical assistance and guidance to application support staff and project teams  • Implement coop test to switch any standby database to the production role, for minimizing the down time associated with the outage and preventing any data loss  • Write and modified and finalized the migration guide for releases.  • Database tuning: Optimize database performance by analyzing objects, generating statistics, creating indexes and views  • I provide guidance and assistance in the development, maintenance, administration and enforcement of Oracle database management standards and guidelines.  • Perform database refresh via export and import, data pump or cloning database. Perform refreshing/overlaying of data as requested (ex. overlay a testing database with production data for actual data and volume).  • Perform general technical trouble shooting and give consultation to development, testing and production teams.  • I managed the implementation of new change control request (scr) or new enhancements for all the database changes and deployment into production, work with team to implement new System upgrades or new patches from vendor to fix Oracle problems or bugs.  • Provide guidance to database and systems management personnel on use and administration of Oracle DBMS software, evaluate and recommend Oracle DBMS products and tools  • Implement and maintain Oracle database structures, monitor and tune Oracle database environments for improved system performance, ensure integrity and recoverability of Oracle database structures, migrate application data structures across multiple database platforms, and provide guidance and recommendations for efficient use of database resources. The database environment consists of databases that range in size from several gigabytes (GB) to several hundred GB, with terabyte-sized databases as well. Helpdesk Support Medstar - Washington, DC May 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:    • Respond to user helpdesk requests for assistance in a prompt, timely manner.  • Organize and identify tickets according to priority, forward or escalate appropriate issues to operations or development, and resolve all others.  • Deploy, support and maintain approved hardware and software technologies.  • Configure desktop applications for end users.  • Answer the helpdesk phones and provide support to users  • Deploy new software to user computers.  • Develop and maintain PC images, and deploy images to new hardware for installation at user's workplace.  • Conduct annual hardware refreshes, including maintaining customer data during replacement.  • Server support for creation of and maintenance of share folders and printer queues.  • User settings configuration and standardization through GPOs and Desktop Authority.  • Set up new users, including both account configuration and initial training and orientation, and account creation when necessary.  • Maintain a log of all activities in a ticketing system and create a weekly summary for management use, and routinely have considerably the largest number of tickets logged.  • Resolve issues with desktop applications, including email clients, work processing suites and VPN software.  • Manage the creation, modification, and deletions of network, email and system user accounts.  • Assist in the maintenance of inventory and tracking company technical assets.  • Perform hardware diagnostic tests on end user equipment.  • Perform maintenance, repairs and upgrades on end users systems including memory upgrades, hard drive replacements, and other such changes on laptop systems.  • Maintain and resolve issues with core telecommunication systems, including mobile phone and data connections. Education SUN Microsystems Training Institute - Herndon, VA August 2011 E Computer Education and Consulting ASM Educational Center - Rockville, MD June 2010 Bachelor of Science in Economics Lagos State University May 1996 Skills Cache, Database, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Docker, Git, Html, Jenkins, Json, Middleware, Python, Svn, Chef, Puppet, Virtualization, Elastic beanstalk, Ec2 Additional Information Technical Skills:  AWS-EC2,ECS (Elastic Container Service), Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) ,S3, Glacier, RDS, Dynamo DB, Elastic Cache, VPC, Cloud Front, Route 53, Code Commit, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trial, SWF, SQS, SNS, OpsWork, Elastic Beanstalk, IAM, EMR  Config Tools: Chef, Ansible, Puppet, Docker, and Jenkins  Languages: HTML, JSON, SQL, Python  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  IDE/ Tools: Toad , Putty, Jenkins  Database: Oracle, SQL Server,DB2,Teradata,MySQL  Operating System: Linux, Unix, Windows  Version Control: CVS,SVN,GIT  Build Tools: Maven, Jenkins  Virtualization Tools: Virtual Box, Docker, Kubernetes, VMWare  Middleware Technologies: Micro Services, Web Services (SOAP and REST)