System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Systems Technology Forum, Ltd Suffolk, VA With 10 years of experience as a Database Developer and Programmer/Systems Manager. Has previously worked with a variety of developers and Managers supporting military readiness and how the DOD works, from creating reports for management to develop data processes with developer's and many projects in between these have helped him step into his current admin role with relative ease. Mr. Sheline has excellent customer service, organizational and communication skills with a strong work ethic. He has strong leadership and team skills. Work Experience System Administrator Systems Technology Forum, Ltd - Chesapeake, VA March 2017 to Present Mr. Sheline provides server and operating system administration, including deployment, configuration, and STIGs. Provides SQL server and database administration and IIS web server and site administration. Provides support for application development environment utilizing Visual Studio and Team Foundation Server. Provides SCCM/SCOM administration, to include software deployment and system monitoring. Data Developer StratusLive - Virginia Beach, VA February 2016 to February 2017 Developed BI reporting using SSRS and Data Cube method. Created and updated Sql Jobs for data movement. Maintain Data warehouse. Developed Data migration/conversion using SSIS. Managed Reporting from end user requests. Database Developer, Vaco Contract StratusLive - Virginia Beach, VA August 2015 to February 2017 Was responsible for developing BI reporting using SSRS and Data Cube method. Created and update Sql Jobs for data movement. Maintained Data warehouse. Developed Data migration/conversion using SSIS. Managed Reporting from end user requests. Database Developer General Dynamics - Norfolk, VA December 2012 to July 2015 Developed Report using SSRS to facilitate all reporting needs. Created new and maintained data warehousing for application use. Monitored all systems Web jobs and management tasks to ensure completion and top performance. Assisted in all data moves and system upgrades. Maintained security and administrative responsibilities on all Database environments. Maintained all access applications in use. Developed jobs and procedures to update system databases nightly. Monitored Database instances for performance. Worked with application developers daily to complete all data needs. Created and maintained reports and reporting standards including security. Worked with upper management to create policy and best practice per database instance. Designed and updated current database needs. Programmer Greenville Casualty Insurance - Greer, SC September 2012 to December 2012 Developed new web applications and updates for existing systems. Created new source code for software using various code languages. Monitored all systems web applications to ensure top performance. Programmer/Systems Manager KBH Business Management - Virginia Beach, VA May 2009 to July 2012 Developed new web applications and updates for existing systems. Created SQL scripts and functions to import data from one data set to another. Database development through table design, updating structure and various other needs. Created new source code for software using various code languages. Implemented new updates to all software users. Worked with end users to create new aspects of the systems as well as trouble shoot any existing problems with the software. Monitored all systems web applications to ensure top performance. Handled all accounts using the system ensuring they are properly trained. Maintained data and ensured all data is secure and correct. Assisted with Internet Marketing via developing and launching websites (set up domain DNS and IIS). Tested all Applications and updates before launch. Configured Mobile devices such as phones and tablets. Troubleshot and repaired websites according to end user feedback. Information Technology Staff/Programmer Harbour Credit Management - Virginia Beach, VA January 2009 to July 2012 Made sure all computers were in working order for users. Developed any new web application updates requested by management. Maintained all websites used by Harbour. Performed Check runs and Dialer duties on their scheduled nights. Maintained data structure and security via backups and updates. Forms Developer Liberty Tax Service - Virginia Beach, VA September 2008 to December 2008 Developed all forms according to state and national standards. Reviewed all forms and pages to ensure proper alignment. Completed State checks on all State forms to account for any State tax change. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science ECPI College of Technology July 2008 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Asp, Dreamweaver, Asp.net, Ssrs, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Php, jquery, Html5, Excel, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2017 to July 2020 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) February 2018 to Present Querying Data with Transact-SQL Additional Information SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS:  • Oracle, SQL Language, SQL Server 2005/2008-2016, PL/SQL, PHP, MS (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), C, C++, Visual Studios, ASP.NET(Object Oriented Programming), SSIS, SSRS, Powershell, Javascript, Jquery, HTML\XHTML, HTML5, Microsoft Office, DreamWeaver, Adobe, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2012/2015, Source Control(TFS, Toad)    TECHNICAL SUMMARY:  • Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/Windows7, Professional, Windows 10  • Windows Server 2000/2008 R2, 2012, 2016  • Mac OS X, Network/Protocols: DNS, IIS, FTP, ISDN, SMTP, POP3, TCP/IP, Network Installation