Executive Assistant and Database Manager Executive Assistant and <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Schuylerville, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Executive Assistant and Database Manager Saratoga County Prosperity Partnership - Malta, NY February 2018 to Present Responsible for event planning, maintaining a projects-based database, and administrative tasks for the office. Along with creating the Agenda for Board Meetings and the backup board documents required. Responsible for uploading minutes and agenda for public viewing.  Executive Director WCBA - Glens Falls, NY June 2016 to January 2018 Discretion when dealing with all aspects of Bar Assoc. matters and responsibilities, Responsible for all aspects of event planning from initial setting up the venue, to creating the menus, and all aspects of the event the day of. Need to consistently increase membership with creating more opportunities for membership benefits. Area Coordinator and Administrator Healthy Visions - Schuylerville, NY December 2014 to October 2017 Healthy Visions is an organization designed to create change in students' lives that help them build stronger relationships and make better choices. We provide in class guidance to allow these students face the challenges that face them with social media, bullying, self image and other important facets of their life. Database Manager WAMC Northeast Public Radio - Albany, NY April 2012 to June 2016 Maintain CRM to increase our sales revenue by creating a method where our sales reps can get up to date information they need quickly. Continually developing and assisting with increasing our membership. Work on marketing and developing plans with both Underwriting and Membership Managers. Independent Marketing Contractor Environment One Corporation October 2007 to 2012 Continued responsibilities for maintaining Database, of over 30,000 Power Plants and specific equipment world wide with Environment One Corporation.  Created and maintained website for small companies, as well as help launch a marketing campaign and develop lead generation. Marketing Coordinator and Database Specialist Environment One Corporation - Niskayuna, NY September 2004 to 2007 Coordinate with National and International sales teams for lead follow through and customer service issues. Team lead on database project where managing both people and timeliness were crucial. Member of a marketing team that created product release campaigns, trade show planning and brand name building. Responsible for promotional items price quotes, purchasing, and distribution. Marketing Coordinator Simmons Machine Tool Company - Menands, NY September 1999 to 2004 Coordinate marketing programs including advertising, brochure development, publicity, trade shows. Manage the development and production of national and international sales proposals. Responsible for creating executive level slide show presentations. Create and maintain Databases of Customers and Product Line. Develop press releases and public relation articles. Responsible for writing, editing, and filming training videos for machine usage. Also acted as customer liaison. Education BA in International Relations St. Joseph's University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Proficient in Adobe Creative Suite (3 years), Proficient with Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Salesforce (5 years) Additional Information • Marketing - Planning experience with creating and implementing communication strategies.   • Project Management - Ability to coordinate and implement ad campaigns on-time and within budget.  • Team Leader – Capable of leading people to meet project deadlines.   • Technical Editing – Responsible for creating, editing, writing script, and producing training videos.  • Event Planning -Skilled at development, organization, and execution of fund raising events.  • Database -Proficient at creating, implementing and maintaining databases for lead development purposes.  • Graphics – Experienced with graphics packages for ad layouts, video editing, and web maintenance.  • Board Management – Experienced with all aspects of creating board documents, agendas and public notices.    Computer Skills:  Microsoft Office Suite - proficient in all of it  Adobe DC  Adobe FrameMaker  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Premiere  Adobe Pagemaker  Salesforce - CRM