Quality Specialist Quality Specialist Quality Specialist/ Document Control Fountain Valley, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Specialist Seaspine - Orthobiologics October 2017 to July 2019 • Generate approval to release tissue donor for International Orders  • Certificate of Conformance and Analysis SAP -Configuration MSA- Safety Company August 2016 to September 2017 • ECM (Engineering change management)  • ECO, Assist sister site in Ireland  • Create material master for new P/N Quality Systems Specialist FRESENIUS MEDICAL CARE December 2015 to August 2016 Implementing a Training System in Compliance Wire database for employees Quality System Administrator AGILITY FUEL SYSTEMS September 2014 to December 2015 • Maintained integrity of document control processes and procedures for 4 plants  • Initiated non-conformance reports and disposed material after Review Board.  • Flowcharted, updated and validated of existing and newly-developed processes.  • Managed the Manufacturing and Quality training records for all employees    Quality Inspection Lead  • Responsible for all In-process and final inspection of highly-engineered fuel systems  • Improved the repeatability of the inspection process by using statistical sampling Quality Associate COVIDIEN September 2013 to August 2014 • Read, interpreted and applied engineering and process documentation as required.  • Followed GDP, GMPs and ISO quality requirements.  • Reviewed and validate Device History Records for accuracy and completeness. Database Administrator Henkel Corporation (Ablestik Laboratories) - Rancho Dominguez, CA October 1990 to August 2013 10/1990 - 8/2013  1. Document Control/ Engineering Ass (SAP)    * Administered QSI database to provide access rights and control document revisions.  * Scheduled MRB meetings, emailed minutes and send out actions items.  * Prepared monthly quality reports and metrics for management review  * Analyzed control chart data to set parameters of new products.  * Assisted Engineering with ECN, ECO, SOP, DCR review trends and specifications in SAP.  * Resolved customer's complaints and address issues with vendors.  * Participated on Lean Manufacturing and Internal Audits.  * Scheduled and maintained calibration system database    2. Quality Control Specialist    * Compiled laboratory test data and perform analysis of in-process materials, raw materials, finished goods.  * Interpreted test results, compared with control limits to meet customer's specifications. generate certificate of analysis and conformance in SAP  * Reviewed bill of materials (BOM) and processed customer's orders.  * Worked with routers and production planners. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management in Business Management University of Phoenix Skills Erp, Mrp, Sap, Database, Oracle, Qad, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Spc, Detail oriented, Team player, ISO, Quality Improvement, Quality Assurance Additional Information SKILLS    Detail oriented, Team player, Analytical. accurate  Excel, PowerPoint, Word, SAP, QAD, QSI database, ERP, MRP, Oracle, Agile, SPC,