Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Woodbridge, NJ • Over 6 ½ years of IT experience in Oracle Database Administration on various operating systems such as Linux, UNIX (HP UNIX and Solaris), Windows NT, Windows 2000/2003, and SQL Server on Windows 2003 Server  • Experience on OLTP and DSS Systems and supported on 24X7 operations  • Expertise in security, monitoring activity, installation, backup and restores, recovery, tuning and SQL & PL/SQL  • Experience in working as SQL Server DBA as well as Sql Server Integration Package  • Experience in SqlServer Backup/Recovery , Database Administration and Performance Tuning  • Developed SQL Server Integration package for Backup the Subsystems  • In depth knowledge and extensive working experience in Oracle database administration such as data modeling, database design, performance tuning, system set up and upgrade, backup and recovery.  • ?xperience with databases in an Application environment  • Excellent understanding of Oracle architecture and Oracle tunable parameters  • Excellent understanding of Oracle RDBMS 8i through 10g and Oracle data dictionary (On Sun Solaris 2.x, HP UX 10.x/11 and Win NT/ 2000 environment)  • Successfully implemented Oracle10g(R2) RAC: ASM storage devices, RHEL4/3  • Install, configure and upgrade MS SQL Server  • Install, Configure, and Create RAC CRS and Database Instances by using Response files (silent installation) and SRVCTL commands  • Involved in configuring and converting MS SQL server 6.5 database to MS SQL Server 7.0.   • Extensively used Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, and SQL Server Profiler  • Tuning Linux system level parameters for Oracle RAC such as HugeTLBs(vm.nr_hugepages), NFS tcp_slot_table_entries, net.core.rmem_max, and net.core.wmem_max  • Setup Data Guard for production RAC Database in Physical Standby Architect.  • Hands on experience in Oracle advanced technologies such as 10g RAC, OEM, Grid Control, Data Guard (both logical and physical), partitioning, RMAN.  • Implemented a standby database operation using Oracle9i, 10g Data Guard for data loss and also provides graceful switchover and switchback between sites for a planned OS and hardware maintenance.  • High-volume production database support, Oracle Fail Safe implementation (Data Guard), backup plans and implementation, Performance monitoring and tuning (Statspack)  • Exprience in implementing and using of Oracle 10g new features like Data Pump, ASM, Flash Back Technology, Transportable Tablespaces and Automatic Workload Repository  • Planning and scheduling Physical Backups using RMAN and Manual methods and Logical Backups (Full, User, Table)  • Oracle Installation, upgrade and migration (Oracle 8.1.x, 9i and 10g )  • Shell scripting for automating, monitoring and performing routine database jobs.  • Vibrant team player with belief in taking positive approach towards issue resolution Work Experience Oracle DBA Company - Richmond, VA January 2012 to July 2012 Capital One Richmond   Dec 2011 – June 2012  Database Administrator    Responsible for administration of procedures and practices regarding data access and upkeep for a specific database technology. Works with project teams to determine changes needed to the database, models and implements the changes. Supports the ongoing project efforts and day-to-day support activities for the department.    ? Project Scope & Responsibilities     • Manages and maintains data in all production and non-production databases and replication servers. Maintains security database; generates reports, queries and documenting. Works with project teams to identify database changes needed to implement project o    • Manages database elements, including creation, alteration, deletion and copying of schemas, databases, tables, views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers and declarative integrity constraints.    • Sets up access privileges to databases. Creates and maintains user profiles for database access, including login and password. Configures database parameters, and prototypes designs against logical data models.    • Monitors database for resource utilization. Handles and supports testing and reporting. Manages database distribution, security and access requirements.    - Create, maintain, and support database architectural environment  - Physical database design  - Administration of production objects in change control environment  - Development of pro-active processes for monitoring capacity and performance  - Perform system level and application level tuning  - Support the application development teams for database needs and guidance  - Support of production processes   - Support of end user queries  - Database security administration Database Administrator FTF Inc. NY September 2005 to March 2008 FTF is the most experienced Application Service Provider (ASP). They use a highly automated, efficient, systematic approach to deliver managed hosting, application management, remote management, professional services, and eBusiness development. They have different clients like UniVision, Technocolor, Ny Govt. Agency,State Firm Insurance etc.    Ø Project Scope & Responsibilities  • Creation of ORACLE databases.  • Standardization of ORACLE database environments.  • Install, Configure, and Create RAC CRS and Database Instances by using  response files (silent installation) and SRVCTL commands.  • Upgraded few 8i and 9i databases to 10G RAC on RHEL4 U4.  • Tuning NIC Cards by setting Full Duplex mode and speed to 1000MB/s to  improve the performance.  • Successfully implemented Adding/Deleting RAC nodes, TAF, Load Balance.  • Setup and documented Data Guard Fail-Over/Switch-Over/Read-Only  scenarios in RAC.  • Installation and configuration of Stats Pack, snapshots and analysis of Stats  pack performance report and subsequent tuning of production databases.  • Database planning and design of logical storage structures and capacity  planning for future growth.  • Converting dictionary-based tablespaces to locally managed tablespaces to eliminate fragmentation, better performance and reduced maintenance.  • Develop and administer processes for capacity planning.  • Configuration and setup of OEM monitor production databases.  • Design, deployment, monitoring and troubleshooting of rollback segments  • Installed and upgraded the oracle server 8i, 9i, 10g  • Configuring database with suitable block size, multiple pools and storage parameters for best performance.  • Database backups and recovery using RMAN, Import/Export, Hot/Cold Backups, Data Pump tools.  • Rich experience in planning and implementation of backup/recovery strategies usingconventional OS utilities as well as RMAN  • Documented policies and procedures for each project including recovery in case of disaster using procedures, such as daily script creation of control files and copying, binarycontrol files to backup directories, database copying, and renaming a database on different servers  • Migration of data from the Production to Test/Dev databases as per the requirement of the Development team and restoring the data if it is corrupted.  • Optimizing the SQL's for optimum performance by using TKPROF, EXPLAIN Security Administration including the management of profiles, roles, users and their privileges PLAN, AWR/Stats Pack Reports Education B.S. in Electronics in Computer Science N J I T - Newark, NJ January 1999 to January 2003 Additional Information Skill sets  Operating System: SCO UNIX, Linux, Win NT/2k, DOS & SINIX  Hardware: Sun SPARC E10k,HP T500,HP T600.  RDBMS: Oracle 7x, 8x, 9x & 10G  Languages: Exposure to PL/SQL, VI Editor, UNIX Shell scripting,  Tools & Utilities: Oracle's OEM, Dataguard, SQL Loader. Tuning pack like Oracle expert, SQL analyze RMAN, EXP, IMP, EXPDP, IMPDP, DBASSIST, SVRMGRL  Application Tuning: AWR, SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, Waitevents and Statspack.  Miscellaneous: Conversant with MS-Office suite