Server/Bartender Server/Bartender Server / Bartender Rehoboth Beach, DE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server/Bartender Cafe Azafran - Rehoboth Beach, DE October 2018 to July 2019 Served working the breakfast, lunch and dinner shifts.   Performed side work prior to opening for dinner. As the shift was in progress. There was minimal running side work to do. Such as getting the bartender more ice.   Was Responsible for closing out the registrar after the lunch shift. Server/Bartender Sloppy Joes - Saint Pete Beach, FL March 2015 to August 2017 1. Served both Lunch and Dinner Shifts   2. Performed running side work and pre closing side work.   3. Servers were required to rotate at least once a week to bartend. Systems Administrator BAY AREA TAXI SERVICE - Saint Pete Beach, FL September 2016 to June 2017 Provided day-to-day coordination, system administration and quality assurance for Tablets, Cameras, and credit card terminals fleet wide.  ? Oversaw complete technology stack, serving as the first point of contact for questions and issues.  ? Performed monthly maintenance on each camera in the Taxi Fleet to free up disk space, and to ensure Wi-Fi and Date settings are current.  ? Maintained SQL Server versions utilized 2012, 2014 and 2016 SSIS, SSRS and SSAS.  ? Managed IT vendors on project through lifecycle phases to successful completion. Client Service Associate I RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2013 to August 2016 Established new client accounts utilizing industry registration requirements.  ? Evaluated client documentation received from the Financial Adviser and/or client for processing approval utilizing the document imaging and workflow systems. Database Administrator GRANT THORNTON - Alexandria, VA October 2008 to August 2012 Assisted updating contract information with MS Access, and MS Excel.  ? Saved all documents, articles, presentations, status reports, and newsletters from former website.  ? Launched, and test the merged files in the new website. Ensured the accuracy of document selected, and ease of navigating to file.  ? Utilized SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS  ? Created, maintained, and organized new employee paper files. This also involves removing, and archiving former employee's paper file. This eliminates the need to verify employment status.  ? Used VLookup and HLookup in MS Excel to locate data on vertical and horizontal columns and rows to locate Dates, Time, Requestor Name, Server location and financial values of the payroll file. Also, used Conditional formulas such as: AND, IF and OR to present the financial data to the client for the values of each month's expenses of the data file to present to their accounting department.  Technologies: Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Project, SQL Server Database Administration, SQL Server Data Warehouse, HTML, T-SQL Database design, Microsoft SQL Server, SQL 2000 & 2005, Microsoft Access, MS Office 2003/2007/2010, PeopleSoft, MS CMS, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and, Mac OS X Database Administrator AMERICAN HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATION - Washington, DC April 2005 to August 2007 Used Informatica products for ETL to extract data from outside sources, transform it to fit operational needs, and load it into the end target database. This project consolidated data from different source systems with a different data organization/format. This data was transformed into a common data model and then loaded into the database warehouse.  ? Coordinated and conducted user-training, education and problem-solving sessions; counsel users regarding selection and functionality of appropriate database, facilitated running reports, troubleshoot databases and supported hardware/software and refined queries and reports.  ? Reviewed, analyzed and modified databases including encoding, testing, debugging & installing to support custom front-end UI's & backend databases using HTML, Javascript, & Visual Basic.  ? Ensured the availability and operation of all custom software.  ? Oversaw web site content and development, developing web-based applications with thin-client architecture, managed electronic documents, providing quality control, performing Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) processes, educated clients on technical concepts, researching emerging technologies and ensuring compliance with government and industry rules and regulations.  Technologies: Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Database Administration, SQL Server Data Warehouse, HTML, DHTML: T-SQL Database design, Microsoft SQL Server 2000 & 2005, Microsoft Access, MS Office & Excel 2003/2007/2010, PeopleSoft, MS CMS, Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows XP. Patient Admin Specialist WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER - Washington, DC October 2002 to February 2005 Developed and maintained database to track outpatient records. Conducted performance and user testing of database.  ? Developed and implemented criteria to determine status of patient records.  ? Provided patient care by registering new patients into the CHCS database, also provided clinical card.  ? Received Certificate of Appreciation  Technologies: Microsoft SQL Server, SQL 2000 & 2005, Microsoft Access, MS Office 2003, PeopleSoft, MS CMS, Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows XP. CHCS Management System. Systems Administrator COMMERCE ONE - NICE, FR July 1999 to May 2002 Partnered with SAP, Compaq, and Price WaterHouse Cooper  ? Performed SQL Server Database Administration in a SQL Server Data Warehouse.  ? Coordinated hardware and software installations and upgrades to ensure work is performed in accordance with company policy. Recommends resolutions to complex matters of significance and coordinate the implementation of the approved course of action.  ? Coordinated and monitored troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems: document system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommend course of action and implement as approved. This action was done using Visual Basic, HTML, and Java.  ? Coordinated upgrade and configuration of system files and services. Ensured changes were in accordance with appropriate operating procedures.  ? Performed user account creation, deletion, and configuration.  Technologies: Microsoft Access, MS Office Suite, SQL Server Database Administration, SQL Server Data Warehouse, Programming Languages: HTML, DHTML, Visual Basic, Java, JavaScript. Microsoft SQL Server, SQL, MySQL Microsoft Access, MS Office 2003, Crystal Reports, PeopleSoft, MS CMS. Operating Systems: Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows XP. Education Associate Degree in Business Communication Systems Management Sawyer Business School - Pittsburgh, PA December 1999 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), MICROSOFT ACCESS (10+ years), MICROSOFT SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeremyyohe1 Certifications/Licenses Received Certificate of Appreciation Groups Database Administrator - AMERICAN HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATION - WASHINGTON D.C Administrator Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Customer focused with a background in Database Administration, Database Architecture, and Systems Administration. Proficient in Microsoft Access, SQL Server, and possesses strong capabilities in Visual Basic, Java and HTML for application coding. Works effectively as a desktop support specialist, database administrator, quality assurance, and in troubleshooting network applications.  ? Programming Languages: HTML, XHTML, Visual Basic, Java, and JavaScript.  ? Database: Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2014, T-SQL Database design, Microsoft Access, SQL Server Management Studio, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.  ? Applications: Microsoft Project, MS Office, Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Crystal Reports, PeopleSoft.  ? Operating Systems: Windows Server, MicroSoft Hyper-V, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10 and, Mac OS X