Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator North Potomac, MD Active DOD TOP SECRET Clearance  CompTIA Security+ CE Certification  Comprehensive professional experience in Oracle database administration and development since 1998 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Digital Management, LLC August 2014 to Present * Work as an onsite Oracle DBA for The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  * Manage Consolidated Database Architecture (CDBA) database systems including Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM), SIPRNet GIAP System (SGS) and System/Network Approval Process (SNAP) databases in production, test and development environments.  * Perform Oracle Database Administrator tasks including installing and upgrading Oracle software, creating and backing up databases, planning and executing data migration, creating physical standby Data Guard, managing usage of tablespaces, tuning database performance, creating reports, applying DISA Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) standard to databases, installing Oracle patches, and supporting developers and QA engineer of the CDBA project. DBA Lead / ESB Engineer NES ASSOCIATES, LLC December 2013 to August 2014 * Worked as an onsite Oracle DBA for The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  * Managed several Oracle database systems at Fort Meade lab: World Wide On-Line System (WWOLS), OSS-Central databases, DISA Direct Order Entry (DDOE) and Common Communications Vehicle (CCV).  * Focused on database backup and recovery with RMAN and reconstruction of parsing programs for WWOLS databases. Oracle DBA The Defense Information Systems Agency October 2005 to October 2005 October 2005 to November 20013, URS/APPTIS, Senior Database Analyst / Oracle DBA  * Worked as an onsite Oracle DBA for The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  * Managed World Wide On-Line System (WWOLS), a multi-master replication database system, and OSS-Central databases, a system built with Oracle Data Guard and VERITAS Cluster.  * Installed Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g and Oracle9i software on Oracle database servers. Created Oracle databases. Coordinated Oracle maintenance and patching. Modified Oracle database configurations based on DOD's Security Readiness Review (SRR) regulations.  * Monitored day-to-day operations of the Oracle databases. Examined system logs, fixed system faults and replication errors. Performed User-Managed database backup and RMAN backup. Created and managed user accounts. Audited databases.  * Defined database related working processes. Created scripts to modify database objects. Troubleshot database issues appeared. Created various database reports for the government. Wrote procedure guides for technique library of the government.  * Supported other multi-master replication database sites of WWOLS, provided instructions and advices for database issues related. Supported other materialized view sites of WWOLS, created and managed associated database objects. Supported developers and engineers on database development. Oracle Database Administrator Premier Technical Services January 2005 to October 2005 * Worked as an onsite Oracle DBA at The Department of Defense Network Information Center (NIC).  * Monitored database operations. Managed database integrity. Created database reports.  * Upgraded Oracle database software from Oracle8 to Oracle10g and performed database backups and data migration. Managed database objects and monitored Unix Cron jobs. Modified existing programs and scripts of C, Pro*C, Perl, Shell and PL/SQL to meet specific requirements. Modified Oracle database configurations based on the DOD's Security Readiness Review (SRR) regulations. Created ERWIN diagrams for database users. Authored "Network Information Software Guide (V1R0)" (published by DISA Operations 02/2005). Developer Houston Associates, INC October 2000 to August 2004 * Worked as an Oracle Designer/Developer at the Enterprise Database Group.  * Developed the company's Network Tracking Information System (NTIS) by using Oracle application development tools of SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Developer 6.0 (Forms and Reports), Oracle9iAS Forms and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  * Designed and implemented several significant subsystems for the NTIS: Software and License Tracking (SLT), Project Management (PM), System Change Request (SCR), Local Authority to Connect (LATC) and Site Management (SM) (redesigned and implemented).  * Won "Technology Achievement Award" for the year of 2003 for "inspired work and dedication in completing a valued innovative and creative technology service". Data Services Programmer Claritas, INC November 1998 to October 2000 * Worked as a Data Services Programmer at the Database Management Group.  * Managed data loading, data export and import for the company's data warehouses through Oracle and UNIX management utilities. Created database objects and control files. Evaluated loaded data, and provided the Oracle formatted data to associated companies. Education Master's Degree in Far East Archeology in Far East Archeology University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA April 1991 Master's Degree in Art History in Art History Academy of Arts of China - Beijing, CN January 1985 Bachelor's Degree in Education in Education Sichuan Teachers University - Chengdu, CN January 1982 Skills OS: Unix, Linux, MS-DOS and Windows workstations/servers, Network: Oracle database 9i/10g/11g, Hardware: Unix/Linux work stations, Desktop/Laptop PCs, Software: Toad and SQL Developer, Dev Languages: Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX Scripts Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Security+ CE Certification Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate Oracle8i Database Operator Certified Professional