IT Manager/ Database Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager/ Database Administrator Apex, NC Technical Support, Help Desk Management, Database System Administrator. RMM, Identity Access Management, EXCEL, WORD, CSS and HTML web coding and web content writing and publishing with AEM and Adobe forms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/ Database Administrator Cary Christian School - Cary, NC August 2008 to August 2019 • Database System Administrator - SQL database administrator. Performed identity and access management for school community. Ran the help desk supporting parents, faculty and students. Provided query support and reporting for all departments. Project Manager for the database migration. Performed grade data records management and was responsible for all transcripts and grade records.  • Technical Support - Supported network environment for school which included: Google Suite, Windows 10, 7, MAC, LINUX, Interactive whiteboards, laptops, desktops, tablets, school bell and paging system, CISCO Meraki WAPs, camera system, Google Suite, door access system, Cloud Servers, Remote Management, firewall, networked printers and high-speed copiers.  • Web Content Publisher - Updated the content for each audience based on group requests and school needs. Managed online publishing of academic grade records, calendar events, and targeted instructional videos. Integrated Adobe fillable forms into the admission and enrollment process. Coded CMS for web portals for internal school audiences; Student Portal, Faculty/Staff Portal, Parent Portal. Web Specialist SAS Institute - Cary, NC June 1997 to January 2007 • Web Coding - Coded HTML pages in HomeSite CMS production environment. Used CMS to update the sites and make changes defined by various departments and Corporate Communications needs. Updated and created CSS for external and internal sites. Provided JavaScript debugging support.  • Corporate Communications -.Updated web content to develop and enhance the press center for U.S. and international press visitors. Gathered information and maintained the SAS company statistics, company history, press kits.  • Success Stories - Coordinated communication and weekly flow of success story information, published new stories to the external site, revised, enhanced, removed and maintained existing stories. At the time there were over 500 active stories.  • sascom online magazine - Coordinated deployment of each quarterly issue of the magazine, maintained existing files from previous issues. Coordinated and executed deployment of web event e-mail campaign invitation landing sites. Maintained the event information pages for the external sites. Marketing Programs Manager Performance Awareness - Raleigh, NC November 1993 to June 1997 • Managed maintenance and support contracts for customer install base of over 20,000.  • Ran the help desk that provided security keys for military installations, and domestic and international corporate clients.  • Wrote and edited promotional material, direct mail, and customer success collateral used by sales.  • Coordinated trade show planning relevant to the UNIX load testing market, coordination, staffing, and budgeting for 18 shows per calendar year.  • Produced advertising campaigns and managed budget and coordination of a corporate awareness advertising program that included placement in over ten publications. Education Bachelor of Arts in Journalism in Mass Communications University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, NC Skills Sql Dba Assessments Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sa869szjluv6-ld Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hni4wihrav68njyc Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ilpf-zs0e09wbpph Research — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v7bnwt7rjekjol6a Email — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mtwji1kb5f-dhh7b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.