Senior Database and Solutions Architect Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> and Solutions Architect Head of IT Security and New Technologies Frederick, CO Work Experience Senior Database and Solutions Architect Five Rivers Cattle Feeding 2018 to Present Hands-on Office 365 Global Administrator, Skype for Business Administrator, Microsoft Teams Administrator and SharePoint Administrator responsible for all cloud technologies within the company. Conducted Microsoft Office 365 training to all General Managers across the company after sale of Five Rivers. Primary Database Architect managing all SQL Servers for the company ensuring all data is available for business reporting. Re-designed SQL Data Warehouse to ensure faster runtimes and more accurate information.  • Rolled out and implemented Microsoft Teams company-wide enabling collaboration for all company team members.  • Created documentation for fellow team members on Skype and Teams to enable continuity  • Created and implemented a Change Control process and application using SharePoint online. Documented process and procedures to follow when submitting and implementing Change Control  • Established and setup Office 365 Security Monitoring and Alerting to monitor OneDrive activity and report to leadership team if any internal company data is being shared externally  • Wrote and set IT policies and procedures in-place to ensure employee compliance as it refers to Internet Use, Email Use, Network Use etc.  • Re-designed Data Warehouse to run more efficiently saving time  • Upgrading all SQL Server Instances to SQL 2017 without impacting transactional replication  • Architecting database solutions in the cloud working with in-house developers, utilization Azure AD, Virtual Machines in the cloud and multiple other Microsoft technologies  • Primary security administrator ensuring all company assets are secured, security awareness training is given to all employees and all software and email security is constantly being monitored. Director Application Administration, Senior Database Administrator, Solution Architect JBS USA Food Company 2010 to 2018 Hands-on leader wearing multiple hats across IT for a leading food manufacturer with ~250k global employees, providing 24/7/365 support. Lead four teams; SAP Basis, Database Administration (~350 database instances), Enterprise Application Administration (14000 mailbox/users) and Data Archiving team with three direct report managers.  • Serve as key corporate technology expert with solid business acumen capable of driving technical/business strategy across organization.  • Interview, hire staff, conduct performance reviews and carry out disciplinary directives and terminations as needed.  • Conduct training for new staff and acquired staff on IT organizational structure, email usage, SharePoint, helpdesk requests, security, computer use policies and define roles/responsibilities. Train 5000 employees on Commvault and Plant IT Technicians to register and maintain devices  • Set and track team KPI's, conduct weekly staff meeting; address issues, challenges and reward successes.  • Assist in multiple SAP production upgrades and work with the business to perform full regression testing all financial environments, creating testing scripts.  • Manage corporate database team to administer, install, configure SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 servers and align security policies/procedures and implementation best practices.  • Architect new SQL environments; provisioning compute resources, drive layouts and set up replication across two data centers. Implement system monitoring tools to minimize downtime.  • Provide primary support for troubleshooting email archiving for legal/compliance department on all EDiscoveries.  • As Commvault Simpana email archive expert, establish backups, retention polices and quarterly restore testing.  • Contribute technical expertise to develop and document integration plan for new company acquisitions; integrate SQL environments and disparate systems for cohesive environment.  • Collaborate with PMO on IT documentation for database servers and applications to finalize acquisition.  • Partner with plant management to define business workflow and evaluate system needs. Drive team execution plan.  • Setup database availability groups across data centers to maximize uptime.  • Serve as trusted advisor and technical expert for software and tool selection/purchase. Research and obtain quotes from hardware/software vendors, recommend appropriate vendor. Negotiate contracts, coordinate implementations with provider.  • Track budgets using Capex and Opex, identify opportunities for cost-savings, provide executive reporting.  • Prepare root cause analysis reports on downtime issues and provide remediation resolution report to executives.  • Track company/SQL licenses and usage information, uncover cost-saving opportunities through core reduction and SQL environment consolidation.  • Support 12 Exchange servers ensure health of all systems and assist with patch management.  • Perform MYSQL backups, restores, general administration. Complete copy backs on 8 TB SQL database, provide to QA for testing and development.  Key Initiatives/Accomplishments  ? Rolled out mobile device management administration and configured Intune. Secured all company owned IOS and Android devices to remotely reset and enforce application compliance.  ? Championed effort to automate tasks within PowerShell, which improved efficiency and saved labor hours.  ? Successfully executed large project to upgrade all company SQL servers to SQL 2012 and 2014 and the use of "Always On" functionality for SAP systems.  ? Implemented anti-spam solution to guarantee secured Exchange environment.  ? Spearheaded Active Directory (AD) domain migration, consolidated multiple domains into one. Increased administration efficiency which provided significant cost-savings.  ? Launched company-wide email archiving tool, comprised of 50TB. Established policies, training and documentation. Adjunct Professor National American University 2005 to 2011 Taught courses on hardware/software configuration, introduction to CIS, SQL Server administration and programming, databases, systems analysis/design, integrative systems, and project management.  • Mentored students on Information Technology career path.    Key Initiatives/Accomplishments  ? Consistently achieved student evaluation score of 4.5 out of 5.    Technical Skills    Microsoft Windows Server 2000/3/8/12, Window 7, 10. SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016. SharePoint 2010 and 2013, Microsoft Exchange 2010, 2013, Intune Mobile Device Management, Office 365  Proofpoint Email Gateway and Targeted Attack Protection, Citrix 6.0, Active Directory, Commvault, Simpana, ALWAYS ON, SQL Mirroring, SQL Log Shipping, SQL Transactional Replication. Senior SQL Database Administrator Conseco Finance 1999 to 2010 Installed, supported, administered 500+ 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2 SQL Databases and Analysis Services for 2000 users on virtual environments.  • Collaborated with report and application developers to verify following proper coding standards for SQL. Assisted with code development for applications.  • Coordinated with business units; ensured Service Level Agreements (SLA's) adhered to customer needs.  • Tuned, optimized and re-indexed tables in various databases. Monitored all servers for performance issues and provided problem resolution.  • Analyzed, forecasted and made recommendations to accommodate future database growth.  • Documented and installed upgrades and hotfixes in SQL Server.  • Monitored and administered Oracle Servers and databases through Grid Control.  • Implemented database mirroring and log shipping to ensure high-availability and recovery nationwide.  • Prepared SAS70 documentation for IT Department audits to ensure adherence to all requirements.  • Documented processes to ensure continuity across database team.    Key Initiatives/Accomplishments  ? Led multiple projects across large data sets; created data warehouse as centralized reporting repository.  ? Set up standards for securing data, recommended best practices for pushing code from development and test to production through more efficient change control process.  ? Spearheaded consolidation and upgrade from SQL 2000/2005 to SQL 2008. Migrated multiple Microsoft Access databases to SQL. Upgraded SQL Server Reporting Services from 2005 to 2008, with minimal downtime. Set up security best practices and backup policies using Commvault.    Teaching Experience Education Master's Degree in Information Security and Management Colorado Technical University - Denver, CO Bachelor's Degree in Computer Information Security Colorado Technical University - Denver, CO Associate Degree in PC Desktop Support National American University - Rapid City, SD Skills Database, Sql, Erp, Software integration, Sap, Documentation, Contract negotiation, Forecasting, Budgets, Training, Merger & acquisition, Merger & acquisition integration, Asset management, Vendor management, Process improvement, Integration, Sme, Staff training, Azure, Solution Architect, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Exchange Links http://Linkedin.com/in/srudman Additional Information Areas of Expertise    ? Executive Leadership  ? Technology/Business Strategy  ? Enterprise SQL Database SME  ? Merger & Acquisition Integration  ? SAP & ERP Systems  ? Staff Training/Development  ? Troubleshooting/Escalation  ? Vendor Management  ? Contract Negotiation  ? Asset Management  ? Hardware/Software Integration  ? Policies/Procedures  ? Application Administration  ? Project Management  ? Forecasting/Budgets  ? Reporting/Documentation  ? Process Improvement  ? Office 365