Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Cypress, TX Software and data management professional, over twenty years of experience in oil and gas industry. Data analysis and software expertise. Processes inconsistencies identification and lead in corrective actions. Note and build on critical tasks to add value to objectives. Team player with excellent communication. Work Experience Database Administrator ExxonMobil - Spring, TX September 2018 to August 2019 • Provide Server Database Administration support for various server database environments including Critical applications.  • Responsibilities include backup and recovery, space monitoring, reorganizations, performance tuning, troubleshooting, version upgrades, and object maintenance.  • Implementation of database development, acceptance, and production environments across the globe, working closely with multiple Infrastructure teams.  • Ongoing production support of existing databases is the primary role. This position level would typically include junior Database Administrator performing mostly basic tasks of database development. Data Analyst - Facilities Campus Living Villages - Search Services - Houston, TX January 2018 to April 2018 • Analyse data gathered by Inspection Company pertaining to all (units/gathering areas) campus locations.  • Create and manipulate spreadsheets using functions, formulas, and pivot tables to show conclusions reports for budget forecasts required by several departments (finance, facilities, procurement) for future improvements and repairs of properties. Template created for use with future acquisitions.  • Used SharePoint daily to update and help the distribution of updated campus inspection reports and changes in main budget forecast spreadsheet. Administrator - Database American Bureau of Shipping - Houston, TX September 2016 to August 2017 • Responsible for data entry, gathering/organizing and managing data, and creating inspection circuits on P&IDs. Collaborate within a multi-disciplinary team that consists of other professionals with various backgrounds in the engineering/inspection fields.  • Enter mechanical, operating, design, inspection, and other relevant data into an IDMS software program and/or data-load spreadsheet.  • Build equipment packages consisting of documents such as (but not limited to) U-1As, As-built drawings, and Inspection Reports.  • Identify and highlight circuits on P&IDs based on API 570. Assist in QA/QC of documentation and data entry.  • Entry of data specific to systems, circuits, equipment, piping, instrumentation, and relief devices as well as data validation on existing data through software interface and import/export functions.  • Run data queries and generate reports based on these queries. Read and interpret technical documentation (e.g. U-1As, As-Built DWGs, PFDs, Heat and Material Balance Sheets, P&IDs, and Inspection isometrics). Working knowledge and understanding of industry standard governing codes (e.g. API, ASME). Project Planner/Data Analyst Houston, TX January 2013 to September 2015 • Produced internal and external project reports for management and client by gathering, weekly and bi-weekly, pertinent progress from engineering, procurement, operations and document control.  • Created and updated monthly, P6 schedules, s-curves, and convergence plans.  • Used vessels daily progress reports for as-built schedules input in MS Project.  • Provided project management with real time data to speed forecast input.  • Ensured prompt delivery of monthly PMSR data to project controls of project progress.  • Assisted senior planner with new tenders.  • Design and maintenance of planning department SharePoint website for department files, visibility for upper management as well as weekly and monthly updates for global vessel schedules.  • Gathered and input into vessel specific spreadsheets, durations for activities (work performed) on projects, for better accuracy of future tenders.  • Data analysis (2 years) for large projects with MS Excel and MS Access, for project invoicing accuracy, man hours and engineering document completion as well as forecasting. Used macros and VBA to create automation on spreadsheets. Administrative Assistant PGS - Houston, TX January 2008 to January 2012 • Provided administrative support to three executives at a satellite office. Coordinated travel, domestic and international.  • Ensured timely reimbursements by composing and submitting to main office, accurate expense reports for all satellite office employees.  • Keeping open and frequent communication with IT from satellite office to keep printers, fax machines, network access and phone systems in good working order, minimizing downtime.  • Set up and organized offices for new employees and out of town employees.  • Scheduled proper computer/laptop setup, including docking stations and/or specialized boxes (i.e. Linux), network access/permissions, office keys and VPN access keys.  • Noteworthy: Coordinated four day, off-site, meeting for two global departments consisting of 80 people. Handled logistics for all attendees, booked guest speakers, ensured proper audio/visual equipment setup, and coordinated group team building activities. This meeting resulted in greatly improved communication throughout departments. Project Assistant Serimax - Houston, TX March 2007 to October 2007 • Document control for all project documentation and communications. Assisted project managers, project engineers, and quality assurance manager with organization of reports and documentation for quality communication between departments.  • Organized, entered, and archived weld data records.  • Created a database to efficiently enter new data and import old data for finance department in order to more efficiently and effectively invoice open/past due invoices for large projects.  • Database also tracked daily man and equipment hours with rates for daily and monthly totals reports.  • It has been utilized and duplicated for use in other projects by finance and onsite operations.  • Continually updated procedure documents and created templates for project weld qualifications. Project Assistant Enbridge - Houston, TX January 2006 to November 2006 • Improved existing databases, archiving and updating documentation.  • Assisted project manager organizing and standardizing documentation, processes, electronic archive, and file systems in preparation for gas pipeline construction daily management. Responsible for document control.  • Tracked revisions and modified documentation and procedures as needed.  • Developed base and advanced Access databases to track field and survey photos, employees and costs.  • Created database that tracked daily man hours, daily equipment hours, and daily project production progress in coordination with Enbridge departments.  • Created and updated existing standard operating procedures (ISO 9000) for project quality system. Manufacturing Planner Ellwood, Texas, US January 2005 to November 2005 • Lead manufacturing planner for all aerospace forgings, including most valuable customers.  • Assisted master scheduler in creating and maintaining systems based on Oracle tables using Access databases, including detailed reporting and data entry forms.  • Created MS Access training documentation and conducted training courses to improve employee utilization of improved databases.  • Provided back-up assistance to certification department to ensure forge shipping deadlines.  • Maintained work-in-process spreadsheet for sales & production and aerospace shop orders daily and weekly progress.  • Assisted with company quarterly inventory of all forgings in yard, as well as identifying and locating missing inventory. Education Diploma Alvin High School University of Phoenix Skills ORACLE, SQL, MS PROJECT, SHAREPOINT, HTML, Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/patricia-marez-bundrant-754741119 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License