Senior Documentation Specialist / Change Manager Senior Documentation Specialist / Change Manager Senior Documentation Specialist / Change Manager - Abbott Medical Tucker, GA Works well in challenging, fast-paced, high-stress and deadline-oriented environments individually or as part of a team. Highly proficient in Windchill PLM electronic document system. In-depth knowledge of document management and engineering change control. Excellent leadership and interpersonal skills for managing work and tasks. Works well in a group or individual setting. Proficient in the following skills:  ? Windchill PLM ? Quality System ? Internal Audit Support ? Oracle Agile Administrator  ? Change Manager ? Apple Mac Office Suite ? SAP ? Oracle Agile Super User  ? Windchill PLM New User Trainer ? FDA Audit Support Backroom ? EPIQ ? Sharepoint  ? Proofreading ? MS Word and Excel ? Agile Change Analyst Work Experience Senior Documentation Specialist / Change Manager Abbott Medical - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to Present • Provide Document Control Change Manager support for Windchill PLM software at the Abbott Atlanta site.  • Perform Quality Check for Change Orders to ensure related Change Control procedures followed  • Perform Change Manager activities needed in support of Abbott Atlanta Quality System.  • Perform classroom training for new Windchill PLM software users.  • Provide assistance with Windchill related to searching, formatting and requirements  • Assist with CAPA folder and related document set-up in Windchill  • Support Quality System to meet management objectives for Abbott Atlanta.  • Support internal and external audits providing backroom support  • Update and maintain Quality Metrics for Quality Plans and Change Control  • Maintain SAP Material Master, Bill of Material, Routings, Receiving Inspection Plans and  • Distribute and monitor Lab notebooks  • Distribute and Maintain Floor Copies  • Provide employees with Techstreet Enterprise accounts for External Requirements  • Document and maintain archival of QA records at Iron Mountain. Senior Document Control Specialists Abbott Medical - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to January 2016 • Configure Agile including Workflows, Criteria, Fields, Roles, Groups, Privileges and Smart rules.  • Create searches for all global users to access.  • Perform all Engineering Change Notice routing, releasing and implementing.  • Reset Agile passwords and maintain system preferences to ensure a high level of security is enforced.  • Set-up new users and edit the roles when needed for users.  • Perform training for new Agile users.  • Assist engineers and technicians in locating drawings, specifications, and BOMs in Agile.  • Generate Agile reports when requested.  • Document and maintain archival of QA records at Iron Mountain. Oracle Agile Administrator ( Database) CardioMEMs - Atlanta, GA January 2006 to May 2014 • Configured Agile including Workflows, Criteria, Fields, Roles, Groups, Privileges and Smart rules.  • Created searches for all global users to access.  • Performed all Engineering Change Notice routing, releasing and implementing.  • Reset Agile passwords and maintained system preferences to ensure a high level of security is enforced.  • Set-up new users and edit the roles when needed for users.  • Performed training for new Agile users.  • Assisted engineers and technicians in locating drawings, specifications, and BOMs in Agile.  • Generated Agile reports when requested.  • Updated and maintain standards library.  • Documented and maintained archival of QA records at Iron Mountain.  • Created, edited and monitored new SOPs for Effectiveness.  • Oversaw, monitored and initiated training over new and updated procedures.  • Created and edited labeling artwork. Assisted with setting up and approving new suppliers.  • Edited engineering drawings.  • Performed incoming inspection on parts and review inspection documents.  • Maintained QA files and records, supplier status files, internal audit schedule, protocol and reports files.  • QC all reports and protocols prior to filing.  • Monitored and logged in spreadsheet all closed CAPAs, NCMRs and Deviations.  • Generated activity reports for all changes.  • Uploaded all approved and released documents to the intranet.  • Contacted customers to facilitate completion of Supplier Questionnaires. Regulatory Affairs Administrator Life Therapeutics - Atlanta, GA January 2003 to January 2006 Education Business Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake, UT August 2020 Biology University of Georgia - Athens, GA 1996 to 2000