John M. Boulom Database Administrator/Programmer Analyst John M. Boulom <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Programmer Analyst John M. Boulom Database Administrator/Programmer Analyst - Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children Dallas-Fort Worth, TX DBA and developing in-house solutions. Work Experience John M. Boulom Database Administrator/Programmer Analyst Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children 2001 to Present dsp765-indeed@yahoo.com 817-965-2209 Summary  • Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children - 2001 to present. • Design, install, and monitor database servers. • Work with customers to design and implement clinical and business solutions. • Certified Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012 • Certified Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Databases  Skills  Microsoft SQL Database Server 1. Microsoft Database Server  • Support Microsoft SQL 2000, 2005, 2008 and 2012 • Resolve production issues, including database tuning and performance, security access, backup and recovery. • Support application deployment of third party applications. • Setup/install new database servers, upgrade, monitor, and backup databases. • Work and manage ETL and SSIS packages. • Setup and monitor AlwaysOn High Availability Service with Windows Failover Cluster.  Web Server 2. Web Server  • Deploy and configure Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services and IIS • Migrated and upgraded the legacy web server from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003 platform.  Computer Application Development: 3. Protected Health Information (HIPAA)  • Developed an online form to capture patient information disclosures. 4. REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture)  • Installation/setup of REDCap with MySQL database, a research web application for building and managing online surveys. REDCap is being used by the Research Department at Scottish Rite and other hospitals.  5. HPE research (Holoprosencephaly) • Maintain and update the Holoprosencephaly (HPE) website, an Oracle database backend for the Neurology  Department. 6. Electronic Growth Chart  • Developed the PDF output files containing the growth charts of patient information, including heights, weights, and demographics. These PDF files are then imported into the Electronic Document System (EDM) for future reference by medical staff.  7. Master Patient Information Database • Developed the Master Patient Information database that mirrors some of the information from the Siemens  MedSeries4, DB2 fields. 8. Doctor's Notes  • Developed the clinical notes interface for the Doctor's Notes Online application. This system allows doctors, nurses, and medical staff to view and reference patient clinical notes online.  9. Lawson • Help support Lawson LTM Infor Process Designer. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Databases Texas Christian University Certifications/Licenses MCSA Present Security+ August 2015 to August 2018