Volume Manager Volume Manager Volume Manager - Private Research Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Volume Manager Private Research May 2009 to Present May 2009-Present: Conducting private research in Perl and Ubuntu Linux. Published two Perl modules to CPAN and another on SourceForge:  • DBspaces.shar, a Perl package with 6 utilities to manage disk space in an Informix server.  o Data::UNLreport, a column-oriented report generator, also published to the IIUG Software Library, with documented plans for many enhancements.  o Math::Yapp, a mathematical package of all manner of operations on polynomials, including standard arithmetic, solutions,  Lagrange and Hermite interpolation  The system work entailed:  o Installing and configuring Ubuntu Linux and the GRUB for dual Boot on multiple computers, implementation of the Logical  Volume Manager (LVM) and tuning of kernel parameters. Also installed Informix IDS 11.70 database server.  o Repair, restoration and configuration of Windows and Linux partitions, including repair of a damaged boot partition. Tools  included the Windows Installation disk, Linux Rescue CD, Gparted Live CD, and the Ubuntu Live CD. Consultant, Independent Software Developer Consulting and Contracting August 2008 to Present DBA Utilities: Informix, Perl, Shell: Developing utilities for space management, aimed at the Database Administrator. Completed one  package of DBA utilities in Perl and developing another package ready for release. (Currently building a shared Showcase folder in Google Drive.)  • Morgan Stanley (New York City): Modified user utilities to add and improve features as requested by user community.  • WEX Bank/EFS LLC (North Portland, ME; Ogden, Utah): Developed compliance reports using Informix, Perl and Excel.  • Galax E (Somerset, NJ)/Fiserv (Shelton, CT): Performed a risk-assessment/mitigation for a 0-down-time migration of multiple  database servers using Informix high-availability replication.  • St. Barnabas Medical Center: Created a new infrastructure and restored an Informix server that had been lost, along with its  backups, in a hardware failure.  • Onyx Business Intelligence, Dallas TX (under Axiom Technology Group)  Lead DBA, Migration Specialist, Perl and Shell Developer: Planned and implemented the migration of 15 Informix servers to a new data center, following up with proactive administrations and optimization, with the following highlights:  o Developed shell scripts to generate file-name migration files to modify the names of database data files (to conform to above standard) as they were being "restored" from archives, imposing a set of standards and naming conventions for all Informix  servers being migrated.  o Developed Perl modules and many utilities to automate the administrative tasks of space maintenance, e.g. creating & dropping  spaces and chunks (data files) as well as automated (i.e. daemons and cron-jobs) monitoring of spaces and transaction logs.  o Recreated the Enterprise Replication environment as it had been originally implemented, a feature that did not migrate cleanly with the restore. Also implemented procedures to tear down and rebuild the entire ER subsystem when it becomes corrupted.  o Spearheaded the gradual migration of the largest tables to spaces with a larger page size resulting in faster throughput (~ 50%). Analyst September 2012 to June 2013 Generated space data needed for a database migration from Solaris to Linux as well as 32-bit IDS 11.1 to 64-bit 11.7. Wrote Shell and Perl scripts to help the team track function calls and space usage  within the database as well as in the regular file systems. Developed new "modules" (in company nomenclature), added testing  code to some others, integrated into several daemon processes, to provide directory services to a data warehousing application.  Documented a complicated procedure that had been performed by rote for the past 12 years. Telcordia April 2012 to July 2012 Migrated Shell scripts to Perl with an eye to speeding throughput. Consolidated  over 280 shell functions into one file of JSON structures to be used by a single-call (Perl) interface, resulting in 40-53% faster  throughput. Wrote the benchmark script that obtained these results. Rewrote Shell scripts in order to bring them in line with coding standards, noticing & repairing bugs along the way. AT&T Shannon Research Lab, "C" August 2011 to February 2012 Added a filter/correction to an application that tracks cell activity per  call; designed new administration tables and wrote 40+ back-end applications to associate users with their assigned features. Hatzlacha West - Spring Valley, NY July 2011 to August 2011 Created a PowerPoint presentation, targeting investors, for the business case  and business model for the expansion of a small chain of retail markets in Rockland County. each host Bank of America - New York, NY April 2011 to June 2011 NYC; Perl, Shell) April-June 2011: Rewrote non-performing sections of a Perl application that communicates  with an Autosys server. Wrote another Perl utility to purge aged log files on many hosts by spawning itself (ssh) on each host.  Added pages to the internal Wiki to describe the data flow for a set of trading application, using diagrams generated with Visio. ProfitPoint - Clifton Heights, PA February 2009 to April 2009 Converted and upgraded an application from IDS 7.2 on Solaris 32-bit to IDS 11.5 on Linux 64-bit. Sifted C and ESQL/C code for compatibility issues related to the new 64-bit  environment. At the same time, converted the source control subsystem from SCCS to RCS. Timken Ball Bearings - Canton, OH July 2008 to January 2009 Audited and redesigned the entire disk-level layout and adjusted the Informix server's tuning parameters to reduce disk contention. The first pass reduced a load job from an all-night procedure to a  one-hour job. Senior Informix Database Administrator Morgan Stanley November 2005 to July 2008 System Support, Shell, Perl, SQL  Environment consisting of over two-hundred Informix servers distributed across dozens of host machines in North America, Europe, and Asia, running 24x7 applications on Solaris and Linux. Performed routine administrative tasks such as creation of new servers,  space allocation, server upgrades, duplication of servers on other hosts by manipulating backup sets.  • Performed frequent troubleshooting on these systems e.g. orphaned shared-memory segments, frozen servers, tweaking of server  parameters for performance issues, data extract of server status data and error messages.  • Wrote many scripts to perform administrative function e.g. report on success/failure of backup jobs, diagnose improperly  configured database spaces, identify invalid BLOB values, monitor temp space during the run of a backup, display the space  occupied by a table. Scripts were written in Korn shell and PERL.  • Debugged and enhanced legacy administrative scripts e.g. periodic check for a blocked server, scripts to perform unattended  backup/recovery.  • Provided occasional support for database issues closer to the applications: Developed SQL to determine the identity of a locked  stored procedure blocking the server, noted when a different locking behavior might be more prudent for the users. Senior Database Administrator Barnes & Noble, Inc April 1999 to October 2005 Application Support, Shell, Perl, Informix, Oracle, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Routine (and not so routine) administrative tasks e.g. Installation and configuration of Informix and Oracle software, space allocation, user permissions in database environments, database/server backup and recovery. Additionally:  • Application Support: Although primarily a DBA, rewrote some portions of applications with extreme results: Rewrote a stored  procedure in a high-level language, cutting the duration by 90%. Similarly, rewrote a Java application into another language, cutting run time from 3 days to 3 hours. When I was permitted to physically rearrange the spaces across disks, the run time dropped to under one hour (from the original 3 days).  • Wrote scripts to alert the DBA of potential problems (e.g. tablespace/file-system capacity, fragmentation, resource usage) on six  HP-UX/Informix systems and six Oracle databases on four RS-6000/AIX systems. Scripts were written in various combinations of PL/SQL, PERL, AWK and Korn Shell. Wrote additional scripts to defragment tables and reallocate space when the monitoring  jobs did detect potential problems.  • Developed a method to back up the Informix database to (and recover from) a single file system. The backup now completes  reliably in under four hours, replacing a defective OmniBack scheme that previously ran over six hours.  • Implemented a [simulated] lock-quota monitor, providing a feature not yet provided by the Informix software.  • Published several Informix utility scripts to the IIUG software library, written in Korn Shell, AWK, and C. Database Administrator, Unix System Administrator HP 1996 to April 1999 HP-UX, Solaris), Developer, Sales Engineer: C, Informix-4GL, Shell  DBA, and System Administrator for office and several clients, including setup of file systems and raw logical volumes. Client systems  varied among HP-UX, AIX, Solaris, and SCO.  • Performed complete system installation at client sites: Physically assembled and installed the hardware, installed and configured the operating system, then the database software and finally, the application.  • Wrote a label-printing subsystem with a termcap-like database for various label printers.  • Wrote shell and AWK scripts to perform data conversions, helping clients convert their existing databases to Informix database  formats. Informix Software 1990 to 1996 1990 to 1996): Sun-OS, HP-UX, Informix Engines and Tools:  Consultant, Sales Engineer, Customer Support Engineer, Unix System Administrator, Database Administrator, Developer, Trainer: C, ESQL/C, Informix-4GL, Shell  • A member of the Advanced Support Engineers team, requiring extensive Informix internals knowledge.  • HP-UX System administrator for the HP-9000/827 and G30 training machines.  • System Auditor: Performed a short-term audit on the database application of an Ireland-based drug-manufacturing operation.  • Taught several courses, including Relational Database Design and Architecture, 4GL, SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers, Embedded SQL for C, Database and System Administration for Informix Dynamic Server.  • Contributed several articles and scripts to the internal TechInfo database (accessible via a Web home page) and published several  articles in the Informix quarterly, Tech Notes.  • Served Informix's New York and New Jersey offices in the capacity of client services engineer, traveling consultant and trainer.  • Coordinator of the customer training program in the New York Office. Education Certificate New York University School of Continuing Education Additional Information Database Administrator (Informix), Application and Infrastructure Support Specialist, (ad-hoc) Unix/Linux System  Administrator; proficient in Perl, Shell, C, SQL, ESQL/C, AWK. With additional, widely varying technical experience in the  software industry as Customer Service Engineer, Developer, System Auditor, Trainer, Manual Author/Editor, Experienced Public  Speaker/Presenter, Consultant. Experience with Financial/Securities Industry, Data Analysis for consistency and integrity checking,  Performance Analysis and Report Generation.    Databases Informix IDS through release 12.10, Standard Engine, Oracle 9 with some exposure to Oracle 11G).  Perl (with DBI and DBD::Informix), C (10+ years), Shell (Korn, Bourne, some Bash), AWK, SQL  Programming  (Informix, exposure to Oracle with PL/SQL), ESQL/C, Informix-4GL, Informix-SPL (Stored Procedure  Languages:  Language); Some object-oriented work with the Perl.  Operating System Admin on: AIX, HP-UX (8, 9), Linux (Red-Hat 3, 4), Ubuntu Linux, Linux-Mint, Windows-7.  Systems: Admin advisor on Solaris (10); Configuration of TCP/IP services. (Some training in Unix/Linux internals).  Financial Industry: Securities Analysis and Trading, Mortgage-Backed Security Pools. Unix/Linux System  Administration (Shell and Perl), Systems Integration, migrations, database retrieval tools, [non-Unix] device  drivers and communication protocols, Help-desk support.  Applications:  General consulting: Data Center Migration, Publishing (with some Data Warehouse setup), the garment  trade, design of menus and forms, cell-phone tracking/billing, real estate management, Legal (collection  agency), electronic phototypesetting.