Informatics Manager Informatics Manager Informatics Manager - University of California Wayne, NE Work Experience Informatics Manager University of California - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to Present Providing informatics management as well as data and programming expertise for a number of research studies for UCSF (Dept. of Neurology). Duties include project design and management as well as overseeing all application and database development for new and existing systems, including custom developed applications, data warehouse design and lead on development of a 2nd generation clinical data entry system with multiple external touch points.  Key projects include: Project design, oversight and management, design and development of the informatics needs of Human Epilepsy Project (HEP) and Human Epilepsy Project 2 (HEP2), both studies being part of an international collaboration of over 300 doctors and 30 hospitals working to study the biomarkers of new-onset focal epilepsy and treatment resistant epilepsy.  Design and development of key informatics systems for Epi4k, Epi25 and EPGP (Epilepsy Phenome/Genome Project) Designing and developing a 2nd generation clinical data entry system. Fulfilling reporting needs for multiple clinical sites. Providing data & database management and administration. With Epi25 I have helped design and build storage for what is hoped to be one of the largest collection of phenotypic data for people with Epilepsy, that is hoped will drive a number of scientific advances. Data Manager Dept. of Neurology October 2010 to October 2014 Providing informatics management as well as data and programming expertise for a number of research studies for UCSF (Dept. of Neurology). Duties include project design and management as well as overseeing all application and database development for new and existing systems, including custom developed applications, data warehouse design and lead on development of a 2nd generation clinical data entry system with multiple external touch points.  Key projects include: Project design, oversight and management, design and development of the informatics needs of Human Epilepsy Project (HEP) and Human Epilepsy Project 2 (HEP2), both studies being part of an international collaboration of over 300 doctors and 30 hospitals working to study the biomarkers of new-onset focal epilepsy and treatment resistant epilepsy. Design and development of key informatics systems for Epi4k, Epi25 and EPGP (Epilepsy Phenome/Genome Project) Designing and developing a 2nd generation clinical data entry system. Fulfilling reporting needs for multiple clinical sites. Providing data & database management and administration. With Epi25 I have helped design and build storage for what is hoped to be one of the largest collection of phenotypic data for people with Epilepsy, that is hoped will drive a number of scientific advances. Business Intelligence Consultant mca Connect - Sparta, NJ November 2009 to October 2010 Implementing Business Intelligence (BI) solutions utilizing clients new or existing Dynamics AX installations across a diverse range of industries. Provide Reporting and Data Analysis tools and training to clients through the use of Dynamics AX, X++ code, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and C# .NET coding.  Key projects include: Serving as BI resource for installation and rollout of Dynamics AX across a range of clients with particular emphasis on creating role driven Enterprise Portal profiles, reporting and ensuring proper database architecture and layout. Providing on-site training for clients in how to properly utilize the Enterprise Portal and creating their own report solutions. Database Administrator Jacobson Companies - Sioux City, IA March 2006 to November 2009 Responsible for installation, administration, maintenance and development of new and existing database instances. Overseeing 25 clustered SQL Server instances, over 30 standalone local and remote SQL Server instances as well as numerous 3rd party and in-house Oracle databases. Writing .NET code to facilitate data transfer and entry.  Key projects include: Troubleshooting data issues and working to improve upon existing systems in order to increase productivity. Working with the infrastructure team to create a High Availability plan for disaster recovery. Providing expertise in data extracts for a large number of EDI transactions. Implementing an in-house ADP payroll system. Creating .NET compact framework solution for a remote warehouse with an extremely high number of transactions, with emphasis placed on high availability and performance. Education City & Guilds in GNVQ Hugh Baird College Skills SQL (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (5 years), Dynamics AX (1 year), Oracle (5 years), MySQL (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) SQL Server 2008, Implementation & Maintenance Present Maintaining a Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Database – New Horizons Learning Center Present ADP - Data Management for SQL Server Present