Owner / Contractor Owner / Contractor Owner / Contractor - 37Metrics, LLC Austin, TX Work Experience Owner / Contractor 37Metrics, LLC - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Austin, TX May 2016 - Current  37Metrics is a consulting, software development and I.T. services company. Projects include business consulting, sales consulting, DevOps consulting, .Net development services, NodeJS/Angular development services, Salesforce development services and CTO/CIO consulting services.  Owner / Contractor  I moved to Austin, TX to start 37Metrics. The goal was to utilize efficient software development practices to build quality software for our clients at a competitive rate by utilizing remote-work US developers and augmenting the team with nearshore resources. That worked well but eventually my role transitioned with my clients to a contract CTO.  • Company built a Salesforce integration for a large documentation generation company.  • Company built the first Uber-like mobile application for trucking companies to request a private investigator when in a crash.  • Company built the first B2B marketplace to sell individual seats on private jets.  • Consulted with many companies on all aspects of information technology management.  • Participate on the Advisory Board for a company looking to disrupt the applicant tracking system and job search industry.  • Interim CTO on a part-time contract basis for a chatbot company offering a unique product for the Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) industry.  • Contract CTO for a pharmacy experience management company looking to disrupt the prescription drug purchase space by offering a competitively priced drug purchase program along with the ability to retrieve drugs at a kiosk. Vice President of Operations / Solutions Architect / Consultant Blue Ocean Consulting - Olathe, KS September 2010 to April 2016 Olathe, KS September 2010 - April 2016  Blue Ocean Consulting (BOC) is a software development company focusing on creating custom software when a customer has researched the build versus buy matrix and decided to build. BOC has been developing software since 1995 and is primarily a Microsoft technology shop with some Java, Oracle and smaller 3rd party software expertise.  Vice President of Operations / Solutions Architect / Consultant  As VP of Operations I managed the staff of developers and infrastructure to deliver over 300 projects to customers. My greatest value is my ability to talk with customers at a business level and with technical staff at a technical level. I ended up assisting in the close of sales and architecting projects before turning over to Business Analysts. The projects I lead to success are:  • Standardization of all processes including hiring, onboarding, termination, employee review, time-keeping, billing, client reporting, software development, system administration, requirements gathering, sales qualification and process, and support infrastructure.  • Created a suite of systems to report daily on project progress, project success, and revenue.  • Revamped support infrastructure and ticketing system.  • Replaced project management, billing and time-tracking tools that showed a 10% profit increase in the first month of use.  • Managed the development team that delivered over 300 client projects of varying size and scope. The development team started at 5 people and eventually grew to over 40 people.  • Managed the outsourcing efforts to teams in India and Costa Rica.  • Lead the sales effort, handled client relations and managed the development teams for the largest projects that generated approximately 75% of the company revenue during my final year at BOC. Director of I.T. / CTO Jimmy John's Franchise, LLC - Champaign, IL August 2005 to April 2010 Champaign, IL August 2005 - April 2010  Jimmy John's is a national quick service restaurant franchise with approximately 3,000 stores open. There were 376 restaurants open when I joined. At the end of my tenure there were 1,009 restaurants open not including 1,400 that were sold and waiting to be built.  Director of I.T. / CTO  In my position, I reported to the President and to the CEO. The position started with an infrastructure overhaul, standardization of process, and building a team to support the organization. As time progressed, the I.T. department switched from a cost center to a profit center. We were highly involved in the process of selling restaurants, selling sandwiches, working tightly with marketing, and implementing many systems and procedures that proved to be highly profitable. The big projects I lead to success are:  • A standard point of sale (POS) system across the entire franchise.  • Researched and interviewed vendors and chose a vendor that agreed to a custom software implementation. In the end, there were over 1,000 tweaks and custom features added to make the system perfect for Jimmy John's.  • An enterprise reporting system integrating with the POS system to provide reporting, business intelligence and analytics to franchisees and the franchisor. We chose a best of breed POS vendor and facilitated an integration with a best of breed business intelligence solution. From the franchisee perspective they had complete visibility in real-time to every metric important to them for all the stores they owned. From the franchisor perspective we had complete visibility to store metrics along with a multitude of other metrics that allowed us to raise average unit volumes from ~$800K to over $1.3M now.  • An online ordering system that integrated with both non-POS and POS integrated stores. It launched with 100% store participation day one and was generating one million dollars in sales on an average day within a month of implementation. The key to success was planning and custom development before the launch. We coordinated with the vendor to create a custom signup and menu management system before launch. The vendor also extensively customized the ordering system for Jimmy John's including a mobile website and an iPhone application.  • A gift card program franchise wide. This involved researching vendors, business models and legal issues for almost 2 years before finalizing implementation. The program ended up as the lowest risk centralized bank model with no fees and the least amount of escheatment risks. Still, the program became hugely profitable.  • Changed the credit card processor of choice from FirstData to a smaller vendor (MPS now called Vantiv) with 99% adoption by incentivizing franchisees using the gift card program, additional POS and online ordering feature changes and cost reductions.  • Lead several website initiatives including the largest overhaul of the main website along with dozens of micro-sites to support our marketing initiatives.  • Transitioned the I.T. Department from a cost center to a profit center. Network Administrator / Database Administrator University of Illinois - Champaign, IL May 2001 to August 2005 Champaign, IL May 2001 - August 2005  The University of Illinois at Champaign/Urbana is the largest university in Illinois with approximately 45,000 students on campus. I worked for the Housing Division which is the 3rd largest network on campus. I shared enormous responsibilities with only 1 other network administrator maintaining a system of approximately 100 servers, 80 switches, 1,000 workstations, and 10,000 network connections in 25 buildings. We were the highest level of technical support for 2,200 employees and 10,000 students. We also supported a staff of 15 developers and supervised a student work force of approximately100 student workers.  Network Administrator / Database Administrator  The official job title was Sr. Network Administrator III but since our network began for us at the switched level we were actually System Administrators and I eventually became the Database Administrator due to my involvement with the software development group. During my time at the U of I, I performed the following duties:  • Ultimately responsible for the "administrative half" of the network including 50 servers, 500 workstations, and 2,200 employees as well as the development staff.  • Implemented strict Active Directory policies and utilized a powerful software install tool called NetInstall as well as wrote many custom System Administration tools to be able to manage such a large group with little staff. Only the Network Administrators and development staff had local administration rights.  • Managed all the file servers, Exchange server, SQL servers, development environments, web servers, workstations, print servers, printers and switches for 2,200 employees.  • Worked extensively with the software development staff on the 150+ custom projects they developed and maintained. Network Administrator ACWorld, LLC - Mount Vernon, IL January 2000 to May 2001 Mt. Vernon, IL January 2000 - May 2001  ACWorld was a startup Internet Service Provider (ISP) that eventually sold to a bigger ISP. I was hired as a Network Administrator but quickly became trusted with managing all of the I.T. for the company.  Network Administrator / Operations Manager  During my time at ACWorld I performed the following duties:  • Negotiated T1 contracts and installed the first routers, switches, servers and dial-up aggregators.  • Started and maintained the hosting side of the business.  • Created the first land-based wireless internet service in town delivering the first high speed internet service for residential customers.  • Negotiated tower contracts  • Became Breezecom wireless certified and physically installed every wireless access point on every tower we acquired or raised Education Bachelor of Science in Physics Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL Skills Visual studio, Amazon web services, Api, C#, Coding, Exchange, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Perl, Php, Software development, Vb.net, Active directory, Cisco, Devops, Dns, Hipaa, Pci, System administration Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Areas of Expertise  • Core Technologies  ? Expert experience with Microsoft technologies including Windows, Windows Server, Office, Office365, SQL Server, Exchange Server, Team Foundation Sever (TFS), Visual Studio, and Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS).  ? Proficient with Linux system administration mostly for file servers, email and web servers (Apache, PHP, NodeJS). Most experience with Ubuntu (Debian) and Red Hat.  ? Expert experience with Amazon Web Services. Proficient with Azure.  • Cloud Technologies  ? Amazon Web Services: EC2, S3, Route53, CloudWatch, RDS, Aurora, CloudFront, Cognito, CloudFormation, Lex, Lambda, API Gateway  ? Azure: Virtual Machines, Storage Accounts, Azure SQL Databases, App Service, Azure SQL Database, Azure DNS, and Azure Active Directory  • Project Management  ? Expert experience with TFS.  ? Expert experience with Jira and Confluence.  ? Proficient with many other time-tracking tools, plugins and software.  • Infrastructure  ? Proficient in managing multiple types of phone systems including Cisco, Shoretel and Mitel. Also experienced with Grasshopper and RingCentral.  ? Proficient skills working with Cisco routers and SonicWall routers. Proficient skills managing Cisco, HP, Meraki, and Foundry switches. Proficient skills using Cisco, Meraki and small business grade wireless systems.  ? Expert experience buying, installing and maintaining servers.  ? Expert experience transitioning physical servers to a cloud-based environment.  ? Expert experience buying and maintaining co-located hosting environments.  • Software Development  ? Expert database administration using Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL). Proficient experience administering MySQL and PostgreSQL.  ? Proficient database design and development skills using MSSQL.  ? Limited experience writing frontend and logic code. Built small web applications, written simple integrations and small tools using C#, VB.Net, Perl, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular, PHP, WinBatch, HTML, and CSS.  • DevOps  ? Expert experience using the build and deploy tools using VSTS.  ? Extensive experience using TFS build and Octopus deploy.  ? Studied Jez Humble and other leading Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment strategists to be able to deliver software with quality, performance, security and compliance several times per day if desired.  ? Researched and implemented tools and processes for adhering to coding standards, quality monitoring and security such as StyleCop, SonarQube and Veracode.  • Quality Assurance  ? Managed QA teams including teams in-house, outsourced and nearshored.  ? Worked to ensure QA gets involved at the beginning of the project and works continuously with the development team, not just at the end of a project.  ? Worked to reduce the amount of manual testing performed and transitioned to unit testing and automated testing.  • Compliance  ? Extensive experience with PCI compliance for both infrastructure and software development.  ? Extensive experience developing software with HIPAA and PII (PPI) concerns.