Sr. CRM Administrator Sr. CRM <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce.com Administrator Port Charlotte, FL Accomplished Salesforce.com Administrator consistently ensuring team success and satisfaction. Over 18 years of experience in the financial services industry with ability to adapt to multiple business processes. Maintains an expert level of Salesforce.com knowledge, promoting user adoption, training, customization, implementation of resources, data management, reports and dashboards. Proficient understanding of business processes within sales/account management, RFPs, campaign management, and marketing leading to streamlined efficiencies. Leads, motivates, and promotes effective group collaboration, ensuring completion of projects performed within stringent deadlines, consistently producing quality results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. CRM Administrator LINCOLN FINANCIAL GROUP - Omaha, NE April 2015 to Present Drive business operations with system solutions to streamline operational effectiveness. Analyze and document complex business problems. Develop and implement business testing strategies. Coordinate upgrades and rollouts of complex projects. Lead projects and sub-projects.  • Evaluate complex business requirements for Enrollment and Implementation teams; performing process analysis of customer activities to determine alternative business solutions or process improvement opportunities. Develop and maintain comprehensive documentation of complex business requirements.  • Develop business client testing strategies in the Sandbox for Account Managers and RFP Team, plan cases and conditions; test and monitor efforts; review and approve new system behavior to ensure alignment with business requirements and objectives.  • Works with multiple departments to coordinate interdepartmental activities in order to ensure that customer expectations are met. Develop methods and tools to track and measure results.  • Prepare user documentation and training materials. Develops communication plans and related activities. Provides technical training and user support to business groups. RFP Specialist FIRST DATA - Omaha, NE August 2014 to April 2015 Aligned, synchronized and communicated business processes, consulting and gathering data on past sales, analyzing trends and providing forecasting reports. Developed effective written and visual communications for First Data Financial Institutions, supporting current sales methodologies, collaborating with individuals at all levels in organization. Promoted and enabled user adoption for tracking of tasks / activities through Salesforce.com. Developed and presented training materials to all sales, finance, product development and marketing teams, supporting new business processes. Served as expert for creating / manipulating artwork, proofreading and revisions, utilizing several software packages, exceeding expectations of customer. Utilized proficient application knowledge including MS Office, Qvidian, Photoshop and Visio.  • Partnered with sales delivering compelling proposals to prospective clients, showcasing First Data’s robust functionality, increasing customer base.  • Ensured incorporation of creative solutions into presentations, RFP / RFQ / RFI and proposal client ready materials incorporating layout, text and graphics from rough draft. Client Service Executive FIRST DATA 2012 to 2013 Maintained business for large financial institution with revenues of $4M+ annually. Executed strategic, tactical and support functions, maintaining business as a trusted advisor to the client. Strengthened relationships between all internal business units through communication and documentation. Conducted on-site client audits in accordance to contract requirements. Managed contract negotiations while working within all areas of company, finalizing mutual agreements. Processed client requirements, ensuring efficient delivery and within budget of multi-million dollar solution, setting stage for future revenue growth. Coordinated RFP responses and managed internal / external timeframes.  • Leader in development of new terminal application, increasing revenue 20%.  • Managed client relationships, resulting in $750K in new business.  • Directed and led teams during conversion of new business, following internal processes and procedures, ensuring seamless transition and positive customer experience. Sales Database Administrator FIRST DATA 2006 to 2012 Acquired 6+ years' experience with sales tracking tools, including 5 years of Salesforce.com administration with emphasis on sales tracking and lead forecasting for revenues over $160M annually. Led relationship management for Salesforce.com database collaborating with sales, sales consulting, product development, marketing and finance for 4K users at all levels across company. Assisted managing revenues across several business units. Utilized expert level Salesforce.com knowledge within user adoption, training, customization, implementation of resources, data management, reports and dashboards. Proficient performance within account management, mobile applications, campaign management, marketing alignment and ROI.  • Identified best practices and rollout governing standard, improving available tools, accurately tracking newly acquired annual business.  • Renegotiated Salesforce.com license agreement, saving company $24K annually. Desktop Publishing Specialist, Sales / Marketing FIRST DATA 2003 to 2006 Managed RFP and presentation production process for First Data sales teams and senior level management, creating new clip art, design collateral and other client ready artwork, in compliance with company's 'brand' specifications. Ensured continuity throughout all materials used in trade shows, brochures, RFPs and client visits.  • Brought production equipment and processes of client ready materials in-house for sales visits including agendas, handouts, tabs and document customization, saving $100K in production and printing costs annually and improving final product.  • Coordinated production of proposals, presentations, RFP responses and other sales materials, improving focus on graphic design and layout, proofreading, production and assembly. Education MA in Management Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE BBA Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Associates in Visual Communications Colorado Institute of Art - Denver, CO art and Graphic Design University of Nebraska-Omaha - Omaha, NE Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/annettemadison