Contract - Enterprise Data Architect DW / BI / Application and Systems Contract - Enterprise Data Architect DW / BI / Application and Systems Data Architect BI / DW, Data Modeler, DBA Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract - Enterprise Data Architect DW / BI / Application and Systems Alfa Insurance February 2015 to Present Responsible to provide guidance on DW and BI project design and implementation to provide dashboards and reports.  • Responsible to research emerging technologies including but not limited to Hadoop, Cassandra, OBIEE and Tableau to shape the direction of future technical decisions.  • Responsible for the design, development and implementation of logical and physical models supporting business intelligence and data warehousing for company reporting and analytics.  • Responsible for evaluating data sources and data quality required to build Data Warehouse serving as single source of truth.  • Responsible for evaluating departmental needs for Data Marts to service specific requirements.  • Responsible to provide guidance and research of technologies to ensure company objectives are met or exceeded.  • Technology includes Oracle, Teradata, SQL-Server, Informatica, Cognos, ERWin Contract - Data Architect DW & BI / Database / Data Modeling Norfolk Southern September 2010 to January 2015 Responsible for development of ERWin models used in OBIEE to create analytical dashboards for management and departments.  • Responsible for tuning and configuration of Oracle Exadata platform.  • Responsible for migration of software and systems to Exadata platform, exploiting the capabilities of the powerful architecture  • Responsible for ERWin design and architecture to support Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence department objectives.  • Worked in support of current and future state of software and hardware implementations.  • Responsible for creating RPD's in support of departmental analytical objectives and support living systems that are always maturing.  • Responsible for working with various departments leading projects from conception to solution to meet business needs identifying data sources to meet requirements.  • Technology stack includes OBIEE, Exadata, Exalytics, Teradata, SQL, Stored Procedures, Data Stage, ERWin, SQL-Server Director Database and DW & BI RBS WorldPay September 2007 to August 2010 Responsibility for installation and configuration of millions of dollars in Oracle software. This includes Oracle RAC databases, Sql-Server, .Net, Java, applications server (Apache, Weblogic, IIS), Single Sign On, Oracle Portal, GRID Control, OBIEE, Data Integrator, OWB, Identity Management, Universal Content Management, Audit Vault and Database Vault.  ? Built four Oracle RAC environments (Prod, Dev, QA, Test) includes ASM, RMAN, Data Guard and Replication. Running on Linux Blade Centers quad processors and Hitachi SAN system of more than 40 terabytes.  ? Directly responsible for the data architecture, data modeling, data warehouse and business intelligence for 15 million daily transaction enterprise.  ? Directly responsible for tuning and optimization of complex queries.  ? Tasked with conversion of enterprise from SQL Server due to capacity and performance issue to Oracle RAC technology.  ? Directly responsible for architecture of applications and database design during the conversion and application re-writes such as settlement, billing and account reconciliation.  ? Work directly with BA's, Developers, Network Admin, System Admin and SAN Admin as lead architect designing infrastructure to meet or exceed the business requirements.  ? Responsible for the companies Business Intelligence and reporting to provide key performance metrics to business units.  ? I have a vast knowledge of technology, to include but not limited to Software, Hardware, Networks, Storage and Architecture to deliver the highest quality of applications and systems.  ? Working with Oracle product managers directly I bring a outstanding relationship with Oracle.  ? Working with Oracle (10,11), Linux, Sql-Server (05,08), Java, .Net, ERWin, ODI, OWB, IDM, Audit Vault, TDE, Portal, Weblogic, Apache, OBIEE and other technology. Director Database & BI Architecture / Financials Global Payments March 2004 to August 2007 Responsible for installation and configuration of Oracle RAC database systems.  ? Responsible for full life cycle development and database administration of data warehouse projects. Projects include custom reporting engine and flexible hierarchy architecture.  ? Responsible for system design, configuration and product decisions for critical 20+ terabyte data warehouse systems.  ? Responsible for data modeling and architecture of enterprise wide data warehouse web enabled J2EE system. System components include portal technology, discoverer, business intelligence tools, report servers and RAC 10g database.  ? Responsible for ETL design, development and automation of load process. Including a streaming process to load millions of transactions per day.  ? Responsible for database configuration and administration for data warehouse systems. Designing physical layout which includes partitioning, VPD policies, and TDE technology.  ? Responsible for installation and administration of multiple Oracle Financial database systems.  ? Handle upgrades, installs, cloning and migrations for different versions of Oracle Financials.  ? Troubleshoot and install patches when applicable to maintain the smooth operation of the applications.  ? Directly responsible for the architecture and technology and technical direction of major company projects.  ? Key member of staff for all decision concerning systems, architecture, and configuration of internal computer systems.  ? Conduct interviews with key department personnel to assess business needs and data warehouse requirements.  ? Responsible for managing financial and personnel resources to budgetary constraints.  ? Working with Unix (Sun Solaris), Linux (Redhat), Oracle (V9, V10g), Sql-Server, Windows XP, ErWin, Oracle OWB, Oracle Portal, Java and other technologies. Contract Sr. Architect / Database Administrator Bellsouth Corp February 2001 to March 2004 Responsible for installation and administration of Oracle database systems.  ? Responsible for logical and physical database designs and implementations.  ? Responsible for developing project plans, system specifications and detail documentations.  ? Responsible for reverse engineering of database systems using ERWin.  ? Responsible for tuning and optimizing Database, Applications, and Operating system.  ? Responsible for technical hardware and software configurations and plans.  ? Responsible for managing Oracle and Lawson financial and human resource system.  ? Responsible for conducting interviews and developing functional requirements.  ? Responsible for developing project plans (MS Project, Visio) and managing project team assignments.  ? Administration of databases for product, test and development systems.  ? Responsible for full life cycle development of data warehouse project.  ? Responsible for technical hardware architecture and software solutions.  ? Responsible for managing financial and personnel resources to budgetary constraints.  ? Responsible for Data Dictionary and Data Models, which leverage multiple legacy systems.  ? Responsible for logical database and physical Data Warehouse schema designs and implementation.  ? Working with Unix (Sun Solaris, Linux) and with Oracle database versions 8i and 9i.  ? Other applications used to deliver decision support include WebMethods, Informatica PowerMart (ETL) and Business Objects. Education BS in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI - Hattiesburg, MS