Radio Engineer Radio Engineer IT Administrator / Ingineer / Security Corpus Christi, TX • Ensured uninterrupted performance of the company’s computer network   • Provided information system consultation and end-user support.   • Quickly reacted to and resolved any IT issues.   • Configured and administered a Microsoft Windows and Linux environment  • Configured routers and switches. Ran network cables.   • Performed diagnostics and preventative work to maintain proper function of office equipment and computers.  • Planned and procured supplies, parts, and upgrades.   • Developed and finalized service contracts for all company computer equipment. Work Experience Radio Engineer Dixi Media February 2018 to April 2019 Chisinau, Moldova  SYSTEM ADMINISTARTOR  • Ensured uninterrupted performance of the company's computer network  • Provided information system consultation and end-user support.  • Quickly reacted to and resolved any IT issues.  • Radio Engineer - worked with radio equipment and sound transmission systems. Served two national radio stations: HITFM Moldova and Radio Alla Moldova  • Ensured stable radio performance at the hardware level SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Casasiv August 2007 to February 2018 • Ensured uninterrupted performance of the company's computer network  • Provided information system consultation and end-user support.  • Quickly reacted to and resolved any IT related issues.  • Configured and administered a Microsoft Windows and Linux environment  • Configured routers and switches. Ran network cables.  • Performed diagnostics and preventative work to maintain proper function of office equipment and computers.  • Planned and procured supplies, parts, and upgrades.  • Developed and finalized service contracts for all company computer equipment. PROGRAMMER/ ADMINISTRATOR Tahiti S.I 2002 to 2007 • Developed the Glass acCount accounting software system.  • Developed custom software based on the InterBase database. PROGRAMMER/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Liga Romix Int 1999 to 2002 PROGRAMMER/ ADMINISTRATOR Lex-Constructia 1997 to 1999 SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Global Group 1995 to 1997 Education INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPUTER ENGINEERING DEGREE in COMPUTER SCIENCE Technical University of Moldova - Chisinau 2000 to 2005 Skills security, Mikrotik (4 years), Active Directory, Vmware, LAN, Networking, VPN, firewalls, DNS, Dhcp (5 years), IP Camera (4 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses Driver's License July 2019 to April 2026 CLASS C Additional Information SKILLS  • Proficient with Windows and Linux operating system setup and management.  • Network administration - configuring and troubleshooting TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, NAT, and VPN settings.  • Network infrastructure installation - ability to plan network requirements, configure routers, switches, WiFi, as well as repeaters.  • Experience with MikroTik equipment.  • Experience in working with Blade servers  • Experience with virtualized environments - Hyper-V, Citrix, KVM  • IT security administration - firewall configuration, Anti-Virus administration, Active Directory policies.  • Experience working Qt framework, Pascal/Delphi, HTML.  • Experience with Adobe Photoshop, Corel Draw, AutoCAD, Microsoft Office Suite.  • PBX system setup and configuration. Experience with Panasonic KX TDA series.  • MDaemon Email Server administration.  • Experience in configuring and monitoring website operations - hosting, cpanel  • Computers & peripherals hardware installation, troubleshooting, optimization, and repair.  • Experience with IP Camera system setup and configuration - worked with Dahua and HickVision systems  • Experience with biometric access systems, such as ZKTeco.