Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - Health Edge Plainsboro, NJ • Thorough hands on expertise on Oracle 12c, 11g R1, R2, 10g, 9i, 8i, 7.3 databases on variety of operation systems like Enterprise Linux, Solaris and Windows Environments  • Performed planning, installing, and upgrading Oracle 12c 11g R1, 11g R2 and 10g databases to meet variety of business needs.  • Active involvement in database upgrades, applying Patches ( PSU and CPU) across enterprise databases to enforce Database environment integrity and security standards  • Install, configure and manage RAC for 10g , 11gR2 and 12c databases  • Monitor and Troubleshoot Cluster services, Cluster Registry  • Administering Clusterware components like Backing up Voting disks, Recovering voting disks, and Diagnosing OCR problems  • Performed installing and configuring effective Disk / volume management using ASM  • Create, Manage and configure ASM Disk Groups  • Planned and Implemented Disaster recovery using Data guard / Hot Standby  • Configure database backups, Database duplication, and DB cloning using RMAN  • Design database applications, such as interfaces, data transfer mechanisms, global temporary tables, data partitions, and function-based indexes to enable efficient access of the generic database structure  • Involved in Database Performance tuning and analyzing AWR, ASH and ADDR reports on regular basis to resolve performance bottlenecks  • Gathered and implemented optimal Database performance using SQL Performance Advisors  • Prepare and implement Golden Gate parameter files for Extraction and Replication  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication such as bi-directional replication and broadcasting  • Monitoring, Troubleshooting and fixing golden gate errors  • Use OEM utilities like Memory Advisors, SQL advisors, Segment Advisors, and ADDM  • Working knowledge on SQLServer 2008 and SQL server 2012.  • Creating, Configuring and Monitoring SQL Server 2008 and 2012 databases  • Develop and implement best practices using Project management and ITIL best practices Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Health Edge - Burlington, MA January 2018 to Present • Planning, installing, and upgrading Oracle 10g, 11g R2 and 12c databases( Single and Multi Tenant Architecture.  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import and incorporate new releases/changes in DEV and QA environment.  • Applying CPU patches and other oracle recommended patches on Dev/QA and Production environments  • Handling and resolving Golden Gate Unique constraint collusions  • Update and generate the golden gate definition files to support application changes.  • Write and implement cron jobs to monitor the Golden Gate mgr, replication, and pump processes.  • Use OEM utilities like Memory Advisors, SQL advisors, Segment Advisors, and ADDM.  • Configure database backups, Database duplication, and DB cloning using RMAN  • Perform database migration across various platforms  • Creating, Configuring and Monitoring SQL Server 2008 and 2012 databases  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import Sr. Oracle DBA Sirius XM Radio Inc - New York, NY May 2016 to December 2017 • Planning, installing, and upgrading Oracle 10g, 11g R2 and 12c databases to meet variety of business needs.  • Configure and Monitor multiple RAC nodes.  • Create and Manage Disks and Disk Groups using ASM such as adding/ dropping storage.  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import and incorporate new releases/changes in DEV and QA environment.  • Applying CPU patches and other oracle recommended patches on Dev/QA and Production environments.  • Use OEM utilities like Memory Advisors, SQL advisors, Segment Advisors, and ADDM.  • Planning and Implementing Disaster recovery using Data guard / Physical Standby.  • install and configure Golden gate software and replication using mgr, extract, replicate and PUMP processes.  • Analyze and troubleshoot Golden gate replication errors using 'ggserr_log' file.  • Handling and resolving Golden Gate Unique constraint collusions  • Update and generate the golden gate definition files to support application changes.  • Write and implement cron jobs to monitor the Golden Gate mgr, replication, and pump processes. Lead Oracle DBA UBS Financial Services - Weehawken, NJ January 2016 to April 2016 UBS is a leading Wealth Management and Investment bank headquarted in the Swiss.    • Planning, installing, and upgrading Oracle 10g, 11g R2 and 12c databases to meet variety of business needs.  • Configure and Monitor RAC nodes.  • Create and Manage Disks and Disk Groups using ASM  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import and incorporate new releases/changes in DEV and QA environment.  • Monitor and Manage Database through OEM  • Create, Manage and Patch databases using OEM grid.  • Use OEM utilities like Memory Advisors, SQL advisors, Segment Advisors, and ADDM  • Planned and Implemented Disaster recovery using Data guard / Hot Standby  • Configure database backups, Database duplication, and DB cloning using RMAN  • Create, Manage and configure ASM disks and Disk Groups.  • Perform database migration across various platforms  • Planning and Implementing Disaster recovery using Data guard / Physical Standby  • install and configure Golden gate software and replication using mgr, extract, replicate and PUMP processes.  • Analyze and troubleshoot Golden gate replication errors using 'ggserr_log' file.  • Handling and resolving golden gate collusions. Lead Oracle DBA Covance Inc - Princeton, NJ August 2014 to December 2015 Covance Inc. with headquarters in Princeton, New Jersey, is a contract research organization providing drug development and animal testing services    Responsibilities  • Managing team of off-shore DBAs  • Preparing and presenting Enterprise level database performance reports to Leadership.  • Developing and implementing shift roster to the entire DBA team  • Participate and engage other teams like Storage, Network and System administrators in an event of high severity calls  • Prepare and present root cause analysis for Sev 1 and Sev 2 calls.  • Planning, installing, and upgrading Oracle 10g, 11g R1 and 11g R2 databases to meet variety of business needs for the databases  • Develop and implement best practices using Project management and ITIL best practices.  • Configure and Monitor RAC nodes.  • Create and Manage Disks and Disk Groups using ASM  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import and incorporate new releases/changes in DEV and QA environment.  • Monitor and Manage Database through OEM  • Use OEM utilities like Memory Advisors, SQL advisors, Segment Advisors, and ADDM  • Create, Manage and configure ASM Disk Groups.  • Planned and Implemented Disaster recovery using Data guard / Hot Standby  • Configure database backups, Database duplication, and DB cloning using RMAN  • Create, Manage and configure ASM disks and Disk Groups.  • Perform database migration across various platforms  • Writing and recommending Oracle best practices to improve the operational efficiency.  • Planning and Implementing Disaster recovery using Data guard / Hot Standby  • Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication such as bi-directional replication and broadcasting. Sr. Oracle DBA Northern Trust Bank - Chicago, IL July 2013 to June 2014 Northern Trust is a leading provider of asset management, fiduciary, banking, asset servicing and fund administration solutions for individuals, families, corporations and institutions worldwide.    Responsibilities  • Design, maintain and build conceptual model of the deployment shell script  • Writing pluggable shell script to DBA Menu to collect deploy NT custom stats gathering utility.  • Test, modify and deploy NT Stats gathering custom script  • Test and deploy NT stats utility in all the 720+ databases.  • Liaison with the application teams and explains about NT Best practices on gathering stats.  • Educate the build team to amend NT Stats gathering package into new database builds  • Recommending database structure changes for critical databases to attain optimal performance. Database Administrator General Motors - Detroit, MI October 2010 to June 2013 Environment - Oracle 10.2 / 11.1 / 11.2, Sun Solaris 10, SUSE Linux 11    General Motors Company is one of the world's largest automakers, with its global headquarters in Detroit. GM presents in every major region of the world and does business in more than 120 countries. GM and its strategic partners produce cars and trucks in 31 countries, and sell and service these vehicles through various brand names.    Responsibilities  • Involved in database upgrades from 10.2 to 11.2 for suite of custom built Power-train applications.  • Applying CPU patches and interim patches.  • Configure and Monitor RAC nodes.  • Create and Manage Disks and Disk Groups using ASM  • Refreshing Dev/ QA Database from Production using RMAN backups and export/Import and incorporate new releases/changes in DEV and QA environment.  • Performing monthly maintenance activities like Table redefinitions, Index rebuild and gathering Object statistics.  • Mentor application developers to write optimized queries and application reconstruct.  • Run SQL Performance Analyzer and SQL Access advisor tools to generate and implement better performing profiles, Indexes  • Leads the creation of database related scripts and programs required to compliment the auto-generated DDL scripts  • Partners with application teams on the data loading technology and logic to achieve the best results  • Perform change management functions including code migration, and application and database system administration duties  • Validate oracle Procedures and Trigger and mentoring development team.  • Develop, test and implement backup solutions.  • Performed initial table storage capacity and predicted future growth based on the application use and online retention requirements  • Assessed the impacts and efforts of new projects and continuous enhancements to existing application data architectures and data models Oracle Database Architect USAA - San Antonio, TX January 2010 to September 2010 Environment - Oracle 10.1 / 10.2 / 11.1, Sun Solaris 10    USAA, a diversified financial services group of companies, is among the leading providers of financial planning, insurance, investments and banking products to members of the U.S. military and their families. USAA has more than 7.2 million members, including military officers, enlisted personnel, former military and their families.  Responsibilities  • Building Database Design / Architecture to deal with third party Applications like Phase3 and Maxit  • Developing database integration points and data flows with SunGard Phase3 and Maxit applications.  • Designing new database functionalities from existing Application (CBAS) to meet the requirements of Phase3 and Maxit.  • Co-ordinate with IT architect and Network architects to build a robust Application Model.  • Designing Logical and Physical data models for the application  • Key decision making for infrastructure design, application component design, Database security design, instance Management and database deployment strategy  • Configuring, Monitoring Backup Policies.  • Configuring High Availability of "Cost Basis" Database using Real application clusters Database Administrator Stanley Security Solutions - Indianapolis, IN March 2009 to January 2010 Environment - Sun Solaris 9, 10, Oracle 10.1 / 10.2, Windows 2003    The Stanley Security Solutions offers a wide array of electronic security products, mechanical security products, integration software, and installation and support services for a diverse set of industrial, institutional, and commercial facility applications.  Responsibilities  • Day to day support of Production and Development database environments  • Database maintenance, management and enhancements  • Database upgrades and patching  • Ownership of the deliveries for small to medium size projects  • Ongoing evaluation and analysis of the database environments to provide optimum performance  • Provide Database Support to Application Teams for day to day issues.  • Liaison with appropriate application development representatives to optimize value to the business  • To perform testing of third party software prior to release to the production environment  • Providing 'on-call' support in addition to the core on-site daily coverage  • Liaison with Canada and Asia DBA team to ensure a consistent approach  • Follow change control processes with SLA defined.  • Adhere to change control and security policies where relevant. Database Architect British Telecom - Ipswich October 2007 to February 2009 Environment - Oracle 9.1/ 9.2/10.1 Sun Solaris 8, Windows 2003  British Telecom is the largest communications service provider in the United Kingdom. It is the dominant fixed line telecommunications and broadband Internet provider in the United Kingdom. It is also one of the largest communication companies in the world. BT operates in more than 170 countries and almost a third of its revenue now comes from its Global Services division.  Responsibilities  • SLA Management for Priority1 and Priority2 incidents rose through Clarify.  • Deciding, Preparing, and Executing Oracle Database upgrades and applying Patches.  • Configuring, Monitoring Backup Policies.  • Configuring, Monitoring High Availability of Production Databases.  • Managing and Cloning of test to Production and vice versa.  • Analyze, Monitor, and troubleshoot Performance Bottlenecks  • Managing Monthly Maintenance Window.  • Monitoring Oracle 8i, 9i & 10g Databases for 100% uptime.  • Managing offshore and onsite DBAs and Application support resources to cover 24/ 7 support. DBA Architect AIG October 2006 to September 2007 American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world.  Responsibilities  • Managing a Team of Application support and DBAs  • Resolving application user issues and database issues.  • Building Backup Solutions.  • Cloning Test / Development databases to Production.  • Building architecture for Configuring, Monitoring Standby servers  • Writing Shell Scripts for Performance Monitoring and Storage Monitoring.  • Monitoring Oracle 8i & 9i Databases and monitoring custom applications using Mercury BAC  • Managing DBA and Application support Team, Scheduling Shifts for 24/7 Support.  • Participating conference calls with EDS Delivery Representatives. DBA Lead UCO Bank Data Center - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2006 to October 2006 Environment - Oracle 9.1/ 9.2 Windows 2000, Solaris 8, HP UX 11i    UCO bank is one of the major banks with 900+ branches across India. Currently the bank is going for a complete Banking solution using Finacle Core Banking Solution. The Primary Data center has been setup in Bangalore and Disaster Recovery site has been set up in Kolkata.  Responsibilities  • Installing and Configuring Prod / Test Servers on HP-UX 11i Hardware.  • Cloning Production Database to Test servers to test Branch Migration.  • Performing Branch Migration of Finacle CBS application every week.  • Performing root cause Analysis for Priority 1 incidents.  • Monitoring and Managing Disaster recovery site at Kolkata.  • Writing Shell Scripts for Performance Monitoring and Storage Monitoring.  • Managing entire data center which includes DBAs, Unix Administrators, Network engineers and IT service desk Scheduling Shifts for 24/7 Support.  • Coordinating with HP Accounts Delivery Manager and Project Manager. Database Administrator Agere Systems Inc - Allentown, PA May 2005 to April 2006 Environment - Oracle 8.1.7/ 9.1 Sun Solaris 7, HP-UX 9/11, Windows 2000  Agere Systems is a global leader in semiconductors for storage, wireless data, and public and enterprise networks. Agere is an Industry Leading manufacturer of Products like Desktop Storage SoCs, Read Channels and SoCs for Consumer Hard Disk Drives, Notebook Modem ICs and its customers include top manufacturers of consumer electronics, communications and computing equipment.    Responsibilities:  • Working on Monthly down Window for Database Maintenance Activities.  • Expert Level of UNIX Shell Scripting for various Database Monitoring and Maintenance Tasks.  • Creating and Editing Cron Jobs.  • Cloning Databases.  • Configuring and monitoring the Standby DB  • Working on restoring, rebuilding on Block Corruption.  • Creating and Managing the Database Structures and Memory Structures.  • Managing Database Objects (Tables, Indexes, and Views etc.)  • Creating DB links to remote databases.  • Creating, Managing Roles and Privileges.  • Using RMAN for backups. Oracle Database Administrator UTI Bank, PNB, Union Bank March 2002 to April 2005 IBM March 2002 to April 2005 AIX 5.2, Windows 2000 Professional  Responsibilities:  • Configuring and Managing Oracle 9i Database at customer site.  • Creating and Managing the Database Structures and Memory Structures  • Analyzing the Memory usage and applying tuning methodologies.  • Configuring and monitoring the Standby DB  • Performing Import and Export Backups  • Performing bulk load using SQL Loader  • Performing SGA analysis using STATSPACK Education Master of Science in Business Information technology form Alagappa University Skills Foxpro, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle