IT Analyst IT Analyst System Administrator Atlanta, GA My objective is to obtain an IT position within a reputable firm. This will enable me to utilize my skills, which include specific, Networks, security, database administration, graphics designing, strategic thinking and leadership abilities, communication skills; these skills will be mutually beneficial because both the company and I will consistently succeed at our goals.    INTEREST: Graphic Design, Web Developer, System Administrator, Database Developer/ Administrator, Networks, Servers, Management. Work Experience IT Analyst Chick-fil-A Support Center - Atlanta, GA October 2018 to Present Work as an IT Analyst supporting all the restaurants with troubleshooting IT related issues in the restaurants. Providing effortless customer service skills and resolving issues on a timely manner. System Administrator 3M Interamerica Inc - KINGSTON, JAMAICA May 2010 to Present Responsibilities:  1. Infrastructure w Applicable projects (St.Paul/Local)  Manages Jamaica's Networks Infrastructure, Servers, SCCM, LANdesk, Nessus, PCCS, and all other security aspects of the company. Also support the AS400 application, excel (pivot tables), Iseries, and PBX systems.  2. Business Support  Such As:  - Train Non-IT employees.  - Handles inquiries of moderate scope and complexity.  - Ensure all IT devices at JM location is working, all users computer issue resolved, purchase new equipments and PC where necessary, makes suggestion based on observations etc  - Pivot table creation and manipulation.  3. E-Business Support for Caribbean and SharePoint Administrator  - Server Content Editing for 3M Internet and Intranet Web Pages.  - Be aware of all E-Business ideas that are developed and will be developed.  - Build SharePoint sites for the businesses. Systems Administrator National Works Agency - Kingston March 2011 to May 2012 Currently building from scratch: www.kmtmc.com  o Building entire website where I am incorporating, live traffic management system via camera and Google earth mapping to identify location of cameras on the road.(On-going) Software/ Database Developer Intern 3M Interamerica Inc September 2009 to 2010 Currently working on various projects which include:  • License Plate Recognition system for the government  • Bram RFID Reader system and database system  • Responsible for Database Development and Maintenance  • NWA Traffic Management System Website Junior Technician University of Technology September 2008 to May 2009 Provide assistance in various field of IT and also perform mainframe and account maintenance tasks. Earned commendations for teamwork, flexibility and work excellence in providing IT support to students and faculty. Office Clerk University of Technology May 2007 to July 2007 As an Office clerk, I was responsible for answering phones, taking messages, and filing important documents. Office Clerk 3M Interamerica Inc October 2005 to August 2006 Worked in a clerical office, answering telephone, made telephone calls, took complaints from customers, recorded them and forwarded them to the person in charge, filing & typing documents.  Other Jobs: Universal Studios Florida- 2008, Three Brothers Italian Restaurant - Laurel MD, 2009, Just 4 Kids Uniform Store - Laurel MD, 2009 Education MBA in Business Administration Purdue May 2012 to March 2014 B.Sc. in Computing and Information Technology University of Technology August 2006 to 2010 Diploma Visual Arts institute September 2005 to March 2007 Diploma in Advance Graphics Designing Excelsior Community College September 2003 to June 2004 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), System Admin, System Administrator, access, HTML, Sharepoint, SQL, Visio, Microsoft Word Additional Information SKILLS: Leadership Ability, Team Player, Communication Skills, Strong Professionalism  Competent In:  Programming  ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript  Visual Studio C#, VB, Flash, Java, C++, SQL Server, MySql, Database Management, Active Directory, Safeboot, Landesk, trouble shooting PC, AS400  Office: Microsoft Word/ Excel (Pivot Table)/ Database  Graphic Designing  QuarkXpress (Magazines and Newspaper)  Adobe PhotoShop/ Illustrator, Corel Draw, Adobe Fireworks    EXTRA 1. Member of 4-H Club  CURRICULAR 2. 40 hours community service at Spanish Town Primary  ACTIVITY: 3. 30 hours community service at Mountain View Primary  4. Rotaract Club of University of Technology (UTECH).  5. Peer Councilor for University of Technology.  6. Entertainment Coordinator for Club Billionaire, UTECH  7. Fund Raiser for Generation Technology, UTECH