TCS Consultant TCS Consultant TCS Consultant - American Express Weston, FL A pragmatic who is passionate about technology, learning new things and helping others to work better and more effectively. Passion for tinkering with new technologies, leveraging them to re-imagine IT systems and making them smarter. 10 years of IT experience in implementing database migration, modernization of legacy IT systems and successful project leadership.  Have extensive Database Administration experience on database platforms including DB2 zOS, Oracle, Couchbase, IMS, Database Modeling, Database Design and Performance. Work Experience TCS Consultant American Express 2009 to Present 2009 to 04/2019] Associate Consultant [ Database Administrator] Next Generation Data Management September 2012 to April 2019 This project involves design and development during various stages ranging from database creation, design, modification, deployment, migration, fine tuning, security, optimization and data refresh.  The project also involves support for application development teams for database maintenance, production database size monitoring, estimating their growth and taking necessary action to prevent the database from filling up, ensuring regular backups on all databases for recovery, performance tuning of SQL queries of the applications, fixing database related issues in production and constantly looking at ways to improve the database availability and performance  Roles Performed  * Design of Databases for use in various Production applications  * Worked as a Data Architect defining structural and installation solutions for new databases as well as modifications to existing structures.  * Held end-to-end DBA ownership of the Global Services Portal to migrate DB platform from mainframes to Oracle.  * Utilized data architecture tools such as ER Studio for data architecture and database design.  * Set up replication using Golden Gate between servers for increased availability.  * Created Proof of Concepts from scratch illustrating how the different data migration techniques can meet specific business requirement reducing the cost and time to market.  * Used Oracle SQL Developer and Toad for Oracle extensively.  * Recommended application enhancements based on analyzing and interpreting various Oracle performance reports.  * Performed synchup between multiple test and production environments.  * Implemented database, buckets performance solutions in Couchbase.  * Resolved couchbase production performance issues.  * Worked on PostgreSQL setting up the environment and structures for various applications.  * Executed performance optimization and tuning of stored procedures using various Performance Monitor Tools  * Set up Qrep replication between tables, stored procedures and Consistent Change Data tables.  * Acted as a bridge between various stake holders and teams working across various locations and timezones.  * Utilized Apptunes, SPUFI and BMC tools for SQL query tuning  * Preparing the user acceptance test databases to hold production volume in support for application volume testing  Technologies  SQL Developer for Oracle, Toad for Oracle, SQL Plus, Golden Gate, Oracle Enterprise Manager, ERStudio, Couchbase, PostgreSQL, IBM Database utilities for DB2 & IMS, BMC Database Utilities and Tools for DB2, QReplication, ServiceNow, etc [IT Analyst] Database Operations DBO - Phoenix, AZ September 2009 to September 2012 It is responsible for administration of all American Express databases. The project involves production database monitoring, observing size, estimating growth patterns, taking necessary action to prevent the database from filling up, ensuring regular backups for availability and fixing database related issues in production.  * Monitoring of Maintenance Jobs. Activities involved creation of database utility jobs and testing the available third party tools  * Setting up and running jobs for performing Database Integrity Checks, updating the database statistics and use of Performance Monitor for optimization.  * Analyzing the space report and taking the necessary actions like expansions and redistribution of data  * Identifying business rules and logic for database model  * Data refresh in test region to keep production and test in sync.    Technologies  DB2 for z/OS, JCL, BMC catalog manager, BMC DASD manager, BMC Apptune, BMC SQL Explorer, IBM QMF, IBM Omegamon, IBM Database utilities for DB2 & IMS, BMC Database Utilities for DB2 & IMS, CDB Database utilities for DB2, Oracle Enterprise Manager, QReplication, Infoman, Changeman etc Education Bachelor of Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University 2004 to 2008 Skills BMC (9 years), Couchbase. (6 years), DB2 (9 years), IMS (9 years), Oracle. (4 years), PEGA DBA (6 years), problem-solving (9 years), DBA, Oracle Dba Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/auhgr-pislwa7vv1 Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sysvn9o9gxrpuoz3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    • DB2 z/OS • Oracle  • Couchbase • IMS  • PEGA DB • BMC Tools  • PostgreSQL • Excellent problem-solving abilities