Database Analyst and ETL Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst and ETL Developer Database Analyst and ETL Developer - Global Information Services, Inc./ Florida Department of Health Tallahassee, FL Work Experience Database Analyst and ETL Developer Global Information Services, Inc./ Florida Department of Health August 2016 to Present • Responsible and heavy involved in database design/modelling and development using T-SQL  • Responsible for designing and maintaining Counseling Testing and Linkage System (CTLS): maintaining the database and implementing software solutions in Visual Studio Team Server (VSTS) with Agile Software  Development Method - SCRUM Framework.  • Manage HIV Data warehouse (HIVDW) development and maintenance for the HIV section of FDOH  • Develop ETL applications in SSIS Data Tools in VSTS environment for CTLS and HIVDW  • Provides high-level database development assistance in creating specific applications for businesses  • Provides general support on information technology to design, develop, execute, and maintain the database  application systems, applying several T-SQL RDBMS  • Responsible for data migration for Azure SQL Database - Testing phase  Phone: (850) 980-2528    • Works collaboratively in a cross-functional team comprising managers, supervisors, business analysts, systems  personnel, network staff, and other developers in ensuring the delivery of software solutions as planned, within set budget, and timely  • Provides customer service by responding to and assisting with help desk calls to resolving issues, including  system outages Teaching and Graduate Assistant Dept of CIS, FAMU - Tallahassee, FL August 2013 to August 2016 Working as teaching assistant in data mining, machine learning and network security class. Prepare labs for data  mining class for undergrad students; network security labs. - various machine learning tools, network  vulnerabilities, attack and their solutions  • Assisting students in various courses: Database Design and Development, Data Communication, Discrete  mathematics, data mining, and machine learning  • Programming in C#; database programming with C#  • Online survey design, analysis and data collection using Google's online survey/form tools and spreadsheet SQL Database Administrator Dunatek - Silver Spring, MD February 2012 to June 2013 Dunatek is a consulting firm located in Virginia and specialized on IT services and training. The project was  mainly administration of existing database and maintaining and automating jobs for different clients.  Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and upgraded from SQL Server Servers 2005 to 2008R2/2008.  • Created and managed users, roles, security at object level, user accounts, creation of groups and granting  privileges to users.  • Created maintenance plan: backup, shrink database, update statistics, rebuild index, reorganize Index,  maintenance cleanup, history cleanup and.  • Experienced with Database Backup and Point-in-Time Recovery.  • T-SQL designed and developed the databases, tables, query, stored procedure, view and index.  • Automated and scheduled jobs and set notify operator and email configuration  • Worked in High availability solution including Active-Passive and Active-Active Cluster environment.  • Worked on Tuning queries using Profiler and Statistics, joins, indexes and execution plans.  • Monitor Server Activity, and solving problem as needed. System Administrator and Lecturer, Computing and Information Retrieval Center Addis Ababa University February 2008 to October 2011 AAU is the leading academic intuitions in Ethiopia. It's a home to Science, Social Science, Engineering, and School of Pharmacy.  • Provided lectures on Library Automation, Digital Lib Apps, Information Retrieval, and DBMS courses  • Designed and developed various types of databases and integrated information management systems  for the Universities: Web accessible databases  • Localized open source software into Amharic language; e.g.; the Greenstone Digital Library Software.  • Implemented the AAU Thesis and Dissertations full text database using the DSpace open source software that  uses PostgreSQL DB server  • Customizing and implementing an integrated library system using the Koha open source software that uses  MySQL server as backend.  • Installed Debian GNU/Linux, Apache web server, MySQL database server, and Perl for Koha software.  • Administered the University Library's online services: Web OPAC and various repositories  • Worked as Business Analyst in the development of requirement specifications for the proposed integrated  library system of the Addis Ababa University Libraries on acquisitions, cataloging, and document delivery  systems. SQL DBA (part-time) Betezata Hospital - ET January 2007 to January 2009 Betezata is one of the prominent Hospitals in Ethiopia. It served almost all categories of Health services in the Capital Addis Ababa and serve as a referral from all corners of the country.  Responsibilities:  • Successfully installed and configured the new version of SQL 2005, and2008 in test and development  environment.  • Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  • Created maintenance plans, installation, migration, and deployment procedures.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup and Restore plan.  • Troubleshoot performance problems and fine-tuning of databases.  • Designed and created T-SQL databases, tables, views, and store procedures and rebuilding the indexes  at regular intervals for better performance.  • Provide 24x7 production supports for SQL Server databases. Education MSc in Computer Science Florida A&M University - Tallahassee, FL August 2017 BSc in Statistics Addis Ababa University May 2017 MSc in Information Science Addis Ababa University Skills Database (10+ years), databases (7 years), Linux (3 years), Sql (5 years), T-sql (5 years)