Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Pflugerville, TX • 10 years' experience with MS SQL report query writing and development, TFS source control development and deployment, and managing RDBMS database systems  • Adept at business relationships with business partners and end users to meet departmental specific needs.  • Skilled at learning new concepts quickly, problem solving, communicating ideas clearly and effectively, performing requirements analysis, SQL development queries, ensuring data integrity, and conducting database performance tuning. Work Experience Database Administrator National Western Life Insurance - Austin, TX July 2009 to April 2019 • During my time at NWL, the company expanded the Insurance System software, building an internal user interface application and back end SQL database systems. I assisted with data migration scripting to ETL data from legacy system to the new system.  • Migration to the new Insurance System also required a conversion of all previous reports both from a main frame system and legacy SQL 2000 database system. I re-wrote these reports within the new paradigm as well as wrote new reports. Then we provided an internal URL for users to access reports on demand. In many cases, I scheduled reports in SSRS Subscriptions for delivery via email or file share directory. This gave me a vast knowledge of data schemas in both systems.  • Much of the data still is housed in the previous incarnation of the user interface, so the reports in that system also required maintenance and updates, and in some cases even more new reports for the old system.  • The insurance system is heavily regulated and requires many audit reports, both internally and externally. I wrote all of these reports as well  • Most important in insurance industry is hedge investments. I created complex queries and reports in support of the investments and actuary teams in reaching the goals set by those departments.  • Perhaps the 2nd most important in insurance is claims. I have also written several complex claims reporting for NWL.  • Other reports included multiple items for Marketing, Legal, General Accounting, Actuarial, -New Business Life and Annuity, Policy Owner Services, and Agent Services.  • Some aspects of the position included backup/restore of databases and importing data from external sources (Excel, CSV, Text). Project Support Specialist McElroy Translation - Austin, TX January 2007 to September 2008 • Managed Translation industry standard software called Trados, SDLX, and Catalyst. These are databases that store common expressions in various languages that provide an approximate translation word count in the intended language (for example English to Spanish, or English to Japanese). This software also assists live translators in making the documents localized for the intended audience. This could be for various industry or for individual persons or for marketing in various languages.  • I used query analysis in Microsoft Access for the purpose of translator personnel tracking and project reporting. Database Administrator LIVESTRONG Foundation - Austin, TX June 2001 to May 2006 • I was the lead database manager of Microsoft SQL Server 2000 donor database and product store database  • Involved with report writing for various departments using SQL. I performed backup and restores as needed, created automated jobs for nightly backups and regular database maintenance  • Prepared financial and fundraising statistical reports using Crystal Reports and SQL programming.  • Served as web content manager utilizing Cold Fusion MX web application with IIS 4.0 and IIS 5.0 with SQL Server 2000.  • Administered Kintera and IMIS CRMs including managing user accounts, executing data import/export for direct mail, creating reports and queries, setting up online and offline donation forms and event registration forms, and managing web site content Associate Technical Analyst Weissmann Travel Reports - Austin, TX September 1996 to June 2001 • Server administration for Microsoft NT network and Exchange Server 5.5  • Assisted with technical support for proprietary travel destination software  • Managed web content and web site maintenance  • Provided in-house software and hardware systems support and troubleshooting Education Masters in Library and Information Science University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1995 to 1996 Bachelor of Arts in Economics University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1986 to 1990 Skills Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information Skills  • MS T-SQL query development  • MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2016  • SSRS 2008 R2/2012/2015  • Visual Studio 2008 RS/2012/2015  • Crystal Reports 8-2008  • Red Gate  • MS Office 2003-2013 (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint)