Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - The St. Paul Group Bel Air, MD Work Experience Database Administrator The St. Paul Group February 2018 to Present Responsible for the maintenance, support, and development of databases and SQL 2016 servers. This includes the test and production environments. Developed SSIS Extract Transform Load (ETL) packages to load inpatient and outpatient data. Further, support SQL Server Reporting Server (SSRS) reports and data driven subscriptions. Plans to implement data warehouse using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). This will support reporting and analytics for the business.    Accomplishments:  • Creation of SSIS packages to load, translate, and validated inpatient and outpatient data. Uses a series of staging tables, views, stored procedures including data flows, conditional splits, transformations, error handling, sub packages, email notification, file system tasks, script tasks, and for each loop containers. Employ Change Data Capture (CDC) retrievals to maintain transactional history. Raw files exceed 12 GBs in size with a database that exceeds 1 TB is size.  • Design of inpatient and outpatient database. Created tables, stored procedures, views, and indexes. Design includes cascading deletes and Change Data Capture (CDC) to maintain transactional history.  • Creation of Lookup database and SSIS package to load data. Data maintains the inpatient and outpatient attributes and attributes' vales for inpatient and outpatient data varying from CMS information to state information. Information maintained by staff in excel file in which SSIS package loops thru tabs to import and update data into a SQL Lookup database.  • Employed filtered replication, masking, and Row Level Encryption (RLE) to grant hospitals access to their data.  • Creation of numerous data driven SSRS subscriptions to provide hospitals reports.  • Prepared customer reports and data extracts for hospitals and other customers.  • Creation of Dashboards with tableau. Database Manager Ameritox November 2016 to February 2018 As the database manager, oversees two BI SQL developers and a DBA. Supports and maintain 38 SQL servers for testing, staging, production, and Disaster Recovery (DR). Responsible for the development of SSIS Extract Transform Load (ETL) packages, SSAS warehouse, cubes, and SSRS reports. Support ETL processes that loads and processes data from providers, workers compensation, patient statements, database server metrics, and several other business required data sets. Further, support SharePoint development and maintenance for Business.    Accomplishments:  • Implemented performance improvement for database warehouse and cubes involving Change Data Capture (CDC), indexes, and partitions.  • Created customize InfoPath form and workflows to implement Human Resources status change process to gather approvals using digital signature from management involving terminations, promotions, and relocations.  • Added several automated metrics to assist with identify issues with ETL processes.  • Created ETL process that generates reports and stores them to network share sending them to customers.  • Implemented a number of DR processes including Availability Group (AG), listeners, and ETL server failovers.  • Implemented recommendations to improve DR process involving using AG listeners with SSIS jobs and reports.  • Developed ETL process to process ADP employee data and generate numerous reports.  • Creation of an ETL process to load over 160,000 patient financial statements into SQL FileTable to search documents using full-text and PDF iFilter.  • Creation of several data driven SSRS subscriptions involving databases, help desk, and change control.  • Implemented TFS for source code to business, as well as, provide training. Senior SQL Business Intelligence Developer CACI International Inc May 2016 to November 2016 As Senior SQL BI developer served as Team Lead over four SQL developers. Team is responsible for the development of SSRS reports, SSIS Extract Transform Load (ETL) packages, and SSAS warehouse and data cubes. Furthermore, Team is responsible for the design, development, and maintenance of 10 application databases.    Accomplishments:  • Implementation of SSIS packages to perform ETL process to load financial and personnel data from excel documents. Process involves for each loop containers, sequence container, splits, dataflow tasks, conditional splits, unions, and SQL script tasks. Objective is to create data warehouse and data cubes with data driven parameterize subscriptions.  • Implementation of a series of SSRS parameter driven reports involving planned and actual reimbursable reports for fund centers.  • Implementation of additional TFS metric reports involving dashboards and agile project comparative reports for burndown rates.  • Implementation of MDS for contract data to assist with proof of concept to Business for data stewardship. Program Contractor Lead KBRwyle and Lockheed Martin August 2010 to May 2016 As program contract lead for the ARAT-OC Portal Team, responsible for the development, support, and maintenance of the Army Reprogramming Analysis Team (ARAT) web portals and databases with a team of four programmers and two network engineers. Further, responsible for managing staff, and CMMI process implementation, as well as, web, database, SSIS, SSRS, and SSAS projects.    Accomplishments:  • Redesign of AWSSSP portal that incorporates three portals under one unified umbrae as air and ground systems. Portal content is rendered dynamically from data stored in a SQL databases. Site reduces the need for support and maintenance of static web pages because of data driven content.    • Implementation of new security model for accessing web portals by replacing Active Directory (AD) with forms and token authentication. Involved migration of existing AD accounts to SQL database to support new authentication. Created backend too to manage user accounts, roles, and permissions to sites.    • Implementation of a SSIS and SSAS process to load and process web logs from three IIS servers. The ETL process uses data from delimited text files and loads them into a data warehouse. The data warehouse is processed into Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) cube to create web activity metrics. The SSIS process involves a series of conditions, SQL script tasks, for each loop containers, and error logging.    • Creation of a series of automated parameterize data driven SSRS report subscriptions. Reports range from page activity, user activity, and file down loads. Excel and PDF files are stored to file shares, as well as, sent to customers.    • Implementation SQL Server 2012 Sematic Search as search engine for web portals to index content and render results. Further, created SSIS package to load portal files into the Semantic Search shares to add and remove content as needed.    • Migration of the CREW portal to a content management application where portal content is rendered dynamically from data stored in a SQL databases.    • Created automate email scheduled SQL Server tasks for password expirations.    • Created administrative tools to manage mission data and automate email notifications for significant portal postings. Both tasks significantly reduced the work load of staff and reduced the response time to implement tasks.    • Leveraging new technologies to assist business in reaching its goals including virtualized servers and workstations, Dev Express web development controls, SharePoint, Map Suite, jQuery, Team Foundation Server, and WebTrends.    • Implementation of CMMI level 3 process improvements for the ARAT-OC. Senior Analysts XLHealth August 2009 to August 2010 Senior analysts responsible for the maintenance and support of reporting databases, ETL programs, and reports.    Accomplishments:  • Implement the use of SQL 2012 Enterprise for data driven subscriptions for SSRS.    • Design, create, and maintain application that automates the creation of a provider director database used by marketing to assist members in selecting practitioners in their area. Senior Project Manager/SQL DBA/Programmer Analysts 1998 to July 2009 Project Manager, SQL DBA/Programmer, and Senior Programmer Analysts for Refining Technologies business. Manage, develop, and support numerous applications and projects for business. Managed team, contractors, and projects for IT. Performed requirements analysis on multiple projects to determine business needs. Further, supported and managed virtual servers for the team, as well as, WEB, SQL, SSIS, and SSRS projects.    Accomplishments:  • Designed, developed, and supported AIMS WEB application that manages products, customers, and sales forecast information. Further, application involves multiple data imports and exports of customer, product, and SAP data. Application employs the use of ASP.NET, VB.NET, SQL 2005, SSRS, and SSIS.    • Designed, developed, and manage product information sheet WEB application that allows the business to review, approve, track, and publish changes of product information sheets. SQL 2005, ASP.NET, VB.NET, and SSRS are used in the application.    • Supported over 60 SSRS department reports that involved data driven parameterize subscriptions, matrixes, tables, graphs, and parameters.    • Wrote proposal that implemented the use of virtual servers for IT department as QA and development environments.    • Designed, developed, and managed R&D study WEB application that allows business to track the progress of studies. Application allows business to manage documents associated to studies and email notifications regarding study's status. Application uses ColdFusion and SQL 2000. Assistant State Court Administrator MARYLAND STATE JUDICIARY 1986 to 1998 Oversight of the Maryland Sentencing Guidelines Department. Responsible for the Judiciary statistics and Annual Report. Managed two departments that involved a staff of 20. Education BA in Sociology University of Lock Haven MA in Criminology University of Maryland Skills Sql server, Sql, Sharepoint, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Team foundation server, Tableau, Sql server analysis services, Sql server integration services, Power bi, Asp, Coldfusion, Iis, Asp.net, Visual studio, Analysis services, Vb.net, Cmmi, Team management, Mvc Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:    Project Management Team Management Requirements Analysis CMMI Processes  ASP.NET / VB.NET/MVC SQL Server DBA and Programming  SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  IIS Servers ColdFusion  Team Foundation Server (TFS) Visual Studio  SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) SharePoint 2010 Tableau SQL Master Data Services (MDS) and Data Quality Services (DQS) Power BI