President and CEO President and CEO President and CEO - Rapid Solutions Design Markesan, WI RS3DC is available to provide services including Microsoft BI Stack Solutions (SSRS reports, SSIS packages, and other custom hybrid Solutions utilizing Microsoft Azure and on-premise resources for your company's success. In addition, I work with Nigel Frank International to deploy and support Microsoft Dynamics GP for customers in the state of Wisconsin and surrounding regions.  Other services include setting up Microsoft Office 365 for your organization and setting up MFA (multi-factor authentication) and email encryption for Office 365. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience President and CEO Rapid Solutions Design September 2018 to Present Development, and Deployment Corp RS3dc  17 years of experience with the Microsoft BI Stack developing solutions with SSMS, SSRS, SSIS and SSAS. 17 years of experience deploying, updating, supporting routine updates to various modules, and working with a Value Added Reseller to design data capture tools like work orders and other solutions to better track costs and allocate them to the 3 companies (AT, AF, AFPI) based on cost/mile, cost/acre, cost/hr/process, etc. with Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains or simply Dynamics GP. Projects varied by companies that I have worked for and 3 employers used different versions of GP from Version 6.0 to Dynamics GP 2015. I've set up the Web Client for Dynamics GP a few times. I will be working as one of Nigel Frank International's consultants for deploying and support of GP in the state of Wisconsin and the surrounding regions. Database Developer National Association of Tax Professionals December 2015 to October 2018 Fulfill all business intelligence reporting needs and develop a data warehouse. I worked on over 70 sprints and still continue to and have completed projects like implementing Office 365 email encryption. Creating a Midnight Copy process for encrypting and transporting the production database nightly to our local office. We continue to add to our CRM and other tools in our data warehouse. Other ETL projects include receiving address updates back from the postal service and other logistic partners and updating the corresponding systems with the new information. Business Intelligence Analyst Beaver Dam Community Hospitals, Inc February 2014 to November 2015 Responsible for working with business and functional department Directors and Leads to gather requirements to build reports with SSRS and design solutions to meet Informatics and regulatory needs, improve process efficiency, and provide scalable business intelligence tools. Managed BI reporting and project load between myself and senior programmer consultant since the Senior BI Specialist was promoted to Process Improvement Facilitator in July 2014. Participated in two Rapid Improvement Events each month since August 2014 designing reporting dashboards and matrixes for process champions and owners to measure current state and progress towards goals in the areas the RIE's focused each month. I provided large data extractions from Paragon and Practice Partner of patients, insurance, providers, labs/rads, etc for ETL into the new eCW EMR. Serve as the Application Administrator for returning remote hosted software back on-site to improve QoS, uptime, and efficiency. Helped lead and support the implementation of the Hospice Pharmacy Import Utility and sending of medications to CMS. Project manager for the SQL Server database upgrades from 2005 to 2008R2 SP2 cluster. Assisted with creating the functional design specifications for the Horizon Home Care and ECS export to Patient Call Manager. Project lead performing ETL with SSIS on the WHA files loading them into a database and designing reports and graphs in SSRS and validating the data. IT Manager Alsum Farms & Produce, Inc May 2003 to December 2012 Database Administrator for multiple MS SQL Server databases Alsum Farms & Produce, Inc 2005 to 2008 databases including maintenance, upgrades, and report writing with MS SQL Reporting Services  Development of cost accounting module for Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains working with a VAR to set up data capture tools (work orders, etc), allocation methods and reporting of cost per mile for transportation fleet    Systems Administrator experience  Handled strategic planning for company IT infrastructure  Implementation of backup and systems recovery procedure and software(Symantec and Barracuda Networks).  Server administration, upgrades, and migrations with AIX Unix, Linux, MS SBS Server 2000, MS Server 2000, MS  Server 2003 Enterprise, and MS Server 2008R2 x64  Upgraded to a stand-alone MS Exchange server from a SBS server and improved anti-virus/anti-spam protection with Trend Micro Worry Free Business Advanced with IMHS.; Make all purchasing decisions for hardware and software.    Network Administrator experience  Monitor, maintain and update a network of 100+ pc's and 15 Servers to meet users' needs.  Maintain and implement all network security devices and software including multiple VPN's (sonicwall, juniper, and cisco) that allow Alsum Farms and remote users to log onto company servers securely to work.  Implementation and support of multiple VoIP solutions using HP POE switches, a Linux server, Polycom phones and Fonality software, and most recently with Cisco CallManager, servers, phones, and switches.  Perform help desk duties including, building, updating and fixing of all computers, servers, printers, phones, switches, and handheld shipping and receiving devices and training / assisting users with questions about MS Office and other software used by office staff.  Implemented a wireless network in a large warehouse/production facility using Cisco WAP's and Symbol MC9060's with custom .Net software to make shipping and receiving of product more efficient. Assistant Controller/ Database and Systems Admin Superior Ready Mix Concrete, LLP May 2001 to May 2003 Performed study on the off-road diesel fuel usage on Superior's 800+ fleet of trucks. Assisted with their billing department to evaluate if processes could be streamlined more. Gradually worked into their IT department, supporting a Visual Basic 6 Sales Quotes App, Great Plains and their SQL 2000 databases, and performing network, workstation, and server maintenance and support. I also wrote a couple Visual Fox Pro programs using T-SQL statements to pull information about customers from Great Plains and use it in their Mechanics lien/release programs, as well as, begin to process the liens and releases in house. Assistant Controller Superior Ready Mix Concrete, LLP May 2001 to May 2002 Worked on improving the billing department and streamlining operations and performed a time study on off road diesel fuel usage for Superior's 800+ fleet of trucks to present to the California State Board of Equalization. Education BA in Information Systems Dordt College 1997 to 2001 Bachelors of Arts in Accounting Dordt College 1997 to 2001 BS in Computer Science in Management Information Systems Dordt College 1997 to 2001 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Business Intelligence (8 years), Microsoft BI Stack (8 years), Team Foundation Server (5 years), Microsoft Dev Ops / VSTS (5 years), Oracle BIP, OTBI, OBIEE, Fusion Apps, WAM, SCM, ERP (Less than 1 year), T-SQL (10+ years), PLSQL (3 years), Windows Server (10+ years), UNIX / Linux (3 years), Network Administration (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  Windows Server • Databases • Microsoft SQL Server • Business Intelligence • VPN