Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Miami Party Balloons Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Miami Party Balloons - Miami, FL May 2008 to Present Installing and configuring computer hardware, software, systems, networks, printers and scanners, talking to clients and computer users to determine the nature of problems, responding to breakdowns, maintaining records of software  licenses, managing stocks of equipment, consumables and other supplies, design and implementation of new systems, web designer and build and maintain the website, manage presence on social networking sites, manage email accounts,  web hosting, DNS setup, manage site SEO and ensure that all requirements are met for SEO best practices, manage  google AdWords and optimize campaigns. IT Consultant / Microsoft Dynamics GP SINCA Soluciones Integrales de Negocios - Caracas, VE March 2006 to January 2008 Responsible for gathering user requirements, requirement analysis, Building Modal solutions in GP, responsible of installation and implementation of Microsoft Dynamics GP at various client places. Migrated client's old data from  various accounting system to Microsoft Dynamics GP 9 through integration manager, performed Microsoft Great Plains  database migrations/upgrades from SQL 2000 to SQL 2005, performed fat-client/server installation, configuration and maintenance of FRX in a multi-user environment, developed / designed number of reports using FRX, Crystal Report and  MBS Report Writer, provided extensive user training for all the implemented modules of Microsoft Dynamics GP 9  (Finance, Analytical Accounting, Bank Reconciliation, Fixed assets, AP, AR ). Done data warehousing and reporting using  SQL 2005 analysis services.    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TRAINING  Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains, FRX, SQL, Visual Basic, JavaScript, C++, TCP/IP, Firewalls, Networking, Servers, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Office Visio,  WordPress, Photoshop CS5 and Sage 50.    INTEREST  Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains, Optimizations, Networking, Consulting, ERP Systems, CRM and Databases and Web  Designer. Education Systems Engineer in Systems Engineer Universidad Santa María 2006 Skills Microsoft Visio, Networking, Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains, FRX, SQL, Visual Basic, JavaScript, C++, TCP/IP, Firewalls and Servers, WordPress and Photoshop CS5 (10+ years), Linux, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses · Public speaking techniques and development - Grupo Corporativo LUDEX. · ESOL English Class – Ronald W. Reagan Adult Program. · Effective communication skills – UCV. · Systems Engineering conference certified by Microsoft & Sun Microsystems of Venezuela – USM. Present Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/olpsrh1syujtkcey Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/igeqofnntytjwsr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.