DATABASE ANALYST/ ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> ANALYST/<span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ANALYST/ ADMINISTRATOR - Atlanta Public Schools McDonough, GA Professional that is keen to detail, possess excellent research, interpersonal, technical skills, oral and written communication skills. In addition, self-motivated while, maintaining a positive attitude and strong work ethic. Successfully manage data systems, fast-pace thinking, analytical and critical decision making. Advocate for students in the school district to continue meeting education goals that are in transition from home to home by establishing bus transportation and coordinating with other counties and communicating with stakeholders and community outreach programs. Establish collaborative relationships with schools, parent liaisons and co-workers using team building skills. Identify company needs, analyzing concerns and solutions, delegating work and providing team support. Work Experience DATABASE ANALYST/ ADMINISTRATOR Atlanta Public Schools June 2013 to Present Route average of 30,000 students daily and manage about 300 routes using data systems such as EDULOG (SQL), ZONAR, TRIP TRACKER, SharePoint and WebQuery programs to create, track and manage routes to transport students safely to and from school. Effectively consolidate routes for efficiency, produce weekly route audits and generate data analysis reports to maintain routes and map integrity.  ? Create and manage logistics projects for district and department events such as, Back to School Bash, Day One activities and Summer school programs.  ? Manage Student Information System (Infinite Campus) maintaining student data to properly route students to a bus stop.  ? Create Excel spreadsheets containing logistics for department and or district projects.  ? Maintain the department online image utilizing School Wires a web design program.  ? Train staff on database systems use daily in department.  ? Conduct road safety audit (RSA) with Georgia Department of Transportation.  ? Constructed parking lot layouts for buses and POV's for transportation bases.  ? Produced an Access database to house driver and route information for department. PAYROLL SPECIALIST Atlanta Public Schools September 2011 to June 2013 Managed over 400 employees' payroll.  ? Constructed the department workflow and training pamphlet.  ? Trained new payroll employees on Kronos time management system.  ? Assisted Field Trip department with TD-100s/200s for processing, assignment and scheduling of trips via school mail and email. RETAIL STORE MANAGER CLEAR, Pac Sun, American Eagle and Hollister Company September 2005 to September 2011 Six years of management and supervision experience, this includes conducting interviews and presentations to include hiring and training of staff to determine suitability and applicability.  ? Increased inventory management system efficiencies, and was selected by district office to train additional stores on developed system.  ? Decreased corporate losses by using strong customer service, adhering to business policies and practices, and holding staff accountable and reduced shrink for retail store from 5% to 0.8%. Education BACHELORS in Communications Tennessee State University May 2003 Skills Event planning, Marketing, Logistics, Team building Additional Information SKILLS  Project Management  Event Planning  Client Relationships  Logistics  Organizer  Team Building  Marketing and Sales