Data Engineer Data Engineer Data Engineer - IaaS and PaaS Tampa, FL Work Experience Data Engineer IaaS and PaaS 2018 to Present Cloud Architecture: Design infrastructure as a service to support product delivery: development, QA, and deployment.  ? Practical knowledge to design and implement structure on cloud: Windows, SQL Server and DBs.  ? Performance Tuning on Azure (Application Insights & Power BI).  • DevOps: Supporting Application lifecycle on Azure and VM environments.  • Create overall performance data-warehouse system to gather performance metrics at Application, DB, SQL Server, and Windows Server level. This includes the use of Microsoft "forms" to collect Users' feed.  • Review and collaborate with developers in creating new features for our main accounting products including new data warehousing capabilities (on Azure), and BI Dashboards.  • Train DBAs on best-practice implementation and troubleshooting. DBA Team-Lead 2016 to 2018 Led small DBA team to install, configure, support Application Delivery over 50 VM SQL Servers 4,000 DBs, two separate physical storage centers, weekly deployments on three main applications, training, and the adoption of best practice procedures.  * Created:  • SSIS ETLs to combine Dynamic CRM with our Billing System.  • ASP web interface/SQL Processes for Operations/DBA/QA Departments to complete common Customers' Requests and Data Fixes in a timely manner.  • A Data-warehousing process to collect and analyze Customers' data and Performance values.  • A Filestream and FileTable configurations for Report Scheduling and document sharing.  • Technical Documentation in collaboration with all departments providing clarity to objectives and better communication. Senior DBA AlwaysOn, " "Mirroring, " "Log Shipping, " and "SQL native Backup & Restore" techniques 2012 to 2016 Migrated local SQL Servers' DBs to SAN Storage.  * Upgraded earlier versions of SQL Server to 2008 R2/SQL 2012/ SQL 2014/SQL 2016.  * Implemented a reliable Fault Tolerance backup and data availability system using technologies such as "AlwaysOn, " "Mirroring, " "Log Shipping, " and "SQL native Backup & Restore" techniques.  * Designed & Coded:  • Data Migration and Import-Export processes between systems located in the same Domain, multiple Domains, and Cloud.  * Developed, implemented, and maintained Data archival strategies for transactional & data mining DBs including compression and encryption techniques. Database Administrator M3 Hotel Accounting 2003 to 2012 Architected and coded SQL Server Maintenance and Performance tuning systems (Re-indexing, Integrity Checks, Updating Statistics, issuing alerts, and generating System reports). This project required writing processes in T-SQL, VS, Powershell, SSIS, and SSRS, and has helped to keep LAB/QA/Production environments healthy.  * Migrated old DTS and T-SQL procedures into SSIS and SSRS processes providing inter-departmental easy viewing of valuable data.  * Developed:  • A centralized 24/7 Automated Deadlock Monitoring and Resolution System (via T-SQL) alerting in-house developers and DBAs of potential issues in the code and/or improper use of indexes.  • An Application Deployment system using " Database Projects" and "T-SQL" scripts.  • A strong and easy-to-manage SQL Security through the creation of Groups, Roles, and Logins. Database Administrator Mckibbon Hotel Group 1997 to 2003 Supported Hospitality Accounting System for locally owned hotels including Performance Tuning and interacting with users who would make different data fixes. Software Specialist SED International - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1997 office and in different countries.  • Additionally, I also Installed and maintained LAN & WAN networks in local office and abroad sales "sites." Senior System Admin Regions Bank 1992 to 1996 Architected, implemented, and maintained a LAN/WAN environment including three buildings and over 25 Bank sites housing three different kinds of network topologies (Token ring, 10Base2, 10Base-T).  • Administration and Maintenance of local and Remote Novell and Microsoft servers, Computer Systems, Email systems (Exchange & Lotus), and IBM Mainframes.  • Responsible for Bank-sites' installation of computers and network.  • Responsible for Inventory and ordering of new hardware and software. Network Admin Medical College of Georgia 1991 to 1992 Supported LAN/WAN network environments.  * Developed Event-organizer application to manage guests and resources. Education Master in Theology in leadership Spring Hill College 2009 BS in Computer Science Brunswick Junior College, Augusta State University 1992 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/paul-perez-5b119283 http://DataEasy123.com