Operations Analyst - Software Utility Services Operations Analyst - Software Utility Services Operations Analyst - Software Utility Services - Accenture Minneapolis MN Lakeville, MN Operations Analyst  Experienced quality oriented professional with a proven knowledge of advanced technology and application support. I am aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill an Operations/Systems Analyst role at your company. Work Experience Operations Analyst - Software Utility Services Accenture Minneapolis MN - Minneapolis, MN 2008 to Present • Work with product and development teams to provide support throughout the product delivery lifecycle (SDLC).  • Provide second level technical support as part of the IT Operations Analyst team to deliver excellent customer service.  • Support Revenue Accounting Applications used by thirty low cost airlines across the globe.  • Take ownership of operational issues and perform analysis to find the root cause to provide both a short-term resolution and a long term fix.  • Provide detailed analysis when working with the development team to resolve customer issues to meet SLA's.  • Perform application upgrades, migrations and new sever builds.  • Experienced supporting and working with global teams in India and the Philippines to deliver 7/24 support in an on-call and weekend rotation.  • Worked with auditors from Ersnt and Young to audit the applications and related processes.  • Use Remedy and ServiceNow to track and resolve incident cases and to implement changes. This includes Incident and problem management, as well as change management.  • Scheduling coordinator and managed the project for server patching of 500 plus Windows servers on a monthly basis. Worked as part of team to set up auto patching on the servers.  • Use and recommend modifications for SCOM and Sitescope alerts to track and resolve system issues.  • Contributes to the development of best practices, policies, procedures and end user training. Write SOP's and documentation to use for similar occurrences.  • Ensure applications are up and available to the client as described by their SLA's.  • Triage system and application logs for early resolution of system errors, or impacts caused by new code migrations.  • Supported API's for Revenue Accounting Open Skies applications. Database Administrator - Systems Analyst UNISYS CORPORATION - Eagan, MN 2000 to 2007 • Provided Oracle and SQL Incident DBA support for all Eagan Service Center clients. This included mission critical Unisys corporate databases as well as out-sourcing client's databases on Windows and UNIX servers.  • Worked the Application analysts to resolve issues on Oracle Database Application servers.  • Worked with the Windows Systems groups to resolve Oracle and SQL backup issues and to restart the Veritas backups when necessary. This included exports, hot and cold backups.  • Performed database performance reporting.  • Performed SQL Server Installations and configurations.  • Installed Microsoft security patches and hot-fixes on multiple servers.  • Provided Active Directory support managing local accounts and user policies.  • Rebuilt databases when required after recovering from media failures.  • Identified persistent problems and followed up with appropriate support resources to resolve and prevent future occurrences.  • Participated in disaster recovery exercises to rebuild critical client databases to the stated business resumption point. Education BS in Business Management Cardinal Stritch University - Milwaukee, WI Skills System analysis, Remote access, Problem solving, Excellent communication skills, Team player, testing, Active Directory, HTML, Security Additional Information Skills  • System analysis  • Excellent problem solving abilities  • System upgrades  • Excellent communication skills  • Remote access support  • Client focused  • Strong team player.