Database Designer/ Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Software and Accounting Instructor Chicago, IL ? Passed the required test to obtain the PTIN for RTRP; in the process of completing the necessary CE credits requirements.  ? Over twenty years of experience completing forms 1040EZ, 1040A, 1040 and federal schedules; Illinois/Indiana state income tax forms and schedules.  ? Expert level knowledge on MS Office Suite and QuickBooks.  ? Capable to work under minimal supervision while upholding high levels confidentiality.  ? Excellent individual and group presentation skills.  ? Fully Bilingual: English - Spanish. Work Experience Database Designer/ Administrator The College of Office Technology August 2003 to Present Designed, created, implemented and maintained a MS Access-based DBMS Application. This innovative project computerized 90% of the paperwork generated by the college; it represented savings of over 80 labor-hours per week.  ? Enhanced end-users' understanding of the application by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering group and individual training sessions and creating user-friendly training materials.  ? Worked very closely with staff and administration in order to learn each step of the paperwork within a department; interfaced with end-users to improve and update D/E forms, mail-merge documentation and statistical and students' data reports.  ? Improved D/E manipulation by standardizing content from incongruent data thus enabling users to quickly access and share student information.  ? Established data rights and hierarchies for all existing and new staff and administrators while adhering to strict rules of confidentiality and high levels of security and data privacy. Software and Accounting Instructor The College of Office Technology - Chicago, IL March 1992 to Present Trained low-income, adult students from diverse ethnic backgrounds in order to provide them with the necessary technical skills to obtain employment.  ? Taught Windows 7, the MS Office Suite and Visual Basic, Accounting, and QuickBooks.  ? Designed, created and implemented the following new courses: Computers and Technology, Software Integration Applications, Introduction to Visual Basic and Computerized Accounting.  ? Introduced students to business ethics, journals, the G/L, A/P, A/R and P/R, B/S and I/C Statements. Provided hands-on training in the use of most current version of QuickBooks. Income Tax Preparer Self-Employed January 1985 to April 2010 Experience filing federal forms: 1040EZ, 1040A, 1040, 1040X; Schedules and additional forms associated with businesses, self-employed individuals, property rentals; various types of credit forms such as educational and earned income credits  ? Experience on filing Illinois and Indiana income tax forms: forms IL-1040, IL-1040X, 4562, Sch. CR, ICR, NR. Indiana's form IT-40 and schedules 1 - 7; IT-40PNR and Schedules A- H Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Chicago State University - Chicago, IL December 1982 to June 1983