Sr Business Analyst - Test Management and Change Management Sr Business Analyst - Test Management and Change Management Plymouth, WI A challenging position as a Database Administration/Development in an innovative work environment. To be part of a team that is fun, hardworking, and professional.  Highlights and Technical Knowledge  Highlights:  • 15+ years database experience MS SQL Server 2005 thru 2012; all editions, including optimized set up best practices.  • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)  • TSQL Programming - DML and DDL  • Relational Database Development including indexing, data type selection, and data modeling.  • ServiceNow ticket tracking system.  • Agile development best practices.  • Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) querying.  • Proficient at handling multiple projects concurrently.  • Demonstrated accuracy, attention to detail and ability work well in a team environment.  • Able to communicate and interact effectively with initials of all levels.  • Major strengths include data security, documentation, problem-solving, creating more efficient processes and optimizing database performance.  • Take a proactive approach to my job. I do not wait for a problem/performance issue to occur. Work Experience Sr Business Analyst - Test Management and Change Management Ascension Health Services June 2014 to Present Ascension Information Services  • Additional information can be provided as appropriate/relevant to database administration position applied for. Specialist Database Administrator Wheaton Franciscan - Glendale, WI June 2006 to December 2014 • Hired as Senior Database Administrator and promoted to Specialist in 2008.  • Identified as top technical resource on a team of 8 database administrators for database performance, architecture, issue(s), and questions.  • Provided numerous presentations to database team regarding performance monitoring/troubleshooting techniques/best practices - knowledge sharing.  • Supported 50+ SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, and 2012 environments.  • Established Unattended Installation process for SQL Server 2008 and 2008 R2.  • Created automated copy and restore process. Primarily used for production-to-test refreshes and backup consistency checks.  • Reduced overall database optimization time by up to 75% by developing, testing, and implementing a "smart" index rebuild and statistics update process.  • Established curriculum and taught classes for use of optimized T-SQL to technical support team members.  • Have also provided numerous presentations to the database team regarding various performance monitoring/troubleshooting techniques/best practices - knowledge sharing.  • Established and taught classes for use T-SQL language to end to technical support team members. Principal Database Administrator Jefferson Wells International - Brookfield, WI September 2002 to June 2006 • Coordinated physical changes to computer data bases.  • Automated daily operations of database maintenance.  • Wrote, designed and implemented performance monitoring application.  • Instrumental in PeopleSoft FS and HR application database upgrades.  • Established real-time email and text messaging alert system from SQL Server to notify of data and log thresholds, security failures, and database corruption.  • Designed logical and physical database models using Erwin.  • Trained and managed an entry level database administrator and achieved significant improvements in their productivity.  • Primary source for design of hardware platforms designed to optimize database performance.  • All assigned tasks for team projects have been completed on time or earlier.  • Structured and maintained 10 production and 15 development, test, and UAT database environments.  • Spearheaded application database query optimization efforts.  • Created graphical and written description for programmer analysts to understand how applications access data.  • Restructured and improved pre-existing database processes.  • Responsible for documenting and maintaining database object naming standards.  • Provided fully documented physical data models to application developers. Database Administrator Metavante - Milwaukee, WI August 2000 to September 2002 • Responsible for logical design reviews, physical design transformations, implementation and maintenance of SQL Server, Sybase, and Oracle databases Windows NT for a variety of client/server and data warehouse applications.  • Provided 24-hour support on a rotating on-call basis with other teams.  • Developed and implemented database backup and disaster recovery procedures.  • Maintained database software by applying patches and upgrades.  • Worked with application development teams to review and complete application database modification requests. Database Administrator Quarles & Brady - Milwaukee, WI June 2000 to September 2000 Database Administrator Case Corporation - Racine, WI June 1998 to June 2000 Education MCS UW Whitewater - Whitewater, WI August 1994 to May 1998 Skills architecture (8 years), BCP (Less than 1 year), Clustering (Less than 1 year), Crystal Reports (Less than 1 year), Data Modeling (Less than 1 year), database (10+ years), DDL (10+ years), disaster recovery (10+ years), HTML (Less than 1 year), MS Access (3 years), MS Excel (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), real-time (3 years), security (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), DBA (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years)