MLS Administrator MLS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MLS Administrator Greer, SC Work Experience MLS Administrator GREATER GREENVILLE ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS - Greenville, SC 2016 to 2019 Performing day-to-day administrative and operations tasks such as phone coverage, managing information, creating  documents, maintaining files, etc.  • Working knowledge of the Paragon/Black Knight MLS system  • Identifies and successfully resolves MLS listing problems with MLS Director's approval  • Possesses knowledge of the MLS Rules and Regulations, Supra Key box rules and regulations, and policies and procedures  • Executed the highest level of customer service and satisfaction for all MLS services and products  • Working knowledge of Zip Logix/Zip Forms and assist those members with inquiries.  • Processed MLS fines for those members in violation of the MLS Rules and Regulations.  • All other duties as assigned by the MLS Director and CEO of GGAR  • Handle the office/staff calendar with all upcoming vacations, meetings, classes, events and time off.  • Liaison to the Reciprocal listings of Greenville Association of Realtors and handled entering listings in the Greenville MLS  and managed the data accuracy for those documents coming to Greenwood's MLS.    BILLING  • Processed all the MLS dues checks and other forms of payment and verified them with the General Ledger entry.  • Charge-coded all new agents through MLS Lamps so that the quarterly agent bill as well as office billing was accurate.  • Created and distributed transfer-fee invoices through MLS Lamps for those agent transferring brokerages.    MARKETING  • Social Media Management Skills (e.g. Facebook & Twitter)  • Maintained admin role in keeping Facebook and Twitter updated with important upcoming events, NAR and SCR news and statistics, and the articles from the CEO along with hashtagging the Twitter account  • Digital Editor for the bi-monthly GGAR Newsletter and then later transposed it as an interactive email through Constant  Contact. Creating all the links, documents and flyers per article heads.    WORKGROUP/COMMITTEE LIAISON  • Staff Liaison to the Community Service Workgroup. CSW was GGAR's fundraising arm through various events to help  support three local charities in their efforts to manage their cause.  • Staff Liaison to the Revitalization Committee. This committee handled the review and judging of various properties who  were catalysts in the community. Executive Team Administrator KELLER WILLIAMS UPSTATE REALTY/THE TURNER TEAM - Greenville, SC 2013 to 2016 Greenville, SC 2013 to 2016  International Real Estate Franchise for residential and commercial real estate (Team Setting  Executive Team Administrator  Administered most of the aspects of the sellers' and buyers' real estate/contractual protocol through the closing working with 2 Listing  Agents and 3 Buyer Agents.  LISTING ADMIN  • Oversee all aspects of sellers' transactions from initial contact to executed purchase agreement.  • Prepare all listing materials: pre-listing presentation, Listing Agreement, sellers' disclosures, pull online property profile, research old multiple listing service (MLS) listings and etc.  • Consult & coordinate with sellers all property photos, staging, repairs, cleaning, signage, lockbox, access requirements & marketing activities.  • Obtain all necessary signatures on listing agreement, disclosures and other necessary documentation.  • Coordinate showings & obtain feedback.  • Provide proactive weekly feedback to sellers regarding all showings and marketing activities.  • Input all listing information into MLS and marketing websites and update as needed.  • Submit all necessary documentation to office broker for file compliance.  • Input all necessary information into client database and transaction management systems.  TRANSACTION COORDINATOR (Contract to Closing)  • Oversee all aspects of buyer & seller transactions from executed purchase agreement to closing.  • Regularly update & maintain communication with clients, agents, title officer, lender etc.  • Submit all necessary documentation to office broker for file compliance.  • Schedule, coordinate & attend closing process.  • Input all client information into client database system.  MARKETING SPECIALIST  • Manage client database management program & system.  • Create & regularly prepare all buyer & seller consultation packages.  • Coordinate the preparation of all listing & brochures, graphics, signage and all other marketing materials.  • Manage & update agent website(s) and online listings.  • Regularly assist agent to manage & enhance agent's social media presence.  • Track & coordinate all inbound leads from websites, social media & other online sources.  • Regularly obtain client testimonials for websites, social media & other marketing materials.  • Coordinate & implement agent marketing videos & property videos on website(s), blog(s), social media and client database  email campaigns.  OFFICE MANAGER  • Oversee all aspects of the administration of the agent's business.  • Create & update an Executive Administration manual and employment contracts for any future hires.  • Manage training on team business with new agents to the team.  • Hold agent(s) accountable for conducting all agreed upon lead generation activities.  • Ensure that all agent activities are limited to listing property, showing property, negotiating contracts & lead generation. Barista STOMPING GROUNDS COFFEE HOUSE & WINE BAR - Greer, SC 2012 to 2013 Assisted the manager and owner with catered events (weddings, birthday parties, anniversary parties, etc) as well as downtown  city events (Greer Family Fun Fest, Oktoberfest, Albino Skunk Festival, Tuesdays on Trade) where the venue sponsored  • Provided the utmost customer service to every customer as well as the staff  • Developed an excellent rapport with new customers and the regulars  • Prepped the shop in opening procedures and the next shift as well as the closing procedures which included end-of-day counting  the till and sales report/deposit.  • Handled all areas of housekeeping and keeping the shop up to DHEC standards  Webmaster/Public Relations  • Built and maintained the shop's webpage through Go Daddy on a weekly and as needed basis  • Created flyers, brochures and promotion documents using Microsoft Publisher and Word to be advertised through Valupak, Moneymailer and In Store.  Pianist  Played the piano on various occasions for entertainment on selected evenings. Branch Office Administrator NETWORK CABLING SYSTEMS, INC - Greer, SC 2011 to 2013 Greer, SC 2011 - 2013  Structured cabling system designer and installers with an emphasis on new construction and corporate relocations  Branch Office Administrator  Administered outgoing correspondence for the branch office including interoffice memos, Outlook Mail, faxes, and general outgoing  mail. Duties also required the handling of incoming calls, appointment schedules, memos and other typing for the Branch Manager and Sales Manager  • Managed the time reporting (timesheets) for all technicians for accuracy, approval and submitting to Corporate Office on a  weekly basis.  • Responsible for checking and signing off all deliveries in the warehouse and the administrative office.  • Maintained cleaned office environment as well as keeping supplies well stocked.  • Keyed in and calculated all the cable request and service requests through BMW with the cost of equipment on a bi-monthly  basis.  • Worked closely with the Sales Manager in all required documentation necessary for submitting quotes for future work.  • Updated all forums, manuals and all confidential documents required.  • Handled a log of all workman compensation injuries and submittals to the Corporate office  • Controlled of all the new hire paperwork, orientation and scheduling drug testing.  • Distributed all payroll checks and maintained all the vacations and PTO per associate  • Worked with the Corporate Office Administrator in Charlotte, NC US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 2010 to 2010 Crew Leader Assistant US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE - Gaston, SC 2010 to 2010 Assisted the Crew Leader in guiding and directing the work of a group of Enumerators engaged in field data collection or a small  group of Quality Control Enumerators who were engaged to quality control listings.  • Helped the Crew Leader in group training sessions for enumerators, using verbatim training guides, and instructing the team in procedures for collecting data.  • Instructing Enumerators in proper field techniques, and conducting observations of enumerators in the field to provide on-the-spot  assistance and guidance.  Enumerator  Performed field work which involved interviewing and conducting quality control.  • Received assignments which involve locating housing units and conducting interviews with respondents, explaining the purpose  of the census and recording data on a paper questionnaire. Corporate System Administrator AHOLD USA - Greenville, SC 2001 to 2006 Greenville SC 2001 - 2006  A retail/grocery supermarket operator corporation - formally the parent company to BI-LO, LLC.  Corporate System Administrator  Administered enterprise wide corporate data systems for the time reporting management system at Ahold Information Services and five  operating companies located in the east coast region. Duties required extensive use of Lotus Notes, Microsoft Access and Microsoft  Office Applications.  • Enhanced proficiency in Lotus Notes and Microsoft Access to ensured compliance with applicable regulations and business  requirements.  • Retrieved and compiled time reporting data on a weekly basis and distributed to directors, managers and supervisors managers in a timely manner.  • Facilitated software training and ongoing technical assistance in Lotus Notes for new hires (personal profiles and timesheets) as well as procedures for time management.  • Created and maintained two Microsoft Access databases which improved efficiency and user-friendliness for direct charges and employee/contractor headcount.  • Seized and accepted the position of sole Time Reporting expert for Lotus Notes, Microsoft Access and Office Applications. AHOLD USA 1995 to 2006 Promotional Pricing Database Administrator AHOLD USA 1999 to 2001 Developed, managed and maintained all ACCESS databases and information related to the Non-Perishable Marketing Department.  Provided assistance for up to 12 Non-Perishable Category Teams regarding the use and development of data retrieval, custom reports and measurement tools.  • Maintained the accuracy of all BONUSCARD, Survey and Ad Planning databases to support the management decision-making  process.  • Facilitated the development of the weekly Non-Perishable Marketing Advertising Plans and Display Planners, plus Survey Planner  during the bi-weekly Marketing Planning Meetings.  • Managed the data download of weekly survey item lists and ensured that all segments of the Survey Order Guide were reflective of the Ad/Display Planner submitted by the twelve Category Teams  • Populated weekly advertising worksheets for the final Ad plan developed by each Category Team highlighting changes to the departments' sales and gross profit.  • Ensuring the accurate download of ad specifics to create an Ad Layout Planner that enabled the Advertising Department in building  the weekly newspaper ads.  • Provided detailed individualized training for each Category Management Team member on the effective and efficient means of implementing the ad process. AHOLD USA - Mauldin, SC 1995 to 2001 A retail/grocery supermarket chain Secretary AHOLD USA 1996 to 1999 Administered outgoing correspondence for the Pricing Department including: letters, memos, Action Manager Mail, faxes, and general  outgoing mail. Duties also required the handling of incoming calls, appointment schedules, memos and other typing for the Pricing  Manager.  • Assisted the Pricing Manager in producing reports, graphs, and other analytical documents  • Produced the Weekly Grocery Marketing Ad and Display Planner, Final Planner, Marketing Notes, Period Planner and other  Grocery Marketing Plans for the Category Marketing Department.  • Received and distributed all Product Requests through Action Manager (Store Email) or the Internet as well as Category Team  responses.  • Handled the full-book price checks from electronic Remote Data Systems including the summarization by competitors. Associate Relations/Human Resource Department Secretary AHOLD USA 1995 to 1996 Typed all personnel correspondence including: hourly and salaried job offer letters, regret letters, job postings and distribution of same.  • Coordinated drug testing program for pre-employment, random and post-accident: processed paperwork, collected samples, and communicated results. Also set up on-site random drug testing for stores as required.  • Made flight/hotel arrangements on-line with the System One electronic travel program for out-of-time interviewees.  • Processed all PDP surveys (Personal Assessments) and provided reports back to the appropriate manager;  • Supervised the in-house temporary work force and work with external temporary agencies to make sure that all departments were  staffed with quality temporaries as needed.  • Assisted the Corporate HR Specialist with the annual United Way campaign," We Care", and the Blood Drive;  • Facilitated all new hire's warehouse/office orientation which included: policies and procedures, benefits, 401K, health care plans, etc.