Sr. Oracle DBA in SRE Team Sr. Oracle DBA in SRE Team Sr. Oracle DBA in SRE Team - Disney An Oracle Certified Database Administrator with Overall 9+years of experience in the Information Technology field as Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration, development, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management, database security on various environment like Sun Solaris, RHEL, HP-UX, AIX, LINUX and Windows.    • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i/8i.  • Experience in Configuring Single Instance, Oracle Real Application Clusters(RAC) and Automatic Storage Management(ASM).  • Expert in backup/recovery, installation, configuration, apply patches, troubleshooting, performance monitoring, cloning, upgrading and migration of oracle software and tools.  • Solid experience on Upgrading Oracle databases for Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC/9i.  • Solid experience in Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), and standby database using Data Guard.  • Expertise in the database infrastructure design which also include Real Applications Clusters (RAC), Standby Databases (Data Guard).  • Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data Pump and SQL* Loader.  • Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL Programming (Functions, procedures, packages and triggers).  • Developed SQL, UNIX and LINUX shell scripts to automate DBA functions. Diagnosed problems and implement corrective actions.  • Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Listener, TNS Names, SQL*Net.  • Experience working with Oracle Data Integrator (ODI).  • Maintained large production as well as development/test/stage databases which involve Data warehousing and OLTP applications.  • Hands on experience in build and Design of Databases for Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Installation of various SOA features like Encryption, SSO, Secure Socket Layer, Data Integration.  • Proficient with OEM, Erwin, SQL Developer, RMAN and Toad.  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM 12C, Import-Export, Auditing, RMAN  • Experience in implementing Oracle Streams and in installation and administration of Oracle GoldenGate 12C.  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues on Bi-Directional Replication in Oracle GoldenGate 12C.  • Experience in Capacity Planning and Bench Marking.  • Experience in all facets of the systems development lifecycle, from requirement development, architecture design, testing, and post implementation revisions.  • Experience in working with Big Data Appliance with Oracle Exadata Machines.  • Capable of working under pressure and stiff deadlines with 24/7 Database support.  • Experience in analyzing, translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture.  • Experienced in performance tuning of various aspects of the database by using oracle utilities like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATS PACK, SQL_TRACE, TOAD and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM). Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA in SRE Team Disney - Orlando, FL May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database and applications support.  • Experience in installation of Database extensions on HP SItescope server. Setting up SItescope alerts to monitor Database Performance such as Long running Queries, change of Hash plan value, Heart beat and Blocking sessions.  • Experience in creating and monitoring alerts for Database health checkup using App Dynamics tool.  • Participated in CAB (Change Approval Board) calls.  • Participated in ITPF (Incident To Permanent Fix) calls, Provided suggestions and worked with respective teams in clearing Production Issues.  • Worked Closely with AOE (Applications Operations Engineering) L3 Team in providing production support and resolving the issues quickly to reduce production downtimes.  • Worked on Shell scripts for Database monitoring and health checkups.  • Created a Self Service Oracle Password Management Tool for individual accounts.  • Worked with OEM 12C to set up alerts and Monitor Database Health.  • Identifying instance Top Waits root cause and bad queries, writing suggested solution reports about Instance tuning and Query tuning.  • Analyzing the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor Reports from various Databases in various time intervals, creating BASELINE and monitoring performance metrics of Databases WORKLOAD.  • Experience with writing PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Database Triggers, Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL Programming, Shell Scripting and analyzed Batch programs.  • All the system configuration scripts and files are committed to GIT repository and automated to extent practical.  • All the changes are ticketed in ticketing system (Jira) for assignment and tracking.  • Planning, documentation, configuration and Administration of Tomcat, Apache Servers.  • Development and Execution of scripts to maintain the health of the systems. Coordination with Application Owners, Business teams, Network Engineers and system Engineers.  • Setup and maintained Atlassian's tools: Jira and Confluence.  • Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Physical and Logical Standby  database (Data Guard), Materialized views, Streams Replication and GoldenGate.  • Experience in implementing Oracle Streams and in installation and administration of GoldenGate using bi-directional Replication from Enterprise Datawarehouse to downstream.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of Oracle 10g, 11g RAC.  • Performing Backups (BLI, Full, Cumulative, Differential), Recoveries using RMAN-Netback up.  • Worked on Features: Data Pump, ASM and RMAN.  • Used Flashback technologies-Flashback Table, Flashback Query & Flashback Database to recover from user errors and minimize the Full/Incomplete database recoveries.    Environment: Oracle 11gRAC/10g RAC, AIX, HP-UX, LINUX,SUN SOLARIS, Grid Control, RMAN, SQL*Plus, Data Pump, Data Guard, ASM, PL/SQL, RMAN, GoldenGate. Sr. Oracle DBA/Developer ATT/ Openet - Richardson, TX December 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database and applications support.  • Resolved replication issues in Goldengate.  • Automating tasks using cron for GG restart.  • Setup GoldenGate User with necessary privileges.  • Prepare GoldenGate parameter files for Extraction and Replication.  • Supported bi-directional replication, broadcasting data from Enterprise Data warehouse to downstream database at client location.  • Created check point table, did Data load using Expdp and Impdp for replication in Oracle Golden gate 12C.  • Creating PL/SQL procedures & functions and views in Oracle Database.  • Creating Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Increased Performance and Data Replication.  • Working with optimizer Hints and Explain Plan for estimating performance and to generate optimal solutions.  • Identifying instance Top Waits root cause and bad queries, writing suggested solution reports about Instance tuning and Query tuning.  • Implementation of high availability solutions with Oracle 10g RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database(Data Guard), Materialized views, VCS, Streams Replication, Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Experience with writing PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Database Triggers.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL Programming, Shell Scripting and analyzed Batch programs.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g, 11g RAC.  • Involved & performed Production Change Requests for PRD major DB changes. New DB creation, Existing DB deletion, various DB Housekeeping activities. Implemented 10g RAC on a test basis.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Implemented and Configured Standby database (Data guard) for disaster Recovery.  • Performing Backups (Full, Cumulative, Differential), Recoveries using RMAN-Netback up.  • Worked on Features: Data Pump, ASM and RMAN. Data Base Recovery (complete & Incomplete).  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM 12C, Retail Sales Audit, Import-Export, Auditing, RMAN.  • Performing Database Refreshes using Exp/Imp, Data pump, Sql*Loader and RMAN.  • Monitoring databases and setting alerts using Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager.  • Involved in performance-tuning activities to improve performance of the Oracle database. Tune database through initialization parameter, SQL/PLSQL statement, error checking and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Analyzing the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor Reports from various Databases in various time intervals, creating BASELINE and monitoring performance metrics of Databases WORKLOAD.  • Enhancing performance using various components like SQL TUNING ADVISOR, ACCESS TUNING ADVISOR, SEGMENT ADVISOR, UNDO ADVISOR and Automatic Shared Memory Management.  • Resolve database performance issues, database capacity issues and other distributed data issues (OLTP).  • Wrote Shell scripts for monitoring and automating tasks of various Databases.    Environment: Oracle 11gRAC/10g RAC, 9i, AIX, HP-UX, LINUX,SUN SOLARIS, Grid Control, RMAN, SQL*Plus, Data Pump, Data Guard, ASM, PL/SQL, RMAN, GoldenGate. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Dallas, TX November 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database and applications support.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning. Estimated the size of data files and redo log files considering transactions rate, transaction records size, transaction type, recovery time allowed etc.  • Created Cluster database, Cloning of Cluster database on Linux, start and stop Cluster database services.  • Created check point table, did Data load using Expdp and Impdp for replication in Oracle Golden gate 12C.  • Experience to Continuous availability and disaster tolerance of critical data systems is more than "after-the-fact" data recovery by using Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues on Bi-Directional Replication in Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Real Application Clusters (Oracle 11g RAC/Oracle 10g RAC) and Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose Performed database logical and physical design, maintenance, archiving, cloning, administration and upgrades for Oracle.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g,11g RAC.  • Implemented and Configured Standby database (Data guard) for disaster Recovery.  • Performing Backups (BLI, Full, Cumulative, Differential), Recoveries using RMAN-Netback up.  • Upgraded production databases from version ORACLE 10g to ORACLE 11g.  • Applied patches and updates to the Oracle database  • Worked on Features: Data Pump, ASM and RMAN. Data Base Recovery (complete & Incomplete).  • Documented the Role Transition method from Primary to Standby and vice versa of Dataguard environment.    • Used Flashback technologies-Flashback Table, Flashback Query & Flashback Database to recover from user errors and minimize the Full/Incomplete database recoveries.  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM 12C, Import-Export, Auditing, RMAN.  • Performing Database Refreshes using Exp/Imp, Data pump, Sql*Loader and RMAN.  • Monitoring databases and setting alerts using Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager.  • Worked on Design for a project using Exadata Machines.  • Worked on Setup, configuration, performance tuning, troubleshooting on Exadata machines.  • Worked on Oracle Big Data Appliance on Exadata Machines to capture and analyze the data.  • Involved in performance-tuning activities to improve performance of the Oracle database. Tune database through initialization parameter, SQL/PLSQL statement, error checking and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Analyzing the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor Reports from various Databases in various time intervals, creating BASELINE and monitoring performance metrics of Databases WORKLOAD.  • Enhancing performance using various components like SQL TUNING ADVISOR, ACCESS TUNING ADVISOR, SEGMENT ADVISOR, UNDO ADVISOR and Automatic Shared Memory Management.  • Writing Triggers and debugging Stored Procedures and Functions-PL/SQL.  • Resolve database performance issues, database capacity issues and other distributed data issues (OLTP).  • Wrote Shell and Perl scripts for monitoring and automating tasks of various Databases.    Environment: Oracle 11gRAC/10g RAC, 9i, AIX, HP-UX, LINUX,SUN SOLARIS, Grid Control, RMAN, SQL*Plus, Data Pump, Data Guard, ASM, PL/SQL, RMAN, GoldenGate. Sr. Oracle DBA/Developer ATT/Infosys - Richardson, TX February 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • 24x7 on-call production database and applications support.  • Created check point table, did Data load using Expdp and Impdp for replication in Oracle Golden gate 12C.  • Implemented Oracle Data pump and stream instantiation, created single and multiple source environments, managed LCR's in Oracle Streams.  • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 12c on Windows server 2008.  • Providing full life cycle on DBA/on call support for Production Databases, administering, UAT, Development and QA databases.  • Translating technical and Business requirements into efficient Logical and Physical data models.  • Installed & configured Web logic server on UNIX platform and deployed applications.  • Contention and providing centralized management for Disks.  • Supported installation and setup of ORACLE Cluster's and RAC database.  • Monitoring and Administrating ORACLE RAC databases on ORACLE 11g Clusters.  • Good experience with multi master replication setup & Administer with Golden Gate tool.  • Setup reporting server using ORACLE Streams from various data sources.  • Performed database Migration from Windows platform to Linux using RMAN (Convert) and Data pump.  • Created Cluster database, Cloning of Cluster database on Linux, start and stop Cluster database services.  • Worked on Features: ASM and RMAN. Data Base Recovery (complete & Incomplete).  • Worked on this project as Oracle Core DBA. Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold).  • Analyzing the Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor Reports from various Databases in various time intervals, creating BASELINE and monitoring performance metrics of Databases WORKLOAD.  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM 12C, Import-Export, Auditing, RMAN.  • Experience with BMC Remedy tool for all change management process.  • Participated in analysis and designing of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects. Assisted in integration of Exadata applications into current IT actionable events and solutions.  • Experience with Performance Tuning OGG in extremely high data volume environments. Installing and configuring OGG heterogeneous environments from MS SQL Server to Oracle Exadata  • Enhancing performance using various components like SQL TUNING ADVISOR, ACCESS TUNING ADVISOR, SEGMENT ADVISOR, UNDO ADVISOR and Automatic Shared Memory Management.  • Resolve database performance issues, database capacity issues and other distributed data issues (OLTP).  • Creating Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Increased Performance and Data Replication.  • Working with optimizer Hints and Explain Plan for estimating performance and to generate optimal solutions.  • Identifying instance Top Waits root cause and bad queries, writing suggested solution reports about Instance tuning and Query tuning.  • Performed Table, Index Partitions for increased performance and for better storage management.  • Monitoring and performance enhancement using session Tracing, Statspack and CPU utilization.  • Identifying bottlenecks and wait based analysis using Oracle Wait Interface.  • Monitoring databases and setting alerts using Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager.  • Performed software cloning, tuning, patch management and deployment using Configuration and Provisioning, Diagnostic and Tuning Packs.  • Performing Backups (BLI, Full, Cumulative, Differential), Recoveries using RMAN-Netback up.  • Performed database Audits/Fine Grained auditing, reports regarding the SOX-compliance activities against financial data, in regular basis on user operations involving sensitive database objects.  • Performed Export and Import utilities in SQL SERVER databases.    Environment: Oracle 11g RAC, 10g, SQL Server, Red Hat Linux , IBM AIX, Data Guard, ASM, PL/SQL, RMAN, GoldenGate. Sr. Oracle RAC DBA TIAA-CREF - Cary, NC August 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on this project as Oracle Core DBA. Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold).  • Worked in AES encryption in oracle 10g and 11g by using DBMS_Crypto package.  • Worked on Features: Data Pump, ASM and RMAN. Data Base Recovery (complete & Incomplete).  • Proficient in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects.  • Experienced with SRVCTL, OCR and Voting Disk of 10g,11g RAC.  • Involved & performed Production Change Requests for PRD major DB changes. New DB creation, Existing DB deletion, various DB Housekeeping activities. Implemented 10g RAC on a test basis.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues on Bi-Directional Replication in Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Performed and monitored Hot and cold database backups and implemented backup and recovery using RMAN and Knowledge of storage technologies SAN, NAS.  • Experience in Planning Database, Sizing table space, Create database, scripts, Monitor databases, Interact with developers, Oracle Install, Upgrade, 24x7 production support.  • Apparently perform SQL tuning and baseline tuning. Experience Flash back  • Skilled with STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, SAR to check health of database & hardware.  • Adding the required User Logins, Groups and Users, Granting and Revoking Permission to/from the users. Co-coordinating with on-site counterpart as well as Clients and understanding requirements.  • Experience in providing Real time data feeds, heterogeity and transactional integrity by using Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Experience in Performance and Tuning databases using various techniques. Collected performance statistics memory usage, data storage.  • Generating Statspack reports and AWR and ADDM reports for Database for Application tuning and also database Partitioning.  • Experience in Data Migration Working with Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Experience in proprietary change management processes to prevent production disruptions and outages.  • Experience in implement a variety of solutions for improving the availability, accessibility, performance, and integration of critical data across the enterprise with Golden Gate.  • Extensively used PL/SQL for designing packages, stored procedures, functions and database triggers.  • Created Cluster database, Cloning of Cluster database on Linux, start and stop Cluster database services.  • Experience to Continuous availability and disaster tolerance of critical data systems is more than "after-the-fact" data recovery by using Oracle Golden Gate 12C.  • Experience in quality support and delivery to the end-user.  • Designed and developed Database structures ( Database triggers, Procedures, Functions to implement business Rules). Loaded data into Database using external tables.  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM 12C, Import-Export, Auditing, RMAN.  • Experience in Integration of Exadata monitoring into our existing IT monitoring framework. Provide and implement performance and tuning recommendations of all components in the Exadata machines.    Environment: Operating Systems: IBM-AIX, SunSparcSolaris64bit, and Redhat Linux.  RDBMS: Oracle Database Server 10g/11g,Golden Gate, Programming Language/Tools: TOAD, PL/SQL. Oracle Database Administrator Tennessee Valley Authority - Knoxville, TN October 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of the Development, Test and Production databases.  • Upgrade/Migrated the production and development databases from 9i to 10g.  • Upgrade/Migrated the production and development databases from RAC /10g to RAC /11g.  • Performed and monitored Hot and cold database backups and implemented backup and recovery using RMAN and Knowledge of storage technologies SAN, NAS.  • Experience working with Oracle Data Integrator (ODI).  • Worked extensively in Build and design for oracle database for People Soft Applications.  • Installation and Configuration of Web Logic Server on Sun Solaris for People Soft HCM Migration.  • Migration of ADP HR to People Soft HCM.  • Installation and configuration of People Soft HCM and CRM. Modules.  • Installation and Configuration of Golden Gate. Done Bi-Directional data replication using Golden Gate software.  • Involved in the Design of Backup and Recovery Strategies using RMAN and traditional backup methods.  • Provided 24/7 Production Database and Applications support.  • Maintenance of 8 TB EDW Data warehousing environment.  • Design the existing Legacy/ Terdata EDW system to Unix/ Vertica system.  • Developed the technical solution leveraging Linux shell scripts and Vertica scripts.  • Worked closely with Business Intelligence Developers to extract data From EDW using Informatica.  • Worked on large and complex databases SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008 and 2005.  • Implemented new SQL Server 2012 mechanisms likedata compressions, online indexing, contained databases, security principles and AAG.  • Implemented and Configured Standby database (Data guard) for disaster Recovery  • Involved in performance-tuning activities to improve performance of the Oracle database. Tune database through initialization parameter, SQL/PLSQL statement, error checking and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning. Estimated the size of data files and redo log files considering transactions rate, transaction records size, transaction type, recovery time allowed etc.  • Applied patches and updates to the Oracle database.  • Installation of various ASO environments Featuring Encryption, SSO, Secure Socket Layer, Data Integration  • Provided documentation as well as training on process and procedures for infrastructure architecture.  • Worked on Shell scripts to automate system and database administration tasks.  • Designed data files, log files and control files layout across disks.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, procedures and triggers to implement various functionalities.  • Support and ensure the high availability of all the databases especially on Clustered Databases.  • Implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC).  • Generated and analyzed STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database.  • Experience in setting up and administering Oracle Streams. Configured replication based on Oracle Streams.  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • Used Erwin database design tool and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues based on Remedial tickets.  • Documentation of RAC Database Setup, Stream Replication and administration of Server Environment.    Environment: Oracle 11gRAC/10g RAC, 9i, SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, AIX, HP-UX, LINUX,SUNSOLARIS, WINDOWS, Grid Control, RMAN, SQL*Loader, SQL*Plus, Data Pump, ERWIN. Oracle Database Administrator Citi Bank - Irving, TX October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • 24/7 Production Database support of multi-terabyte Oracle 11g database.  • Performed all aspects of database administration including Installation, Configuration, Patches, Monitoring, Import/Export, Cloning, etc.  • Upgrade/Migrated the production and development databases from RAC /10g to RAC /11g.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Real Application Clusters (Oracle 11g RAC/Oracle 10g RAC) and Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Plan, implement, and troubleshooting Oracle RMAN backup, restore, and recovery.  • Provide performance tuning, problem diagnosis, data reorganization and database upgrade support.  • Monitor and tune Oracle database for optimum performance. Assist in capacity planning of Oracle database servers.  • Responsible for Creating, Constructing, Operating and maintaining Interfaces using ODI.  • Generated and analyzed STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan reports, error checking and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database.  • Performed Data replication and Data transformation.  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • Performed data loads using SQL*LOADER.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, functions and triggers to implement various functionalities.  • Experience in Managing work repositories and creating reports.  • Installation and administration of GoldenGate.  • Wrote UNIX Shell Scripts for Backup and cloning.  • Tune SQL, PL/SQL statements found in the reporting utilities and queries.  • Involved in the maintenance and trouble shooting of RAC Databases.  • Monitored and managed the space usage and table partitioning.  • Implemented and Configured Standby database (Data guard) for disaster Recovery.  • Primary point of contact between customer and core development team.    Environment: Oracle 11g RAC/10g RAC, RedHat Linux, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, Windows, Oracle Data Integrator, GoldenGate, SQL, PL/SQL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Import/Export, Data Pump, Data guard, AWR, ADDM. Oracle Database Administrator Bank of America - Dallas, TX August 2008 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of the Development, Test and Production databases.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Real Application Clusters (Oracle 11g RAC/Oracle 10g RAC) and Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Performed database logical and physical design, maintenance, archiving, cloning, administration and upgrades for Oracle.  • 24/7 Production Database and Applications support.  • Experience working with Oracle Data Integrator (ODI).  • Performed and monitored Hot and cold database backups and implemented backup and recovery using RMAN and Knowledge of storage technologies SAN, NAS.  • Designed data files, log files and control files layout across disks.  • Upgrade/Migrated the production and development databases from 9i to 10g.  • Involved in the Design of Backup and Recovery Strategies using RMAN and traditional backup methods.  • Provided documentation as well as training on process and procedures for infrastructure architecture.  • Applied patches and updates to the Oracle database.  • Support and ensure the high availability of all the databases especially on Clustered Databases.  • Implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC).  • Worked on Shell scripts to automate system and database administration tasks.  • Involved in capacity and resource planning. Estimated the size of data files and redo log files considering transactions rate, transaction records size, transaction type, recovery time allowed etc.  • Developed PL/SQL Packages, procedures and triggers to implement various functionalities.  • Experience in setting up and administering Oracle Streams. Configured replication based on Oracle Streams.  • Involved in performance-tuning activities to improve performance of the Oracle database. Tune database through initialization parameter, SQL/PLSQL statement, and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Generated and analyzed STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database.  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • Used Erwin database design tool and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues based on Remedial tickets.  • Documentation of RAC Database Setup, Stream Replication and administration of Server.    Environment:Oracle Database 10g RAC/9i, RedHat Linux, HP-UX, Sun Solaris, AIX, OEM Grid Control, TOAD, RMAN, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Erwin. Oracle DBA General Insurance Corporation of India - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  • Part of a 5 member DBA team which was involved in the maintenance of the Oracle 9i/8i databases for the Production as well as the development environments.  • 24x7 Production database and applications support.  • Implementation and configuration of OEM Grid, Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring data.  • Configuring RMAN backup to various databases.  • Setup and configured Oracle Physical Standby database (Data Guard) for disaster recovery as well as to offload the running of huge reports.  • Experience working with Oracle Data Integrator (ODI).  • Generated and analyzed STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database.  • Review alert logs and dump files to check for any problems related to the database.  • Database cloning to setup identical databases in the production and development environments.  • Create and maintain users, roles and privileges & Auditing Triggers.  • Upgrade/Migrated the production and development databases from 8i to 9i.  • Oracle 9i Streams Replication setup and Configuration.  • Setup and configured 2 node Oracle 10g RAC with ASM.  • Back end Programming/scripting using SQL and PL / SQL.  • Created table partition and index partition.  • Troubleshooting for Production database issues/Performance issues.    Environment: Oracle 10g RAC9i/8i, HP-UNIX, Linux SUSE, SQL, Oracle Replication, Explain Plan, Toad Skills Databases (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Databases: Oracle 11g R2 RAC, 10gR2RAC, 9i, 8i, 7.x, Server 2012/2008/2005,IBM DB2.  Operating Systems: HP-UX, Sun Solaris, AIX, Linux and Windows.  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Java, C, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Tools: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data Pump, Erwin, TOAD, DB Artisan.  Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, OEM Grid Control, EXADATA  ETL Tools: Informatica 5.1, Data pump.  Other: EMC, Net App, VERITAS