Manager of Technology Manager of Technology Manager of Technology - STEVENSON UNIVERSITY Ellicott City, MD Over 25 years experience evaluating, installing, and maintaining hardware and software. History of innovatively improving business processes using a combination of custom and off-the-shelf solutions. Ability to learn new technologies quickly and adapt them to the needs of the organization. Over 25 years experience working with and leading cross-functional teams. 13 years of experience building, recruiting, supervising, developing, evaluating, and retaining cross-functional teams that work well to achieve the organization's goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager of Technology STEVENSON UNIVERSITY - Owings Mills, MD 2013 to Present • Used Office 365 and associated programs (Forms, Flow, PowerBI, etc.) to improve business processes resulting in more efficient business processes for requests for presentations and workshops, job posting requests, and created dashboards (updated weekly) to provide appointment and event attendance information.  • Created and continue to develop a stand-alone relational database that tracks internships and graduate placements, resulting in a decrease in the time to produce the annual report from 3-5 months to 3-4 weeks.  • Created adaptive, mobile websites that provide information on; CliftonStrengths, Disability Resources, the Career Architectures model, and event calendar.  • Initiated formation of, and served as co-chair on, a survey task force identifying student and alumni surveys conducted by various departments with goals of reducing the number of surveys, increasing response rate and creating a central repository for resulting data.  • Evaluate commercial off the shelf software (COTS) to determine what best fits the needs of Career Services and Stevenson students.  • Migrated all student data from the Career Services appointment database, Symplicity, to a new platform, Handshake. This included assuring data integrity, recreating reports while maintaining accuracy. During the process I recommended a number of changes to Handshake that have been implemented in recent releases.  • Updated Office of Career Services student portal during migration from Sharepoint 2010 to Sharepoint 2013. Redesigned Office of Career Services Student Portal earning award for “Modeling the Stevenson Way” at Stevenson University.  • Led team to develop MOOC for counseling professionals, to introduce them to the Career Architectures model.  • Worked with English faculty and department chair to implement a pilot ePortfolio program. Information Technology Manager JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 2007 to 2012 • Built a team to evaluate, develop, implement and support distance education technology infrastructure. The result was a system that enabled growth from about 75 students in the first year of operation, to over 1100 students in four years.  • Implemented server-based, lecture capture system to allow real-time capture of face-to-face classes, and creation of online classes. Resulted in a decrease in time for development of online classes by 15-20 percent and allowed face-to-face instructors to provide students with additional study aids.  • Worked with JHU Central IT to upgrade and improve wireless access.  • Implemented tablet and iPad loaner program to allow instructors access to new technology for exploration of integrating technology into classroom and online learning environment.  • Supported instructor setting up remote access to lab equipment for electronics course.  • Worked with outside vendor and instructor on providing remote access to virtual machines for students in an Ethical Hacking course.  • Provided guidance to JHU School of Nursing for implementing lecture capture (Mediasite) in classrooms. Acted as liaison between JHU SON and JHU Applied Physics Lab.  • Managed IT budget of $250,000 - $300,000 per year, over the course of 5 years was able to stay within 10% of the planned budget per year. Was able to provide sufficient IT resources even during the two years that the budget was cut mid-cycle. Information Systems Supervisor JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 1999 to 2007 • Led project to digitize paper documents in library. Ultimately, approximately 50,000 additional pages above the original estimate of 250,000 were scanned while staying within budget.  • Maintained classified computer systems to NISPOM/DoD standards.  • Oversaw development of limited access, online databases that provided subscribers with instant access to information. Resulted in additional, and increased, revenue streams.  • Migrated website from static HTML pages to content management system which resulted in more timely updates of content. Database/Systems Administrator JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL, Facilities Department - Baltimore, MD January 1996 to January 1999 • Provided hardware and software support for the Facilities department desktop computers.  • Worked on team to implement new work order tracking system.  • Acted as Oracle database and server administrator.  • Supported Groupwise email system as both administrator and technical/user support. Technology Management Program Administrator JOHNS HOPKINS HOSPITAL, Facilities Department - Baltimore, MD January 1994 to January 1996 • Migrated equipment database from legacy system to SCO Unix/Oracle system.  • Chaired committee to integrate purchases of medical equipment across hospital divisions.  • Chaired committee selecting service schools and lecture topics for Clinical Engineering staff. Education Master's in Business and Technology Management Stevenson University - Stevenson, MD December 2015 Bachelor's in Electronics Engineering Technology Capitol Technology University - Laurel, MD May 1992 Associate in Biomedical Engineering Technology Howard Community College - Columbia, MD 1979 Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Content management systems, Dns, Intranet, Sharepoint, Web design, Ms project, Cms, Active directory, System administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Content management, Excel, IT Management, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Exchange Links http://linkedin.com/in/hughrtaylor