Vice President, Operations and Infrastructure Vice President, Operations and Infrastructure Vice President, Operations and Infrastructure - Hanley Wood, LLC Alexandria, VA Accomplished senior technology professional focused on execution. Database, operating system, web, and infrastructure expert. Skilled in leading cross-discipline IT teams. Recent successes include service management deployment for recent acquisition, large office build-out and move, and Office 365 rollout. Work Experience Vice President, Operations and Infrastructure Hanley Wood, LLC - Washington, DC January 2018 to Present Director, Productions Systems and Support Hanley Wood - Washington, DC October 2011 to December 2017 ? Manage global systems and database administration, service desk, and corporate facilities departments  ? Budget and contain costs for capital and expense projects  ? Manage relationships with third party support partners based in India; outsourcing effort lowers the     costs of some aspects of systems administration and support by more than 35%  ? Provide architectural input and use-case analysis for projects and initiatives   ? Negotiate and maintain contractual relationships for software and services  ? Own IT audit process      ? Escalation point for a variety of issues. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Learning Tree International - Reston, VA August 2010 to September 2011 ? Virtualized hardware as appropriate; reduced SQL hardware footprint by more than 50%  ? Upgraded Legacy SQL Server environment  ? Optimized SAN performance and tuned database server I/O pattern to improve performance and lower resource contention  ? Led implementation of enterprise monitoring Database Administrator Hanley Wood, LLC - Washington, DC September 2006 to July 2010 Led outsourcing of systems administration and operational database support to third party based in Hyderabad, India; reduced the blended cost of administration by 40% while improving support metrics  ? Managed virtualization initiative and lowered third-party data center costs by 25%  ? Owned OS and software package upgrades including Windows Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008  ? Moved enterprise monitoring from Argent to Nagios, saving the company $45,000/year in licensing costs  ? Monitored systems and network performance; maintained near perfect uptime  ? Created and tuned SQL statements, stored procedures, and triggers  ? Owned monthly ETL process and acted as escalation point for ETL issues Lead Database Analyst MCI Inc - Hilliard, OH June 2001 to June 2004 Managed team of Sybase, Oracle, and SQL Server database administrators  ? Provided 24*7 support of Sybase and SQL Server environments  ? Supported mission critical database environment for a global network operations center; team provided  near perfect uptime  ? Data architect for MS SQL Server based e-commerce solution. Supported all aspects of the implementation  ? Defined enterprise standards for Sybase and SQL Server database environments; template architectures  reduced server stand-up time and standardized support activities  ? Consolidated corporate software enterprise licensing agreements, reducing annual software maintenance  costs by more than $100,000/year Database Analyst MCI, Inc - Hilliard, OH March 1996 to June 2001 ? Supported Sybase and SQL Server based applications 24*7*365; escalation point for order entry and trouble-ticket applications, as well as the underlying database and physical infrastructure                                   ? Managed cross-functional periodic review of code and systems, implemented solutions to identified issues Education Master of Business Administration in Dual Concentrations Wake Forest University - Winston-Salem, NC 2006 Bachelor of Arts in Finance in Finance Otterbein College - Westerville, OH 2003 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Sybase