MongoDB Administrator MongoDB <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Architect - Snapfish San Francisco, CA • Overall experience of 11+ years in the IT industry  • 8+ years of experience as Oracle Database Administrator providing 24x7 Support for critical Oracle Production Databases.  • 7+ years of experience in setting up and maintaining the Vertica Analytical database on a multi node cluster  • 6+ years of experience in setting up 114 node MongoDB Sharded cluster.  • 2+ years of experience in Managing ScyllaDB clusters in multi datacenter mode.  • 7+ years of experience in Managing ETL framework with extensive knowledge using Pentaho data integration tool  • Expert in managing the production databases where the number of application user's connection to database is over 2400  • Expert in setting up the infrastructure for the database  • Ability to Create and maintain documentation at Enterprise level standards  • Strong experience in working on LINUX environment  • Strong experience in setting up databases on VM's  • Expertise in setting up and maintaining Data Guard  • Having hands on experience in tuning Application SQL's  • Having hands on experience in tuning and troubleshooting Application queries on MongoDB stack  • Expertise in Implementing Physical standby database & Maintenance  • Expert in tuning the primary and standby database in Data Guard environment  • Performed Switchover and Failover of Data guard databases  • Experience in setting up the OEM Agents in all databases that are controlled by Grid  • Having hands on experience in Performance Tuning both at application and instance level (Instance and Program level).  • Designed and Implemented Hot & Cold Backup Strategies Using RMAN.  • Expertise in Database performance tuning by analyzing AWR reports.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using Auditing.  • Working experience in both OLTP and OLAP environments.  • Experience in handling manual ETL process  • Good knowledge in Identification of User requirements, System Design, Schema Design, writing Program specifications, Coding and implementation of the System.  • Experience in working on Vertica Analytical database  • Experience in upgrading oracle/vertica/mongodb environments Work Experience MongoDB Administrator Snapfish February 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Setup/Configure 38 Shard production cluster in mongodb on vmware  • Manage multiple clusters QA, Staging & Production  • Implement data at rest encryption for PII and PCI data clusters using SSL keyfile mechanism  • Implement authentication to mongodb using LDAP and SCRAM-SHA1 methodologies  • Implement grafana and graphite for monitoring the reporting purpose  • Assist in Data migration from Oracle 11gr2 to mongodb 2.4.10  • Tune Slow running queries  • Validate schema design  • Manual Chunk migration  • Setup/Configure On-Prem MMS for monitoring the mongodb setup  • Setup On-Prem mongodb Backup  • Upgrade On-Prem MMS to Ops Manager  • Develop scripts for backup  • Setup/Configure Icinga/nagios for monitoring the VM infrastructure  • Rolling Upgrade of Mongodb cluster from 2.4.10 to 2.6.5  • Rolling Upgrade of Mongodb cluster from 2.6.5 to 3.0.8, 3.2.10  • Create monitoring scripts using bash and python    Other Relevant Information:  Visa: H1B  Valid till: Feb/2021 Database Administrator/Architect Snapfish March 2008 to Present Responsibilities:  • Star schema designing for data warehouse environment  • Wrote shell scripts for a newly created database.  • Deployed 11gR1 database to Production.  • Upgraded 11gR1 to 11gR2  • Deployed 10 node vertica analytical database cluster  • Deployed 38 Shards Mongodb cluster on a private cloud  • Upgraded vertica cluster from 3 nodes to 10 nodes  • Upgrade Vertica from 5.0 > 5.1 > 6.0.0.3 > 6.0.1  • Create External procedures in vertica  • Create Custom resource pools in vertica  • Tune Projections in vertica using database designer  • 24x7 support for Vertica database  • 24x7 Production Support / Data Guard.  • 24x7 Production Support for Mongodb cluster  • Manage all primary on-call DBA activities such as checking on tablespace problems, checking for fragmentation.  • checking on nightly/weekly backup problems, responding to any Oracle errors, and deadlock conditions  • Provide expert Oracle technical input and support for database upgrade projects and implement these game plans for the upgrades  • Set up, configure and maintain the physical standby databases with Data Guard for switch over and failover scenarios  • Work closely with development teams on trouble-shooting SQL issues  • Improving database performance and uptime SLAs  • Design, and implement database backup/restore infrastructure using Oracle RMAN  • Maintain, enhance, and monitor the Environment through various customized tools such as: Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM GC) for monitoring production Oracle databases  • Applied Quarterly PSU to all the production databases.  • Performed refreshes of test and UAT databases using datapump and exp/imp.  • Managed multi node cluster in the Vertica Analytical database environment  • Setup/Configure sharded cluster for QA, Staging & Production clusters using mongodb.  • Setup/Configure MMS for monitoring the mongodb setup.  • Setup/Configure Icinga/nagios for monitoring the VM infrastructure  • Setup/Configure Vertica management console for monitoring Vertica cluster  • Setup/Configure Vertica on VM's  • Throughput testing using iperf  • Tuning query performance in mongodb by creating indexes after analyzing the explain plans  • Tuning query performance in Oracle 11g by analyzing the AWR reports, identifying the most resource intensive SQL's  • Altering the SQL baseline plans using DBMS packages  • Setup monitoring jobs using bash scripts  • Managing chef cookbooks  • Setup internal git repository  • Managing code using internal git repository DBA Snapfish March 2008 to May 2012 The Scope of Services encompasses the development and implementation of a reporting data mart. The main aim of this system is to support the marketing and finance teams in decision making. It had a huge impact on the finance team by providing the aggregate numbers during the MEC in a more efficient and time saving manner. The current system is supporting the customer base of over 140 million active customers which is rapidly growing across the world. We have our customer base across 22 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Designing the data base schema architecture for the reporting data mart.  • Creating primary objects (tables, views, indexes).  • Creating procedures to load the data.  • Modifying the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database  • Query-tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, HINTS and STATSPACK  • Design and code Data Base Packages, Procedures, and Views  • Monitoring the daily loads.  • Onsite-Offshore coordination.  • Manage data migration from Oracle to Mongodb  • Manage Sharding in mongodb  • Mongodb Cluster management  • MMS monitoring  • Icinga Cluster monitoring  • Vertica anaylytical database upgrades  • Manage 10 Node Vertica cluster  • Performance tuning of projections in vertica  • Automation of montioring jobs in Vertica/Mongodb  • Deploy code changes using chef Developer Snapfish January 2008 to June 2010 The Scope of Services encompasses the development of marketing driven reports to support the marketing team in understanding the business performance and help them make decisions in customer acquisition. The current system has a customer base of over 94 million active customers which is rapidly growing across the world in 22 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Designing the reports as per the marketing requirement.  • Creating primary objects (tables, views, indexes).  • Query-tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, HINTS  • Writing scripts in shell to execute the SQL and Pl/Sql blocks Education PG Diploma Swinburne University of Technology Australia June 2005 B-Tech University of Madras May 2001 Skills DATA MODELING, ORACLE, ORACLE TOOLS, PL/SQL, POSTGRES, Javascript, Linux