Scrum Master, Agile Practitioner Scrum Master, Agile Practitioner Scrum Master \ Agile Practioner Plymouth, MN 3 years of experience coaching local and distributed Scrum Teams, enabling them to deliver high quality data and software on time and in full. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master, Agile Practitioner 3M - Minneapolis, MN 2016 to Present Managed a large global Agile Project, delivering data and software to multiple regions covering multiple version releases. Coached all teams on the use of Agile Project methodology, Scrum, Lean and Kanban tools to meet the team and corporate goals.  • Led the various teams to meet their delivery goals based on their region and delivery schedule with complete accuracy. Delivering accurate data on time and ahead of schedule.  • Using Telecommuting technologies, I was able to work with remote teams on a regular basis and ensure they were following Scrum and Agile practices best suited for their location and needs.  • Led daily and weekly stand-ups, planning and review sessions, along with regular Sprint Retrospectives.  • Developed training materials used in coaching new team members in the Scrum\Agile methodologies and best practices.  • Member of the corporate JIRA Admin Steering Committee. As a team we evaluated upgrades and add-ons.    Al Niederhaus a.niederhaus@comcast.net Board of Governors 2015 to Present I was elected to serve on the Board of Governors in 2015. This has given me the opportunity to work outside of the manufacturing industry. The Board has been involved in transitioning from a hospital to a Healthcare clinic. This has involved numerous process and personal changes. SQL Database Administrator 3M - Minneapolis, MN 2012 to Present Worked as part of an installation and upgrade team, managing an internal ERP system for 100 manufacturing facilities. The team managed the ERP system at each site, regularly performing upgrades and improvements to the software.  • Worked remotely with various sites, both local and internationally to ensure their software was upgraded with the latest versions.  • Developed and documented a process for sites to refresh their test environments so they can test all upgraded software prior to installing into their production environments. 3M - Maplewood, MN 2012 to 2019 Universal Systems Integration 3M 2007 to 2012 SQL Database Administrator  Worked as part of an installation and upgrade team, managing an internal ERP system for 100 manufacturing facilities. The team managed the ERP system at each site, regularly performing upgrades and improvements to the software.  • Worked remotely with various sites, both local and internationally to ensure their software was upgraded with the latest versions. Database Specialist Bureau of Collection Recovery - Eden Prairie, MN 2003 to 2007 Managed numerous Microsft Access and Microsoft SQL Databases for the call center.  • Maintained system integrity of the Access and SQL Databases  • Developed a new reporting system for clients and employees to monitor daily and weekly production and goals.  • Installed a new ERP system, allowing the company to land a new major client.  ? Developed the hardware and software to support the new software  ? Developed training materials and trained 100 new users on the new system. Education Associate in Electronics Northwestern Electronics Institute - Minneapolis, MN Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), JIRA (3 years), Scrum (3 years), Atlassian (3 years), Agile (3 years), Project Management (3 years), Kanban (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aniederhaus Additional Information Functional Skills  • Created Scrum Teams to deliver data and software for new implementations. These teams successfully delivered the necessary data for dozens of 3M manufacturing facilities.  • Created processes and documentation used to coach both local and distributed teams, allowing them to meet the goals of delivering the necessary data and software for their teams and end-users.  • Led the second largest Agile project at 3M. Utilizing telecommute technologies I was able to work from home and manage teams covering the US, Europe, Asia and numerous offshore developers and business subject matter experts.