Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Infocrossing/Wipro Data Center Services/Ensono Erie, CO • 15+ years of experience in SQL Server database administration and development for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005, and SQL Server 2000.  • Responsible for monitoring and managing development through production databases located throughout the world.  • Extensive knowledge in database server configuration, as well as physical database design, performance tuning, and maintenance in a production environment.  • Strong background in relational database design, dimensional modeling, and Enterprise Data Warehouses.  • Played a key role in hardware procurement, storage capacity estimations, and SQL licensing decisions.  • Experience creating and managing highly available, disaster recoverable database environments using Microsoft clustering, log-shipping, transactional replication, mirroring, and SQL Server AlwaysOn.  • Working knowledge in Analysis Services (SSAS), Integration Services (SSIS), and Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Expertise in designing complex ETL processes with Data Transformation Services (DTS) and SSIS.  • Performed upgrades and migrations between various versions of SQL Server.  • Experience using SQL Profiler, DMVs, Extended Events, DBCC commands, query execution plans, built-in reports, Performance Monitor, and Database Tuning Advisor (DTA) for database tuning.  • Extensive knowledge working with SQL Server in stand-alone, clustered, and virtual environments.  • Expertise in T-SQL scripting, including creating stored procedures, tables, views, indexes, triggers, and functions.  • Developed database backup and retention policies using native SQL backup commands and custom scheduled jobs, as well as third party tools, such as Quest Litespeed, NetApp SnapManager for SQL Server, IBM Tivoli Data Protection, Red Gate SQL Backup Professional, and Veritas NetBackup.  • Involvement with various ticketing systems, such as BMC Remedy, CA Service Desk Manager, and ServiceNow.  • Experience collaborating with offshore technical resources.  • 24 X 7 Production database on-call support.    TECHNICAL CORE COMPETENCIES    Database Management Systems: SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016, and SQL Server 2017    Tools: Business Intelligence Development Studio, SQL Server Data Tools, Visio, Powershell, SCOM, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, CA Erwin Work Experience Database Administrator Infocrossing/Wipro Data Center Services/Ensono - Broomfield, CO February 2012 to Present Planned and implemented multiple new client database server migrations from external locations to servers within Wipro's data centers with minimal downtime. Served as the primary DBA for multiple clients and was responsible for managing and maintaining more than 90 instances of SQL Server. Participated in new client due diligence and technical sales support initiatives. Identified opportunities for improvement and made constructive suggestions for change. Database Administrator/Data Architect Fishback Financial Corporation - Brookings, SD December 2005 to February 2012 Designed and managed the enterprise data warehouse. Deployed, configured and monitored complex ETL/SSIS processes. Created and optimized stored procedures and functions. Worked on logical and physical database modeling with UML and ERWIN tools. Worked with the application development team to design, develop, and implement in-house software solutions. Transitioned the enterprise data warehouse from Teradata to SQL Server. Tutored and mentored Database Developers and Business Analysts. Database Administrator CreditLink Technologies, LLC - Brookings, SD August 2003 to December 2005 Provided leadership in the design and maintenance of CreditLink's SQL Server OLTP database. Designed data structures, wrote and maintained stored procedures, views, and triggers. Performed general technical troubleshooting and consultation to the software development team. Database Developer II Fishback Financial Corporation - Brookings, SD April 2001 to August 2003 Assisted DBA in Teradata data warehouse modeling. Wrote and maintained Teradata data import and export scripts. Designed and created Crystal Reports. Programmer/Analyst Hamline University - Saint Paul, MN June 2000 to April 2001 Developed, implemented, maintained, and documented programs using Oracle SQL*Plus, Pro*C, Forms 4.5, SQR, and Unix Korn shell. Provided front-line user support, including fielding questions over the phone, meeting in small and large groups, and making office visits to individuals. Education Certificate in Computer Programming Brown College - Mendota Heights, MN 1999 to 2000 Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology in Medical Technology South Dakota State University - Brookings, SD 1992 to 1996 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server