Account Manager Account Manager Pittsburgh, PA I'm dedicated, hard-working, and love to learn new things. I'm a motivated and resourceful problem solver seeking a position in Customer Service and/or Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Account Manager EAGLE RENTAL PURCHASE - Penn Hills, PA February 2019 to Present Working with customers to ensure on time rental payments, explaining rental agreements, delivering and picking up furniture, appliances and electronics. Database & LMS Administrator Local Government Academy - Pittsburgh, PA August 2015 to January 2019 I administered and maintained LGA's Information Technology and Audio/Visual systems, customer service, payment processing, learning management, and database. I also served as LGA's videographer and studio technician for recording and live-streaming educational content for southwestern PA local governments. This role has given me experience in public speaking, event planning and management, adult education, and non-profit administration. Valet Manager K-7 Parking Co - Pittsburgh, PA July 2010 to August 2015 In this role, I maintained order, safety, and customer satisfaction in a fast-paced environment. I was in constant communication with customers, crew members, clients, and upper management. While attending college, I designed and implemented a database to keep track of parking trends at K-7's numerous locations. It has become a valuable tool for client feedback. During my time at K-7 I gained experience in leadership, management, and team building. Licensed Insurance Agent DialAmerica Marketing - Pittsburgh, PA April 2006 to June 2010 I was hired as an entry-level telemarketer, but was quickly promoted after earning my Pennsylvania Insurance License. As a Licensed Insurance Agent, I assisted a broad range of customers in selecting insurance plans to meet their needs and budget. I was always up-to-date on plan options, government regulations, ethics and legal standards. In this position I learned impeccable customer services skills and developed a passion for helping people get what they want. Distribution Manager EZ Records - Pittsburgh, PA June 2002 to March 2006 I was hired as Sales Clerk and was promoted after 1 year. As the Distribution Manager, I maintained a small warehouse of CD's, DVD's, and books. Each day, I would visit all of our 7 stores and kiosks to replenish inventory, collect money and gather Sales Clerk feedback. In my time at EZ Records, I learned impeccable organizational skills and precise time management. Video Producer/ Documentarian (3V053) PA Air National Guard 171ARW - Pittsburgh, PA November 2000 to November 2004 Joining the US Air Force was a life-changing experience. I was instilled with the core values of: "Integrity First, Service Before Self, and Excellence in All We Do." I try to uphold these values in all of my endeavors. During my time with the USAF, I developed strict discipline and became a "practical perfectionist" (a strong willed, self-assured, well-informed strategizer).    As a videographer, I recorded, edited and produced training materials for the US military. I also recorded events and ceremonies, then produced entertaining videos from the raw footage. Education Associate in Information Technology Support (3.8 gpa) Community College of Allegheny County - Pittsburgh, PA 2011 to 2015 Skills Learning Management (3 years), Dynamics 365 (3 years), Office 365 Administration (3 years), WordPress Development & Maintenance (3 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Customer Relationship Management (10+ years), Webinar Hosting (3 years), Nonprofit Management (3 years), Event Management (3 years), Video Production (10+ years) Military Service Branch: PA Air National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: E4 June 2000 to July 2004 Video production and documentation journeyman, USAF 3V053 Commendations: Honor Graduate, Defense Information School, Ft. Meade MD