Web Design and Programming Instructor Web Design and Programming Instructor Application Developer Barhamsville, VA • Over 13 years experience in building, upgrading, maintaining, and testing Oracle database systems.  • Knowledge using SQL, PL/SQL procedures/functions, Sqlreports/Forms, and Unix OS  • Performed system, unit, acceptance, regression, load and functional/performance testing.  • Created and scheduled automated and manual testing methods.   • Over 13 years' experience as an Oracle Database Administrator and Application Developer   • Implementation manager, data manager, scheduler and staff developer of a math computer lab.  • Experience in Linux, Unix Korn and C Shells, editors and text formatting tools such as vi and ed.  • Microsoft Certified in Web Development using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript, and ASP.NET  • Microsoft Certified in Software Development using C#, Visual Studio, .NET, and SQLServer.  • Curriculum Planning Team Leader  • Proficient in Java Object-Oriented programming, Spring, Eclipse IDE, and Python.  • Microsoft Certified in Word and Excel  • 7.1.2 PowerSchool Administrator: object reports, data tags, SQL Reports and customizations  • Proficient in Abode Creative Suite CC: Photoshop, Illustrator, and Dreamweaver  • 7 years of public school teaching experience: Programming in Java, C#, and Visual Studio.  • 10 years of public school teaching of Secondary Mathematics  • Public Schools Division "Teacher of the Year”. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Design and Programming Instructor Bridging Communities Regional Career and Technical Center - New Kent, VA August 2012 to Present • Adjunct Professor and High School Instructor teaching Coding, and Advanced Programming courses to secondary level students using Java IDE, Eclipse, C#, Visual Studio, ASP.NET, SQL Server, Python Cisco Cyber Essentials, and Networking. Online Mathematics Tutor Schooltutoring.com - Olympia, WA November 2012 to November 2013 • Provided online mathematics tutoring services to k-12 students across the nation. Systems Information Specialist/PowerSchool Administrator King William County Schools - King William, VA June 2011 to June 2012 • Prepared PowerSchool Student Information System for end of year processing using the Power scheduler.  • Setup Auto send to extract data from PowerSchool and set up attendance reports.  • Created and modified SQL scripts to extract data from the database for integration to 3rd party software applications.  • Maintained a test server to test upgrades and patches to PowerSchool. Extracted, translated and loaded student data from production database systems.  • Coordinated SOL testing along with the DDOT to ensure stability and security of the testing environment. Ensured all student test sessions were setup and ready for testing. Uploaded all SAT and SOL scores into PowerSchool student information system.  • Interfaced with the VA department of Education to clarify requirements and timeline expectations to produce financial data reports such as the Master Schedule Collection and Student Record Collection reports.  • Accessed the VDOE EIMS database to validate student information and interfaces with the SIF database. Maintained the SIF server to ensure student demographics flows to and from the appropriate external systems.  • Planned, developed, coordinated, and managed multiple data gathering and reporting projects simultaneously. Determined timelines and objectives necessary to complete projects with minimum impact on the teachers and staff.  • Met with the IT team and administrators monthly to identify objectives and analyze current requirements and timelines.  • Created and maintained html and Java scripts as necessary to customize web-based reports and data-entry forms.  • Used Microsoft office suite 2010 including excel, word, access, publisher, and project.  • Assisted teachers with Power teacher gradebook and attendance issues.  • Implemented parent portal using single-sign-on procedures. consultant Remote Web Developer Highmark Companies - Cary, NC July 2011 to January 2012 for Highmark Companies, my responsibilities where to provide customized web development and PowerSchool student information system services to various school systems worldwide. These tasks included creating customized SOL standards-based student report cards that were accessible via a secured web-based environment. Lead Math Teacher Central High School - King and Queen County, VA June 2002 to June 2011 IT Responsibilities:  Uploaded reports into the VDOE PPICS database system on student attendance, academic performance, discipline, and community involvements such as the GED program.  • Developed and maintained an Oracle 10g database for student scheduling into the afterschool and 8th period program using Oracle Developer to assist with coding and debugging of SQL and PL/SQL scripts.  • The division liaison for the implementation of the Plato and Odyssey Ware online computer assessment and tutorial programs that was used as an online academic aide in the classrooms for all SOL courses and electives. Developed scripts to automatically enroll and delete students in and out the program, maintained online progress reports, and modified the online curriculum as necessary.  • Assisted the school counselor in student scheduling in PowerSchool by assigning new schedules and deleting old data of graduates or transfers. Request logs and queues were viewed for validation errors.    Teacher Responsibilities:  • Taught Algebra 1 and Algebra II classes as the lead mathematics teacher.  • Set up and enrolled students in the Algebra Readiness Diagnostic Testing program to provide reports to Virginia Department of Education of students demonstrating low Algebra1 readiness.  • Implemented a strategic plan for remediation of students who had not met the pass rate on 9-week benchmark tests.  • Teacher mentor and Team Manager for new teachers in the school system. I provided guidance, instructional programs and classroom management strategies for these teachers.  • Program Manager and coordinator for the 21st Century Student Remediation and Summer School program. Senior Database Administrator KLine America - Richmond, VA March 2001 to November 2001 • Administered, maintained, and upgraded Oracle Database Systems running under HP/UX 10.2 and NT environments using Oracle versions 8 and 8i.  • Tuned the database as necessary to allow maximum transaction throughput using Oracle Enterprise Manager tools and other third party utilities. Performed hints and traces, created and modified triggers on the database to improve performance.  • Provided performance reports and wrote SQL scripts using PL/SQL, procedures, functions, and packages as necessary to manipulate data to/from the databases.  • Recommended new applications and services that improved productivity by 10%. Setup and maintain Oracle snapshot replication and assist in installing OPFS High Availability options to allow minimum down time for system upgrade and maintenance.  • Performed requirements analysis, scheduling, system design & progress reports.    Senior Database Administrator Viasystems Technologies, Inc - Richmond, VA May 1997 to February 2001  • Responsible for installing, maintaining, tuning and upgrading multiple Oracle databases on Sun Systems in a development and production environment along with upgrading and maintaining Oracle Applications and Smart Client used to manage the manufacturing and financial systems in a 24x7 environment.  • Responsible for the maintenance of the Human Resources database. Used Oracle's Enterprise Manager and Performance pack to accurately and quickly detect and fix performance issues with the database.  • Used SqlBacktrak utility to perform hot and cold backups and restores of production databases.  • Frequently used Oracle's Import and Export utilities to defragment, upgrade and copy databases.  • Wrote Unix shell scripts, Awk, and Perl when necessary to assist with automated backup procedures, startup and shutdown of databases as well as analyze table scripts or set up Unix cron jobs.  • Wrote PL/SQL scripts, performed database SQL Tracing and Hints to assist developers with problem scripts. Also assisted with the Intranet/Internet web-based database using Microsoft's SQL-Server and Internet Information Services browser on Windows NT 4.0. Responsibilities include creating and maintaining user security between NT 4.0 and SQL-Server. Contractor/Consultant Metro Information Services, Inc - Virginia Beach, VA March 1997 to May 1997 As a contractor for Siemens, Newport News, VA:    • Responsible for the maintenance of the Oracle 7.2.3 database.  • Wrote numerous PL*SQL scripts, stored procedures and Unix shell scripts to load and update data in the oracle database.  • Performed tuning and optimizing of the database by indexing tables appropriately, utilizing the cost- based optimizer, explain plan and hints when possible. Contractor/Consultant Computer Professional, Inc - Richmond, VA August 1996 to February 1997 As a contractor for Suntrust Bank:    • Wrote Oracle PL/SQL code and UNIX shell scripts that was used for Suntrust Profitability project.  • Coordinated with external users to ensure the proper UNIX and Oracle accounts and Permissions were created.  • Excellent communications skills, both oral and written. Contractor/Consultant Computer Professional, Inc - Richmond, VA September 1995 to July 1996 • Assigned to Philip Morris for the Genesis Distribution Requirements Planning Process (DRP).  • Assisted in the business process of validating requirements.  • Performed analysis, design, and coding using the Oracle 7.2.2 database. Utilized Oracle's SQL*Plus and PL/SQL language to interface with the SAP database.  • Responsible for writing UNIX shell scripts and manipulation of the Oracle database to receive data from remote systems. Database Administrator Science Applications International Corporation - Hampton, VA March 1994 to September 1995 • Upgraded the Contingency Theater Automated Planning System (CTAPS) Project for USAF Headquarters Electronic Systems Command (HQ ESC) from Oracle version 6.0.33 to Oracle 7.0.16.  • Member of the DBA team to implement new UNIX database load scripts for the installation, building, and populating of Oracle 7.0.16 to become part of CTAPS version 5.2.  • Motivated achiever who determined what improvements could be made and what steps to take in improving database performance and utilization, such as correcting the sizes of database tables, utilizing the cost-based optimizer, and enforcing primary and foreign key constraints, which improved database performance to 20%.  • Began the process of modifying CTAPS Manual System Backup and Recovery package, which would improve the recovery process of the CTAPS Oracle database. Also installed and configured Oracle SQL*Net version 2.0 for use with CTAPS version 5.2 using TCP/IP network protocol.  • Provided application integration expertise using UNIX and C programming. This expertise was displayed at Operation Wring out exercises and Interface Control Working Group meetings. Software Engineer Science Applications International Corporation - Hampton, VA March 1993 to March 1994 • Project leader for the integration application interfaces to the SAICs CTAPS system which utilized the Oracle database.  • Performed software and engineering functions including requirements analysis, scheduling, system design and work progress reports. The task for these integrations included providing documentation, integrating the software by writing oracle SQL and UNIX shell scripts, and coding using the C programming.  • Responsible for the unit testing.  • Installed, built, populated and maintained the SYBASE database. Database Administrator Science Applications International Corporation - Hampton, VA January 1993 to March 1993 • Responsible for the design, development, and integration of new systems into the CTAPS environment on Sun Unix Operating Systems using Oracle RDBMS 6.0.  • Efficient with ER-Diagrams    • Created data entry forms using Oracle's SQL*Forms V2.3 and 3.0 to insert, update, and delete information from the Oracle database which the JDSS application utilized.  • Met with members of the team regularly to clarify design and identify any constraints. Computer Programmer, GS-11 Navy Manpower Analysis Center - Norfolk, VA July 1990 to December 1992 • Designed, coded and upgraded programs to migrate manpower requirements from the IBM mainframe MVS/OS network environment to an Oracle relational database environment using UNIX OS.  • Used supporting package such as Oracle's SQL*Plus, Oracle Reports PL/SQL, SQL*Forms V2.3, Pro*C, Oracle Utilities, and C programming. Database Administrator, GS-7, GS-9 Navy Manpower Analysis Center - Norfolk, VA June 1987 to June 1990 • Planned and coordinated implementation in an off-line environment of new releases to the database.    • Assisted in the redesign of a RDM relational database management system. Education M. Ed. in Mathematics in Mathematics Supervision and Administration George Washington University - Newport News, VA September 2010 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Cambridge University - Chesapeake, VA 2006 Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA 1987 Skills MYSQL, Git, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, ASP, CSS, jQuery, ANDROID, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Software Development Fundamentals (C#) December 2013 to Present • Core Programming   • Object Oriented Programming   • General Software Development   • Web Applications  • Desktop Applications  • Databases Database Fundamentals (Sql Server) January 2014 to Present • Understanding Core Database Concepts   • Creating Database ObjectsManipulating Data  • Understanding Data Storage  • Administering a Database Microsoft HTML Application Development Fundamentals April 2015 to Present • Manage the Application Life Cycle   • Build the User Interface [UI] by Using HTML5   • Format the UI by Using Cascading Style Sheets [CSS]   • Code by Using JavaScript Microsoft Excel November 2018 to Present • Create and Manage Worksheets and Workbooks  • Manage Data Cells and Ranges  • Create Tables  • Perform Operations with Formulas and Functions  • Create Charts and Objects using Pivot tables Additional Information Skills  • Object-Oriented Programming  • Agile Development  • HTML5  • CSS  • JavaScript  • MySQL  • JQuery  • ASP.NET  • PHP  • GIT  • Visual Studio  • Python