Sr. Database Developer / Crystal Reports Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer / Crystal Reports <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Developer / Crystal Reports Administrator Dumfries, VA Highly adaptable and experienced ETL / Database / Crystal Reports developer with a proven track record of high client satisfaction.    Core qualifications    • Strong Programming skills (Oracle PL/SQL and SQL, Crystal Reports, Unix shell scripting)  • Data storage structures, data mining, and data cleansing  • Data Warehousing ETL experience using Informatica  • Physical and logical data modeling  • Optimization and performance Tuning  • QA Testing    Technical (IT) Skills:    Reporting Tools: SAP Crystal Reports, Oracle Reports  ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center 9.1/8.6  Database: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, MS Access  Data Modeling tools: ERwin  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX  Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, PLSQL Developer, Microsoft Outlook Work Experience Sr. Database Developer / Crystal Reports Administrator Lockheed Martin Energy - Fredericksburg, VA December 2014 to December 2017 • I was solely responsible for developing, maintaining and automating all the new and existing REC Crystal Reports (250+ reports) used by field personnel, customer service reps, business analysts and higher management.  • I interacted with Business analysts and interpreted user requirements for electric utility systems Reports (Connecting/Disconnecting services, Electrical rates, Account services etc.) to technical specifications, then developed and tested the code using Oracle Stored procedures as the backend and Crystal Reports to display the data and reports.  • I provided new software development and/ongoing support of existing Crystal Reports BI4 Software on an Oracle Database platform using PL/SQL for Packages, Procedures and Functions.  • I was tasked with ad-hoc requests from management to provide data from the Oracle database using SQL and the TOAD tool.  • I wore a second hat as the Crystal Reports administrator whose duties included configuring Servers, creating and eliminating Users, User groups and User access levels.  • I Resolved issues assigned to me through trouble tickets opened up by users on a ticket tracking system called HEAT.  • Troubleshooting report and report scheduling issues Contract takeover Arrowpoint Corporation - Alexandria, VA October 2011 to December 2014 Contract end General Dynamics - Alexandria, VA September 2008 to September 2011 Client: DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY (HQ Army Civilian Personnel System)    • I interacted with the business unit to review mapping transformations of data obtained daily, weekly and periodically from different Army Applications to update data warehouses for business analysis.  • I developed PL/SQL packages to load Data Warehouse and Data Mart tables from data obtained from multiple sources (DCPDS - Human Resource system), HQACPERS (Historical data), ARRS (Army training system), DEERS (CAC cards), ACT (Army Career Tracker) etc., among others, using Informatica Powercenter for the ETL processes.  • Translated business requirements into logical and physical data models using ERwin.  • Maintained a self-service query environment for production Data Warehouse.  • Created mapping documents to outline data flow from sources to targets.  • My responsibilities included providing current and historical Army civilian personnel strength counts per management information requirements from civilian personnel managers and specialists within the office of the Assistant G-1 Department of the Army.  • I was Involved in developing automated monthly 3 day process (SF113 package) of 120 interdependent PL/SQL procedures, Files and Crystal Report scripts which produced formatted files, Excel reports and Crystal Reports to meet the requirements for the Pentagon, Communications Division Office of the AG1CP COMM, and the CPOL internal website). Tools for this process included PL/SQL development, UNIX shell scripting and Crystal Reports. Software Developer/Data Analyst Verizon Telecommunications Services - Arlington, VA October 2006 to April 2008 • Part of a team to develop and maintain the Expresstrak Billing System which was used to provide billing solutions (products and services) determining the necessary DB2 table entries to enable the application to accurately bill customers for services used  • Responsibilities included creating detail design documents and translating business unit requests into requirements  • Created test cases and test data for unit, string and regression testing.  • Supported System, Integration, Pre-production and maintenance testing efforts.  • As a subject matter expert I was deployed to a customer rep center to train the reps, help navigate the system, document application issues and escalate billing system issues to the production support team Education B.S. in Computer Information System Thomas More College - Crestview Hills, KY Skills Windows xp Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows XP/2003/2000/ XP /NT