Division Cybersecurity Analyst Division Cybersecurity Analyst Division Cybersecurity Analyst Jacksonville, FL Cybersecurity Specialist and Military Veteran with a Secret Security  Clearance and 13 years of proven experience in the United States  Navy. Accomplished measurable results while leading teams of 30+  in a dynamic, fast-paced environment. Possess a comprehensive  background in Database/Systems Administration and Cybersecurity  derived from conducting domestic and global operations. Managed  risk upon multiple lines to protect assets, property, and equipment  valued at over $20M while exceeding the expectations of senior  leadership. Possess extensive knowledge in Program Management,  Project Management, and Information Assurance. Career  supported by dual Master's degrees in Cybersecurity and Business  Management. Work Experience Division Cybersecurity Analyst US Navy - Norfolk, VA March 2015 to May 2019 Orchestrated the enforcement of Identity and Access Management on information systems and networks assigned. Trained personnel on network  operating procedures for Information Assurance consistent with organizational  policies to include user access, data integrity, application/system software  protection and classified/ unclassified data safeguard. Developed and implemented information systems security procedures in compliance with  government regulations and policies in support of system certification.  Performed maintenance, troubleshooting, and documentation on computer  security measures including monitoring alerts, conducting investigations and remediation of violations to organizational policies. Performed limited risk/  vulnerability assessments of internal controls on equipment and personnel.  Assembled and analyzed information, identifying areas for improvement and prepared reports in accordance with agency guidelines addressing  Compliance Reviews and Audits. Database/Systems Administrator US Navy September 2006 to March 2015 Administered Identity & Role Based Provisioning of user accounts to include  privileged access to classified information. Performed maintenance and troubleshooting on local and remote Windows, Unix and Database platforms  providing accountability, serviceability, and maintenance information on US Government aircraft and equipment valued at more than $20M with an operational readiness rating of 98%. Developed procedures on data  governance and accountability for 3 geographically isolated units enforcing  cybersecurity policies. Determined staffing needs and managed training  programs to include selection and qualification of over 115 team members across multiple units serving as the subject matter expert. Collaborated  in designing and documenting standards and procedures for user and  access control administration while balancing security standards and accessibility requirements. Counseled in the development and implementation of information systems security procedures in accordance with government  regulations and policies. Ensured configuration management of manned/  unmanned aircraft and addressed configuration problems affecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical data resulting in zero loss on  all units. Education Master of Science - MS in Cybersecurity Excelsior College 2017 to 2018 Master of Science - MS in Administration and Management Excelsior College 2016 to 2017 Bachelor's degree in Business Administration and Management Excelsior College 2013 to 2016 Associate of Science in AS, Business Administration and Management, General Excelsior College Skills SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, INFORMATION SECURITY, SECURITY, Customer Service, Typing, Word, Organizational Skills Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/carlos-l-129245150?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BO6EnYM%2FYQcy7lVHZo%2BT2kA%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information COMPTia Security +ce