Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Tutor Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Assistant Victor Chen's Music Studio Taiwan - Taipei January 2016 to December 2016 • Update/maintain students' and teachers' records.  • Performed basic accounting duties like preparing deposits, processing payments and creating financial reports.   • Gathered statistical data of customers and create reports for analysis  • Answer phone call regarding class schedule and tuition issues. Cost & Progress Manager Nokia Inc August 2004 to October 2015 Taiwan)  • Performed project cost control from regular PO issued and progress reports.  • Based on the ball park picture of project cost and resource utilization rate, present strategic and operative planning to project director and account controller per monthly project meeting.  • Minimize the gap or difference between actual and forecast data in all KPI.  • Proactively generated and analyzed the figure in project status and progress report and execute the corrective actions. ERP Team Leader Trend Inc August 2002 to August 2004 As a core team member of ERP (Microsoft Navision) deployment, in charge of business analysis, to-be flow, system modification and report development etc.  • Sustained legacy system such as Platinum 4.1, Epicor 6.0, Hyperion Enterprise 5.0  • Designed the reports by linking the data in SQL server to Excel worksheet for sales and finance analysis.  • Developed a web ordering system based on the skill of IIS, ASP and JavaScript. Project Database Administrator Nokia Inc March 1999 to April 2001 • Monitored cost and expensed complying with project cost baseline.  • Maintained and update project progress and planning data for review with project managers.  • Responsible for the data migration from Access DB to Oracle server and customized CellTracker UI.  • Performed NT administrative tasks such as creating accounts and grant access level. Using ARC server backup solution on a daily basis.  • On-site support for application including: configuration and installation of all major software and hardware. Developed end user training courses. Programmer Analyst 3Com Corp - Chicago, IL February 1996 to March 1999 • Member of ISO database and intranet implementation team.  • Analyzed and designed the system in VB 4.0 embedded with Documentum API.  • Be awarded in quarterly employee list. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology January 1994 to December 1995 BS in Physics Tung Hai University - Taipei October 1988 to June 1992 Skills ERP (2 years), NAVISION (2 years), SAP, R/3, EXCEL (2 years), Data Entry, Administrative Support, Quickbooks, Administrative Assistant Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Customer Service skills: Whenever worked in Nokia Taiwan to deliver IT support for internal/external customers, always stayed patience and interacted in a professional and empathy manner for their needs and resolved the problems.    Multi-Task and Organizational skills: Prioritized my takes in order management process. Always be detail-oriented for some particular task like auditing the payment terms and job scopes in vendor contract.    Data Analysis skill:  In Nokia telecomm implementation team, I analyze the information and come out actionable solutions based on the measurement strategy (effectiveness, efficiency KPI or milestone status)    Effective Communication: In key user training or UAT, I was aware of listening, deliver and share clear information with people to understand.    Skills  OS: Windows 9X, Windows NT/2000  OLAP: Business Objects (SAP), Excel Pivot Table  ERP: Navision, SAP R/3 (SD, MM, F&C module)  Advanced Study: Basic Accounting Class in Culture University, Taiwan