Cyber Security Administrator Cyber Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cyber Security Administrator - Perspecta/Hewlett-Packard/NMCI Virginia Beach, VA Holds Active DoD Top Secret Clearance with SSBI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Administrator Perspecta/Hewlett-Packard/NMCI - Norfolk, VA April 2017 to Present Knowledgeable in various protocols, operating systems and hardware such as TCP/IP, HBSS, SEP, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2010, 2012, Exchange 2003, 2010, Microsoft PowerShell, Active Directory, VMware Virtual Infrastructure, and SAN architecture. Duties Include:  • Maintains Cyber Security compliance for over 400,000 assets using McAfee ePO versions 5.3.X, as well as Symantec Endpoint Protection 14, and Critical Systems Protection.  • Managed and lead the project to implement Tanium on the NMCI network, including building servers with a high availability configuration as well as maintaining the application enterprise wide.  • Managed and lead the project to implement Symantec Insight for Private Clouds (SIPC) on the NMCI network, including building servers on CentOS as well as maintaining the application enterprise wide.  • Helped prepare for CCRI inspections and ensured compliance with all manual DISA STIG checks, ACAS scans and OPORD requirements for all three of NMCI’s NOC sites in San Diego, Norfolk and Pearl Harbor as well as sites homed to the main NOC sites.   • Participated in the Modernization project on NGEN/NMCI to upgrade all ePO servers to DISA 5.3.X. This effort brought NMCI to current McAfee commercial standards, as well as making our scorecard for compliance over 98%.  • Maintaining and deploying McAfee modules to over 400,000 workstations, servers, and legacy devices.  • Troubleshooting McAfee Agent, HIPs, DLP, Policy Auditor, VSE, and third party extensions within the network with a thorough understanding of interoperability to include software and hardware as well as policy interoperability and TASKORD requirements.  • Performs daily server builds, decommissions, and harvests across the world’s largest intranet (NMCI).  • Deploys, maintains, patches, and oversees all Symantec applications across classified and unclassified networks for the entire NMCI network.  • Engineering support for cyber security platforms to include testing and deploying software as well as analyzing logs and troubleshooting.  • Successfully operates daily in the DevOps model using Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) practices. Database Developer Perspecta/Hewlett-Packard/NMCI - Norfolk, VA August 2010 to April 2017 Work with a team of developers to monitor, collect and scrub performance and capacity data and automate processes so that teams across the enterprise are able to operate more efficiently. Duties Include:  • Developer on projects to automate existing processes in the Enterprise.  • Convert employees existing job duties utilizing Microsoft Utilities (Excel, Access, SharePoint) to now use Microsoft Visual Studio Web Applications with a SQL Database backend. Enhanced managerial reporting duties.  • Projects include Common Operational Picture (COP), Enterprise Performance Management Database (EPMD), and Enterprise Capacity Management Database (ECMD).  • Create/Manage databases in SQL.  • Understand advanced relational database concepts.  • Monitor daily processing and aggregation of data.  • Create stored procedures, views, and functions.  • Utilize linked servers for connections to SQL and Oracle databases for purposes of reporting.  • Microsoft Visual Studio Reporting Services Development.  • Microsoft Perfmon, and troubleshooting. Analyzing bottlenecks and performance related issues.  • Daily monitoring of 4000+ devices (i.e. Domain Controllers, Exchange Servers, File Servers). Senior Data Specialist Harris Connect, LLC - Chesapeake, VA March 2008 to August 2010 Successfully execute and manage data acquisition and integration project schedules in compliance with the client and Harris internal departments. Duties Include:  • Responsible for specialty and marquee accounts.  • Manipulate and cleanse data using SQL and Microsoft Access to conform to system standards.  • Modifying manipulated data using a mainframe system by running scripts and commands.  • Analyze, map and run reports on data in a MS SQL Server environment.  • Build and maintain excellent relationships with client data contacts, ensuring effective communication between project team and clients.  • Manage all activities and tasks associated with database acquisition, conversion, integration and follow up.  • Forecast potential delays and develop contingency plans to minimize impact to production schedule and maintain tight deadlines.  • Provide reports at specified intervals during the project and communicate to Project Management and the client.  • Provide support and training for less tenured Data Specialists.  • Participate in training activities and share best practices with the rest of the team.  • Tests and offers recommendations for enhancements to existing applications as well as recommendations for improved client satisfaction and streamlined departmental processes.  • Elected to represent employees of the company as a member of the Culture Club; working with upper management to ensure motivation and help devise programs to implement a high level of employee satisfaction. Data Specialist Harris Connect, LLC - Chesapeake, VA April 2005 to March 2008 Promoted to Senior Data Specialist after serving in the Data Specialist positions that follow:   • Responsible for National accounts and held the title of Data Specialist, National accounts from 5/06 to 3/08.  • Deemed most timely National Data Specialist in 2007.  • Responsible for Regional accounts and held the title of Data Specialist, Regional accounts from 4/05 to 5/06. Online Questionnaire Coordinator Harris Connect, LLC - Chesapeake, VA August 2004 to April 2005 Performed all of the necessary functions dealing with setting up online questionnaire forms.  Duties included:  • Coordinated with internal departments to ensure accurate and complete receipt of materials for broadcast.  • Designed electronic questionnaire forms using HTML along with a wide array of intricate company programs and database systems.  • Ensured accurate internal processing (quality review and preparation) of materials for e-mail broadcast in accordance with production schedule.  • Maintained internal spreadsheets, system dates, and reports to track and ensure fulfillment of production schedule.  • Recognized and awarded on 3 separate occasions (within first 7 months of employment) for outstanding performance of duty on a daily basis accompanied by a persistent optimistic work ethic. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Information Technology in Business Information Technology Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA August 2000 to May 2004 Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Information Assurance, It Security, Comptia, Cybersecurity, Network Security, Tanium Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ Certification, DOD 8570 Compliant Present CompTIA Security+ Certification, DOD 8570 Compliant December 2018 to December 2021 DISA HBSS 201 Admin ePO 5.9 (2018) Version, CDTC Present DISA HBSS 301 Advanced Admin ePO 5.3 (2016) Version, CDTC Present Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) 4 Practitioner Certification August 2019 to August 2020 Additional Information Security Clearance -   Holds Active DoD Top Secret Clearance with SSBI