Digital Order Control Analyst Digital Order Control Analyst Analyst Dallas, TX Work Experience Digital Order Control Analyst Thryv - Grapevine, TX December 2017 to Present • Utilized internal team resources to migrate over 6,000 accounts from an external Salesforce to the internal Salesforce.  • Led a team of four individuals to convert records from paper to Thryv's digital systems from an acquired company.  • Instructed an internal training team on the process to migrate over 6,000 Salesforce migrations and over 2,500 paper to digital sales.  • Worked with IT partners to clear out over 7,500 sales that had issues attempting to flow to each of the three systems Thryv uses for product fulfillment, billing and project management. Online Marketing Manager Thryv - Grapevine, TX April 2016 to December 2017 • Instructed small to medium sized business owners on operations of their marketing campaigns that drove overall brand awareness, customer traffic and profitability.  • Collaborated with the web design team to assist in web design, development and content in over 250 websites.  • Worked with internal teams to fulfill Search Engine Optimization and relayed critical information and changes to the client. Digital Marketing Manager Third String Productions - Dallas, TX April 2011 to April 2016 • Analyzed online site performance, including converting data into actionable insights and recommendations for continuous improvement amount current marketing strategies  • Audit site for Search Engine Optimization, paid search and other digital marketing practices  • Client facing communications of presentations, recommendations and proposals  • Accumulated over 150k followers and views over social media networks (i.e. Youtube, Facebook, Twitter) utilizing social media pay per click campaigns Database Administrator Texas Army National Guard - Dallas, TX March 2005 to March 2011 • Tracked and provided technical oversight of the staff work for over 4,500 fragmentary orders, which I implemented in a Microsoft Access database which provided a quick and effective tool for managing large volumes of information with easy-to-use search features.  • Managed a highly complex network and successfully maintained and operated over $2M worth of IT equipment.  • Provided customer and network administration services as well as constructing, editing and testing computer programs.  • Used SQL Servers to screen over 30,000 local nationals while overseas in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Entrepreneurship The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX December 2015 Associate in Business Collin College - Plano, TX January 2011 to December 2013 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rwh120030