Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY Upper Marlboro, MD A fulfilled Oracle database Administrator with a track record of implementing database services geared at optimizing RDBMS functionality and productivity in heterogeneous environments. Hold over 5 years in improving and optimizing the performances of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases. Have demonstrated a high skill in accomplishing various oracle environment expectations; database installations and upgrades, troubleshooting, advance backup and recovery operations, performance tuning, enforcing database security procedures, and performing other related database services which are not limited to:    • Skilled in installing oracle software (10g, 11g and 12c) and creating, configuring, and managing oracle databases.  • Solid experience in upgrading and migrating the oracle RDBMs from one release to another.  • Experienced in database administration on Oracle databases (10g, 11g, and 12c) as well as Oracle Virtual Machine(OVM).  • Extensive and advanced knowledge on RMAN backup and recovery operations.  • Also experienced in EXPDP and IMPDP and the old export/import utilities.  • Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.  • Experienced in database and application proactive and level tuning.  • High Abilities in troubleshooting and resolving the oracle environment issues and providing timely interventions: slow running queries.  • Sound knowledge of patches and implementation using the Opatch utility.  • Experience with the implementing of database backup/recovery architectures and procedures.  • Extensive knowledge of automatic storage management environment (ASM) on single instances.  • Skilled in building DR (disaster recovery): - standby databases (physical and logical) on Unix, Linux, and Windows platforms.  • Strong knowledge and experience in managing Dataguard and RAC instances  • Motivated self-driven technical troubleshooter - independently digs into technical issues.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.  • A Strong team player with perfect collaborative skills.  • Possess a Strong active communication and documentation skills.  • Always ready to learn and embark on challenging tasks.  • Strong knowledge and experience in managing Dataguard instances. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD August 2014 to Present • Create and configure Oracle Databases using both the DBCA and manually using database creation scripts.   • Create primary database storage structures (tablespaces) and objects (tables, views, indexes etc.).  • Perform database migrations, conversions and upgrades.  • Design, build, test, and deploy new/changed databases.  • Resolve database issues (incident and problem management).  • Actively perform different forms of advanced RMAN recovery activities; point in time, recovery on a different host, and other flashback Import activities.  • Work on DATAGUARD operations; Open and recover or rebuild DR databases.  • Perform performance tuning tasks using all known performance tuning tools (tracing, tkprof, tuning advisors, etc).  • Perform schema refreshes and other forms of data movement (EXPDP, IMPDP).  • Create objects as needed, conforming to best practices recommended by oracle.  • Schedule and perform various forms of RMAN backup on CRON or via the OEM Grid control.  • Assist in investigating and testing RMAN backup enhancement software and hardware; DATA DOMAIN for RMAN.  • Managed RAC configurations.  • Automate DATAGUARD log archive apply monitoring via the OEM Grid control.  • Install binaries: 11G and 12C and create database instances for testing, development or other operations as out of place restore.  • Collaborated with developers, application experts, and other on or offside team or cross-team members to investigate and solve performance problems.  • Apply various patches (interim patches, patch sets, CPU, and PSU).  • Worked on ASM Instances: managing disk groups, and investigating performance issues.  • Managed RAC configurations.  • Monitor and proactively tuned Oracle databases via the OEM grid control (10g) and RAC platforms (11g) or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts. Education Bachelors of Computer Technology in Database Management & Dev Bowie State University - Bowie, MD Skills Databases (5 years), Linux (5 years), SQL Loader (5 years), OEM (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Data Analysis (5 years), Dataguard (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Oracle 11G (5 years), Oracle 12C (2 years), Database Security (5 years), Disaster Recovery (4 years), SQL (5 years), Data Migration (4 years), Data Pump (4 years), EXPDP (4 years), IMPDP (4 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Oracle Patches (4 years), Patching (4 years), Database Management (4 years), Database Administration (5 years), Oracle Database Upgrade (4 years), Upgrade (4 years), Unix (3 years), SQL PLUS (5 years), ASM (3 years), Windows (8 years), Oracle Rac (4 years), RAC (4 years), Grid (5 years), OEM (5 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager (5 years), Enterprise Manager (5 years), OCA (4 years), Oracle Certified Associate (4 years), Schema Refresh (4 years), Database Architecture (2 years), DBCA (5 years), Database Creation (5 years), SQL*PLUS (5 years), OLTP (4 years), SQL Developer (4 years), TOAD (3 years), Oracle Virtual Machine (5 years), Performance Tuning (5 years), Performance Improvement (5 years), Data Guard (5 years), RMAN (5 years), Recovery Manager (5 years), RDBMS (5 years), Opatch (4 years) Links https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/a0c9b859-ba69-4388-bc71-ea6bf0bc9690/public_url Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: LINUX, UNIX, Windows, and Linux, Unix on OVM  Databases: OLTP, DSS, and WAREHOUSE databases  Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)/Grid Control, Oracle RMAN), SQL Loader, SQL*Plus  3rd Party Tools: SQL Developer, Toad