Adjunct Professor Adjunct Professor IT Specialist Supervisor - USP&FO Opelika, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Adjunct Professor Lakewood College - Cleveland Heights, OH May 2018 to Present Teach courses in a wide variety of subjects, mostly dealing with Information Technology, mobile platforms, and project management. Work with students who are studying for a degree or a certificate or certification or are taking classes to improve their knowledge or career skills. Work to establish and maintain a civil, productive, inclusive, and stimulating learning environment. IT Specialist Supervisor USP&FO - Montgomery, AL December 2012 to Present Over 5 year's successful experience in management and supervision of IT dept.    • In recent years, being the senior IT employee, most of my time is in research and the performance of leading/mentoring other IT personnel. I use many opportunities to use my workload to incorporate other IT personnel so that they can learn from me and gain experience from the projects. I plan and schedule the work so that they are involved with the solution development. I assign them tasks that are part of the big picture, lead in analysis, document the findings, manage the scheduling and priority of the tasks, program and teach them programming techniques, let them share in the credit of mission accomplishment, and encourage them towards leadership.    • Administers the day-to-day database operation and maintenance in a complex environment which requires extensive organization and coordination. Runs utility routines/programs and investigates when reports indicate a decline in computer performance.  • Evaluates the effectiveness of the data base management technology and investigates problems and inefficiencies in a complex data base environment. Determines the impact of new or revised software on system resources, operations, and applications.  • Designs and develops changes or modifications to the database when there are conflicting requirements and numerous complex problems. Reviews existing sources and systems for suitability for the needs of a particular situation. Designs and documents alternatives when existing methods are not sufficient. IT Specialist October 2004 to November 2012 Eight years of cross-platform experience in systems administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and networks. Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance. Evaluated and reconfigured Unix/Oracle setup, including reallocating SAN disk space to engineer a robust, scalable solution. Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with migrations, network connectivity, and security and database applications. Improved system security through setup and ongoing installation of IAVMS and security patches. Develop exceptional relationships with co-workers, management and end users. Worked to build excellent communication and problem solving skills that are used in day to day interactions.  I have also worked toward the performance of leading/mentoring other IT personnel. I have used many opportunities to share my workload to incorporate other IT personnel so that they can learn from me and gain experience from the projects. I planned and scheduled the work so that they are involved with the solution development. I assigned them tasks that are part of the big picture, lead in analysis, documented the findings, managed the scheduling and priority of the tasks, programmed and taught them programming techniques, let them share in the credit of mission accomplishment, and encouraged them towards leadership. I was also very involved with the other IT areas' workload. It is typical that as a Team Leader/Project Manager, I am overseeing all parts of the project to include dividing the workload among team members, adjusting schedules based upon the project progression, training team members on techniques for their productivity, and basically balancing the resources for the most feasible project completion. Database Administrator USPFO for Alabama - Montgomery, AL February 2007 to February 2012 Manage Oracle database administration assignments for diverse systems to include using database query languages such as Structured Query Language (SQL) on several Oracle platforms. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Administers the day-to-day database operation and maintenance in a complex environment which requires extensive organization and coordination. Runs utility routines/programs and investigates when reports indicate a decline in database performance. Designs and develops changes or modifications to the database when there are conflicting requirements and numerous complex problems. Reviews existing sources and systems for suitability for the needs of a particular situation. Designs and documents alternatives when existing methods are not sufficient. Performs in-depth analysis of automated and manual systems to accomplish design and programming assignment related to database management. Determines whether or not existing systems can be used or changed. Prepares programming specifications for implementation by computer programmers. Reviews and manages the implementation of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) security policies to ensure authorized access and integrity of the RDBMS. Ensures the application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices in the management of RDBMS, policy, and planning functions in compliance with applicable law, regulation, policies, and procedures. Works on a national level providing support to windows and Unix server suites. Updates and maintains suite equipment to include network items. Creates and maintains state of the art technologies with virtual systems using latest Virtual management software (VM Sphere). Plans and implements installs for new and system upgrades as needed or directed by National Guard Bureau.  Also, having a long and broad background in IT (spanning nearly 12 years), I am consulted in all other IT areas by our IT staff, functional area personnel, other state DPI personnel, and NGB regarding current applications, enhancements, new technologies, feasibility of proposed systems, priorities, scheduling, development, and implementation.  Serving as project leader/manager on various short/intermediate/long term projects where I parcel out the workload to team members, apprentices, and journeymen IT personnel. This involves setting schedules, problem resolutions, multiple computer systems and applications, multitasking projects, programming in various languages, feasibility decisions, inter-process reviews, adjusting priorities, resource balancing, mentoring junior level IT personnel, cost considerations, and so forth.  Served as acting Data Processing Manager several times in the absence of current DPM for periods up to one month. During this time I supervised all employees and was responsible for all management decisions.    USPFO for Alabama DPC (SYSADMIN/DBADMIN)  1740 Dickinson Dr  MontgomeryMontgomery, AL 36109 United States CEO/Owner Byrd Computer Repair - Luverne, AL January 2004 to May 2006 Supervisor: Owner  221 4th St  Luverne, Al 36049 United States    Performed on-site repair and preventive maintenance on personal and small business computers and related peripherals. Evaluated technical issues, solved customer concerns, and troubleshot computer problems in an efficient and courteous manner. Built custom computers to best serve the customer needs. Scheduled work and ordered parts. Estimated and invoiced repairs. Advises and provides counsel to employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management. Manages all features of business, including client service, sales, buying, accountings and employing and training.    Over 2 years successful experience in management and supervision  • Successfully converted a new business into a profitable organization  • Proven ability to increase sales with superior customer service  • Strong focus on training employees to have "Pride in ones work"    USPFO for Alabama Data Processing Manager  1740 Dickinson Dr  MontgomeryMontgomery, AL 36109 United States Education Certificate in Classroom Instruction Royal Danish College - Copenhagen July 2017 to August 2017 Masters of Science in Information Management Technology Grantham University Kansas City - Kansas City, MO Lurleen B. Wallace Junior College Andalusia - Andalusia, AL Faulkner University Montgomery - Montgomery, AL Skills Oracle (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Unix Administration (9 years), Servers (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Public Speaking, Team Building (5 years), Teaching (7 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2021 oracle certified SQL Expert January 2028