Snr. Principal Cyber engineer Snr. Principal Cyber engineer Snr. Principal Cyber engineer - Raytheon Pelham, NH Tri-lingual military veteran with 10+ years' experience in information security, database management, and operational compliance. Awarded a graduate degree in cyber security from University of Maryland and about to bag another in Cloud computing architeture and maintains an active security clearance. Available for global relocation.    Security Clearance  DoD cleared for Top Secret information and granted access to Sensitive Compartmented Information based on Single-Scope Background Investigation. Preliminary TOP Secret cleared. Work Experience Snr. Principal Cyber engineer Raytheon October 2017 to Present Design and implantations of cyber security controls and architecture to meet customer security requirements. Including industry standards. Worked on some projects like SRP and UEWR, EASR.  ? Coordinating with other fields and professionals in their design implementation to match intended controls and security guides against cyber invasion.  ? Liaison personnel between the corporation and clients.  ? Researched and conducted wide range cyber security operation for cyber security platform known as a Common DREX architecture RADAR program. Applied across various bands of radar variants.  ? Design and implement STIGs specifications and security categorization base on DISA security specification for various DoD programs. Systems Administrator US Navy 2013 to Present Performed monthly data analysis reports; managed flight maintenance inspections and the security of classified material.  ? Scheduled & tracked flight hours, maintained log books and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pilot publications.  ? Processed and reviewed administrative requests for employees. Systems Analyst and Support High Tech Mining Supply LLC - Sacramento, CA 2011 to 2013 Designed and implemented a backend database management system.  ? Configured and enforced real application cluster (RAC) and company policy for better security and accountability.  ? Ensured network connectivity (LAN/WAN) via the network framework. Responsible for the firewall configurations and continual updates of the clients' nodes with security patch updates. Implemented access control.  ? Routinely performed system checks with Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) to check for vulnerabilities within the system and networks and taking necessary actions to avoid exploitations.  ? Monitored the intrusion detection system (IDS) created backup logs. Conducted routine training on Oracle updates and security awareness including social engineering. Database Engineer and Information Security Administrator Zanos International - NG 2006 to 2010 Led a team of expert developers in designing and implementing the first ever Electronic Medical Record (EMR) in Nigeria, with full ambulatory and none ambulatory services embedded.  ? Presented seminars and workshops to medical institutions and sold the EMR application to 7 general hospitals. Conducted 3-months of EMR training for each institution.  ? Deployed Windows servers and configured access privileges.  ? Deployed and configured WAN using Mikrotik® routers and switches  ? Setup a real-time Firewall for stored data and intranet traffic ports for external intrusion monitoring. Conducted trainings on social engineering and phishing for clients' support staff.  ? Ensured routine server patching and updates. Education Masters in Cloud in computing architecture University of Maryland - Adelphi, MD 2019 Masters in Cyber Security in Cyber Security University of Maryland - Adelphi, MD December 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Enugu State University December 2006 Skills ANALYZER, LINUX, SECURITY, NESSUS, NIST Additional Information Additional Skill sets  • Good understanding and use of Wireshark, Nessus/ACAS, RMF application under NIST 800-53 Rev standard  • Fluent with network protocols and commands  • Deep understanding of MBSA (Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer)  • Good understanding of hardware component including RADAR and working components.  • Good understanding UNIX/RHEL/LINUX ( front/back end support)  • Ability to work as part of a team with a goal.  • Can work without supervision but with a set target.