Senior DBA/Developer Senior DBA/Developer Senior DBA/Developer - ARRAY Kettering, OH Over 35 years of experience in application software design, development and system integration with emphasis on database administration and development in Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c RDBMS, 11g Fusion Middleware, Oracle 10g/11g Application Server, WebLogic, Oracle 11i E-Business Suite, Oracle Business Intelligence 11g/12c and SQL Server 2000. Experienced in database performance tuning in multi-platform, client/server environments using leading edge technology and development tools. Experienced in UNIX systems administration using Solaris, AIX and HP/UX including shell scripting in bsh, ksh and bash. Experienced in software engineering in a CMMI Level 3 process environment, and knowledgeable in requirement analysis, software design and development, software testing, system integration, and production implementation, training and customer database and application software support. Work Experience Senior DBA/Developer ARRAY - Dayton, OH August 2017 to Present Working as a Senior Oracle DBA/Developer on the JOCAS II project as part of the Technical Services team. As an Oracle DBA my tasks include database installation, patching, configuration, application database development, performance tuning and support of Oracle 10g/11g databases and Oracle 11g Fusion Middleware and WebLogic (WLS) components on a Solaris 10 and 11 platforms. Development tasks involve design, development, testing and documentation of new functionality and changes to existing functionality coded in Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports, PL/SQL and UNIX shell scripts. Senior Database Administrator Dayton, OH October 2016 to August 2017 Senior Database Administrator Advratech, LLC - Dayton, OH August 2016 to September 2016 Working as a Senior Oracle DBA on the AFEMS project as part of the Operations team. As a Senior Oracle DBA my tasks include database installation, patching, configuration, application database development, performance tuning and support of Oracle 11g/12c databases and Oracle 11g/12c Fusion Middleware and WebLogic (WLS) components on Solaris 10 and Red Hat Linux platforms. Additional responsibilities include Solaris and Linux systems administration and patching, performing AFEMS database software component release builds, packaging for delivery, performing STIG analysis including mitigation of any security risks within the Oracle database and middleware components. Production support duties include working with the Operations team to investigate and resolving database performance and AFEMS production data issues. Senior Database Admin ARRAY - Dayton, OH July 2016 to August 2016 Lead Database Analyst CACI - Dayton, OH September 2015 to June 2016 Database Analyst Ross Group, Inc - Dayton, OH July 2010 to August 2015 Working as an Oracle DBA on the JOCAS II project as part of the Technical Services team. As an Oracle DBA my tasks include database installation, patching, configuration, application database development, performance tuning and support of Oracle 10g/11g databases and Oracle 11g Fusion Middleware and WebLogic (WLS) components on a Solaris 10 platform. Additional responsibilities include Solaris systems administration and patching, performing JOCAS II application software release builds, packaging for delivery, performing STIG analysis including mitigation of any security risks within the Oracle database and middleware components. Documentation responsibilities include maintaining JOCAS II installation and upgrade guides, JOCAS II systems administration manual and various CMMI Level 3 process documentation covering development, builds, software release and quality assurance processes. Production migration and support duties include migrating the independent JOCAS systems from their current AF Bases into the centralized, multi-server production environment located at WPAFB, assisting the JOCAS II Helpdesk by providing production support. Principle Software Engineer MacAulay Brown Inc - Dayton, OH May 2006 to July 2010 Working as part of the Technical Architecture team at Accenture for the Financial Information Resource System - FIRST (USAF) project as an Oracle Database Administrator using Oracle RDBMS 9i/10g/11g, 11i E-Business Suite Applications, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, Data Pump, Discoverer, Embarcadero and UNIX. Duties include: database development, administration deployment and support efforts of a data repository for current and legacy financial information using Oracle database technology. Perform database development including data modeling, physical and logical database design, stored procedures, materialized views, data loading and performance tuning. Interface with the Technical and Product Management to define software requirements and establish product development / enhancement and delivery schedules. Assist the development team with peer reviews and other database and documentation related tasks as needed. Work with the customer to address data issues, software defects and change requests and to establish functional requirements. Principle Software Engineer GRACAR Corp - Dayton, OH October 1999 to April 2006 Was responsible for the database development, administration and support efforts of a data mart at Reynolds and Reynolds using multiple SQL Server 2000 databases on multiple Windows 2003 servers using MS SQL Server 2000, T-SQL, DTS, ASP, VB6, and SQL Server Replication. Duties included: Perform database development including data modeling, physical and logical database design, stored procedures, normalization, data migration, replication and performance tuning. Perform software development including DTS package design and development and development of stored procedures, triggers, and FTP application written in VB 6. Interface with the Technical and Product Management to define software requirements and establish product development/enhancement and delivery schedules. Work with multiple departments responsible for consuming the data mart data, assisting them in their design, and coordinating the deployment of changes to the data mart and its data into the production environment Database Administrator / Database Developer Litton / TASC, Inc - Fairborn, OH August 1997 to October 1999 Worked on various applications written for federal, state and local organizations using Oracle 8/9i, PL/SQL, Oracle 11 Financials and Technical Foundation, HP/UX UNIX, Shell Scripts. Responsibilities included the complete server side development cycle of applications. Designed, developed and maintained relational databases for assigned projects using client specified design tools using Oracle and MS SQL Server 6.5. Provided development support, code optimization and database and operating system performance tuning and installation and support for each deliverable where required. Performed Oracle database application development using Oracle Financials Technical Foundation and various API's. Database Administrator / Database Developer PCS Technologies, Corp - Cincinnati, OH December 1992 to August 1997 Responsible for the complete development cycle of the Materials Distribution Management systems using Oracle 8.x/7.x RDBMS, PL/SQL on multiple UNIX Platforms and Windows NT, Oracle Forms 4.5, C, Shell Scripts, Telxon Barcode Scanners and Handheld Products scanners. Designed, developed and maintained relational databases for customizations to the standard Materials Distribution Management system including technical documentation. Provided project management and technical leadership as part of project development teams. Performed UNIX OS and Oracle RDBMS performance analysis and tuning including UNIX kernel tuning for optimal performance with Oracle. Performed application installations, customer training and 24x7 U.S. and worldwide support for installed systems. Applications and Database Developer Decision Technologies, Corp - Vandalia, OH August 1986 to December 1992 Worked as a contractor on various applications written for customers such as NCR using C/C++, Pascal and Oracle 7.x / 6.x, PL/SQL and shell script on multiple UNIX platforms and Windows NT. Developing custom application software solutions as contracted by our clients. Custom application software solutions included development, installation, technical documentation, training and customer support for barcode printing and data collection software applications using C on DOS and multiple UNIX platforms and the development of communication drivers for UNIX and PC platforms for use in on-line credit checking software used with major credit card companies. Systems Analyst II Standard Register Company - Dayton, OH July 1978 to August 1986 Worked as part of the development team on the standard Materials Management System used to manage the distribution and usage of hospital supplies, utilizing barcode printing and scanning technologies. Provided project leadership for development of the standard Materials Management System. Performed design, development, installation, technical documentation and customer training and support for various hospital and manufacturing applications used for data collection, scheduling and barcode printing. Education Associate Skills Oracle 10G/11g/12c DBA, PL/SQL, Forms & Reports, Unix Shell Scripting (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE January 2017 to July 2024 CASP July 2018 to July 2024