IT Support Data Analyst IT Support Data Analyst IT Support Data Analyst - Daniel H. Cook Associates Inc Brooklyn, NY Work Experience IT Support Data Analyst Daniel H. Cook Associates Inc - New York, NY December 2015 to Present • Installed and configured SQL Server 2012/2014.  • Reviewed and tuned SQL queries, stored procedures, and views.  • Generated reports using SSRS, SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Access.  • Migrated monthly data to the main database.  • Managed user accounts in Microsoft Active Directory.  • Interpret data from primary and secondary sources using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports  • Implemented Log shipping, database mirroring and Cluster Server Environments.  • Managed health of SQL Servers including backups, restores, monitoring  • Managed Domain Controller Active Directory, DHCP Server and DNS Server on Windows Server 2012  • Supported LANs, network segments, Internet.  • Managing and Maintaining Antivirus and ensure all workstations are always running with latest updates  • Assist executive level and management in resolving technical issues on an emergency basis  • Assist in developing user documentation and installation procedures  • Managing and Configuration Windows Operating System  • Responsible for creating email and domain user access accounts for new users  • Managing hardware and software inventory and ensure the inventory is up to date  • Providing advanced technical troubleshooting of hardware and software issues  • Maintained system efficiency, and ensured design of system allows all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshot problems reported by users, made recommendations for future upgrades.  • Managed and installed printers and scanners.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2012/2014.  • Responded to client requests in a timely manner  • Providing reports based on management request for their needs. SQL Database Administrator Ministry of Internal Affairs Pristina, Kosovo September 2009 to September 2015 • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008, 2008R2,2012.  • Upgraded Database from SQL Server 2008 to 2012.  • Reviewed and tuned SQL queries, stored procedures, and views.  • Made reports using SSRS, and SQL Server Management Studio.  • Implemented Log shipping, database mirroring and Cluster Server Environments.  • Managed health of SQL Servers including backups, restores, monitoring.  • Maintained databases consistency; and helped with database design and development.  • Managed stored procedures, agent jobs and utilized server side tracing to identify performance issues with deadlocks & other locking issues.  • Liaised with programmers, applications/operational staff, IT project managers and other technical staff; managing database security/integrity and backup procedures;  • Responded to client requests in a timely manner  • Implemented security measures; defining objectives through consultation with staff at all levels.  • Generated reports, documentation and operating manuals; testing and modifying databases to ensure that they operate reliably; providing user training, support and feedback.  • Replicated databases with each other users access data concurrently, in a form that suits their needs. IT Analyst Blominfo A/S Kosovo SIDA Funded Land Administration, Pristina, Kosovo November 2007 to September 2009 • Participated in the work and on the job training in IT activities related to KCLIS.  • Conducted self-training: reading advised documents and literature related to the work solving exercises.  • Under the guidance of senior experts of the B&O team, got responsibility to provide input to the following activities and deliverables: customer analysis, workflows, data quality testing, database design software design, testing of software.  • Participated in on the job and formal training for KCLIS users.  • Tested the application function and analyzed the data in SQL server 2005. System Administrator Kosovo Cadastral Agency June 2004 to November 2007 • Supported LANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Managed user accounts in Microsoft Active Directory,  • Installed and configured Domain Controller Active Directory, DHCP Server, and DNS Server PROXY Server on Windows Server 2000\2003.  • Maintained system efficiency and ensured design of system allows all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshot problems reported by users and made recommendations for future upgrades.  • Maintained network and system security, monitored networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Identified user needs, maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensured network connectivity throughout a company's LAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations,  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintained network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers, and network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, and intrusion detection systems.  • Managed servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, software deployment, security updates and patches. Education Bachelor of Professional Studies in Database Administrator and System Administrator University of business and technology (UBT) November 2013 Skills business intelligence (Less than 1 year), Citrix. (Less than 1 year), Data visualization (Less than 1 year), Data warehousing (Less than 1 year), database. (10+ years), databases (6 years), Lan (3 years), Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (10+ years), Networking (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Oracle 8 (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year), Sql (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years), Sql server 2005. (1 year), Tcp (Less than 1 year), Tcp/ip (Less than 1 year), Virtual server (Less than 1 year), Help Desk, Active Directory, Service Desk, Desktop Support