Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Senior SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Gaffney, SC Senior Database Administrator 15 years of practical experience supporting 2000 thru 2012 instances of Microsoft SQL Server critical Production business systems; skilled break-fix and enterprise infrastructure deployment projects and upgrades.  SQL dba possessing a diversified technical background and Database Administration skills capable Interfacing with database vendors & client technical support teams to isolate & resolve database related problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Lord & Taylor - St. Louis, MO February 2013 to August 2015 • Provided support of all stages of database engineering and database deployments and break-fix of Production servers in a multi-tier distributed environment  • Orchestrated planning, scheduling installations and testing of server migrations of Lord & Taylor Hudson Bay SQL server platform to the Sachs 5th avenues data center infrastructure.  • Defined and implemented Process and procedure for the of St. Louis Database management support Team. Work with business and IT partners to implement application enhancements that improved the performance and reliability of the SQL server supporting corporate business and sales.  • Documented HBC SQL Server environment and functioned as Liaison to Senior staff translating business needs into IT solutions Accomplished server installations of Physical and Virtual upgrades, for all versions of SQL Server farm environments. Migrated SQL server systems from different sister stores to the infrastructure and converted from physical servers into virtual servers 2008R2. SQL Database Administrator Consultant\Contractor IBM/ Artech - Dubuque, IA March 2012 to November 2012 • As a member of IBM's Global Support staff in the role of Sr. SQL Server Administrator supporting IBM's Global Supporting multiple environments and projects including maintenance and SQL server installs and components services.  • responsibilities patch management and participation in administrator tasks in projects collaborating with individual client's internal DBA teams, collaborating directly with internal customers to plan, evaluate and design network databases in accordance with team and company standards capacity requirements.  • Deploy Server and database change scripts provided by third party vendors. Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures; contribute to and maintain system standards; create and maintain documentation as it relates to configurations. Contractor IBM GBS - St. Louis, MO May 2011 to October 2011 SQL Server Database Architect  • Collaborated with IBM's GBS Support team as SQL Server Database Architect coordinating and implement migration of SQL Server enterprise infrastructure for a large-scale Aerospace manufacturing plant. Migration of the SQL 2000, 2005 and 2008 Clusters refreshing the user databases on the new Cluster. Target domain site arrange for functional and user testing backing up the user databases. SQL Database Administrator Consultant\Contractor Saint Charles Community College - Coatesville, MO, US November 2010 to March 2011 • Satisfactorily completed requirement to implement SQL2008 Windows Fail-over Cluster Providing an optimal database file layout including estimating disk storage and requirements database software, database files & database administration utilization of storage and performance acceptable to the client.  • As the subject matter expert implemented standards to team members and developed process and procedure participated in the development of and adherence to colleges databases and best practices working directly with internal customers to plan, evaluate, and design network databases in accordance with team and company standards capacity requirements. SQL Database Administrator Consultant Ranken Technical College - St. Louis, MO September 2009 to November 2009 Contract assignment to import existing Excel and Access data into Blackboard SQL Server 2008 database while avoiding limited outage using native SQL server tools; solution was to use SSIS and Replication services to scrub underlying data from active web clients; developed back-end SSIS packages, SQL Agent jobs; stored procedures, scheduled tasks, batch jobs and other database processes to support the application. Senior SQL Database Administrator Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation - Creve Coeur, MO October 2007 to October 2008 • Migrated 13 active SQL Server 2000 instances onto 8 Window 2003 clusters and upgraded running in an Active\Active environment. This project was completed using MSX for server administration, server maintenance plans, jobs, and in-house scripts.    • Monitor and maintained production databases in a high availability 24X7 factory environment log-shipping to hot standby servers 25 paper manufacturing mills based throughout the United States consisting of SQL Server 2000 to 2005 failover clusters configurations having multiple nodes Senior SQL Database Administrator Maritz Global Technology - Fenton, MO September 1996 to May 2007 • Implemented and managed database fail over cluster as per client with PCI compliance. Performed database physical design, database upgrades and applied software patches to databases as per application/client requirements. Customized support for web Client's Applications and In-House Applications in addition to creating and maintaining database objects tables, indexes, views, triggers, Functions, Procedures.  • Upgraded Servers and Databases from SQL Server 6.5 to SQL2005 and Installed and configured database software, associated database tools, and performance monitoring software. Performed database physical design, review ERD diagrams and reverse engineer database model and tables for best practices.  • Successfully completed Market Research sector realignment and deployment 75 SQL 2005 server clusters and stand-alone Servers. Education University of Missouri - St. Louis, MO 2007 certification St. Louis Community College - St. Louis, MO 2005 Computer Technology Control Data Institute - Baltimore, MD 1975 Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD 1972 Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database, Oracle Dba, MYSQL