Personal Care Assistant (PCA) Personal Care Assistant (PCA) Personal Care Assistant (PCA) - Stavros Center for Independent Living Holliston, MA Work Experience Personal Care Assistant (PCA) Stavros Center for Independent Living - Amherst, MA November 2012 to Present • Provide assistance necessary for daily living  • Clean residence and complete daily chores  • Provide transportation to appointments and shopping Information Services Database Administrator Intern Pediatric Physicians' Org. at Children's Hospital - Boston, MA February 2019 to May 2019 • Assisted with the conversation of data from EHR systems into Epic  • Worked closely with application team to determine the business needs for data conversions, document the requirements, and configure the interfaces  • Helped diagnose and resolve data-related issues Electronics Technician United States Navy - Groton, CT February 1992 to February 2012 - Submarine Fleet  • Supervised and trained personnel in maintenance, repair procedures and electrical theory.  • Improved existing network conditions and implemented stringent measures to advance overall network security resulting in system wide policy changes.  • Troubleshot and repaired electrical and electronic issues of equipment.  • Interpreted wiring diagrams.  • Installed and set up desktop PCs and troubleshot hardware and software issues.  • Understand lock-out tag-out system.  • Maintained phone systems, cable TV, and navigations systems.  • Given top secret clearance & received multiple service awards. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Health Information Technology Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology - Boston, MA May 2019 Associate in Computer Network Systems in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Norwood, MA May 2015 Skills Database, Sql, Sql queries, Database development, Ehr, Epic, Active directory, Networking, Coding, System security, Medical coding, Risk management, Pharmacology, Windows xp Assessments Electronic Medical Records Knowledge — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s knowledge of EMR data and associated privacy regulations, as well as best practices for EMR use. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cmnn-swr-1ixhubo Verbal Communication — Proficient August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/53spmqajouy9wcah Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS  • Proficient in installation, configuration and troubleshooting  • Knowledge of Windows XP/7/8/10  • Experience with active directory installation/administration and client-serve administration  • Skilled in networking and database development  • Able to analyze and retrieve data with SQL queries  • Familiar with network & system security, risk management, vulnerability management  • Trained in EHR: Epic & Vista  • Relevant coursework includes: medical coding, communication & classification, anatomy & physiology, pathophysiology & pharmacology