DBA DBA DBA • 3 years of experience in Database Administration, Data Architecture and Development using SQL server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016 systems in OLTP and OLAP environment.  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Extensively worked on installing and configuring (32bit/64bit) different versions SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 R2 and 2012 updating with latest hot fixes and service packs.  • Configured and Maintained SQL Server Always On Failover Cluster for Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering.  • Extensive Knowledge on SQL server Always On Availability Groups.  • Extensively worked on implementing High availability solutions like different Replication models (Snapshot and Transactional), Log shipping, Clustering and mirroring on physical and virtual machines.  • Migrated SQL Server 2005/2008 databases to SQL Server 2012.  • Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering.  • Expert in Performance Tuning by Index Defragmentation, optimizing execution plans, proper usage of indexes and table partitioning.  • Expertise in reading and understanding execution plan and fixing the query to execute with low cost using joins like merge, nested loops, hash join.  • Extensively worked on Locks, Deadlocks, Handling Isolation Level and Concurrency Effects, Detect CPU, I/O, Memory Bottlenecks.  • Monitoring Event Viewer, SQL Error logs and Log file viewer for software and hardware related errors.  • Migrated SQL Server 2000 databases into SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008.  • Experience working with Data Compression techniques like Row Level and Page Level Compression and Database Backup Compression in SQL 2008.  • Good at SQL Server 2008 R2 new features like Policy Based Management, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Performance Data Collector, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)and Change Data Capture.  • Expertise in using Native tools like SQL Server Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Perf Mon and third party tools like Lite Speed and Red gate.  • Handled up to 500 GB to 1 TB Size databases with clustered environment.  • Created effective Backup and Recovery plan by Transactional Log and Full Database Backups and utilized to recover data in point in time in case of disaster of server.  • Handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2005 and 2008 on Windows 2003/2008.  • Configured Security at ACTIVE DIRECTORY and SQL Server Level by Creating Principals (logins) and Mapping users to roles. (Securable and Permissions).  • Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources.  • Proficient in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data from Excel, Flat file, to MSSQL server by using SSIS services.  • Experience in using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer. Work Experience DBA Chinese Community Center - Chicago, IL January 2016 to July 2016 The Chinese Community Center is a volunteer-based and non-profit organization dedicated to providing quality free health care to uninsured people of all ages living in the community. The Clinic relies on support from individuals, donation, corporations, foundations, community service organizations. The clinic is a volunteer, free medical clinic staffed by licensed medical professionals that includes internal medicine and family practice physicians, nurse practitioners, behavioral health counselors, and many specialty physicians. In addition, volunteers also provide administrative and information technology services.  Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, Administered SQL Server 2014/ 2012 in Development, Test and Production Environments.  • Configured SQL Server 2012 Always on Clustering on windows 2012  • Configured Database mirroring  • Worked on complex T-SQL statements, and implemented various codes and functions.  • Involved in creating Stored Procedures, views, tables, constrains.  • Created stored procedures and triggers for Data consistency.  • Created views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and triggers on them to facilitate consistent Data entry into the database.  • Wrote complex stored procedures to process employee's requirement and generating.  • Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  • Created Database Maintenance Plans for the Performance of SQL Server, which covers Database Integrity.  • Debugged the T-SQL queries for performance tuning.  • Checked & updated Database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Created Users and Roles, and managed security and permission of database.  • Supporting application teams for their deployments on Development, Test and Production Environments during off Production hours.  • Involved in Refresh/Restore activities, fixing security issues.  • Fine-tuned Service Manager Application.  • Developed ASP.NET as an interface  • Applied latest Services packs on clustered and standalone instances.  • Worked on SSIS and SSRS deployments.    Environment: Microsoft Windows 2003 R2/2008/2008R2/2012/2012R2 Server, Microsoft SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2/2008/2005  Title: Sales Management Portal    The sales management portal is mostly used to process and store the data of the client and the staff this helps us in maintaining the records and manage the sales environment in the most proper way this portal helps us to have a better communication with the client and help the client to know about the services we provide.    Responsibilities:  • Installing, Configuring and Maintaining SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 on Active/Active Cluster with latest Service Packs, Hot Fixes.  • Designed the Database Recovery plan and implemented the Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2005 and participated in Disaster Recovery Drill processes.  • Provide and Monitor database "health" - availability, reliability, performance and capacity planning using SQL Profiler, Database Tuning Wizards.  • Provide Reliability using Transactional Replication.  • Involved in creating Stored Procedures, views, tables, constrains.  • Created stored procedures and triggers for Data consistency.  • Created views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and triggers on them to facilitate consistent Data entry into the database.  • Troubleshooting blocking issues, deadlocks using blocker scripts, trace flags and activity monitor.  • Performance Tuned Stored procedures using Index Tuning Wizard, Estimated Execution plan, Profiler and PerfMon.  • Used the DMV's to find the missing indexes on the tables for most appropriate used and missing indexes.  • Setup, Installation and Configuration of SQL Server RDBMS. Evaluating and installing patches/Service Packs.  • Optimization, performance tuning of SQL Server Systems and databases.  • Setup Database Security and maintain accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins, Roles and assigning object level permissions.  • Analysis, development and maintenance of Backup Plan, Procedures and Strategies using Maintenance Plans.  • Created Auditing procedure related Data using DDL/DML Triggers to keep track all the changes to database and data in tables.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2005, Windows server 2008/ 2003 Datacenter and Enterprise edition 32 bit/64 bit, Transact-SQL, Visual Studio 2005 for ASP.NET, SSIS, SSRS, TFS(Team Foundation server). DBA Cigniti Technologies Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2014 to June 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan.  • Designed Data Integrator jobs with Error Handling and email notifications.  • Managing Databases spread across multiple servers in Production, Development & testing environments.  • Configured ALWAYS ON setup between different Data Centers.  • Migrated the databases from SQL 2005 to SQL 2008 and SQL 2008 to SQL 2012/2014.  • Worked with Development of SQL Server 2016  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data using SQL Server Re-porting Services (SSRS).  • Daily DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Managing alerts and security, Re-indexing/Reorganizing Indexes, performing DBCC checks.  • Performed troubleshooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Performed Scheduling jobs and monitoring and troubleshooting them.  • Performing query optimization and performance tuning using native tools like performance monitor, resource monitor, profiler, DMV'S and built in performance reports.  • Resolving blocking and deadlock issues using activity monitor and system stored procedures.  • Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources.  • Integrated SQL traces with PerfMon log to have better graphical analysis to find system bottlenecks  • Worked on Reports and automated the Jobs for Running the Reports(SSRS).  • Setting up Clustered environment for SQL Server Administration.  • Expert in Performance Tuning by Index Defragmentation, optimizing execution plans, proper usage of indexes, Index rebuild, reorg, horizontal and vertical partitioning.  • Created linked servers between SQL Servers  • Used BCP utility to publish table output to text files  • Constant monitoring the work flow using the Administrative Tool Facets.  • Performed database compressions using MS Azure and other tools such as Informatica Cloud  Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014, Windows Server 2008(x64), SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2013, T-SQL, SQL Profiler, SQL databases, C#.NET, ASP.NET. Database Administrator India First Life Insurance - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2013 to June 2014 India.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for installing and maintaining SQL 2008 Cluster environment and Performed migrations from SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008.  • Applying existing servers with relevant Service Packs, Hotfixes and any Critical Security Updates released by Microsoft.  • Analyzed SQL Servers and Databases and came up with a plan for consolidation based on usage, performance, and compatibility.  • Implemented High availability & Disaster Recovery procedures, Cluster (active/active, active/ passive), DB Mirror, Replication and implemented log shipping.  • Used BCP utility to publish table output to text files and created SSIS package to Export and Import data from SQL Server to Access, Text and Excel files and Configured SQL mail agent for sending mails upon package deployment.  • Experience in Performance Tuning in SSIS packages by using Row Transformations, Block and Unblock Transformations.  • Developed Automated Backup jobs and DBCC scripts for databases and transaction logs.  • Configured Linked Servers between different servers  • Experience in configuring report manager for creating reports and snapshots.  • Used DBCC and DMV for optimization and better performance  • Used Replications like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional for Reporting, Data Transfer and Data Warehousing  • Uploading Reports on to Report manager and Organized them based on Business Rules.  • Installed and administered two node cluster Active/passive.  • Created Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views and Functions for the Application.  • Extensive testing on the Performance of the Stored Procedures.  • Used DTS packages to move logins and jobs from one server to another server.  • Used log shipping for synchronization of database.  • Good experience in data modeling and metadata services.  • Worked with Strata Cloud for the transformation of service model    • Implementation of SQL server logins, Roles and Authentication modes as a part of security policies.    • Work on weekly Issues reports which are generated as a part to improve Performance.    • Continuous monitoring server health with Idera monitoring tool and Used Data Center Monitoring System (SCOM) to monitor the connection.    Environment:  SQL Server 2005/2008, Windows 2008 server, Windows Server 2008(x64), SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2010, T-SQL, PowerShell, SSRS, SSIS, SQL Profiler, Activity Monitor, Data Collector, Performance Monitor, Database Tuning Advisor, C# and .NET. Education Computer Sciences Vignan University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Masters in Computer Sciences in Computer Sciences Governors State University - Chicago, IL Skills .NET (2 years), database (2 years), Databases (2 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (2 years), MS SQL Server (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows 2008 R2/2008/2003/XP/Vista/7, Linux(Ubuntu), Open Suse.  Databases MS SQL Server 2016/2014/ 2012/2008r2/2008/2005/2000. MS Office Access 97/2000/2003 & SQL Workbench.  ETL Tools  SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Data Integrator, Data Transformation Services (DTS).    Web Server IIS 5.0, 6.0, 7.0 & 8.0.  Database Tools SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, Index Analyzer, SQL Server Management Studio.  Data Modeling Tools Erwin, Red gate, Idera, Visio.  Languages T-SQL, C, C#, java script, Visual Studio 2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2003, ASP.NET, VB.NET.  Applications Microsoft Office 365, Adobe Photoshop, Acrobat Reader/Writer/Share point/Dynamics 365