Computer Network/Distribution Center Support Computer Network/Distribution Center Support Dover, DE Work Experience Computer Network/Distribution Center Support Quaker City Motor Parts Corporate Headquarters - Middletown, DE 2000 to Present SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION  • Excellent knowledge of Windows 2003\2008 operating system hardware and software; install, configure, administer and maintain all server related software and hardware licensing.  • Establish Active Directory (AD) root domain, including domain controllers, global catalog servers, and organizational units; created Domain Name System (DNS) to support AD; troubleshoot and quickly resolve AD and DNS issues.  • Oversee file and print sharing environment on LAN; migrated file, print, ftp, and shared applications to a virtualized Windows 2008 R2 64-bit platform using HyperVisor technology.  • Implement and support domain Group Policy; create policy objects, establish computer and user configurations, logon scripts, and apply administrative templates.  • Install and maintain a variety of network application end user software; procure and configure all off-site and in-house network printers.  • Familiar with Virtual Server environment; currently utilizing Windows Datacenter 2008 with Hyper-V Manager and Failover Cluster Management; SANs linked using iSCSI protocol.    DATA COMMUNICATIONS  • Spearhead project to replace and migrate seven T1.5 Mbps frame relay data circuits to Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) network technology.  • Support seven T1.5 Mbps frame relay circuits used for connectivity between Local Area Network (LAN) at corporate headquarters and LANs at remote distribution centers and parent company.  • Procure T1.5 Mbps frame relay data circuit and established Wide Area Network (WAN) connectivity for mail delivery, company web sites, remote access, and Internet mail service.  • Maintain network infrastructure components including Cisco 1841, 2600, 2610, and 2900 model routers, 3Com and Adtran secure gateways, firewalls, switches, and hubs; troubleshoot LAN/WAN connectivity issues and coordinate repairs with providers.    CITRIX/TERMINAL SERVER  • Maximize all aspects of a Citrix/Terminal Server environment that services 7 geographically separated distribution centers and 50 web interface application users.  • Procure and configure Windows 2003 R2 server used to support ICA/RDP environments; thorough understanding of terminal server hardware/software and licensing requirements.  • Maintain Citrix software used by thin client and web interface users; currently running Citrix Presentation Server 4.5, Web Interface 5.0.1, Secure Gateway 3.0, and XenApp client; recently implemented a second secure web interface to support IPAD.  • Control Citrix security environment using a combination of local security, farm and group policies, secure gateway, router interface, and SSL certificate.    VoIP  • Optimize Voice over IP (VoIP) telephone network system encompassing corporate headquarters and 7 geographically separated distribution centers.  • Procure Dell PowerEdge 210 servers running Windows 2008 SP2, 64-bit operating system for primary and secondary call center manager platform.  • Manage all VoIP system hardware including router interfaces, branch and phone hubs, PRIs, IP, mobile and analog telephones, and fax machines.  • Utilize call center software to control static and dynamic communications environment; ensure connectivity to Exchange server for voicemail delivery.    IBM iSERIES    • Oversee operating environment for IBM iSeries midrange computer system, most critical hardware/software component used by company.  • Project manager for IBM iSeries system upgrade from Power5 9406-520 to Power6 8203-E4A and IBM i5/OS software upgrade from V5R3 to V5R4 and from V5R4 directly to V7R1; review, download, and install individual and cumulative PTF packages as required.  • Install and configure customer-installable hardware including communications interfaces, tape and disk drives, and system consoles. Diagnose and report hardware/software maintenance issues; coordinate equipment repair with vendors.  • Create device descriptions for network interfaces, communications lines, virtual devices, system consoles, tape drives, optical units, printers, and terminals; configure Integrated File System (IFS) directories and output queues. MAINFRAME COMPUTER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR United States Air Force, Communications 1980 to 2000 Received merit promotion to most critical technical position at Data Processing Center. Maximized performance of two mainframe computer systems used to provide online and batch processing services to over 4,000 base customers.    MAINFRAME COMPUTER OPERATIONS SHIFT SUPERVISOR/OPERATOR  • Supervised personnel and equipment operations for two Unisys mainframe 1160 and 2200 computer systems. Performed full system restart/recoveries; assisted system monitors during job stream recoveries/reruns; assigned to shift with heaviest workload.    COMMUNICATIONS/COMPUTER HELP DESK SUPERVISOR  • Managed Communications/Computer help desk servicing over 4,000 customers. Directed help desk analysts concerning first line troubleshooting for all base computer resources. Education Associate In Applied Science in Data Processing Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell AFB, AL Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: MSgt (E-7) February 1980 to January 2000 Communications/Computer Career Field Commendations: Meritorious Service Medal;  Air Force Commendation Medal with 1 device;  Air Force Achievement Medal;  NCO Leadership School Distinguished Graduate;  Below-the-Zone Promotion to Senior Airman