Manager, Database Administration Manager, <span class="hl">Database</span> Administration Manager, Database Administration Raleigh, NC Experienced database administration manager capable of effectively and efficiently leading a team to support daily activities, as well as, enhancements. Highly detail oriented, technically skilled and enthusiastic, driven to succeed. Capable of building strong relationships at all levels of an organization, and across lines of business.  Proficiencies  ? 8 Years Database Administration Manager ? 6 Years of Management of Vendor Service Providers  ? 18 Years Oracle Database Administrator ? 5 Years Oracle Application Developer  ? 25+ Years Information Technology Professional ? Efficiency improvements (resources and systems)  ? 6 Years Oracle Clinical Application & DB Management ? 2 years Clintrial Application & Database Administrator  ? 3 Years Associate Director - Clinical &  Regulatory Applications    ? Database monitoring and management: Including  Patching, Back-ups, Disaster Recovery    ? Successful liaison between business and IT, at all  levels of an organization    ? System testing and support of user-testing Work Experience Manager, Database Administration MercuryGate International - Cary, NC May 2018 to May 2019 Enhanced utilization of DR resources by using Oracle Active Dataguard to offload read only reporting capabilities  ? Designed and implemented a quarterly Oracle DB patching process and schedule to minimize downtime for clients  ? Monitored and supported client requests for QA DB refreshes and archive restores, targeting same day turn-around  ? Supported research and resolution of client reported system outages and SLA failures  ? Planned for the architecture, design and build of an Oracle RAC environment leveraging a Managed Service Provider  ? Implemented and leveraged a new 2nd shift resource to allocate team tasks in order to minimize customer impact  ? Presented the corporate Business Continuity procedures at the 2019 user conference ("Velocity")  ? Ensured business continuity by executing regular DR drills without client downtime via snapshot standby technology Senior Manager, Database Administration Ashfield Pharmacovigilance June 2017 to May 2018 Responsible for implementation of key Safety System application database projects  ? Responsible for planning and execution of key Safety System application and database projects  ? Client on-boarding services: Planned and deployed E2B case data imports into the Oracle Argus Safety 7 system  ? Day-to-day operational services: Provided database and administrative application system support  ? System configuration and administration services: Installation and configuration of the Oracle Argus Safety Multi-tenant environment; including family/product/license set-up, and code list management/maintenance  ? System integration and interface services: Implementation of IRMS-to-Argus project - E2B XML files generated out of a 3rd-party call center application (IRMS) imported into Argus, significantly reducing case creation lead-time and elimination of duplicate data entry  ? Responsible for overall support and configuration of the corporate Safety System environment  ? Provide end-user application support and troubleshooting services of case entry issues, as well as, periodic and regulatory report generation/submission (both manual and automated gateways) Associate Director INC Research, LLC - Raleigh, NC March 2013 to May 2017 Clinical & Regulatory Applications and Database Administration    Responsible for planning and execution of key Clinical application and Infrastructure database projects  ? Oracle Argus Safety 7 Implementation: Migration and consolidation of the 100+ individual 4.X safety databases into the multi-tenant environment  ? IMPACT 14.1 Upgrade: Significant upgrade of CTMS platform (aka 3.2.0 to 14.1.0); involving coordination of the Database and Application administrators, as well as, the Clinical Operations SMEs  ? OC/RDC/TMS 4.6.6 Upgrade: Front-end application upgrade (aka 4.6.0 to 4.6.6) requiring significant backend database (aka 11gR1 to 11gR2), and server upgrade (aka W2K3 to W2K8)  ? Windows 2003 Server retirement/transition: Led infrastructure upgrade project of 130 servers hosting dozens of Clinical & Regulatory applications, without any negative impact on end-user community  ? Dense Compute database migration: Multi-year project involving significant capital investment in cutting-edge server blade, networking and SAN technology "CISCO UCS / NetApp SAN -Flexpod -architecture", requiring consolidation of multiple global in-house datacenters, into 2 strategic hosted datacenters.  * Consolidation of dozens of stand-alone Oracle database servers into strategically architected blade servers utilizing Oracle Dataguard for high-availability and remote warm DR replication.  ? Responsible for on-going Tier III support for key Clinical applications and all Oracle & SQL Server databases  ? Supported segregation of Service Operations Center (SOC): IT restructure caused by adoption of Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) into "DB Project Services" and "DB Support Services" teams.  * ~~~~~~~~~~ to support advanced troubleshooting and critical support activities, across teams as an SME, in order to minimize risk to the business; including: OC/RDC/TMS CDMS platform and companion reporting platform - Oracle Discoverer Manager, Database Administration INC Research, LLC March 2007 to March 2013 Management of the Clinical Systems Support Team  ? Team comprised of DBA's and application support responsible for daily care and administration of the company's major Clinical Applications (aka CDMS, CTMS & Safety)  ? Created a centralized Application Support Team who handled Tier II & III application support and administration, providing end-user support, system setup & configuration services  ? Responsible for migration/integration of all RDBMS systems during corporate acquisition of GCD from MDS Pharma  ? Planned and executed Oracle & SQL Server system migrations, requiring liaising with 3rd-party contactors to arrange for backups, server images, etc. to be transferred and/or shipped post-acquisition integration process  ? Tasked with merging DBA processes and personnel from both companies into a single integrated team: required compiling systems inventories and interviews in order to eliminate redundancy and achieve the desired synergy of resources. Followed up with cross-system orientation/training.  ? Responsible for annual CAPX & OPEX budgets for the RDBMS corporate assets  ? Coordinated with Oracle & Microsoft on renewals of Oracle RDBMS license true-ups and maintenance/support  ? Contracts covered all Oracle software - Oracle E-Business & Healthsciences) and infrastructure ( iAS & iDS)  ? Responsible for managing the corporate Clinical & Safety Systems  ? Led upgrade project for Oracle Clinical from versions 4.5.0 to 4.5.3 & 4.5.3 to 4.6.0  ? Led implementation project for Oracle AERS version 4.5.2; then, its upgrade to V 4.6.2  ? Led implementation project for Perceptive Informatics IMPACT version 3.1.50; then, its upgrade to V 3.2.01  ? Responsible for managing the corporate RDBMS availability & performance monitoring platform  ? Researched and implemented a corporate RDBMS monitoring solution - Quest Foglight  ? Selected software also monitors: VMware Infrastructure, Web apps, end-user experience (synthetic transactions).  ? Identified and documented Service and/or Operational Level Agreements, and their compliance/issues Manager, Database Administration INC Research, LLC - Raleigh, NC March 2007 to March 2013 Management of the Oracle Lifesciences (AERS/OC/RDC/TMS), Oracle eBusiness (Financials / Projects / HR), Perceptive Informatics IMPACT, and Microsoft SQL Server DBA Teams  ? Responsible for defining job requirements, selection and retention of DBA personnel, to maintain appropriate staff depth within the organization; leveraged The Pythian Group - 3rd-party DBA services company  ? Reviewed, developed and executed training/certification plans to ensure DBA staff skills remained current  ? Oversaw installation, monitoring & maintenance of the Lifesciences, eBusiness, and SQLServer environments  ? Liaised with business partners to secure support of new DB technologies and support of legacy environments.  ? Worked alongside other IT leads - such as TLC/CSV, Operations, Enterprise Applications, and Helpdesk - to meet project timelines and/or support SLAs  ? Reviewed and maintained contracts for product licenses and supports from vendors to ensure compliance to scale of the projected corporate growth    Management of the Clinical Systems Support Team  ? Team comprised of DBA's and application support responsible for daily care and administration of the company's major Clinical Applications (aka CDMS, CTMS & Safety)  ? Created a centralized Application Support Team who handled Tier II & III application support and administration, providing end-user support, system setup & configuration services  ? Responsible for migration/integration of all RDBMS systems during corporate acquisition of GCD from MDS Pharma  ? Planned and executed Oracle & SQL Server system migrations, requiring liaising with 3rd-party contactors to arrange for backups, server images, etc. to be transferred and/or shipped post-acquisition integration process  ? Tasked with merging DBA processes and personnel from both companies into a single integrated team: required compiling systems inventories and interviews in order to eliminate redundancy and achieve the desired synergy of resources. Followed up with cross-system orientation/training.  ? Responsible for annual CAPX & OPEX budgets for the RDBMS corporate assets  ? Coordinated with Oracle & Microsoft on renewals of Oracle RDBMS license true-ups and maintenance/support  ? Contracts covered all Oracle software - Oracle E-Business & Healthsciences) and infrastructure ( iAS & iDS)  ? Responsible for managing the corporate Clinical & Safety Systems  ? Led upgrade project for Oracle Clinical from versions 4.5.0 to 4.5.3 & 4.5.3 to 4.6.0  ? Led implementation project for Oracle AERS version 4.5.2; then, its upgrade to V 4.6.2  ? Led implementation project for Perceptive Informatics IMPACT version 3.1.50; then, its upgrade to V 3.2.01  ? Responsible for managing the corporate RDBMS availability & performance monitoring platform  ? Researched and implemented a corporate RDBMS monitoring solution - Quest Foglight  ? Selected software also monitors: VMware Infrastructure, Web apps, end-user experience (synthetic transactions).  ? Identified and documented Service and/or Operational Level Agreements, and their compliance/issues Senior Database Administrator INC Research, LLC - Raleigh, NC August 2006 to February 2007 Primary DBA for the corporate Oracle Lifesciences (AERS/OC/RDC/TMS) environment  ? Install, monitor & maintain the middle-tier applications and infrastructure  ? Install, monitor & maintain the back-end database server and instances  ? Execute & verify database instance backups and disaster recovery readiness  ? Provide end-user application and/or database support  ? Backup DBA for the corporate Oracle eBusiness (Financials / Projects / HR) environment  ? Keep current on the middle-tier applications and infrastructure configuration  ? Keep current on the back-end database server and instances  ? Monitor the environment and provide DBA services when the Primary DBA is unavailable Senior Database Administrator PPD, Inc June 1999 to August 2006 Oracle Database Administrator, Information Technology Department  ? Provided DBA Project Management services.  * Lead DBA for Oracle Clinical v4.0/4.5, and Clintrial v3.3.3: Responsible for application and database infrastructure in accordance with PPD SOPs & Systems Lifecycle.  * Lead DBA for the PPD Query Resolution System (PQRS): Responsible for design and configuration of database and application architecture in support of rewrite of PPD's QueryDirect development projects  * Managed production installation and upgrades for local & remote sites including developing and maintaining validation documentation  * Represented PPD IT at corporate and client audits  ? Provided Database Design/Development services.  * Designed logical and physical database back-end for proprietary corporate query tracking system -QueryDirect - which interfaces with Oracle Clinical  * Designed logical and physical database back-end for Forms front-end as part of rewrite of proprietary corporate query-tracking system - PQRS - which interfaces with Clintrial  ? Provided Database Administration services on Oracle v7/8i/9i/10g databases  * Installed and upgraded RDBMS software, instance creation & maintenance, performance monitoring & tuning, defragging, backup & recovery, user maintenance, and database security  ? Provided Oracle application support services  * Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 9i & 10g Application Server & Oracle Developer Server v6/6i/9i  * Administered Oracle Clinical v4/4.5, TMS v4/4.5, Oracle AERS 4.3, QueryDirect v1/2/3, Clintrial v3.3.3, Clintrace v2, and PQRS v3/4  * Researched and corrected reported issues with configuration, performance issues, including creating and/or tuning Ad Hoc queries using Integrated Review, iSQL*Plus, SAS, ODBC-based query tools System and Database Administrator & Process Consultant EDS - Warren, MI September 1993 to June 1999 Executed studies to improve economic and resource efficiency  * Studied and documented current business processes; then recommended process improvement strategies to realize economies of scale  * Performed system implementation readiness assessments and develop implementation project plans  ? Administered ORACLE databases and ORACLE-based applications  * Developed interfaces linking ORACLE database applications to mainframe DB2 & VSAM database applications using SQL and PL/SQL  * Developed ORACLE database application screens and reports using SQL*Forms and SQL*Reportwriter  * Provided end-user support of ORACLE database applications  * Created and tuned IT's and business partner's Ad Hoc SQL queries using third-party gateways (ODBC) and front-end applications such as M/S Access, M/S Query, M/S Excel, and Q+E  ? Administered two ORACLE database servers running on SUN Sparc - supporting 20 workstations  * Managed ORACLE instance creation, performance tuning, defragging, backup, recovery, user maintenance and database security  * Performed UNIX system administration including hardware & O/S maintenance and upgrades for IT and business partners; plus, maintenance, and system application/data back-up and recovery  * Administer a Novell LAN - 50+ seats Customer Service Representative EDS - Warren, MI August 1992 to August 1993 Provided technical support for IBM mainframe & SUN Sparc 10 workstation-based CAD/CAM applications Systems Programmer EDS - Warren, MI August 1992 to August 1993 Developed and maintained dBASE III applications  ? Developed and maintained cross-platform system interfaces Education Engineering Systems Engineer in Computer Programming EDS Technical Training Program - Southfield, MI February 1995 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC 1992 Skills Oracle Database Administration (installation, maintenance, backup & recovery, monitoring) (10+ years), Database & Application Troubleshooting (10+ years), Team Manager / Supervisor (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-mumma-nc-it