Oracle Applications Database Administrator Oracle Applications <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Applications Database Administrator Los Angeles, CA Highly motivated, Focused and goal-oriented individual with significant database management experience and knowledge of  computer hardware/software and networking. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Oracle Applications Database Administrator DatAvail Infotech Pvt ltd October 2013 to July 2017 Oracle Applications Database Administrator                                                            October 2013–July 2017  DatAvail Infotech Pvt. Ltd. (Subsidiary of DatAvail Corporation, USA)  ·       Perform on-going database maintenance, patching and upgrading of Oracle 11g / 11gR2 of varied complexity (RAC, ASM and single node Instances) with on call support and creating tickets by using ServiceDesk and ServiceNow Ticketing tool.   ·       Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, partitioning, triggers, stored procedures, functions, packages. Skilled in using tools like Putty, SQL Developer, SQL Loader to access and maintain databases. Well versed in basic Unix /Linux, Solaris commands to understand the impact on memory and CPU processes.    ·       Daily tasks include checking database health and issues related to Blocking session, Concurrency due to multiple transactions affecting scheduled jobs. Troubleshooting issues related to apache, concurrent managers, Monitoring the availability of system, listener, database and periodically check log and trace files.  ·       Plan and implement backup and recovery strategies using RMAN, Cloning Oracle Applications using Rapid Clone, importing (Impdp) and exporting (Expdp) data using Data Pump. Creating Linux shell scripts and cron jobs to automate certain jobs and to monitor alerts.  ·       Expertise in Oracle Golden Gate replication activities, provided maintenance and performance tuning of golden gate processes to achieve zero lag time, 1.5+ years of experience with configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle Golden Gate Replication 11g/12c setup across Bidirectional integrated environment on heterogeneous database platform (Querying data using DB languages Oracle and MYSQL).  ·       Worked on Fusion middleware (11g and 12c) – EAR/WAR migration, Services Start-up/Shutdown, Patching. Monitor critical Jobs using AppWorx- a Job scheduling tool required for updating daily transactions and upgrade codes for user specific interfaces   ·       Extensive expertise in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)- 10g/12C, Grid Infrastructure, configuring metrics and setting up alerts. Utilizing Oracle diagnostic tools like Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace and AWR report to analyze timing and execution plan for tuning.  ·       Experienced in Oracle Support process for troubleshooting, technical requests through Metalink and other support processes. Education M.S in Information Systems California State University - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to Present B.E. in Information Technology University of Mumbai August 2009 to June 2013 Skills DATABASE (3 years), LINUX (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), AIX (Less than 1 year), DBA, Oracle Dba, RAC Additional Information Skills:  • Operating System: Linux, Unix, AIX • Visualization: Tableau 10.3  • Languages: SQL( Oracle & Microsoft), PL/SQL, • Big Data Technologies: Hadoop, Spark  Java, Shell scripting, MYSQL • Tools: OEM GRID, SQL*Plus, TOAD, Putty,  • Database: Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MYSQL VMware, VNC  • Data Analytics: R, Python • Products: Oracle E-Business Suite R12, 11i    Basic: Microsoft Suite ( Word, Power Point, Excel) Windows XP/7/8/10, Mac OS 7.1+, Microsoft Exchange,    Achievements:    • Awarded the best Trainee for Team Oracle Application for year 2014.  • Got accolades for handling different projects like EBS, Golden Gate, APPWORX, WebLogic.