Job Seeker Database Architect / Sr SQL Server DBA New York, NY Possesses 14 years of experience designing and developing and the administration of databases for complex and large financial companies, Brokerage firms, Housing mortgage and pharmaceutical industries. Aligned IT with business requirements by composing applications using enterprise services, orchestrate processes and events. I have experience in setting up and automating IT facilities and organization. I possess more than 9+ years of experience in designing databases, Database architecture, Database storage management, developing transact SQL, as SQL Server DBA and designing and developing applications. Establish best practices and SOPs. Generated clear and concise documentation. Being associated as a project manager, lead, business analyst and managing partner with multiple businesses for past 14 years, I have acquired in-depth knowledge on how to adhere the government regulatory compliances such as SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley Act) set for SEC, HIPPA, 21 CFR Part 11, PII, PCC data management and others of the sort.    Extensive experience in migrating VLD databases (2.5TB to 3.50TB) in the processes of separation / amalgamation / acquisition of companies, performing as Sr. production support database administrator. As a Lead, I have participated in database design review sessions, and business analysis. Specialized in consolidation of servers and databases, disaster recovery planning (DRP) and maintained high availability of server resources across the Globe (GIS). Revolutionized Business Intelligence with new solution that delivers insight at the speed, unveil interactive sustainability report and invite collaboration on sustainability strategies and business continuity plan using SSRS. I acquired knowledge in fine tuning the VMware database servers for optimal performance as a specialized skill. Created backup policy for Net Backup (Symantec) & migrated databases (VMAX & VPLEX) to virtual datacenter.    More recently has extensive experience as an Application DBA supporting Private Equity domain which has given me opportunity to work closely with the Vendor and also application teams to implement more strategic platform called Horizon. In my current role, I have been more closely working on the PE Divestiture to SS&C. During this time, I am taking care of data segregation, physical and logical database separation, implementation of compliance and regulatory requirements with respect to user entitlements as well as data segregation to manage client access and data security. As I understand the business model very well, I was able to provide solutions that meet business and regulatory needs and help execute successfully.    Implementation of Predictive analysis solution most effectively, pervasive throughout the organization and helps to drive day-to-day decisions across the business with its scale and enterprise-level performance. Furthermore, providing a way to implement comprehensive predictive analysis intuitively enables self-service data mining for users, which in turn enables the business to gain actionable insight promptly. The data mining technology in SQL Server 2012 through close integration with the Office system, a comprehensive development environment, enterprise-grade capabilities, and an extensible set of rich and innovative data mining algorithms that are designed to meet common business Visualizations.    Sanofi needed to improve company-wide access to decision-making information in order to streamline processes across its global organizations. I was part of a team that helped solve the problem. As a result, they are now able to respond more quickly to market changes with scripting and use third party tools and applications. They are also communicating effectively with companies globally in countries such as, Australia, Canada, Cairo, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, Mexico and U.K. Work Experience Citi Bank - New York, NY April 2012 to Present Alternate Investments (ICG Operations & Technology)  Collateral Securities, Hedge Funds. New York, USA    Presently involved in creating significant user Interface enhancements, delivering solutions with innovative methods, simplifying management structure and operating with more integrated solutions, covering many areas of the databases to improve environment visibility and overall end user experience. As part of the database automation at Capital Advisory projects the database service is our single pane of glass for the database automation and related services. Knowledge of Capital Markets, Private Equity, Corporate and Investment Banking, Markets, Private Bank, Securities and Fund services and Trade solutions. Gaining Intelligence from Business Data-Information Strategy for Private Equity.    Working as a production support and application consolidation lead database administrator in Global Capital Advisory Group. Focused on migration from SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2 to Virtual SQL Server 2012 SP4 and 2016 as a key consolidation process.    Key activities  • Build infrastructure for Private Equity using the latest technology. Installation of SQL Server, Sybase and Share Point servers, SSIS and SSRS Application servers on windows servers.  • Created SOP's, automation process and maintenance jobs and SSIS packages and also scheduled using Autosys.  • Implementation of HA/DR solution using AlwaysOn availability Group and Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, replication and snapshot in earlier version of SQL servers.  • Build infrastructure on Azure, AWS, on premise and hybrid platform.  • Server build stand alone and cluster and configure for optimal performance. Identify the bottleneck in the current database systems. Trouble shooting Alwayson availability Group.  • Improving Operation efficiency, Managing compliance initiative and integration with data Warehouse.  • Knowledge of In-Memory OLTP, managing master data-reference data (Meta data managing), monitoring, data model accounting and reporting.  • Involved extensively in separation and migration of data from heterogeneous data source using Dts and SSIS (ETL) tools.  • Archiving the data to DW from OLTP systems for reporting purpose using ETL process.  • Created massive amount of reports using reporting tools (SSRS) for complex business needs and auditing reports. Which includes analyze and extract the data using report wizard tools.  • Converted the SQL Scripts in Jobs with Power shell script and automated the Jobs.  • Implemented and controlled security using active directory, database level security and table level security. Dynamic data masking, always encrypted, TDE, Backup encryption.  • Experience in creating the technical documents  • SAP Sybase ASE installation and configuration, migration of databases from Sybase to SQL Server.  • Administration of Sybase system, entitlement, backup policies, restore databases.  • Big Data initiation and integration. Parallel Data Warehouse.  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2016, 2012, 2008 R2 and 2005 in development, QA, UAT and production environment.  • Maintained SQL Server 2016/2012, 2016 Fail-Over Clustering, and also 2008 R2, SQL 2005.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2005 to 2008, 2008R2 to SQL 2012, 2016 in production environment.  • Closely worked with business analyst to collect requirements & make systems available ASAP.  • Imported data from Oracle using Golden gate, export and import of data to excel, flat file, CSV file to SQL Server Database.  • Work experience and strong knowledge in disaster recovery.  • Rebuild Servers (Restore & Recovered from tape/CD and NetBackup backup) from backup.  • Configured Log Shipping from Production to Standby Server (Running as Reporting Server).  • Configured and Maintained Replications (Transactional).  • Performance tuning & index tuning, configured UCP, Query store  • implemented In-Memory OLTP (In-Memory Optimization).  • Experience with NETIQ Monitoring and Symantec NetBackup  • Monitor Servers activity and solving problem using custom scripts, DMV's.  • SQL Server Error Log, space usage.  • Auditing and managing Entitlements server and database level. The audit will include reviewing the risk assessment and controls in place  • Incident Management, Service now, change management, Release management, DB audit log, System change Log, Application controls as well as safe guards which we have in place to monitor the change. critical Production support, lead database administrator Sanofi Aventis January 2008 to March 2012 at Sanofi Aventis. In addition to managing a group of Sr. DBA's involved in planning SOP and Datacenter Consolidation, Virtualization• Life Cycle project implementation like setup, process and procedures and migration of servers for internalization. I have experience in building new generation data centers, OLTP Databases and OLAP databases and extensive knowledge of SSRS and SSIS. Revolutionize Business Intelligence with New Solution that Delivers Insight at the Speed. Unveil Interactive Sustainability Report and Invites Collaboration on Sustainability Strategies and business continuity plan using SSRS. Sanofi needed to improve company-wide access to decision-making information in order to streamline processes across its global organization. As a result, now able to respond more quickly to market changes with scripting and using third party tools and applications - providing the company with a competitive edge and helping it to forecast and sustain profitable growth.  • Software design, development, implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Installation, configuration and set-up of database management systems.  • Migrating database and servers to new environment (ies., SQL Server 2008/2008R2 from legacy systems and SQL server 2000 as well as 2005)  • System management/administration.  • Centralized Performance data capture  • Creating design, and managing Data Transformation service (SSIS/DTS)  • Security issues pertaining to databases, TDE.  • Backup and recovery of databases.  • Log Shipping, database mirroring, Snapshot of database for reporting.  • And Snap shot, transactional and merge replicated across the globe.  • Capacity planning.  • Consolidation of servers.  • Extensive experience of Installation and configuration of NetBackup server and deploying the agent on Windows servers, articulate of SLA and SOP's (V 6.00, 6.50 and 7.00).  • Managing ongoing activities, such as importing and exporting data, bulk copy program, bulk insert and staging tables.  • Experienced with converting Access databases to SQL Server databases.  • I have experience with SAN (EMC). RAID configuration.  • Creating database objects, tables, views and stored procedures.  • Managing multiple Servers, physical as well as virtual.  • Work experience with SQL Server Reporting Services, Authoring and Managing & Deployment.  • Involved extensively in separation and migration of data from heterogeneous data source using Dts and SSIS (ETL) tools.  • Review and testing of all database changes to all environments including Team QA, Model Office and SIT. Production training and monitoring of all SQL error logs, schedule tasks, database activity, eliminating blocking and deadlocks, user counts and connections locks etc. Also responsible for performance tuning, system analysis and design.  • Implementing web sites in SharePoint app based on the number of brand products (64).  SOFTWARE: SKILLS  Environment: Windows server 2008, 2003 (Advance and enterprise), Win 2K, NT (4.0)  Languages: Java Programming, PL/SQL, COBOL, DTS Packages, C, C++. Lead consultant Abbott Vascular August 2006 to January 2008 for Abbott Vascular IS    In-depth experience in database administration, including extensive experience in creating and maintaining, configuring Microsoft SQL clustering environments, database designing, creating databases, backup/recovery and performance monitor/tuning. Back-end programming, debugging, troubleshooting, optimizing Transact-SQL code (stored procedures, triggers, views), DTS, Log shipping and Database Mirroring. Consistently produced reliable and efficient solutions, frequently exceeding client expectations, excellent communication, organizational and interpersonal skills that enable to interface effectively at all levels of staff and management. Provided strong leadership for moderate size of team.    I have conducted assignments requiring application of information systems administration, configuration  implementation, documentation, maintenance, and problem resolution (complex in nature). Leverage  foresight, judgment in evaluation, selection, and modification of applied specialty principles and concepts with minimal supervision.    Analyzed and performed complex technical studies and provided data and makes recommendations on extremely complex and highly specialized technical issues. Work includes capacity planning, upgrade  forecasting, researching and testing new Database technologies, disaster recovery evaluations, etc.    Plans, develops, coordinates, and directs major project assignments and a number of minor project assignments with complex features associated with design, operation, maintenance, security or testing. Ensured necessary documentation is put in place as needed and communicated to essential personnel. Acts as a department professional / liaison with other departments. Plans, coordinates, and monitors jobs. Future Soft Inc September 2002 to July 2006 LBMC, Washington Mutual Bank  California, USA Oracle Developer Front-End 2005 to 2005 2000, Visual Basic.Net consultant for Washington Mutual, (LBMC) Merrill Lynch, NY - New York, NY 2000 to 2005 and Merrill Lynch, NY as a Production support Database Administrator through Future Soft Inc. supported the following projects with Microsoft SQL Server 2000, involved upgrading from 2000 to 2005.    My responsibility includes maintaining the data, regularly plan backups, check the performance of the product and help developers get better performance by analyzing SQL's or creating indexes. Develop and manage processes for production, test and development of VLD Database (250 GB). Analyze and tune application performance by optimizing SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Monitor & recommend changes to the DB environment to increase efficiency & reliability. Develop and implement automated processes for notification of potential storage and performance. Implement real-time monitoring of database instances and recommend ways to better leverage. Report measurements and achieve objectives for service delivery quality & productivity SQL's or creating indexes.  Operational Data storage System (ODS).    As ON CALL Production DBA, 24 hrs. Production Supports on Call Rotation with Primary & Secondary Level Support Personal for any kind of issues SQL Server Issues. Since downtimes are very minimal hence diagnosis all the critical issues very quickly & take action according the pattern of the issues & found the source the problem & correct those issues once for all.    Training: Training new hires. Reviewed and suggested improvements to software components through formal technical review process. Education MBA in Systems Management Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012