Operations Administrator Operations <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Operations Administrator - APUS MEDIA, INC Ashburn, VA Expertise in coordinating and leading administrative and operational functions for senior-level staff and department directors. Work Experience Operations Administrator APUS MEDIA, INC - Ashburn, VA February 2015 to Present • Supervise and evaluate monthly and quarterly organization's financial efficiency to ensure budget, commercial, and operational goals are met within expected projections.  • Process daily accounts receivable (AR) and payable (AP) utilizing QuickBooks software.  • Key Contributions:.  • Produce reports after processing AR and AP accounts and organize company's services and liabilities information in an effective manner.  • Improved financial management, sales processes, and marketing plans with proficient organizational methods.  • Efficiently reconcile monthly activities, generate year-to-year reports, and observe tax requirements.  • Schedule clients for video shoots, act as a liaison between client and DP.  • Successfully engage potential clients, contacts and partners with inbound marketing strategies, establishing strong networking relationships. Executive Assistant BROWN TECHNOLOGY GROUP - Chantilly, VA April 2007 to February 2015 • Served as a liaison between company and customers or associates and as a point of contact concerning programs or activities.  • Held responsibility for Human Resources efforts, including payroll processes, benefits management, federal, state employment regulations, and company policies compliance.  • Managed client's payments and made weekly statements to CEO.  • Key Contributions:.  • Solved issues related to contracts, payments, and other specific concerns.  • Generated an organizational policy handbook for contractors and personnel.  • Anticipated company's long-term outlook to provide satisfactory financial plans.  • Developed professional relationships with several Information Technology staffing companies and maintained an internal database of possible contractors and employees.  • Performed interviews via telephone to evaluate candidates for job openings.  • Assisted in the process of identifying opportunities, establishing plans and implementing strategies for proposals as well as organized proposal review teams and financial and logistical meetings.  • Managed cash flow, annual and program budgets; arranged fiscal documentation. Membership Retention Database Manager NORTHERN VIRGINIA BUILDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION - Chantilly, VA April 2005 to April 2006 • Oversaw organization's database progress, expansion and troubleshooting and executed planned data testing.  • Ensured consistency and safeguarding of all members' records and data analysis.  • Produced input reports for marketing purposes.  • Key Contribution:.  • Capably provided customer service to members and handled membership, dues, and activity records as well as answered membership questions.  • Significantly raised client retention rate 15% with successful communication strategies.  • Increased by double membership committee participation.  • Coordinated membership directory progression.  • Delivered statistical membership month-end summaries to Vice President and Board of Directors.  • Submitted account receivable and account payable monthly reports to National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and Home Builders Association of Virginia (HBAV).  • Monitored members' accesses, permissions, and privileges to ensure database stability. Education Bachelor of Science in Business, Management, Marketing UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Reston, VA January 2008 Skills Operations, Operations management, Quickbooks, Telephone, Quickbooks online Additional Information Skills    Strong communication  Excellent  Interpersonal Skills  Excellent  Operations management  Excellent  Telephone etiquette  Excellent  Deadline-oriented  Excellent  QuickBooks Online  Very Good