IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - 55Technet Tujunga, CA Work Experience IT Consultant 55Technet - Los Angeles, CA 2017 to Present Worked as IT consultant for the buildout and configuration of the Lasik office.  Selected Contributions:  * Successfully installed and configured the IT infrastructure for a 5,000 sq. ft. medical office including cabling, Wi-Fi, hardware, and troubleshooting.  * Coordinated all medical hardware needs including network and voltage requirements from both IT and end-user standpoints.  * Regularly met with vendors to find the right technology fit with the best cost savings of 25%.  * Acquired hands-on experience in administering medical software from both IT and end-user perspectives.  * Worked extensively with MacOSX and OSX server  * Completed Javascript and progressive web apps online courses IT Systems Administrator Promenade Imports - Valencia, CA 2015 to 2017 Managed and maintained IT systems across five separate auto dealerships. Travelled extensively to each location on a weekly basis. Provided remote support to end users when needed.  Selected Contributions:  * Established and fostered great relations with the end users.  * Procured computer equipment from auctions and dissolutions of other dealerships and saved over $9K in costs.  * Successfully managed the handover of the IT infrastructure front and backend after a dealership acquisition.  * Oversaw and managed the IT buildout of a newly constructed 21,000 sq. ft. dealership.  * Saved dealerships between 15%-25% off vendor services and computer equipment through comparative shopping and effective contract negotiations. IT Consultant Ken Goddard IT Consultants - Huntington Beach, CA 2012 to 2015 Managed and maintained IT systems for auto dealerships. Traveled extensively throughout Southern California. Provided remote support to 400+ clients.  Selected Contributions:  * Gained in-depth knowledge of many different IT hardware and software configurations.  * Built positive and interactive relations with all customers and end-users.  * Single-handedly drove up hardware and software sales by 30%. Web Designer | Database Administrator MatrixMusic LLC - Sydney NSW 2005 to 2012 Built and maintained three e-Commerce dynamic data websites.  Selected Contributions:  * Self-learned database administration and programming from no previous experience.    Previous experience as S&P500 Futures Trader • MCM, Inc., Mission Viejo, CA  Helpdesk Coordinator | Manager • James Hardie Industries, Mission Viejo, CA  Computer Support Specialist • Outdoor Research, Seattle, WA    Technical Proficiencies  Networks:  Networking, Cabling, Firewalls, Switches, Local Area Network (LAN), Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), Software, Servers, Network Devices, Administration and Protocols for Wired and Wireless Networking (Cisco and Meraki), IP Address Ranges, Domain Name System (DNS) routing, Power over Ethernet (POE) Switches, Computers, Monitors, Supplies, Printers, Security Cameras    Servers: Windows Server 2003+, Ubuntu, MacOSX, Linux  Systems: Active Directory, Back End Administration  Languages:  Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), PowerShell, Bash, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP), Progressive Web Apps, MySQL, MariaDB, Apache HTTP Server, Docker Containers    Software:  Video Conference Solutions (Zoom, WebEx), Medicine CRM software, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Office (Powerpoint), CDK (formally ADP), Lightspeed, Adobe CS Suites, Kaspersky, Norton Security, Malwarebytes security Education Psychology University of Washington - Seattle, WA business Australian Business Development Centre, Sydney NSW and The Founders Institute - Los Angeles, CA Skills Back end, Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Domain name system, access, HTML, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-mcglothan