Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Mitsubishi Motors North America Seasoned, IBM Certified Database Administrator with more than 13 years of mainframe experience specializing in Db2 on z/OS &  SQL Server Database Administration in a variety of industries. Extensive experience in all aspects of database administration,  including Db2 Data Sharing, SQL Server with AOAG, performance tuning and logical/physical database modeling. Continually  exceeds expectations by building valuable relationships and works well with people at all levels of an organization, including  senior executives, management, technical specialists and engineers. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Mitsubishi Motors North America - Cypress, CA March 2018 to Present Responsible for managing Db2 z/OS, SQL Server, and Oracle on z/Linux, and Windows databases.  ? Creating Db2 environments for new projects. Designing and implementing naming conventions for Db2 collection ID, packages, and plans. Refreshing Db2 and SQL Server databases using production data.  ? Designing and implementing backup & recovery strategy, database health check and alerting.  ? Planning and implementing SQL Server Always On Availability Group (AOAG) for high availability.  ? Analyzing and approving of DB schema changes from development/test, staging to production environments.  ? Automating Database refresh tasks and repeated tasks using REXX.  ? Developing Change Control panels using ISPF/REXX.  ? Participating in future-state infrastructure planning including storage capacity planning.  ? Installing and configuring and patching of SQL Server, Oracle, Db2 connect clients and Db2 connect gateway servers.  ? Encrypting database/tablespace using IBM Guardium data encryption for Db2 z/OS and SQL Server TDE.  ? Collaborating with team to analyze, prioritize, and test upgrades and patches for SQL Server and Oracle databases.  ? Managing Database security using RACF (Db2), Active Directory (SQL Server) and Oracle user accounts.  ? Providing on-demand recovery of SQL Server databases using Tivoli and Db2 databases using RECOVER.  ? Developing procedure to automate DR script and participation in DR for Db2, SQL Server and Oracle databases.  ? Monitoring Oracle databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager and Db2 z/OS databases using CA SYSVIEW.  ? Creating knowledge base articles for alerts and issues for internal project team and affiliated groups to resolve, participating  in on-call rotation.  ? Moving Db2 Express-C data from v9.5 to v11.1 Senior Db2 Database Administrator Nevada Department Of Motor Vehicles - Carson City, NV January 2017 to March 2018 Managed multiple initiatives of significant scope and complexity for the Motor Vehicle Information Technology division, including IT infrastructure, application development, and maintenance of Db2 z/OS databases to maintain availability and  acceptable performance.  ? Applied extensive knowledge and demonstrated proficiency with database tools, utilities, and DBMS platforms, serving as department expert in SQL and database performance tuning skills, developing user access controls using RACF on z/OS,  designing SQL Server Integration Services package to load external application data to Oracle, and scheduling shell scripts to monitor Linux and Oracle space utilization and send alert emails.  ? Developed and implemented PLANMGMT for Db2 z/OS packages as a quick backout solution to performance issues.  ? Provided insight and guidance for management on project-related issues, ensuring business continuity by developing and implementing highly available database systems and database recovery plans and procedures.  ? Liaised with database software vendors and external technical support on issues, driving continuous database improvement  initiatives to increase efficiency, availability, and productivity and monitoring and tuning the system to reduce costs.  ? Acquired and applied advanced knowledge of database design and management including modeling, creation. and maintenance of the most difficult and critical databases and database objects to serve as a resource to team members on  escalated issues of an unusual nature.  ? Reduced 6% of CICS cost by identifying and implementing tuning 50,000 USD per annum, proposed another set of tuning to reduce cost by 6%, and tuned EDM pool of Db2 z/oS to save 3% CICS CPU cost.  ? Configured management of z/OS components using ASG-Life Cycle Manager, implemented UAT releases for database  changes along with promoting programs to UAT using ASG-Life Cycle Manager. Db2 for z/OS Database Administrator AIG Americas - Houston, TX June 2016 to January 2017 Administered and supported Db2 z/OS applications for One Claim, the world-class insurance system.  ? Performed database administration activities including storage management, backup and recovery, and performance  tuning while developed strong working relationships with database, system, and network software and hardware vendors, work groups, and installation teams.  ? Prepared Db2 sub-system for upgrade by reviewing the IBM pre-migration reports and completing actions.  ? Developed and provided controls for overall database management security, monitoring security and enforcing  developed standards as required and troubleshooting mainframe and distributed processing problems in a Db2 Enterprise  Server environment.  ? Managed Db2 database changes from design to production implementation, providing production support for all  DBA-related jobs. releasing implementation support to implement Db2 object changes to production and data changes  requested by application team to production tables.  ? Conducted performance tuning of Top CPU & Getpage SQLs to meet Pega's response expectation, performed conditional  claim refresh from production to non-production systems using UNLOAD and LOAD RESUME YES, and designed process to identify top CPU consuming SQL by exploiting CA Detector data. Lead Database Administrator Telstra Australia - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2012 to May 2016 India  ? Managed storage, security, and audit for enterprise-wide databases, including major applications for fixed billing and mobile billing such as Flexcab and MICA in a rapid-paced environment for one of the largest Australian  telecommunications service providers.  ? Established policies and procedures pertaining to the management, security, maintenance, and use of database  management systems and analyzed key performance metrics, recommending and implementing solutions for SQL  performance monitoring and tuning and coaching other team members in execution.  ? Monitored, and maintained databases in the production, development, and volume test environments, including preparing  the Db2 system for the upcoming upgrade by completing the prerequisites, test the system during upgrade and co-ordinate  currency upgrade-related issues with IBM.  ? Handled COOL;Gen software upgrade on z/OS from version 7 to 8 (CA Gen).  ? Tuned static and dynamic SQL using OPTHINT and statement level optimization hint to reduce CPU and elapsed time.  ? Processed database change requests, including the creation and modification of databases, tables, views, stored  procedures, triggers, and jobs in accordance with change control policies using BMC change manager.  ? Analyzed problems, anticipated future problem areas, and implemented solutions, including assisting the testing team in doing volume testing by backing up and recovering databases between the testing using BMC Recover Plus with BACKOUT  and implementing an improved design for a process called "hold call" to handle 16 different call types and process them in parallel to reduce the overall elapsed time. Database Administrator CITI North America - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2010 to February 2012 Progress Developer & Database Administrator Origin Energy Australia - Brisbane QLD January 2009 to October 2010 Environment Support Engineer & Database Administrator Capital One - Nottingham March 2007 to November 2008 System Analyst Norwich Union General Insurance - Pune, Maharashtra January 2006 to January 2007 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering & Electronics in Electrical Engineering & Electronics Anna University, Noorul Islam College of Engineering 2005 Skills DATABASE MODELING, DATABASE, DB2, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PROGRESS, PROGRESS 4GL, SQL, UDB, ENCRYPTION, TIVOLI, TSM, DISASTER RECOVERY, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, REXX, DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/balarengan