Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Architect Lead Oracle Database Administrator/Architect - Fannie Mae Herndon, VA A highly qualified, goal-oriented information technology professional with 12+ years extensive experience in Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i Database Administration, Database Architect with OLTP and Data Warehouse systems, Application development life cycle methodologies, Database and Application performance tuning, Implementing High Availability options using Data Guard with Zero Data Loss, Oracle 10g RAC and Advanced Replication in OLTP environment. Possesses a proven ability to streamline processes and coordinate efforts between diverse groups. An adaptable leader rapidly learns new technologies and stays abreast of trends in the industry to place the company at the forefront of technology and increase productivity and profitability. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator/Architect Fannie Mae - Reston, VA June 2010 to Present As a Database Administrator the responsibilities includes the following:  • Worked on Installation and applying patch on DEV, TEST, UAT & PROD systems.  • Co-ordinate with Application development and QA teams during production deployments.  • Configured and implemented OIM on Linux servers.  • Worked on RMAN backup and recovery process with Veritas netbackup as the middle layer.  • Worked on database migration from Sun Solaris to Linux servers.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting (Korn shell) with awk & input parameters.  • Worked on Capacity Planning, Space Management, Security Management, Auditing, Shell scripting, Memory and Performance Tuning.  • Worked on IAM Application and backup support from RAM Application.  • Worked on adhoc reports for IAM application.  • Worked on RAC Database for RAM application and standalone/standby database setup for IAM application.  • Worked on OEM Grid and got extensive experience on AWR reports & Performance Tuning.  • Worked on capacity planning and application, database & server migration plan.  • Worked on Sybase database supporting multiple applications.  • Worked on Oracle Workbench to migrate Sybase 12.x databases to Oracle 10g database.    Experience: Lead Oracle Database Admin and Data Architect John Deere & Company & ELM Resources - Moline, IL August 2003 to June 2010 As a Database Administrator the responsibilities includes the following:  • Working on implementation on oracle 10g and its new features.  • Co-ordinate with Application, Development and QA teams during production deployments.  • Working & Co-coordinating with the onsite & offshore teams and segregate the duties to the team members.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting (Korn & C shell) with awk & input parameters  • Configured, implemented 10G RAC with ASM disk on Linux and Windows servers.  • Setup HA Data guard with Zero data loss (Maximum Availability) and standby databases.  • Working on Enterprise data warehouse and data marts.  • Configuring and Setting up disaster recovery site.  • Worked on Oracle Streams data replication including schema and tables replication.  • Worked on setting up and maintaining data warehouse databases including writing ETL scripts to take data from mainframe DB2 warehouse systems to Oracle.  • Performed several RDBMS upgrades from 8i to 9i, 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  • Refreshing development and QA environment with production databases.  • Involved in the installation, maintenance and troubleshoot of databases OEM with grid control.  • Troubleshoot database performance with AWR/ADDM analysis and 24/7 support of databases.  • Worked on AIX 5.2, Solaris 10 (SunOS 5.10), HP UNIX 11, etc.  • Worked on SAP-Oracle databases including taking backups, cloning and monitoring, worked on SAP OSS notes for issues and bugs related information, worked on SAP change transport, worked on SAPDBA utility, BR Tools, etc.  • Worked on RMAN backup and recovery process with Veritas netbackup as the middle layer.  • Database and necessary os monitoring by using BMC and OEM packages.  • Worked on power designer 10 & 11 for data modeling and reverse engineering.  • Worked on Capacity Planning, Space Management, Security Management, Auditing, Shell scripting, Memory and Performance Tuning.  • Worked on Oracle Workbench to migrate databases from different platform to Oracle. Oracle Applications DBA / System Administrator Agilent Technologies - San Jose, CA June 2002 to July 2003 As an Oracle Applications DBA the responsibilities includes the following:  • Refreshing/Cloning Instances  • Patch Application.  • Working on third party tools such as Veritas Cluster Manager, Kintana, etc.  • Responsible for Analyzing the need for applying the patches to the Applications database  • Applying the patch to test instances and performs Rigorous Testing and subsequently applying to the Production Instance.  • Maintaining TARs using the Oracle Metalink for key Issues related to Applications.  • Performance tuning.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting (Korn shell) with awk & input parameters  • Cloning of the instances (Test/Development/QA/Staging).  • Creating application users and assigning responsibilities based on functionality.  • Monitoring the users, concurrent managers, setting profile options, identifying and resolving user issues.  • Responsible for documenting the process for reference.  • Daily Activities (Monitoring OS File system usage, Concurrent Managers, alert logs, Concurrent Managers logs, Tablespace usage, tns, Web, Forms and Reports Services.).  • Interaction with Oracle Developers to assist them in troubleshooting their problems related to Oracle Applications and Oracle Databases.  • Worked on Traditional and RMAN backup & recovery procedures and worked on setting up standby databases.  • Space management.  • RMAN backups.  • Pager support.  • Working on problem tickets including Shell scripting.  • Using AD utilities extensively like ADPATCH, ADADMIN, ADMERGE, and ADCTRL etc.  • Coordinating with the offshore to get the work done. Oracle and Sybase Development & Production DBA Lead JPMorgan Chase Group - San Francisco, CA March 2001 to May 2002 As a Lead Project Architect and Database Administrator responsibilities included the following:  • Installation and Upgrades on Sybase 11.x & 12.x and Oracle 8.x and 9.x Databases.  • Designing and executing the Event Center project which helps to have one-on-one meeting and group conference through the web.  • Working on Backup and Recovery Solution and Tuning Issues on Oracle and Sybase Databases, also configuration of Veritas Netbackup.  • Capacity Planning and Space Management, Security Management, Auditing, Memory and Performance Tuning.  • Supported 24X7 availability of DBA support Oracle-Siebel (CRM) and e-commerce databases on Oracle & Sybase Databases in various units of JPMorgan Chase DataCenters and effectively handled the disaster Recovery using BMC sql backtrack.  • Major designing of Online Investment Banking projects on Sybase which is also scalable on Oracle Database.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting (Korn shell) with awk & input parameters including Perl Scripting.  • Proactive Planning for Database Maintenance Activities.  • Delivering Application Group's expectations within deadlines.  • Proactive Database Support throughout Application Development Life Cycles.  • Database upgrade and Migration, Conversion from File Maker Pro to Sybase and Sybase server to Oracle.  • Worked on 2 eCommerce project Migration from Sybase 11.9.2 & 12.0.0.3 to Oracle 8.1.7.2.1  • Worked on Oracle Migration Workbench 2.0.2.0.0 and CAST third party tool for checking errors and functionality in the front end code which uses Sybase & Oracle Databases.  • Worked extensively on Database and Application / Procedure Migration from Sybase to Oracle databases and merged multiple Sybase databases to one oracle database while migration including Shell scripting.  • Worked extensively on Sybase EAServer, BEA Weblogic 5.x, Securant servers, etc. Oracle Production DBA Lead Nortel Networks & CSC - Santa Clara, CA October 1999 to March 2001 with Clustering & Application DBA Lead    As a Database Administrator the responsibilities included the following:  • Installation and configuration of Oracle version 8i on Solaris 2.6.  • Configuring and Setting up Replication and Standby Databases to guard against failure.  • Supporting and Troubleshooting ODBC, JDBC, SQL*Net and Network related stuff.  • Creation of databases and support for critical Database systems.  • Extensively worked on Database Migration from Oracle 7.x to 8.x.  • Creating Logical Volumes and managing raw volumes across the EMC disk.  • Maintained 5 Sybase Databases with size of 20GB.  • Extensively worked on architecting the system and laying out the file systems according to the hot spots and extensively worked on EMC BCV backups.  • Extensively worked on RMAN for Backup and Recovery scenarios.  • Administration of Oracle names Server and was involved in maintenance of sql*net and client configuration.  • Worked extensively on Shell scripting (korn shell) with awk & input parameters including Perl.  • Worked on Oracle Workbench to migrate databases from different platform (MS Access, Sybase) to Oracle.  • Application Migration from Open VMS to Sun Solaris on E10K with EMC Disk Arrays.  • Database Monitoring: - Expert with HP OpenView, Oracle Enterprise Manager and SQL Navigator. Implemented failure detection and automatic troubleshooting using OEM and HP OpenView for Production databases.  • Extensive Knowledge of setting up Webservers, BroadVision and Weblogic apps. Servers.  • Designing the database, Sizing tables and indexes for proper storage mgmt for e-commerce application using Designer 2000.  • Extensively worked on GDIW (Global Data Information Warehouse) systems which are a global data warehouse database, which gets data from 50 system houses.  • Supports 24X7 availability of DBA support and size of the database is 650GB plus on 9 SAP servers and 40+ Non-SAP Oracle databases of varying size from 50GB to 250GB, in various units of Nortel DataCenters and effectively handled the disaster Recovery.  • Coordinating and scheduling changes to database based on requirements.  • Extensive experience on Veritas Netbackup Administration including Shell scripting. PeopleSoft - Oracle DBA KPMG PeatMarwick - Montvale, NJ April 1999 to September 1999 As a Database Administrator the responsibilities included the following:  • Installation and configuration of Oracle ver. 7.x/8.x/8i on Solaris 2.5/2.6.  • Configuring and Setting up Replication and Standby Databases to guard against failure.  • Worked on Oracle Workbench to migrate databases from different platform (MS Access) to Oracle.  • Supporting and Troubleshooting ODBC, JDBC, SQL*Net and Network related stuff.  • Creation of databases and support for critical Database systems.  • Installation and configuration of OEM 2.0.4, SQL Navigator and RMAN. Planning database backup and disaster recovery strategy. Responsible for Backup & Recovery using OEBU 2.2 for Oracle 7 Database and RMAN for Oracle 8 Databases with Veritas Netbackup 3.1.1.  • Administration of Oracle names Server and was involved in maintenance of sql*net and client configuration.  • Supported 24X7 availability of DBA support and size of the database is 150GB on 3 PeopleSoft servers and 40+ Non-PeopleSoft Oracle databases of varying size from 2GB to 10GB, and effectively handled the disaster Recovery.  • Database Monitoring: - Familiar with BMC Patrol, Oracle Enterprise Manager and SQL Navigator. Implemented failure detection and automatic troubleshooting using BMC Patrol for Production databases including Shell/AWK scripting.  • Designing the database, Sizing tables and indexes for proper storage mgmt. Using Designer 2000 and ERWIN Tools.  • Coordinating and scheduling changes to database based on requirements.  • Worked on Custom and Packaged Application and followed all the standards of the proprietary s/w and duties include Package system work plan development, Package implementation staffing requirements, Capacity planning, Design for performance, scalability and reliability, Business process knowledge, Product specific knowledge (product specific knowledge is expected to be temporal).  • Worked on Remedy Package and Team Track Package and leveraged the package according to the Customer needs. SAP-Oracle DBA & Non-SAP Oracle DBA John Deere & Co - Moline, IL December 1997 to April 1999 Senior Database Administrator Hewlett Packard - Cupertino, CA June 1997 to December 1997 Oracle Database Administrator National Bank of Dubai - Dubai February 1996 to May 1997 Junior Oracle Database Administrator Terrazzo LLC May 1995 to January 1996 Senior Analyst Programmer Bokaro Thermal Plant September 1993 to April 1995 Analyst Programmer AICAM Engineering Ltd June 1992 to August 1993 Education Bachelor of Computer Science Bharathiyar University MBA in Project Management ASPEN University Additional Information Technical Skills:  Hardware: HP 9000 K260 and K460, HP 9000 G-series; SUN E4500, E6000, E10K, SUN4M-10, IBM 7025-F50, IBM 7042/7043; ED ICL DRS 6000, BULL'S MAINFRAME DPS 7500, and EMC DiskArray  Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.10, 10.20, 11, Linux (Redhat 6.0 - 8.1), SUN SOLARIS 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, IBM AIX 4.1, 4.2, 5.2, Open VMS / VAX, DEC ALPHA, Windows-NT/2000  Ancillary Skills: ORACLE RDBMS 11g, 10g, 9i, 8.i, 8.x, 7.x, Sybase 4.2, 10.x, 11.x, 12.x, APT Workbench Oracle Transparent Gateway 4.11, Veritas Netbackup 3.x, Oracle Enterprise Backup Utility (EBU) and RMAN, PowerBuilder 4.x/5.x,Visual Basic, Oracle Forms, C, S-Designer, OEM 2.2, Developer 2000, Designer 2000, Oracle web server and OAS 4.x; Oracle Applications 11.5.7/9/10 (11i); Kintana Software, BMC Patrol, BMC sql backtrack, HP OpenView, BigBrother, Oracle Enterprise Manager (2.2), OEM Grid Control 10g, Oracle Workbench, SQL Nav, DB Artisan, Toad, etc