Technical Systems Architect Technical Systems Architect Technical Systems Architect - CONNECTICUT WATER COMPANY Guilford, CT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Systems Architect CONNECTICUT WATER COMPANY - Clinton, CT 2008 to Present Perform Enterprise Application and Database Management Administration, ERP Administration (JDE), Middleware  Support and Configuration and Disaster Recovery.    Environment: SQL Server 2008 / Clustered  JDE Edwards EnterpriseOne Oracle 11G Enterprise Database    • Responsible for administering the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system using JD Edwards (JDE) EnterpriseOne and SQL Server infrastructure. Duties include ensuring systems uptime based on defined service level agreements (SLAs); supporting day-to-day operations of JD Edwards Financial, Customer Service, Human Resources and Purchasing systems; working closely with internal teams to help provide both stability and improvements to current systems and help design future enhancements.    • Serve as the primary business relationship lead between IT and internal groups. This also includes being the technical liaison within the Information Technology Department for requirements related all database and software systems.    • Lead in the analysis, planning, design, creation, and maintenance of simple to complex projects across all levels of the business.    • Collaborate with other departments to identify new business initiatives or provide enhancement suggestions to improve upon existing processes.    • Identify, develop, maintain and document all internal and external interfaces necessary for system operations.    • Maintain all JDE EnterpriseOne and related SQL Server instances with regard to:  o Setup, performance management and maintenance  o Application security  o Change Management and Package build/deployments o Object Management Workbench  o Upgrade planning and application of ESUs, ASUs and Updates  o Refreshing and optimization of Test, Development and Training environments.    • Involvement in Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity planning.    • Basic system auditing and performance tuning tasks    • Performs other duties or special projects as required or as assigned.    • Active member on Change Management Review and Techical Architecture Review Committees SR. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MOHEGAN SUN RESORT AND CASINO - Uncasville, CT 2006 to 2008 Performed Application and Database Administration for "Front of House: and "Back of House" systems, in addition to disaster recovery.    Environment: SQL Server 2005 / Clustered MySQL 5.1 (LAMP) / Clustered Oracle 10G RAC / RHEL  DB2 v9 / RHEL Cluster  Progress 10.1C / AIX 5.x    • Responsible for the architecture, specification, installation and analysis of Mohegan Sun's Database infrastructure.  • Author high quality technical and functional specification documentation for several projects and application rollouts.  • Work closely with vendors, Information Systems personnel, and peers to design and maintain relational database platforms.  • Monitor and perform preventive maintenance delivery mechanisms to ensure the stability of the overall business.  • Work closely with Production Control group in order to comply with Change Management requirements.  • Participate in multidisciplinary project teams using PMO methodology to identify and create new solutions and resolve complex systems problems.  • Monitor the availability, performance and capacity of all Database platforms, to ensure continuous availability.  • Assist in the development and compilation of management and executive reports on a periodic basis.  • Responsible for enforcing the privacy rules pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability  Act of 1996 (HIPAA) as applicable to Mohegan Sun. SR. ORACLE DBA / SAP BASIS ADMINISTRATOR PEPPERIDE FARM - Norwalk, CT 2000 to 2006 Environment: SAP R/3 4.6C SR1, Oracle 9.2, AIX 5.2  • Senior Oracle DBA for Pepperidge's "Order-to-Cash" SAP implementation. Participated in the architecture design phase including hardware decisions and disk layout, physical database design, disaster recovery, networking, output management, change control, security and backup/recovery strategies. SR. ORACLE DBA / SAP BASIS ADMINISTRATOR DATAHORSE INTERNATIONAL - Philadelphia, PA 1998 to 2000 An International ERP consulting firm providing SAP Basis and ABAP outsourcing for current and prospective clients within the continental U.S. and Canada. SAP SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR GTECH Corporation - West Greenwich, RI 1997 to 1998 Valuable member of GTECH's SAP Service Operations Center and the global support team, providing Basis  expertise in supporting various versions of R/3 - 4.0B, 3.0F, and 3.0C. Education BA in Computer Science & Microcomputer Technology Conestoga College of Applied Arts and Technology September 1994 to June 1997 Skills Clipper, Database administration, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Data management, Abap, Abap/4, Sap, R/3, Application server, Html, Middleware, Solarwinds, Tivoli, Workload scheduler, Aix, Linux, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/paul-jameson-6563702/ Additional Information Operating Systems:  • Windows 2012/2008/2003/2000 Server  • Windows 10/7/XP  • AIX 5.x/4.x  • VmWare - (3.x, 4.x, 5.x)  • RHEL 5.x  • OS/400 - v5r3    Systems, Monitoring, Network and Middleware:  • Solarwinds Network & System Monitoring  • Nimsoft Nimbus - (Enterprise Monitoring)  • Websphere Application Server  • Symantec Backup Exec 2010/2012 - (Backup Software)  • Tivoli Workload Scheduler - (Job Scheduling)  • Quest LiveReorg ( Database Administration)    Programming Languages:  • SSIS & DTS (SQL Server)  • PL/SQL (Oracle)  • Powershell (Windows)  • Kornshell (AIX/Linux)  • ABAP/4 (SAP)  • Clipper 5.2 (4GL)  • HTML    Backup and Recovery Software:  • Rubrik Data Management  • Commvault Simpana  • Tivoli Storage Manager & TDP for SAP R/3