LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR LINUX SYSTEM <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR - B & C Tech Consult Incorporated Hanover, MD A talented and resourceful Information Technology Professional with experience in RedHat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat Identity Management, RedHat Satellite and Subscription Management. Experience with RedHat Virtualization, CentOS, Operating Systems, and Disaster Recovery. Experience with OpenLDAP, SELinux, Access Control List, Kickstart, NIS, DNS, NFS, SFTP, DHCP, FTP, Ping, Traceroute, RedHat OpenStack Platform and Netstat. VMWare ESX, ESXi, Real Application Cluster, Apache Servers, Tomcat, BMC Remedy Ticketing System. Team player with good management, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR B & C Tech Consult Incorporated - Hanover, MD January 2016 to Present 24x7 On-call Support)    Responsibilities:  ? Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux 6.5, 7.4. and CentOS.  ? Experience using Kickstart Servers and Interactive Installation process.  ? Installation and configuration of Apache Web Server/Virtual Host Container.  ? Installs, upgrades and manage packages via RPM and YUM package management.  ? Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Linux systems.  ? Experience administering core network services (DHCP), creating and administering VMware Infrastructure Client 3.5 and vSphere 5.5.  ? Development and maintenance of data ingestion/transfer scripts in Perl and Shell (bash) scripting.  ? Experience with the installation, configuration, management, and performance tuning of us application servers, including JBoss (Wildfly).  ? Creating logical volumes and increasing the file system for Linux servers.  ? Experience troubleshooting Linux systems, security related issues with basic performance tuning tools (vmstat, iostat, ps, top).  ? Experience troubleshooting Linux systems with intermediate tools (tcpdump, netstat, nicstat, pidstat, sar, strace, swapon).  ? Experience troubleshooting Linux systems, security related issues with advanced performance tuning tools (ss, slaptop, iotop, iptraf, pcstat).  ? Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring.  ? Implementing security policies for hardening servers based on the company policies.  ? Managing daily activities to include user support and system administration tasks, formatting policies, procedures and standards.  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). SECURITY ANALYST/ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Elets International Incorporated - Alexandria, VA December 2010 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Experienced working with Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA)  requirements and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines.  ? Have knowledge in FICAM, HSPD-12/PIV, NSTIC and federal ICAM-related directive, standards and mandates.  ? Ensure security assessment report (SAR) and authority to operate (ATO) are within their 3-year  life span, and information systems' POA&Ms have been closed or updated in CSAM and provide weekly status report.  ? Experienced reviewing C&A packages that have expired on my systems to ensure they are  compliant with NIST SP 800-53 standards and enterprise policies and conducting interviews with system owners.  ? Experienced analyzing and advising on the risk and remediation of security issues based on  reports from vulnerability assessment scanners, patch management tools, and emerging threat  information.  ? Experienced in Performance Monitoring tools like OEM, AWR report, DBMS_PROFILER to troubleshoot some PL/SQL codes.  ? Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine-tuning for better performance.  ? Experience in applying patches/patch sets to the databases.  ? Have worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  ? Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management).  ? Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and Real time replication using Golden gate.  ? Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers.  ? Configured and Managed Golden gate for Unidirectional and Bidirectional Replication.  ? Performed database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  ? Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). PROGRAM ANALYST /APPLICATION SUPPORT Family Health International - Alexandria, VA December 2008 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Provided database management of 1500 proposals for over 70 countries including Asia, Africa, Europe, United States and Latin America.  ? Responsible for monitoring the performance of the Oracle database system and implemented changes to increase performance.  ? Responsible adding new employees into the system, activate and deactivate employee accounts and reset passwords.  ? Prepared reports as needed by Management for current expenditures by conducting program analyses to determine activity trends and compliance with program requirements.  ? Conducted program analyses to determine activity trends and compliance with program requirements.  ? Created and prepared a variety of quantitative or qualitative reports for management.  ? Performed research of current or new management practices for application programs or operations.  ? Provided first-line troubleshooting for corporate end users, including answering how-to-questions and supporting a wide variety of proprietary and of-the-shelf applications and computing platforms. APPLICATION SUPPORT ASSISTANT US Navy Foreign Language Office - Arlington, VA October 2005 to February 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Application Support Team interfacing with IT Service Center to receive and close Remedy tickets.  ? Utilized BMC Remedy to track support requests and share support efforts.  ? Analyzed and troubleshoot supported applications and their systems and environment.  ? Responded to emails from customers regarding support requests and provided detailed responses of technical nature.  ? Escalated support requests to the appropriate Tier III support and other teams.  ? Maintained and contributed to the team's knowledge base library.  ? Provided desktop operating system and application installation, configuration and connectivity testing for branch and head office units.  ? Provided router, IP phone and blackberry configuration and connectivity testing for branch and head office units.  ? Maintained image deployment system for workstations and central repository of device drivers for computers and peripherals. Education MS Health Care Administration in Health Care Administration University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD BS in Organizational Management Washington Adventist University - Takoma Park, MD BS in Health Care Administration Columbia Union College - Takoma Park, MD