Event Planning Manager Event Planning Manager Event Planning Manager - Hyatt Regency Buffalo Cheektowaga, NY Hospitality Professional with six sigma experience and expertise in customer service, event planning, human resources and member relations.    Hospitality Experience:  Guest Services, Conference Sales & Planning, Event Management    Database Expertise:  • Analytical Skills • Data integrity • Process Improvement  • Project Management • Staff Training • Compliance Work Experience Event Planning Manager Hyatt Regency Buffalo 2015 to Present 2015-present  Full service hotel with over 21,000 square feet of flexible meeting space and 396 guest rooms, located in the heart of downtown Buffalo connected to the Buffalo Niagara Convention Center. Event Planning Manager Acts as the liaison between the Meeting Planners and the hotel staff, detailing all Food & Beverage and A/V, manage room blocks and pick up, billing instructions and final review. On site contact facilitating communication with pertinent hotel staff to ensure a high level of service and a successful event.  • Received Manager of the Quarter for 2015 & 2016 for outstanding service to clients  • Created a Meeting Planner Kit containing office supplies for meeting planners to use while on site  • Updated Post Con Report to obtain accurate information from all departments for returning groups  • Achieved corporate incentive plan goal for 2015, 2016, 2017 Grants & Events Manager 2013 to 2015 Designed, implemented and monitored the grants and consultant process including application, payments and reports. Directed all program events. Interacted with Foundation staff and consultants, Board Members, grant-making colleagues, current and potential grantees and community leaders. Managed outside vendors and speakers related to events ensuring all needs are met for a successful event.    • Created grant & consultant templates which are used as best practice for the Foundation.    • Received positive feedback from event participants to drive continuous improvements to the event, speakers and venue.    • Created internal Meeting Room checklist to ensure details for successful events.    • Developed process improvement regarding tracking all contracts resulting in proactive monitoring of all payments and reports. Avoided missed payments, improving reputation & tracking.    • Successfully conducted grant management software (GrantEdge) training for management and staff on overview of the software to include grant reports and payments.    Professional Experience (continued) Health Foundation for Western & Central NY 2011 to 2015 Independent private foundation dedicated to improving the health and healthcare of people and communities. Program Assistant 2011 to 2013 Assisted program team & VP of Program by providing administrative support (filing, word processing, travel arrangements, contact & calendar management). Supported the program team with event coordination. Served as liaison between 165 grantee organizations and program staff supporting the entire grant process. Maintained the VP of Program's schedule by planning & scheduling meetings, teleconferences, conferences and travel.    • Provided program team with preparation and distribution of materials as they relate to general correspondence, program documents, mailing and presentations.    • Effectively administered grantee database with over 1,000 records developing policies & procedures to improve accuracy in data entry and reporting.    • Successfully learned initial grants software and systems relatively independently and successfully selected and implemented new refined grants software. Database Administrator Foundation for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Buffalo 2009 to 2011 2009 - 2011  Non-profit entity that acquires and distributes funds to benefit the educational, religious, and charitable needs.  Database Administrator  Provided advice, guidance and training to members of the Advancement Office and its partners (Catholic Charities, Christ the King Seminary, Catholic School Advancement Program) concerning the capabilities and functions of the constituent database. Ensured compliance with institutional policies, goals and procedures to ensure data integrity to support a comprehensive advancement program.    • Kept records of 92,000 Catholic Charities gifts per year; no exceptions found by external auditors.    • Trained and managed temporary employees to accurately complete the tasks assigned during annual parish synchronization project.    • Increased donation responses by 10% annually by effectively managing coordination of annual data updating process for 150 diocesan parishes.    • Member of Six Sigma team for Catholic Charities to update process to support cash management, data entry and bank reconciliation of the Appeal Drive which averages $9.8 million in deposits annually. Development Services Manager Buffalo Museum of Science 2008 to 2009 Established and managed development systems and services for the museum. Managed database and supported the administrative needs of the External Relations team.    • Updating records reducing production time for all mailings.    • Implemented procedures to ensure accurate and timely processing of membership payments resulting in 20% increase in museum members.    • Provided database training to museum staff to ensure consistency in all data processes.    • Developed a new membership marketing plan to re-engage dropped members introducing them to the new program and reinvigorate the museum staff. Membership Manager Hilton Head Island-Bluffton Chamber of Commerce 1999 to 2007 1999 - 2007  Non-profit organization that advances the common interest of its membership and expands the regional economy.  Membership Manager  Managed data and processes related to membership recruitment and retention. Oversaw operations and logistics of all member engagement events. Maintained membership database of 1,800 constituents.    • Chaired Junior Leadership Program with 20 high school students from public and private schools.    • Designed new member luncheons and small business seminars that increased membership by 3% and maintained retention rate of 93%.    • Developed outreach events for schools and businesses to gain awareness of chamber programs. Education University of Houston - Houston, TX Associates in Food Service Administration Hilton College of Hotel & Restaurant Management Skills Outlook Links http://linkedin.com/in/lmalexander82