Supply Technician Supply Technician Supply Technician - ASI-IT Services Virginia Beach, VA Highly dedicated supply Navy veteran served over 13 years of successful management and leadership experience with a reputation for meeting the most challenging organizational goals and objectives. A pragmatic and focused individual recognized for making seemingly impossible situations work. Work Experience Supply Technician ASI-IT Services - Virginia Beach, VA August 2017 to Present As a supply technician I assist the Project Manager and Supply Analyst with mission essential assignments while housing scheduled Navy aircraft carriers at RCOH. Detail oriented, self-motivated individual with ability to handle multiple tasks, prioritize work and work effectively in any environment    • Assist the supply analyst during the process of reviewing the scheduled monthly inventories including location audit process (LAP). Ensuring inventory results are updated in R-Supply.  • Persistent in meeting the goals and standards of the company referencing the timeline and guidance of the monthly POA&M.  • Verified incoming shipping and supply issue documents for validity and accuracy and proceeded to issue gear or to stock property.  • Compiled monthly reports and records for reporting activities and/or supervisors as requested. (Monthly Change Notice, DMS, QDMS)  • Pulled and staged materials for shipment, packaged equipment and prepared the necessary shipping document DD-form 1149.  • Assist in coordinating the receipt of all gear received. Issue of Extreme Cold Weather Gear ensuring documentation of personnel receiving the clothing as well as a thorough inventory.  • Input transactions into appropriate systems used for carcass tracking ERMS (eRetrograde Management System).  • Assist with ensuring all requisitions on the Outstanding Requisitions List have current incoming/outgoing status reviewed in One Touch, then updating the Navy supply system R-Supply.  • Responsible for document control of scheduled COSAL/QCOSAL shelf-life. Ensuring all expired material is off-loaded via (DD-form 1348) and updated in R-Supply. Logistics Database Administrator Leidos - Virginia Beach, VA December 2016 to August 2017 As a materials personnel I help assist in logistical overhaul, issuing from and returning of the TOA (Table of Allowance) gear after use back to their warehouse locations. Responsible for all activities associated with the mobility of platoon sets and equipment. Assist with coordination of project training and to optimize the best practices of inventory, warehousing and distribution systems. Material flow includes the movement of goods from source of supply to customer, as well as the transmission of orders and estimated time of delivery.    • Maintain inventory databases including, but not limited to Microsoft Office and WASP, a stand-alone commercial off-the-shelf inventory management software that is used as the primary inventory management system.    • Promptly assisting platoons on detachments, deployments, or overseas by shipping needed materials to ensure the efficiency of the mission is met.    • Provide support services for inventory management of Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) material.    • Verify material identification information such as national stock number, condition code, quantity, location and perform stow notification within supply system utilizing the cloud-based asset tracking system.    • Assist in the coordination of a scheduled Expeditionary Logistics Overhaul (ELO) process, identifying gear in need of repairs, reconditioning, missing, or replacement to deploying platoons. Warehouse Specialist Symtech - Norfolk, VA May 2016 to November 2016 Ensured that the daily functions and procedures of warehouses, such as distribution centers for manufacturers and retailers, run smoothly and efficiently. From shipping and receiving to maintaining inventory.    • Supervised the offload of approximately 32,000 line items (decommissioned aircraft carrier, USS Enterprise). Interaction and coordination with management and supervisors ensured specifications met the needs of the customer. Initiation, execution, controls and closure was essential to the success of project to be ahead of schedule and on budget.    • Provided logistical support to USS Abraham Lincoln while in Refueling Complex Overhaul. The support included inventory, receipt and stowage of material. Processed an average of 150 receipts per week utilizing IBS (barcode system for receipt processing).    • Selected as Employee of the quarter.    • Utilized Relational Supply program(RSUPPLY) to verify data such as validating material locations and quantities for various inventories and records for USS HARRY S. TRUMAN (CVN 75) on load. Data Entry Clerk Northrop Grumman - Virginia Beach, VA May 2015 to April 2016 Provided customer service and maintained database by entering new and updated customer information.    • Screened warehouse location for material availability. Verified company supply automated systems for receipts in process for possible issues.    • Provided support and communicated (feedback) with internal and external customers to ensure customer satisfaction.    • Monitored and assisted in providing effective techniques when receiving, stowing, and issuing all material and equipment, ensuring that all documentation and files where properly placed in the relational supply system to prevent low or declining audit inspections.  • Restructured warehouse storage procedures within the operations, Organized and implemented new inbound and outbound procedures in preparation for company's Integrated Barcoding Scanning System. Supply Technician Mancon - Virginia Beach, VA August 2014 to March 2015 As Inventory Control Specialist, instituted an inventory schedule to count a percentage of commodities per month. Procedure ensured that issues could be made without shutting down the warehouse for inventory.    • Served as supply tech, and inventory control manager maintaining over 5,000 line items stored at the Norfolk ISSOT warehouse.    • Performed flawlessly providing accurate transfer shipping documents (DD-form 1348) for the offloading of government owned material for direct turnover to DLA (Defense Logistics agency).    • Maintained an inventory validity of 99% when inventory schedule was instituted.    • I have knowledge, training and practical experience with computerized data bases  such as R-Supply (Relational Supply) for tracking, ordering, receiving, and reporting of materials, supplies and shipments. UNITED STATES NAVY, Aviation Supply Division July 2007 to December 2012 Logistics Specialists    • Verified material against receiving documents, and reported discrepancies such as (damaged, partial receipt, and incorrect material received). Verification of stock number, condition code quantity, location and performed stow notifications within supply systems.    • Expedited and tracked priority material for Aviation Support Division (ASD) from Boeing to NAS Oceana for support of various aircraft via Relational Supply (R-Supply) and Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System (NALCOMIS) systems. Material condition is determined RFI (Ready for Issue) or Non- RFI (Not Ready for Issue)    • Ensured that repairable parts were accounted for in the repair cycle, ready for issue in storeroom location or returned to Navy supply system as retrograde. Depending on the condition of Non RFI (Not Ready for Issue) material it is given a Beyond Capability of Maintenance (BCM) code ranging from 1-9. Once retrograde has been serviced it is returned verified part number, national stock number, serial number and nomenclature it is placed back on the shelf as Ready for Issue (RFI) with correct documentation tag.    • Maintained accurate inventory records manually and automated to include R-Supply and local databases and applications.    • Improved Supply procurement and material readiness with continuous input about already in use material to ensure a stable resource of available parts. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Phoenix - Virginia Beach, VA Skills Logistics, Logistics Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses Secret Security Clearance March 2023