Development Manager, Development Associate, Executive Assistant Development Manager, Development Associate, Executive Assistant Poised, Reliable, Energetic Executive Assistant and Project Management Specialist Littleton, CO PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  Efficient, energetic and poised professional with over 10 years of executive assistant and project management experience seeking full-time position. Saved business over $500K by taking responsibility for IT and telecommunications systems. Saved $40K by eliminating local email client and securing grant to move email to the cloud. A highly organized, detailed thinker and self-starter with a positive demeanor that works well independently or within a team.    Core Skills:  Calendar/Meeting Scheduling and Management   Document Creation and Preparation  Excellent Customer Service  Proofreading and Editing  Project Management  Analytical Thinker and Detail Oriented  Proficient Written and Verbal Communication  High-level Administrative Support  Time Management and Project Prioritization    Additional Skills:  Skilled in MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint  Business Operations, Equipment and Systems  Direct Client Engagement  Contract Negotiation and Management  State and Federal Regulation and Compliance  Travel Arrangements  Data Management and Analysis  Strict Budget Compliance and Bookkeeping  Budgeting and Expense Reports Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Development Manager, Development Associate, Executive Assistant Sewall Child Development Center - Denver, CO July 2005 to Present ? Collaborate on team of two responsible for generating $1M in revenue while meeting operational fiscal requirements.  ? Create, plan, manage, organize, implement and deliver up to four successful events each year generating up to $285,000. Manage volunteer team with up to 20 individuals.  ? Serve as liaison and secretary to the Board of Directors. Schedule and attend board meetings, prepare   board packets, take and transcribe minutes. Interact with Board and key stakeholders on governance,   bylaws and special projects.  ? Research, analyze and select new constituent resource management (CRM) database to measure   metrics, maintain data, track interactions and relationships with major stakeholders, clients and   constituents. Organize and test data mapping for quality control.  ? Manage and maintain IT infrastructure and telecommunications system for 80 staff members and 30 computers. Setup new computers, install software, manage antivirus application, add new users and manage email system.  ? Perform a variety of accounting activities, such as preparing budgets, check requests, expense reports, purchase orders and invoices.  ? Manage business negotiations with vendors on operating and systems contracts. Senior Fiscal Development Manager Children's Museum of Denver - Denver, CO August 2003 to July 2005 ? Exceeded fiscal operating goal of three-year fundraising plan.  ? Established client database procedure and compliance policies.  ? Developed support to fund individual and corporate fiscal participation.  ? Worked closely with Executive Director and Board of Directors on fundraising and special projects.  ? Supervised membership coordinator.   Development Manager, Database Administrator National Stroke Association - Englewood, CO July 1995 to August 2003 ? Coordinated and administered business membership program.  ? Supervised membership assistant.  ? Seamlessly absorbed human resources, payroll and IT management responsibilities during company downsizing enabling business to scale back and run smoothly with limited staff resources.  ? Managed employee payroll and benefits.   ? Worked closely with the Executive Director and Board of Directors on calendar scheduling,   correspondence and expense reports. Education IT and Contract Management Arapahoe Community College Barnes Business College Skills Budget, IT Infrastructure (10+ years), Contracts Liaison (10+ years), MS Excel (10+ years), MS Outlook (10+ years), MS Powerpoint (5 years), Ms Word (10+ years), Detail oriented, Excellent written and verbal communication (10+ years), Quality control, Project Management (10+ years), Special Projects Coordinator (10+ years), Organizational Skills, Marketing, problem solving, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Office, problem solving, Microsoft Excel Additional Information Highly self-motivated and disciplined, health and body conscience  Volunteer, Warren Village and Denver Rescue Mission  Avid reader and cyclist  Clean background