Oracle DBA Specialist Oracle DBA Specialist Oracle DBA Specialist Columbus, GA Started in IT as COBOL Developer in 1980(39+ years in IT)  Started with Oracle in 1988(Oracle 4) 30+ years  Application Developer, DB Admin and Team Technical Lead with  experience in a wide variety of business applications. Particularly  interested in leading a team of database developers in the client/  server and relational database arena Work Experience Oracle DBA Specialist TSYS - Columbus, GA September 2013 to February 2019 Area  Software: Oracle Database, Sql*plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Oem, Toad, Hardware: IBM Linux  Project Description: Surround  Lead for a team of 1 Application Database Admins.  Role: Support Pega Application  Maintain several development, QA, Staging and Production databases,plus  reporting Databases for each environments  .Writing PL/SQL scripts for database access from Java Application  Writing triggers, procedures, packages  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle) Lead Database Developer Financial Systems - Credit Card processing May 2007 to September 2013 6 years 5 months)  Software: Solaris, Oracle 11G,10g, Sql*plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Grid ,Erwin, Serena Business Mashups, Toad, Visual SourceSafe  Hardware: Sun  Project Description: Financial Systems - Credit Card processing  Technical Lead for a team of 6 Database Developers/Admins.  Writing PL/SQL scripts for database access from Java Application  Writing triggers, procedures, packages  Maintain several development, QA, Staging and Production databases.  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle) Senior Database Administrator Idaho State Insurance Fund October 2006 to April 2007 7 months)  Software: HP-UX 10.20, Oracle 9i, Oracle Enterprise Manager, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SQL*Net, Glansplus  Hardware: HP; Project Description: Maintain Production/Development/Testing  databases  Upgrade Databases from previous unsupported versions  Moved all databases to new upgraded hardware from obsolete hardware  This involves all aspects of a Project DBA daily routine (monitoring, tuning) as well as the backup, space configuration (with a little Unix Administration thrown  in).  Support the development team in advising and tuning of programs, stored  procedures, views etc.  New tools were evaluated before being made available for Oracle instances.  TSYS Lead Database Administrator/Developer Financial Systems - Credit Card processing May 2004 to October 2006 2 years 6 months)  Software: Solaris, Oracle 10g, 9i, 8i (8.1.7), Sql*plus, PL/SQL, Oracle  Enterprise Manager 2.2, SQL*Net, NET8, Erwin, TeamTrack, Toad, SourceSafe, Vss  Hardware: Sun  Project Description: Financial Systems - Credit Card processing  Technical Lead for a team of 6 Database Developers/Admins  Writing PL/SQL scripts for database access from Java Application  Writing triggers, procedures, packages  Maintain several development, QA, Staging and Production databases.  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle) Database Administrator/Developer SBC Systems Inc May 2002 to April 2004 2 years)  Software: NT, Oracle 9i, 8i (8.1.7), Sql*plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Enterprise  Manager 2.2, SQL*Net, NET8, Erwin, SQLServer 2000, T-SQL  Hardware: Win2000; Project Description: Health & Welfare Software System  Writing PL/SQL/T-SQL scripts for the conversion of data for the client  Writing triggers, procedures, packages  Maintain several (20+) instances for updating/staging and deployment to clients, once data has been converted.  Responsibility of the production database, including backup and recovery, monitor and maintenance.  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle/SQLServer Database Administrator/Senior Consultant Computer Consulting Services Corp July 1995 to October 2002 7 years 4 months)  General Database Admin for all the clients, ranging from Database  development to maintaining of several Oracle databases(upgrades, migrations  etc)  The next Nine positions are positions I held while consulting to this company. I  was contracted out to the companies below StarData Technologies Database Administrator/ Database Developer October 2001 to November 2001 2 months)  Software: AIX, Oracle 8i(8.1.6), Sql*plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Oracle Enterprise  Manager 2.2, SQL*Net, NET8, Erwin  Hardware: IBM RS6000; Project Description: Student Management Information  System  Extract data sent by the client in a word document and load into the Oracle  8.1.6 database.  Develop scripts for the extractions of the loaded data into flat files for returning to the client.  Responsibility of the production database, including backup and recovery,  monitor and maintenance.  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle Database Administrator/ Database Developer Accenture February 2000 to May 2001 1 year 4 months)  While Contracted to this company I was working at the Bellsouth Data Center in Birmingham, AL.  Software: SUN Solaris 2.7, Oracle 8i(8.1.6) with spatial option, Sql*plus,  PL/SQL, Oracle Oracle Enterprise Manager 2.2, SQL*Net, NET8, FME, MAPINFO, Erwin  Hardware: SUN Spark 64Bit , HP  Design an Oracle 8i (8.1.6) database to house the wireless, paging, cellular and landbase geographic data for all the customers in the USA. This involves  the creation of four databases on four Sun servers with Netra application  servers as the middle tier with a JAVA application running through a Web  browser. This involves the use of the newest feature of Oracle 8i called  "Spatial" where we are able to save geometry points (latitude / longitude) to the database and draw maps accordingly.  Design a database, which would house the contribution and cost data for telephone lines. This data consisted of +- 300 million rows and using +- 40GB  of disk space. PL/Sql programs were developed to extract and manipulate the data into MAPINFO tables for use by the client.  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, install/upgrades of Oracle)  Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) done to extents never  experienced before Installed new software in-house as well as at failover sites.  Installed Oracle and Third Party tools to enhance support.  Spatial feature installed and implemented.  ETL experience.  Database designed to take full use of the Spatial features including spatial  btree indexing.  Full documentation for refreshing data completed. Systems Integrator PricewaterhouseCoopers - Bethesda, MD May 1999 to October 1999 Software: SUN Solaris 2.6, Oracle 7.3.4, 8.0.5 and 8.1.5, Oracle Enterprise  Manager, EBU, RMAN, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Net, NET8  Hardware: SUN, NT, HP; Project Description: We were a team of 10 in a support role to the other Data centers of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. Supported  the other DBA's at the other PWC data centers by doing the following:  Normal DBA work (Tuning, Space configuration, installations/upgrades of Oracle).  Installed new software in-house as well as at client sites.  Supported; Installed Oracle and Third Party tools to enhance the support  offered to clients by the PWC Data centers.  Enterprise Backup Utility and Recovery Manager installed, implemented using  Legato Networker 5.5 as Media manager  Backup and Recovery Documents prepared for use by other data centers.  Web site created on Sun server for all backup and recovery documentation to made available to all PWC staff.  NSI Senior Oracle DBA Kenan Arbor/BP - Herndon, VA January 1999 to May 1999 VA  Software: SUN Solaris 2.6, Oracle 8.0.5 and 7.3.4, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Kenan Arbor/BP, Siebel, Stronghold, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Net, NET8  Hardware: SUN, NT  Project; installing several (20+) Oracle instances as well as the successful  implementation of software packages (Kenan Arbor, Seibel, Storefront as well as a Customer package of unknown name as yet).  Personal Accomplishments:  All aspects of a project DBA's daily routine (monitoring, tuning) as well as the backup, space configuration.  Responsible for all the technical aspects of running all the instances (finally  20+) with the normal Unix Administration duties involved.  Support the development team in advising and tuning of programs, stored  procedures, views etc.  New tools were evaluated before being made available for Oracle instances.  The packages mentioned above have certain Web interfaces, which are  installed and maintained by the team.  The team was utilized as the technical coordinators for the whole project.  Prepared project documentation, namely the Kenan Installation and Configuration Guide for client Education Witbank High School 1976 to 1977 Belfast High School - Belfast 1975 to 1976 Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Database development, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Scripting Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/les-corbett-330b7614?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BrItsX085ThiyD9slHrRZ9w%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Specialties: Oracle Database Development and administration    Top Skills  PL/SQL  Oracle SQL  Unix Shell Scripting