Data Analyst and Consultant, Founder Data Analyst and Consultant, Founder Data Analyst and Consultant, Founder - Precision Information Consulting Jamaica Plain, MA Work Experience Data Analyst and Consultant, Founder Precision Information Consulting - Boston, MA October 2013 to Present ? David Barboza, DMB Data  ? Data analysis and transformation of Neo4j databases, general advisement  ? University of California at Berkeley, Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society  ? Responsible for data collection, management, and analysis for the Global Food System, a component of the Global Justice project (currently under development)  ? The New York Times  ? Cultivated and managed data, and provided consulting for the 2014 article Foreign Powers Buy Influence at Think Tanks and accompanying online data visualization. The front-page article was part of a series for which Eric Lipton won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting Junior Full Stack Developer Launch Academy - Boston, MA March 2017 to May 2017 ? Conceptualized, planned, designed, coded and styled full scale web apps  ? Worked in a collaborative team environment using version control, TDD, and pair programming  ? Excelled in an intensive learning environment Database Administrator Office of Institutional Advancement - Washington, DC February 2011 to September 2013 Maintained database with over a million records for our constituents and donations  ? Worked closely on direct mail campaigns and optimized related systems and workflows  ? Identified problems, implemented solutions, and improved workflows:  ? Detected and resolved a glitch in pledge processing system leading to the recovery of $140,100 in revenue  ? Developed new model for data entry which enhanced efficiency and administrative oversight  ? Directed and oversaw projects among various contractors and staff Assistant Supervisor The Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law - Washington, DC October 2005 to February 2011 ? Cleaned documents and prepared layout for production and distribution  ? Operated and maintained print and reproduction equipment  ? Trained and supervised a rotation of up to 5 student workers at a time Skills Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Git, Javascript, Reactjs, Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Html5, Bash, Linux, Frameworks, Css, HTML, Excel Links http://linkedin.com/in/jmalochee