Software Developer Software Developer Software Developer - Faces2Hire Clearwater, FL Work Experience Software Developer Faces2Hire - Safety Harbor, FL March 2015 to Present ? Worked on an ASP.Net MVC application for online resumes.  ? Wrote front-end code using Knockout.js and jQuery.js.  ? Styled pages using Bootstrap CSS.  ? Wrote code to interface with SendinBlue and SendGrid mail api.  ? Wrote code to allow for web video recording using CameraTag.  ? Wrote code to store images, pdfs and videos in Azure Storage.  ? Wrote backend code in C# for parts of the MVC application.  ? Started converting some web api code to Azure functions. Odd Contract Jobs Tampabay, FL April 2013 to Present Software Developer /DBA, Drone Pilot, PLC Programmer, Control Panel Designer and Builder, and Drone mechanic    ? Wrote a SSIS project to import Medicare pricing information into SQL Server.  ? Wrote sophisticated reports using SSRS to give executives information on drug pricing changes.  ? Converted local SQL Server database to Azure SQL Server.  ? Rewrote stored procedures using MS best practices.  ? Created and deleted indexes to speed up query times.  ? Converted DTS packages to SSIS projects.  ? Built a site in Angular with PHP backend and MySQL as the database to serve court papers.  ? Working on Android based drone automation application.  ? Built timesheet application using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, React and Node).  ? Drone missions for roofing inspections.  ? Drone missions for site planning.  ? Converting 4k h265 videos to 1080p for independent film crew.  ? Designing and building simple to very sophisticated PLC control panels. Senior Developer Web Development Group Pharmerica - Tampa, FL October 2012 to April 2013 Work as team lead on a .NET system that takes fixed length text files and updates the AS400 through Web Service calls.  ? Used the repository pattern to maximize code testability and because there were several different data sources.  ? Used NUnit for all unit testing. All code was unit tested.  ? Used Moq to mock data sources.  ? Used Resharper to enforce coding standards.  ? Used Unity for dependency injection.  ? Used Entity Framework as the ORM solution. Senior Developer BI Group GFI Software - Clearwater, FL February 2012 to October 2012 Transform shopping cart XML invoice documents to a standard form that our EDI application recognizes.  ? Created Restful Web Services for sku pricing information.  ? Created Restful Web Service for getting real-time currency exchange rates.  ? Created a generic system to process many of our diverse acquired companies' invoices into a central Great Plains accounting system. Database Administrator Vitera Health Care was Sage Software - Tampa, FL October 2007 to February 2012 SQL Server database design and administration.  ? Upgraded SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 and converted DTS packages to SSIS.  ? Upgraded SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2 to get some of the benefits of the 2008 SSRS.  ? Developed SQL Server stored procedures for application developers.  ? Moved database changes from dev to qa and from qa to production.  ? Recovered several damaged database after a SAN crash.  ? Wrote SSIS packages to batch copy Oracle data to SQL Server.  ? Wrote SSIS package to load xml files sent to use nightly.  ? Tuned poor performing stored procedures and queries on production servers for a 90 percent increase in performance.  ? Optimized SQL Server memory and disk usage.  ? Wrote several SSRS reports.  ? Maintain 20 SQL Servers.  ? Wrote SQL CLR procedures.  ? Used .NET 3.5 to write Windows services that used ftp to upload and download files between Sage and a business partners.  ? Used .NET 3.5 to write a WCF POX service that allowed a Clarion application to automatically download updates.  ? Used .NET 4.0 MVC to rewrite an internal ASP website. JQuery, AJAX and JSON were also used with the new site.  ? Wrote several .NET Windows services to monitor a variety of things. Examples include MSMQ, certain entries into a log table and database queue tables.  ? Setup SCOM to monitor production BizTalk servers.  ? Wrote .NET 4.0 Windows application that would generate a SQL Server script to terminate BizTalk messages. The application unpacked BizTalk messages and searched the unpack messages for a string typed into a text box.  ? Setup a TFS build server. Senior Software Engineer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL January 2007 to October 2007 Wrote C# libraries to interact with VT100 terminals.  ? Designed SQL Server database that integrated with existing HP-UX servers.  ? Transformed DTS packages to SSIS packages.  ? Wrote stored procedures for .NET developers.  ? Designed database to monitor user activity.  ? Managed user access to 11 different database servers.  ? Tuned existing tables, indexes and stored procedures for an overall 75 percent increase in query times.  ? Mentored junior .NET programmers. SQL Server and C# Programmer ChoicePoint - Tampa, FL July 2004 to September 2006 Created a web service to interact with Oracle xml service.  ? Provided support for time clock software.  ? Created custom SSRS reports.  ? Migrated SQL server from version 4.12a to 7.0.  ? Did data modeling of new databases.  ? Created DTS packages to automate data loads.  ? Tuned stored procedures and indexes.  ? Migrated ASP site to ASP.Net and automated back ground checks. SQL Server and C# Programmer VisualGov - Clearwater, FL July 2002 to 2004 Worked on winform application that let St Petersburg/ Clearwater Convention and Visitors Bureau employees to update web site information.  ? Created databases and stored procedures for SQL Server 2000.  ? Created several DTS packages to automate data loads from the Florida state driver license registration text files.  ? Tuned databases. Independent Contractor Crowe Manufacturing - Tampa, FL May 2001 to August 2002 Supported users with computer problems.  ? Upgraded existing computers; both hardware and software.  ? Installed new personal computers.  ? Designed electrical control panels to monitor soil for contamination.  ? Wrote logging application that logged relative humidity and temperature of paint spray booths for Lufthansa airlines.  ? Designed a clip to hold in filter media. Independent Contractor Adrem Profiles - Tampa, FL May 2001 to June 2001 Converted Novell 4.01 network to Windows 2000 Advanced Server and updated 140 Windows 98.  ? Wrote SQL Server triggers for referential integrity.  ? Wrote a custom login script with KixStart.  ? Administered SQL Server 7.0 database and tuned queries and stored procedures. Database Administrator Best Software - Saint Petersburg, FL September 1999 to February 2001 Created all the HR benefit stored procedures in Microsoft SQL Server 7.  ? Wrote triggers for referential integrity.  ? Did general database administrator duties such as backups and restores.  ? Converted FoxPro data to SQL server. Database Administrator Smith and Nephew - Largo, FL 1997 to 1999 Implemented a data warehouse using SQL Server.  ? Implemented a complaint system on Microsoft SQL Server.  ? Designed and maintain databases in Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 and 7.0, Access and Oracle.  ? Was responsible for creating and deleting indexes for the data warehouse.  ? Imported data into Microsoft SQL Server from AS/400, Access, DBF, and ASCII formats.  ? Did Access programming.  ? Wrote a macro application in Visual Basic.  ? Was backup and sometimes primary network administrator on NT Server and Novell networks. Director of IS ZD Integrated - Largo, FL 1995 to 1997 Designed and maintain business systems.  ? Developed applications in Delphi, Visual Basic, Quick Basic, Fox Pro.  ? Designed and maintain databases using Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 and Fox Pro.  ? Imported data into Fox Pro application from ASCII, Excel, and DBF formats. Network / Database Administrator Health Expert Systems - Tampa, FL 1994 to 1995 Maintained a 3.5 NT network.  ? Maintained 4.21 Microsoft SQL Servers.  ? Converted a 4.21 SQL Server to 6.0.  ? Programmed in Visual Basic and Advance Revelations. Network Engineer American Microsystems - Clearwater, FL 1993 to 1995 Designed and implemented Novell, Lantastic and NT networks.  ? Built and serviced new Server computers. Education AA and a Certificate of proficiency in computer programming in General business and programming Hillsborough Community College 1991 Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, POSTGRESQL, SQL, AJAX Additional Information Skills:  ? 107 Certified drone pilot  ? React.js  ? Node.js  ? Elixir  ? Golang  ? Webpack  ? Redis  ? MongoDB  ? NGINX  ? Postgresql  ? Control Panel designer and builder  ? Angular.js  ? Microsoft SQL Server versions 4.21a to 2017 DBA/Programmer  ? C#  ? WebApi  ? MVC  ? Web Services/Soap  ? WCF  ? Knockout.js  ? TDD  ? SSRS  ? SSIS  ? ASP.NET  ? REST  ? JQurey  ? Java Script  ? Winform  ? Linq  ? PowerShell  ? Visual Studio  ? XML  ? XSLT  ? Cobol  ? TFS  ? Ajax  ? Agile project management with scrum