IT Assistant IT Assistant IT Support and System Administration Fullerton, CA IT support specialist with over 5 years of experience. Seeking a position where my technical skills, strong academic background, and passion for new trends in technology can further enhance the company’s productivity and reputation. Bilingual: English and Spanish. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Assistant Everware International - Chino, CA May 2019 to Present • Installation, operation, maintenance of computer systems and other technologies.  • Design basic reports, tracking inventory, and documentation.  • Upgrade and maintain main server room.  • Web design and application development using .NET Framework. IT Support and System Administrator Hope & Wellness Clinical Trials - Corona, CA February 2015 to Present • Install, configure, and troubleshoot software, hardware, and network infrastructure.  • Provide technical oversight and consultation of maintenance activities.  • Repair, upgrade, and install new computer components.  • On Call emergency support and remote access when needed.  • Website and database system maintenance. Accounts Payable and IT Support R.E.A. ADVISORS, INC - Burbank, CA March 2015 to April 2019 • Input and process all weekly transactions.  • Monitor accounts payable transactions, ensuring proper coding and approvals.  • Technical support when needed. IT Support & Database Administrator & Inventory Control Manager Solomon's Warehouse - Linden, NJ August 2005 to June 2011 • Clerical and organizational tasks.  • Recording transactions, inventory reconciliation, and End of the Month procedures.  • Design, implement, and upgrade our database system.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and solve issues with the company’s peripheral devices.  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of computers and networks.  • Installation and configuration of software and drivers.  • Setup and manage e-mail accounts and main server. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems California State Polytechnic University-Pomona - Pomona, CA August 2015 to May 2019 Minor in Computer Science California State Polytechnic University-Pomona - Pomona, CA August 2015 to May 2019 Associate in AA Riverside City College - Riverside, CA July 2012 to June 2015 Skills Desktop Support (6 years), Web Development (2 years), Programming (2 years), Web Design (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (1 year), Asp.Net (1 year), Databases (3 years), Scrum (2 years), Troubleshooting (6 years), SQL (3 years), Hardware (6 years), Software Development (2 years), Jsp (1 year), PHP (1 year), Windows (6 years), Comptia, Tech Support, Help Desk, Pc Support, Comptia, Help Desk Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/fernando-berrios