Manager/Senior Data Architect Manager/Senior Data Architect Manager/Senior Data Architect - HEALTH TEXAS MEDICAL GROUP San Antonio, TX Data Management Professional seeks strategic leadership position in which to facilitate the growth and profitability of an organization by introducing or improving Business Intelligence, Data Science and Machine Learning. Work Experience Manager/Senior Data Architect HEALTH TEXAS MEDICAL GROUP - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to Present Developed a Medical Data Warehouse, a Patient Master Data Reference, and a Provider Dashboard with Quality Measure Scorecards in first 6 months on the job. Used Power BI, Tableau, SQL Server, Python, R. Received the Support Services Voice Award in 2018 and , THEx Service award Q3 2018.  Currently working on developing a Risk Adjustment Processing System (RAPS) and Measures compliance system for HEDIS, CMS Part D, CAHPS and HOS.  Manager of the Business Intelligence/Data and Reporting team, (2 FTEs and a contractor)- I delegate work assignments, deliver performance evaluations, determine merit increases, set goals/objectives, as well as coach and mentor developers. Director of Enterprise Data Management THE MINER CORPORATION - San Antonio, TX January 2016 to November 2017 Led the technology teams responsible for data management, system integration and analytics across the enterprise. Under my leadership my data and .NET and integration professionals have delivered solutions and services to Migrate of data from legacy ERP systems into Salesforce and Dynamics SL, Master Data Management of Customer, Product and Vendor data with applied Machine Learning , Financial and Accounting Analytics and executive dashboards. My other duties include strategic roadmaps, contract negotiations, and resource management including finding and managing IT talent. Enterprise Data Architect/Manager TRIBUNE - San Antonio, TX January 2012 to January 2016 I managed the Data Architecture team and oversee the Enterprise Data Architecture function. My team and I implemented many high value solutions including a Cloud Based real-time Breaking News application, a Master Data Management initiative, an Executive Dashboard and an Enterprise Data Warehouse. I also drove the creation of a Data Governance practice which work led to the improvement of the management of data projects and cost sharing across business units. Enterprise Data Architect CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS - San Antonio, TX June 2010 to January 2012 I managed and mentored a team of 14 database professionals, working collaboratively to establish development standards and institute industry best practices. I have contributed to the Enterprise direction and strategy for Corporate Performance Management and Master Data Management. In addition to Enterprise duties, I acted as the solution architect for a number of major initiatives, including a BI solution that generated Sales Commission and Bonus projections for the employees of over 800 radio stations, the first in the industry; and an ETL solution to improve the daily processing of 7000 files, reducing the operational processing window by 8 hours using parallelization techniques. Data Architect PROGRESSIVE INSURANCE - Mayfield Village, OH 2003 to May 2010 I designed and implemented the company's first real-time operational data store on a high availability SQL server cluster. I led the development effort for data warehouse consolidations, offline archiving, automated data error detection and alerting, star schema designs, dashboards, score cards and migration projects. As a member of the architectural team I worked on capacity management, standardization and best practices, reviews and presentations to business sponsors. Data Manager/Contract Consultant MERRILL CORPORATION - Mayfield Hts, OH 2002 to 2003 I improved the efficiency and productivity of an information CD production system by creating a library of reusable stored procedures that encapsulated the underlying business logic. The library enabled the company to automate many formally manual production tasks and facilitate future expansion. I also created a decision support system which automated the transformation of flat file reports into a database. Database Administrator/Designer/Consultant BRITISH PETROLEUM - Cleveland, OH 1997 to 2002 I created an operational data store to support credit card and prepaid card management for BP America's national credit card processing center. The system was data driven, utilizing dynamic SQL to provide flexibility to the application. Other features were audit logging and error handling which enabled automatic error detection and data cleansing. The application was a key component supporting the BP-Amoco data system merger. Database Developer/Consultant SHERWIN WILLIAMS - Cleveland, OH 1996 to 1997 I re-engineered a major database underlying a critical business application enhancing the speed, functionality and accessibility of the application. Database Administrator WORLD ALMANAC EDUCATION - Garfield Hts, OH 1995 to 1996 I redesigned and managed a direct mail marketing database, developing applications to perform ETL, complex sorts and reference data extraction. Systems Manager CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY - Cleveland, OH 1991 to 1995 I led a team of 5 developers and data professionals responsible for developing and managing medical research databases. I contributed to published research describing the generation of complex data models using machine learning techniques. Education BS in Electrical Engineering and Applied Physics Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH 1990 Skills Big data analytics, Data analytics, Data governance, Data management, Data visualization Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/philip-dorsey/2/54a/892 Additional Information 25 plus years of experience in data management including data architecture, analytics, business intelligence, data warehousing and data science. Also experienced in virtual team management, requirements elicitation, design, data and process modeling. Well versed in relational database, multidimensional database, and nosql technology. Demonstrated strengths:    Business Skills  ? Enterprise Data Management  ? Process Improvement  ? Data Governance  ? Enterprise Analysis  ? Strategic Alignment  ? Mentoring  ? Team building  ? Technical Leadership    Information System Design    ? Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence  ? Data Visualization  ? Machine Learning  ? Big Data  ? Data Mining & Analytics  ? Master Data Mgt  ? Integration and ETL    Technologies & Techniques  ? Apache Spark  ? Microsoft Azure  ? Hadoop  ? SQL  ? Python  ? R  ? Node.JS  ? Bash  ? Git & GitHub    ? I-Skills  ? Process Mapping  ? Failure Mode Analysis  ? DMBOK  ? HADOOP  ? Big Data Analytics with Apache Spark  ? Python    ENDORSEMENTS  2010 - Exceeds Expectations  " Thank you for stepping up and taking charge .. You are exhibiting the kind of commitment and leadership the we need in order to change this organization ".    2009 - High Quality  "This was a complex project with multiple business lines and application teams. Phil performed well in this environment through effective verbal and written communication practices, active meeting participation, follow-up and drive for results."    2008 - Exceeds Expectations  "You have demonstrated solid leadership skills over the course of the year. You continued deliver leadership in resolving some of our most complex technical problems and production issues. Mentoring and coaching others has been a consistent area of strength for you as you took the lead in continued development of our most recent new hires, and provide input into discussions about staffing needs and hiring decisions. Your continued focus on mentoring our remote staff ( who happen to be the newest team members) has significantly contributed to their development into fully productive members of the team. Thank you for your continued efforts in this area. Technical expertise is an area of strength for you. You continue to demonstrate technical leadership across our team and in working with other teams. Going forward our team will depend on your technical leadership as the Converged IP program begins, which will significantly impact the Telecom data that we manage for the enterprise."    2005 - Exceeded Expectations    "Phil, you did a great job in providing technical leadership to the team during a difficult and challenging period of resource constraints, project demand, and application support issues. You were able to achieve targeted deliverables on several key Telecom projects This included mitigation of a significant risk to reporting resulting from concerns over processing capacity of our data environment. We made very good progress in improving our capacity management and planning processes, which should position us well for future budgeting exercises. You accepted my challenge to demonstrate increased technical leadership on the team, and continued to be well regarded among peers and customers. Your contributions over the past year have clearly demonstrated that we can build the team around your technical leadership."