Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Self Employed - Self Employed Ironwood, MI ? More than 20 years of experience in computer operations and information technology. Experienced in training personnel, installation and configuration of hardware and software, and individual consultation.  ? Demonstrated ability to excel in a fast-paced work environment with fluctuating priorities and workloads.  ? Skilled communicator accustomed to cross-functional coordination and procedural documentation.  ? Proven ability to work successfully with diverse individuals to achieve goals on time with increased efficiency.  ? Manage personnel effectively concentrating on high quality standards, timeliness and safety.  ? Provide inspirational team leadership and counseling to subordinates that increases morale and raises performance and productivity levels. Strong decision-making skills, judgment, and outstanding initiative. Exceptional skill demonstrated when working under high pressure.  ? Extremely focused and motivated to achieve in a fast-paced, demanding environment that promotes teamwork but can identify and resolve issues independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Keweenaw Land Association, Ltd - Ironwood, MI March 1993 to January 2018 • Scanned historical documents, maps and deeds creating pdf files. Installed and maintained computers with Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows Server 2008.  • Created an invoice, statement, dividend, forest and land information database using Visual Foxpro 6.0.  • Intergraded Hand Helds to databases and databases to accounting system.  • Instructed employees on use of Word, Excel and Windows.  • Planned Cat-5 cabling, phone, electrical wiring and network outlets for office.  • Accountable for budgeted and printing dividend checks for shareholders.  • Designed web pages using Adobe Dreamweaver and Fireworks.  • Supervise network operations, assign passwords, develop file systems for users, create and implement backup procedures.  • Ensure that software is updated and maintenance is performed. Ensure network is available 24 hours per day and that company operating principles are observed including safety, and compliance with government regulations.  • Installed and developed Geographic Information System. Consultant Database Programmer Action Floor Systems, Inc - Mercer, WI 1995 to 1997 • Constructed a human resource, inventory, customer and sales databases using Visual Foxpro 3.0.  • Advised on computer hardware, software and remote computer usage.  • Planned network expansion and cabling  • Installed remote printer and expanded network including installing a larger hard drive and tape backup. Programmer Northern Michigan University - Marquette, MI 1991 to 1993 Programmer Northern Michigan University 1991 to 1993 Tutor Marketing & Computer Information Systems Department 1990 to 1991 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems in Electronics Technology and Computer Graphics Northern Michigan University - Marquette, MI Skills Collection (Less than 1 year), Dataease (Less than 1 year), Firewall. (Less than 1 year), Foxpro (10+ years), Visual Foxpro (10+ years), Technical Support, Windows, Networking Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: e4 June 1980 to June 1984 Electronics Technician, Repaired and maintained computer, radar, and radar scope systems for the IHAWK Air Defense System Commendations: Honorable Discharge, Army Achievement Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Army Service Ribbon, and Overseas Service Ribbon Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft Office Suite, Visual Foxpro 7.0, Adobe Master Collection CS6, Dataease, SQL, computer repair and WatchGaurd Firewall. All Windows based servers and operating systems