Senior Full Stack Software Developer Senior Full Stack Software Developer Work Experience Senior Full Stack Software Developer Sandler O'Neill & Partners - New York, NY May 2015 to Present ·        Served as the lead software developer and project managed multiple initiatives for the various business units in the firm.  ·        Lead the development of Revenue Tracking software for Back Office Accounting team.  o   Managed a junior developer during the project and provided suitable tasks to leverage their skillset.   o   Application integrated Microsoft Dynamics and Xtiva Commission Manager data.  o   Application built using Vue, Kendo UI Controls, .Net Core and SQL Server.  ·        Supported newly created advisory business entity.  o   Participated in onboarding of 3rd party TPG software bond accounting software for business unit.  o   Developed integration software between existing systems and bond accounting software to streamline end users workflow.  ·        Project managed development of new hire-onboarding platform for Human Resource department.  o   Automated the form generation process and provided UI to capture new hire information.  o   Created schedule and cost estimations for project for internal HR department client.  o   Team consisted of developer (myself), designer and quality assurance analyst.  ·        Project managed development of portfolio analytic report generation platform.  o   Developed using ASP. NET Core, Web API and Telerik Reporting Library.  o   Generates bond portfolio marketing/analytics report deck for any client on demand.  o   Team consisted of business analyst and developer (myself).  ·        Project managed the development of a market data plugin for the fixed income trading business unit.  o   Team consisted of two software developers.  ·        Developed trade idea generation application to drive new business for firm.  o   Developed configuration dashboard using ASP .NET MVC, Web API and Angular JS.  o   Built application service with Restful interface using Web API and C# and along with Entity Framework to SQL Server for data store.  ·        Developed centralized market data web service to be consumed by other applications to streamline software development.  o   Developed as an abstraction wrapper around the Bloomberg Data Server API.  o   Streamlines development with on the fly market data to custom type instantiation using reflection.  ·        Maintained and extended business critical bond portfolio analysis code base.  o   Implemented various features utilizing C#, WCF, SQL, Web Forms and Silverlight.  o   Provided software upgrades to maintain compatibility with interfacing 3rd party applications.  ·        Maintained business critical bond offering aggregation platform.  o   Added features to support additional fixed income product types and additional data formats.  o   Stabilized application with rework of code base along with adding features for application monitoring.  ·        Deployed ASP.NET MVC based Questionnaire application to AWS as POC.  o   Self-taught how to generate servers, manage servers, manage permissions on AWS platform.  o   Simple 2 server configuration (server 1 web app and server 2 hosting SQL server database) via the EC2 services.  o   Leveraged Visual Studio AWS toolkit for deployment.  ·        Other various responsibilities, tools, improvements and analysis.  o   Generated firms Software Policy documents for compliance and audit requirements.  o   Created environments for user acceptance testing of new features and applications.  o   Performed analysis against trading’s clearing house unstructured data to support retrieval of $162k incorrect fees.    Financial Software Developer Annaly Capital Management - New York, NY September 2011 to April 2015 Annaly Capital Management, New York, NY 9/11 - 4/15  Financial Software Developer  • Worked directly with all core business units (accountants, traders, portfolio managers, risk analysts) to determine software requirements.  • Worked with development team implementing CAMRA sub-ledger accounting system.  ? Focused on translating current portfolio management system data into CAMRA uploads.  ? Developed SQL database to warehouse custodian activity for the firm.  ? Developed a set of SQL reports to display firm's cash, settlements, principal and interest income activity.  ? Developed powershell scripts to automate posting custodian cash related activity to CAMRA accounting system.  • Supported Annaly's in-house developed .Net client-server system used to manage a ~85B MBS portfolio along with ~70B in ongoing repo financing.  ? Implemented features such as user defined custom columns on UI data grids and bulking printing capability on user selected grids.  ? Implemented automated security master download when trades flow in from Bloomberg AIM.  ? Debug, tested and supported UI, server and database components of application.  • Developed a dashboard for management to support business decisions.  ? Designed and developed a warehousing and reporting database using SQL.  ? Using dynamic T-SQL and powershell, extracted data from various in house systems to warehouse time series data.  ? Report data presented to user through extensive use of stored procedures, views and table valued functions.  ? Implemented UI drilldown capability for various reports using SSRS.  • Developed accounting reconciliation and automation tools.  ? Developed C# utility to extract, parse and warehouse SunGard's Phase3 accounting files in SQL Server database.  ? Developed VBA driven excel sheets to automate daily reconciliation across multiple excel files.  ? Developed javascript tools for web automation to streamline accounting data entry into Sun Guard's Phase3 accounting system. Software Engineer & Database Administrator Lockheed Martin Corporation - Syracuse, NY February 2010 to September 2011 • Presented Logistics Display software concept to program management which generated new business for database administration team.  • Lead discussions with program management to develop requirements which provide metrics against logistic data for fielded radars.  • Authored operational concept document for the Logistics Display software and generated concept images using Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed and developed a Logistics Display software using Adobe Flash and Action Script 3.  • Conducted iterative meetings with customer to demo functionality and software progression. Software delivered to customer by deadline.  • Developed batch, VB and TSQL scripts to automate procedures to reduce administration costs and eliminate human error.  • Designed screens and workflows for IBM Maximo application and provided end user support. Software Engineer & Database Administrator Lockheed Martin Corporation - Syracuse, NY August 2006 to September 2011 Software Test Engineer October 2009 to February 2010 • Configured test scenarios, executed test procedures and identified errors on UI testing to support sell off of system to customer.  • Developed Unix shell and VB scripts to aid with System Problem Report data collection. Systems Engineer December 2007 to October 2009 • Authored Software Requirements Specification (SRS) document and delivered to customer on schedule.  • Maintained system activity diagrams and requirements on weapons systems using Rational Rose and DOORS requirements management tool. Education M.S.in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Syracuse University May 2011 B.S in Electrical Engineering SUNY New Paltz May 2006 Skills SQL SERVER (9 years), SQL (9 years), .NET (9 years), VISUAL STUDIO (9 years), C# (9 years), Javascript (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Currently Exploring: Webpack  Proficient With: C#, SQL, Powershell    Comfortable With:  Languages: Visual Basic, Javascript/TypeScript, HTML, CSS  Frameworks: .NET Core, ASP.NET MVC, Telerik, VueJS, AngularJS, Winforms, WPF/Silverlight, SSIS, SSRS, EF/LINQToSQL  Source Control: TFS, Git  Applications/IDE: Visual Studio/Code, SQL Server Management Studio, IIS, Photoshop  Vendor Apps: Bloomberg SAPI/Data License, SNL (Cap IQ), ZM Financial, Interaction CRM, TPG Portfolio Genius  Cloud Platforms: AWS