Manager of Database Administrator Manager of <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Manager of Database Administrator Sterling Heights, MI • Expert in Oracle performance tuning, SQL tuning and Real Application Clusters (RAC) specializing in tuning and monitoring for high availability.  • Extensive experience with designing and implementing Oracle databases.  • Extensive experience with OEM, OVM, Exadata, Exalogic, RAC and Linux administration. Work Experience Manager of Database Administrator Beaumont Health System October 2003 to June 2019 Implemented Oracle VM and migrated 40 Oracle databases off of HP-UX to Oracle Enterprise Linux environments running on Oracle VM servers. Migrated Epic Clarity database off of HP-UX server to a two node Dell R900 Oracle RAC cluster utilizing NetAppliance for storage and Infiniband for the high speed RAC interconnect. Responsible for the management of two Senior Oracle DBAs, two Epic Cache DBAs and one SQL Server DBA. Responsible for the management of Forefront Identity Management (FIM) system. Managed three individuals directly responsible for the maintenance of FIM. Implemented PeopleSoft Application on Oracle Exadata and Exalogic Engineered Systems. Senior Database Administrator Beaumont Health System July 2000 to October 2003 Responsible for Oracle database administration including ERP packaging using adpatch and adctrl to apply Application patches. Used adadmin to compile invalid objects, etc.  Administrator, responsible for 60 production databases. Duties included all aspects of Oracle database administration including performance & tuning, Oracle installation and Oracle upgrade, database maintenance, and database recovery. Responsible for the evaluation and implementation of Oracle alert monitors. Micro Systems Analyst Beaumont Health System November 1994 to July 2000 Responsible for implementation and management of all information services functions for newly created WBH managed care affiliate company Premier Physicians Network.  Designed, developed, and implemented Oracle Power Objects Patient Classification System & Clinical Pathways System, Application Interface Modules (acquisition & delivery) for Interface Engine (TCP/IP Sockets). Systems Analyst Beaumont Health System October 1990 to November 1994 Maintained Purchase Order and Inventory Control systems.  Designed, developed and implemented Purchase Requisition, Purchase Order Electronic Data Interchange, Ulticare TCP/IP PC Data Capture, Ulticare Fax and Telemetry Monitoring systems. Programmer Analyst Beaumont Health System July 1989 to October 1990 Maintained Purchase Order, Inventory Control, Accounts Payable and Global Security systems.  Assisted in the design, programming, and implementation of the Purchase Order and Inventory Control Rewrite. Senior Programmer Beaumont Health System March 1988 to July 1989 Maintained Purchase Order, Inventory Control, General Ledger systems.  Assisted in the analysis and design of the Global Security system.  Programmed and implemented the Global Security system. Programmer Beaumont Health System February 1987 to March 1988 Maintained Purchase Order and General Ledger systems.  Assisted in the programming implementation of the Accounts Receivable system and other systems. Education Bachelor of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Walsh College 1997 Skills DBA, MYSQL, Oracle Dba