Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Hot Air Balloon Ride Operator Plymouth, IN A budding businessman with six years' experience running a successful part time hot air balloon ride sightseeing company. Plus Website design and social media marketing work on the side. Six years a Social Studies teacher at the eleventh and twelfth grade high school level. Worked with many students and parents to ensure student success in the classroom. Providing many skills to the motor racing community at Plymouth Speedway including, registration, scoring, social media administration, check printing, and other administrative duties. Degree in Secondary Education Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner/Operator BBK Media Designs - Valparaiso, IN December 2014 to Present I create websites and manage the social media accounts for clients in multiple industries. Database Administrator Plymouth Speedway - Plymouth, IN 2012 to Present Owner/Operator Michiana Balloon Rides LLC - Plymouth, IN 2010 to Present Teacher Wheeler High School - Valparaiso, IN 2012 to May 2019 IT/Lead Boys Basketball Broadcaster WTCA - Plymouth, IN 2007 to 2015 Information Literacy Assistant Plymouth Community School Corporation - Plymouth, IN 2011 to 2012 Education B.A. in Secondary Education Manchester University - North Manchester, IN 2011 Skills ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS (10+ years), ADVERTISING (8 years), ANDROID (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), BUDGET (6 years), Marketing, Teaching, Organizational Skills, CPR, Time Management, Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Media Relations (10+ years) Additional Information Relevant Skills    Business Management  • Own and Operate successful Hot Air Balloon Ride company  • Handle direct sales, payroll, and small budget advertising  • Manage the assignment, scheduling, and training of ground crew  • Assist Marketing and Events Promotor at Plymouth Speedway with day to day administrative tasks    Teaching  • Taught compelling lessons about U.S. History and AP Government  • Worked with students and parents to maximize student success.  • Constantly multitasking and working with shifting school schedules.  • Led multiple after school extracurricular and intramural programs for the school.    Technology  • Worked as Radio Engineer building new radio studios for WTCA  • Manage Social Media for Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram, and Twitter for eight businesses  • Proficient in all Microsoft products, Wordpress, Weebly, Android devices, Social Media Apps