Program Coordinator & Business Analyst Program Coordinator &amp; Business Analyst Program Coordinator & Business Analyst - Capstone Corporation Pensacola, FL Enlisted in the United States Navy four years on active duty, honorable discharged on October 2010. Highly-effective Business Analyst, effective at delivering quality system requirement documentation ahead of tight deadlines. Successful at presenting data in the form of charts, graphs and tables and performing audits on all data.  Experienced Navy Network Administrator committed to maintaining cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge. Seeking position in a challenging and rewarding tech environment where I can expand upon my existing skill base while contributing to a lively IT team. Work Experience Program Coordinator & Business Analyst Capstone Corporation - Pensacola, FL December 2018 to Present • Researched and Developed the definition and documentation of new requirements requested by customers  • Monitored and maintained project/program schedule, documentation, progress and change requests and provide weekly status updates  • Communicated audit results and provided recommendations to Project Manager / Stakeholders / Management  • Collaborated with various levels of staff to accomplish tasks/assignments on time  • Conducted project audits for over 15 different projects while reviewing changes to project staffing, scheduling, and resources  • Prepared project plans, proposals, schedules, budgets, communications and staffing requirements  • Worked closely with the software and operations engineers to ensure requirements are implemented as required, in line with standard practices, and functional in the all environments (Development, Pre-Production, Production) Metrics & Data Analytics Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology Inc - Pensacola, FL December 2017 to December 2018 • Lead/participated in analytical investigations aimed at addressing specific business and/or clinical situations using data with an emphasis on identifying and interpreting trends.  • Worked with the databases and data loading developmental team, on an as-needed basis to influence the structure of database tables and indexes to better support the reporting needs.  • Participated in the design, development, implementation, and support Business Intelligence(BI) and analysis tools.  • Developed Master Test Plan for all database and warehouses that connect in-house databases, as well as supported System Software Test Plans and Test Cases.  • Facilitated, organized, managed and monitored the successful completions of warehouse data integrations with multiple databases.  • IBM Cognos Experience  • Oracle/ SQL Experience Medical Support Assistant United Stated Navy - Pensacola, FL January 2014 to 2017 • Data entry and tying word processing documents and correspondence.  • Answering and/or directing telephone calls and taking messages as needed.  • Creating, editing and maintaining clinic spreadsheets in multiple software programs.  • Screening patients to determine eligibility status.  • Ordering X-RAYS and Labs daily for over 100 patients.  • Participated in facility surveys and inspections made by authorized governmental agencies.  • Ensured HIPAA compliances.  • Provided DHS (Department of Health Services) with corrective action plans. Security Supervisor AlliedBarton Security Services - Cantonment, FL January 2012 to May 2014 • Conducted random car inspections in accordance with Homeland Security procedures for over 1,000 vehicles and over 3,500 employees.  • Patrol hourly over 1900 acres of company property while inspecting various check points within the Ascend Materials Chemical Plant using the company vehicle.  • Responsible for fast action response (Fire Alarms, Terrorist Threat, Auto Accidents.).  • Responsible for assisting local authorities involving auto accidents and medical emergencies.  • Training new employees in short time frame with outstanding results.  • Assisting between 50- 75 business customers' daily, providing guidance and navigation throughout the plant property & Monitoring CCTV cameras through the plant property. Database & Server Operator Platinum Group Security - Deerfield Beach, FL February 2011 to November 2012 • Controlling incoming and outgoing phone calls for over 1,000 employees.  • Proficiency in working with windows vista, windows 7 and windows apps; Excel, PowerPoint.  • Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Diagnosed and troubleshooting UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff. Database Administrator / Intelligence Specialist United States Navy - Norfolk, VA March 2008 to October 2010 • Responsible for collecting information from various military branches and sources to verify the collected data for accuracy and reliability.  • Prepared operation, navigation and intelligence briefings for supervisors.  • Proven strong knowledge of workforce assessment and assignment of projects, recognized for strong logistics expertise and oversaw operational and intelligence information.  • Handled Top Secret/ SCI material daily in work center, trained personnel how to properly open and close Top Secret safe in order to obtain daily classified documents.  • Responsible for updating over 3,000 Top Secret material and procedures weekly for Battle Group Commanders.  • Prepared numerous Intelligence briefings and presentations daily for supervisors.  • Trained new personnel on new equipment and software for daily use.  • Organized collected data from all sources for accuracy and reliability.  • Updated and maintained personnel records in database.  • Experience handling Top Secret material daily. Senior Global Command & Control Center Specialists United States Navy - Norfolk, VA October 2006 to October 2010 • Maintain and monitor SIPRNET (Classified) and NIPRNET (Unclassified) Exchange Bridgehead Servers and accounts supporting over 5,000 Afloat End Users while on deployment.  • Performed scheduled and unscheduled ocean region shifts, create and implement transmission plans, diagnose and resolve system faults, malfunctions, outages and technical support via phone, email and remote administration.  • Supervised 20 man watch team requiring 24/7 manning, included the Horn of Africa (HOA) and Somalia deployments.  • Created useful intelligence products to support field operations.  • Kept up-to-date on mission objectives by researching intelligence targets to understand their significance in the geopolitical context. Education Bachelor of Science in Education Pensacola State College - Pensacola, FL June 2020 Associate of Arts Pensacola State College - Pensacola, FL High School Diploma James W. Mitchell High School Adult Education - New Port Richey, FL Skills Data analysis, Oracle, Sql, Qa, Qa analysis, It support, Dod, Active dod, Active dod secret clearance Additional Information Skills  • ORACLE / SQL Experience  • Data Analysis  • Data Extracting  • IT Support / Network Experience  • Operating Systems  • 8+ Years of Navy Terminology    • Teamwork / Collaboration  • Proficient in Microsoft Applications  • ACTIVE DOD SECRET CLEARANCE  • QA Analysis / Testing  • Project Management  • Trouble Shooting Skills