Business Analyst Business Analyst DATA / ANALYSIS / PROCESS IMPROVEMENT / WEB DEVELOPMENT Fairfax, VA Mr. Mellick offers extensive experience in systems and data analysis as well as Data Base administration. He is adept at providing high-level customer support, especially in the areas of computer hardware, software, and Intranet. Known as a results-focused self-starter, Mr. Mellick works well under pressure—both independently and collaboratively—to achieve his goals. He exhibits strong interpersonal and communication skills with an exceptional work ethic. He quickly masters new concepts, technologies, and skills while accepting responsibilities and ownership. He takes the initiative to learn new technologies and applications as opportunities arise. Expertise encompasses:    Data Analysis ~ Database Design / Management ~ Web Development ~ Report Creation ~ Operations Management ~ Research ~ Requirements Gathering ~ Training ~ Quality Control ~ Process Improvement ~ Customer Service ~ Branding Work Experience Business Analyst DISTRIBUTED SOLUTIONS, INC - Reston, VA 2018 to 2019 * Created, developed, and produced an application to track corporate time charging metrics by employee, program, and Work Breakdown Structure. The application performed analytics and provided real time presentation tools for management.  * Created, developed, and produced an application to compile and analyze personnel Full Time Equivalency data across projects and skillsets to assist with proposal creation and ensure that workload was balanced efficiently.  * Created, developed and produced an application to track recruitment efforts by function, offers made, and aging of job postings.  * Proofed and edited the Distributed Solutions software Help Documentation to ensure consistency, clarity, and accuracy.  * Wrote procedures for entering trouble tickets and the process for creating custom reports in Microsoft Dynamics.  * Rewrote the SharePoint365 site for the Sales Division, provided technical support for an internal SharePoint startup site and assumed ownership of several additional SharePoint sites.  * Represented DSI on the ACT/IAC effort to identify Acquisition Innovation agencies promoting the Presidential Memorandum on The White House Office of American Innovation Senior Data Analyst LOCKHEED MARTIN - Herndon, VA 2004 to 2016 * Leveraged Industry and company knowledge to devise solutions to complex problems as well as to affect overall objectives and long-range goals while interacting with senior internal and external personnel as subject matter expert regarding data, systems, and applications.  * Reviewed and documented database design and system integration, performed backup recovery, and advised on enhancements. Instituted policies/procedures for database management as well as wrote and published User Manuals. Enforced security and integrity controls in web, database, and cloud.  * Created, published, and produced weekly and monthly reports in Crystal Reports to validate data accuracy, provide ad-hoc data to upper management, and analyzed the data to establish square footage and occupancy requirements for office planners. Archived reports from SharePoint and shared server space to a local server for access by employees upon request.  * Slashed the monthly operating reviews production time from 40+ hours to 4 hours while increasing accuracy.  * Utilized MS Excel to automate tasks accelerating execution from days or hours to hours or minutes.  * Analyzed data and identified incorrect field values, which, when corrected, propelled data accuracy to 99%+, resulting in approval from government auditors.  * Designed, developed, and maintained a suite of Intranet sites via IPE, Unity, and SharePoint. Defined groups and assigned permissions. Assumed ownership of all SharePoint sites from management personnel as promotions occurred.  * Database administrator for FM:Interact and also IS&GS lead for the transition from FM:Interact to IBM Tririga software.  * Took control of all recoveries, re-cooping hundreds of thousands of dollars in billable space.  * Facilitated accurate data transmission from IS&GS to Space Systems following Lockheed's sale of IS&GS to Leidos. Systems Administrator SRA - Fairfax, VA 2003 to 2004 * Played a key role on the AITS Lab Management team that built and maintained a multi-lab environment. Built NT domain controllers, database servers, data exchange servers, and web servers. Configured RAID disk controllers, loaded operating systems, established IP addresses, joined selected domains, and ensured MS security updates were installed. Repaired and rebuilt servers and workstations. Tracked and verified the functionality of spare IT equipment.  * Converted the procedure for loading and configuring a RAID disk controller from a document of 150+ pages and timeframe of 2 days to a manageable systematic procedure of less than 5 pages and timeframe of 3 hours.  * Created a database for tracking warehouse inventory, including server disk size, asset information, equipment condition, and location.  * Designed a wiring diagram for racks that indicated how each component of the whole unit needed to be installed as well as the optimal placement of cables. Systems Analyst/ Database Management SAIC - Vienna, VA 2000 to 2003 * Led the Reserve Component Automation System (RCAS) transition team in transferring information and locally developed management systems. Coordinated and tracked the completion of software integration, software development, and product assurance and evaluation transition items.  * Supported RCAS tools for the Army Reserve and National Guard. Acted as subject matter expert for campus support to develop baseline software loads. Facilitated hardware integration to ensure development staff had the equipment needed to provide a quality product.  * Supplied daily facilities and technical support for 250 members of the software integration and software development organizations. Orchestrated tech refreshes, laptop assignments, lab accessibility, and equipment dispersal as a liaison between programming and computer services staff.  * Appointed by the deputy program manager to spearhead all moves and space requirements for 250+ employees.  * Acted as subject matter expert for the software engineering environment that maintained the RCAS software baseline. Designed, developed, and maintained a MS Access-based mechanism for tracking licensing, maintenance fees, and development purchases.  * Accepted ownership of the process and procedure database and associated web pages.  * Designed, built, and managed a web-based project artifact repository (notebook), including gathering user requirements, conducting data mining, and providing accessibility via ASP technology.  * Maintained and supported the web-based software support process management application, including database source interface and database source control.  * Administered configuration management model web applications, aided in audit preparation, and ensured all necessary files were accessible, enabling RCAS to attain CMM / CMMI Level 3.  * Managed an expedited contract deliverable by creating a schedule for a web-based process repository, building a test server, executing unit testing, loading integration lab servers, and working with configuration management to ensure the quality and timeliness of delivered media. Systems Analyst BOEING INFORMATION SERVICES - Vienna, VA 1999 to 2000 * Served on a team that evaluated metrics and compatibility between vendor qualifications and RCAS tool requirements.  * Provided RCAS program database support; managed process repository, security, and content accuracy in MS Access. Consultant MAXIM GROUP - Fairfax, VA 1998 to 1999 * Assigned to NASA to provide MS-Excel instruction and assist in getting staff on fast track to success.  * Collaborated with Inter-American Development Bank to design and create a database for tracking the financial information of several South American financial institutions. Education Information Assurance Security Officer Certification Strayer University, and Northern Virginia Community College Skills ASP, INTERDEV, VISUAL INTERDEV, SHAREPOINT, ACTIVE SERVER PAGES, VISIO, VISUAL BASIC, CRYSTAL REPORTS, POWER BI, RAID, VERITAS, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, WINDOWS 2000, BI, AUTOCAD Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Software: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, SharePoint 2000, 2010, Office 365), 98, XP, 2000, 2007, 2010, 2016; Visio, Power BI, Veritas 9.0; Active Server Pages (ASP); Visual Basic; Visual Interdev; Crystal Reports; FM Interact; Unity; AutoCAD, Madcap Flare    Hardware: Windows 2000, XP Operating Systems; Windows NT 4.0 Workstation, Server; Advanced Server 2000; Dell 2650, 6650; Compaq 3000's, 530's, 570's; Hewlett Packard LH3's, LH6000's; Configure Raid 5 Disk Controllers