Senior Solutions Architect Senior Solutions Architect Senior Solutions Architect - FISERV Frisco, TX Work Experience Senior Solutions Architect FISERV - Frisco, TX February 2016 to Present • Oversee product support across the board, including vendor support.  • Manage production incidents until resolution is reached.  • Lead client on-boarding and off-boarding process.  • Foster client engagement and follow-up.  • Coordinate testing, determine deployment strategy and schedule resources for new product rollouts.  • Develop documentation and provide training support.  • Collaborate with product team to define product enhancements and create proposals.  • Facilitate internal and third-party integrations.  • Demonstrate products and conduct Q&A at client educational conferences.  • Identify areas of operational improvement and execute strategies to address them. Define new processes.  • Establish and maintain relationships with 3rd party providers. Senior Systems Analyst Fiserv June 2010 to February 2016 • Provided primary day-to-day support for multi-tenant online Enterprise Content Management (ECM) solution which serves over 750 financial institutions.  • Performed checks of clustered production and disaster recovery environments to ensure overall health of the system.  • Analyzed and resolved complex client technical and/or operational problems with three ECM product offerings and other company products.  • Simulated or recreated client problems to resolve user operating difficulties.  • Conducted client training sessions on software use, navigation, reporting and other technical operations.  • Discussed problems and inquiries with other department personnel, offered technical assistance and ensured proper handling and follow-up.  • Maintained in-depth knowledge of several applications as SME.  • Supplied system requirements information during the implementation of new clients.  • Performed database updates and created SQL jobs when necessary. Supported security efforts to maintain PCI compliance. Provided on-call support. Assistant Database Administrator APERIA SOLUTIONS - Plano, TX May 2007 to June 2010 • Migrated databases.  • Monitored/managed synchronization of all data between production and fail-over databases.  • Promoted DTS/SSIS packages, stored procedures, tables, XML documents and other objects to production, fail-over and QA environments.  • Created/ran ad hoc reports when requested.  • Assisted DBA Manager in creating new databases and database objects.  • Moved data into/from production, fail-over, QA and development environments consisting of 180+ databases.  • Developed departmental procedural documentation for job performance and issue resolution.  • Served as on-call DBA for after-hours database issue resolution.  • Monitored all client processing from credit card data file acquisition through process completion using SQL jobs, batch files or other means specific to file processing.  • Manually acquired files via FTP/SFTP when automated acquisition did not exist or failed. Account Associate (Team Lead) JPMORGANCHASE - Dallas, TX January 2003 to May 2003 Contractor) & 11/2003 - 2/2007(FT)  • Established and performed maintenance on Global Plus accounts used to track cash and bonds.  • Opened and maintained Custodial, ITS and Broker Dealer accounts on Titan and Wins custody and accounting legacy systems.  • Created and tested new scripts used to automate the account opening process via Foxtrot.  • Provided end-user insight to technology team during the development of in-house application to manage deals.  • Developed and provided management with relevant MIS reporting for all processes.  • Performed quarterly MUP testing.  • Responded to client verbal and/or written inquiries in compliance with strict regulatory and legal guidelines.    Technical & Professional Knowledge, Skills and Abilities  • Strong leadership abilities  • Project facilitation  • Comfortable interacting with all levels of employees from task workers to executives  • Can quickly assimilate new technology into existing practices and procedures  • Project Management Professional (PMP) training  • Background in the following IT disciplines:  ? Windows 7/8/10/Server  ? Active Directory Administrative Center  ? Globalscape EFT Express 7.4.9.11  ? C/C++ programming  ? PGP/GPG encryption  ? Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Visio  ? Foxtrot Enterprise  ? Forecasting & Scheduling  ? Clarity  ? Service Now Education B.B.A. in Computer Information Systems University of Louisiana at Monroe - Monroe, LA