Pastor to Senior High and Families Pastor to Senior High and Families Olathe, KS Strong professional experience developing people and programs  Analytical thinker who identifies best practices and accurately executes best steps  Proven abilities to work well alongside teams seeking a common goal  Self-motivated lifelong learner who adapts to conceptualize organizational vision  Proficient in: Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint), Apple (Pages, Keynote), Final Cut Pro, ProPresenter Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pastor to Senior High and Families Central Church of the Nazarene 2016 to Present • Conduct yearly meeting informing stakeholders of upcoming goals and produced monthly reports documenting progress to supervisor and board members.  • Co-led committees focused on evaluating and addressing needs within segments of our organization.  • Produced communication booklets, posters, weekly flyers, reports and/or videos to help promote and inform a diverse audience made up of first time guests to long standing members.  • Recruit, train, and resource volunteers to mentor students.  • Lead/Facilitate many cross cultural trips (local and abroad) for multiple organizations.  • Developed consistent, purposeful yearly calendar of events to meet goals and fulfill organizational vision.  • Work with team to evaluate, maintain and improve technological equipment and software (audio/visual) to enhance environment for stakeholder’s experience.  • Responsible for projecting and managing department budget. Associate Pastor San Diego First Church of the Nazarene - San Diego, CA 2014 to 2016 • Event speaker at regional event with 1500 students and adults.  • Oversee, recruit, resource leaders for small groups designed to build community connection for all 12 years to senior adults.  • Co-led committees focused on evaluating and addressing needs within segments of our organization.  • Recruit, train, and resource volunteers to mentor students.  • Work with team to evaluate, maintain and improve technological equipment and software (audio/visual) to enhance environment for stakeholder’s experience. Pastor to Youth Tree City Church of the Nazarene - Boise, ID August 2012 to December 2014 • Served on committee to oversee sports program for children grades kindergarten to sixth (flag football, basketball, cheer leading, and soccer)  • Worked with board to maximize the impact of gymnasium and grass fields  • Conduct yearly meeting informing stakeholders of upcoming goals.  • Produced communication booklets, posters, weekly flyers, reports and/or videos to help promote and inform a diverse audience made up of first time guests to long standing members.  • Recruit, train, and resource volunteers to mentor students.  • Lead/Facilitate many cross cultural trips (local and abroad) for multiple organizations.  • Developed consistent, purposeful yearly calendar of events to meet goals and fulfill organizational vision.  • Redesigned meeting space to improve technological equipment and software (audio/visual) to enhance environment for stakeholder’s experience. Youth Pastor Mission Valley Church of the Nazarene - San Diego, CA August 2003 to August 2012 • Developed from scratch consistent, purposeful yearly calendar of events to meet goals and fulfill organizational vision.  • Complete remodel of meeting facility for student ministry (casting vision, researching budget, dream of stake holder needs, oversaw renovation).  • Directed all aspects (budget, marketing, training leaders, worship, recruit leaders) of week-long summer camp for middle school students from 20 different churches.  • Elected district president for 4 years and gave leadership to equipping, events, vision casting, projected budgets. Database Administrator DP Associates - San Diego, CA January 1998 to July 2001 Started working as an intern during college then promoted to full-time after graduation.  • Developed and maintained Microsoft Access databases for tracking progress of Navy pilot training.  • Programmed interactive sessions using Authorware. Education Master of Arts in Christian Education Nazarene Theological Seminary May 2003 Bachelor's in Business Administration Point Loma Nazarene University - San Diego, CA 2000 Skills Microsoft Office, Access, Excel, Powerpoint, Business Intelligence, SQL, MS Office Certifications/Licenses Ordained Elder in the Church of the Nazarene May 2007 to Present Additional Information I have a passion for helping people and organizations achieve mission / purpose both by relationally working with people or using my analytical skills to shape systems and programs.