Cornerstone (CSOD) LMS Administrator Cornerstone (CSOD) LMS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cornerstone (CSOD) LMS Administrator Falls Church, VA • Professional LMS Administrator, Business, Database Administrator and Business Analyst with 14+ years of collective experience, over 11 years in LMS providing reporting data and monitoring tracking usage and performance of all types of e-learning and Learning Management System (LMS) and related functions.  • Experience in all areas of computer technology skill sets that are required of a senior-level LMS Administrator profiler (multifaceted technologist with skills in system administrations, database administrations, web page design and development, specific network and communications techniques).  • Ability to quickly develop expert knowledge in implementation of behind-the-firewall LMS to partner with IT, the LMS vendor, and stakeholders around day to work, periodic upgrades, troubleshooting issues, and works to resolve and suggest solutions to gaps.  • Demonstrated skills in administering and supporting eLearning systems with internal and external customers also skills in business analysis, including documentation of workflows and application of documented workflows into an eLearning system. He has working skill with system databases, running canned reports and generating ad hoc reports.    Specific to USAID  • Identified training that could be incorporated into the USAID course schedule to address gaps in learning and training provided to address those gaps, responding to ILTP and competency management inquires support interface into many e-Learning Systems and Learning Management System (LMS).  • Assisted the competency and occupational series when necessary or as required by the end client for updating. Including direct experience configuration to Plateau LMS success factors versions Plateau success factors versions from 4.0 to 6.4 b1210, b1305, and b1408 b1409.and b1502.  • Strong working knowledge of LMS business processes, SAP HR systems, and curriculums design. Work Experience Cornerstone (CSOD) LMS Administrator USAID March 2016 to May 2019 • Provide technical support to resolve problems and issues associated with the LMS implementation, Add new users/learners and maintain updates of user profile data integrity assign and manage security access for course in LMS. Download SCORM/AICC course from vendor sites/Google share drive.  • Set up learner/user accounts and with HCTM/LMS data record systems.  • Update individual use profile like, email address, organization and designated supervisor.  • Respond to inquiries on course upload procedures and status.  • Responds should include types of inquires resolved and amount of time it took to resolve the issue.  Responsible for the migration of all training data, new or historical, internal or external, into the LMS database record. Prepare and transmit EHRI data files to appropriate contractor  ? Upload SCORM/AICC courses to the testing/pilot environment. Test the courses, upload to the production portal and structure curriculums for sequences. Developed documents such as SOP and Job Aid for the whole system functions Cleanse the system for duplications both user and learning objects (courses). Developed a survey for the ILT sessions for course evaluations. Developed a full data flow diagrams for the system infrastructure  ? Responsible for the download process SCORM/AICC courses from the Vendor and upload process SCORM/AICC courses to the testing/pilot environment then test the courseware.  ? Upload to the production portal and structure curriculums for sequences. Manage and design standard operation procedures for LMS functions as well as job aid.  ? Generate reports for the USAID Project Manager, Contracting Officer Representative (COR), and members of the HCTM/CPD staff. Assist USAID Bureau and office training staff and coordinators and vendor specialists to resolve system user issues, Import USAID employee feed into LMS training database. SAP Success Factors LMS Migrating Consultant Department of Veterans Affairs May 2015 to January 2016 As a contractor to Department of Veterans Affairs, Supporting Data Migration management the VA was moving from SAP Success factors Learning Management System (LMS) to SAP HCM including Data Modeler as role, performing high level data migration: planning, migrating, and validating.  • As part of the worked performed on the SAP Success Factors LMS (which is the VA's most implemented that LMS), tasking with develop, deploy and manage comprehensive learning systems with build in automatic profiles (for system administrations) and structured DB programs that were targeted for migration over to the newer systems.  • Performing tasks: Extracting data from legacy LMS system, profiling data, cleansing, transforming, mapping data fields connectors to the target system to sync tasks which include providing technical expertise for the production of detailed database designs and design documentation, including data models and data flow diagrams, data conceptual, logical and physical models; evaluating and configuring database learning products, performance data to match user requirements with system capabilities.  • Download SCORM/AICC courses from the Vendor and respond to inquiries on course upload procedures and status. Responds should include types of inquires resolved and amount of time it took to resolve the issue. Update individual use profile like, email address, organization and designated supervisor. Set up learner/user accounts and with HCTM data systems. Migrate to all training data, new or historical, internal or external, into the LMS database record.  • Provide training on LMS utilization and best practice. Assist VA Office training staff and coordinators and vendor specialists to resolve system user issues. Import VA employee feed into LMS training database. Assist with the evaluation of LMS system capabilities related to business requirements. Support system development and implementation during system changes and upgrades. Test system maintenance updates, security updates, LMS database maintenance, system backups. Ensure course proper loading and user access on-line courses,  • Work with Office Personnel Management (OPM) Vendor Management Branch and responsible vendor to manage data collection and transfer to EHRI data  • Participate in the quality assurance process to ensure the accuracy and integrity of all information and data residing in the LMS. Test all courses uploaded into the LMS to verify course functionality is working as required in accordance to LMS and VA Agency SOP standards.  • Manage system configurations and ensure feeds to the vendor Competency Management Modules. Test all new prospective functions to ensure proper functioning prior to loading onto the production LMS. Coordinate with the LMS vendor and HCTM/TMS staff to resolve on-going technical problems/issues. Responding to the LMS and training related inquires generated via telephone and E-mail. Provide a quarterly VA Training Database Extract. LMS Administrator Transportation Security Administration Online Learning Center October 2014 to February 2015 Plateau SAP success factors LMS Administrator System Configuration & Administration  • Maintain system configuration parameters and user roles as needed. Participate in writing SOPs LMS policies and procedures. Upload and maintain courses, organizations, users, etc. within the LMS. Making sure all courses are loaded and working properly.  • Support administrators and users to troubleshoot when problems arise. Create and manage reports. Create admin and user accounts. Audit and monitor data integrity within the LMS. Ensure all end-users are served quick and efficiently.  • Testing system maintenance updates, security updates. Planning and coordinating upgrades as required, providing support for system development and implementation during changes and upgrades.  • Develop training materials for the users. Train administrators in the proper use and administration of the LMS. Develop Help Desk user guide, along with other system support aids. Maintain all data in the LMS users and courses. Generate reports in different domains. Test script with the LMS system functions and validate it. LMS Business Administrator Otsuka May 2013 to September 2014 Quality and Compliance LMS Training Business Administration as business administrator in North America as well as Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc. (OAPI) as well as business analyst and liaison between business process and technical work to Otsuka America pharmaceutical specialty healthcare company focused on providing the highest quality products to benefit patients and the healthcare community as a contractor.  • Configured, implemented, maintained, supported and troubleshooting Plateau Success factors versions from 4.0 up to 6.4.  • Implemented and configured global corporate wide Compliance Wire (CW LMS) (clinical, medical device, research & development, laboratory, manufacturing and commercial) serving +5000 employees and contractors reporting up to Senior Managers.  • Created, reviewed and approved quality and compliance role based curriculums to clients, creating and maintaining clinical, medical device, research & development, laboratory, manufacturing and commercial training curricula.  • Supported a multiyear procedural governance harmonization effort consisting of hundred of documents across the clinical development and commercial enterprises. Reviewing and approving procedural documents and assessments and assigning e-Modules and scenario driven SOP e-Modules organization wide.  • Migrated courses and HR normalized database from legacy system to new system and validate, then configured a whole system relationship for implementation.  • Tested SCORM courses and validates them before assigning to users for training.  • Migrated data from legacy system to new system through staging areas and validations processes.  • Created user accounts, resetting their credentials, sending notifications e-mails with system credentials, assigning special request based technical courses for authors, reviewers and approvers.  • Handled instructor led training courses (ILT/ILC) to transfer to CWLMS to credit users as well as hybrid learning include both synchronous and asynchronous.  • Created user groupings, linking their aligned curriculums, setting criteria formulas, sequencing, homed to different nodes/organization and adding users to the group for assignments.  • Compared complex Workday HR data, CW LMS data and Active Directory services data to normalize data records on both internal and external employees as well as contractors.  • Configured daily 25-75 curriculums to new contractors as well as new employees.  • Managed MS SharePoint, Global Quality Electronic Document Systems (GQ-EDMS) as well as Contingent Workers Portal. Adjunct Professor Strayer University October 2012 to May 2013 for Learning Management System Training Course  Adjunct professor in CIS undergraduate courses and academic advisor of both national and international students in Strayer University  • Curriculum development advising as well as catalog and course guide.  • Degree program completion sequence mapping.  • Personal education planning (PEP) paperwork.  • Enrolling students, swapping and dropping per student request.  • Using Blackboard LMS and I campus LMS.  • PowerPoint presentations for new student orientation.  • Proficient with Internet, Intranet, MS word, PowerPoint, Excel, Visio and MS Project. System Administrator for Distance Learning (for e-Learning Systems Somali - American Community April 2009 to September 2012 adaptations of LMS)  Somali-American Community organization computer based training (CBT) services (Learning Training Systems), educational services and employment consulting. This was volunteer works while in Graduate School.  • Designed Webpages and building websites for online training delivery (e-learning), using blackboard, I campus, Plateau LMS as learning applications, consulting training HR development using project using MS project GANTT and PERT charts, creating courses scheduled offering and domain configuration for training departments.  • Created meeting agendas and provide feedback to attendees.  • Wrote proposals for grants.  • Wrote bylaws for the organization and related documents.  • Designed orientations and training content and design course curriculums.  • Organized meetings and conventional conferences.  Technical Skills: HTML, PHP, SQL Plateau LMS Administrator and HRIS/Developer Department of Veterans Affairs January 2008 to March 2009 • K-12 exp, Higher Education, Curriculum design and Development, COTS customization and implementation, Oracle Portal Suite, OBIEE, Business requirements  • Create workflow process path documentations, like supervisor approval and wait-listing  • Research and identify major resources documents for the project  • Find interagency competencies practices based roles level I, II and III  • Benchmark competencies best practices and apply to the specific need  • Map the certification process path in documentation in information latter  • Organize the major project deliverables to the executives for approval  • Create documentation for LMS registration process map  • Test in Plateau LMS with registering users, domains, course scheduling, create assignment profiles, catalogs, curricula, curriculums, and generate custom reports  • Create domain for specific users to assign courses  • Create content objects, tracking, monitoring and reporting  • Create scheduled offerings, curricula and curriculums  • Create competency assessment process system documentation  • Create task analysis, process standards, identify gaps and closing by level  • Process user data files and load into the system and validate it  • Create and organize programs dashboard spreadsheet  • Create data documentations and store into SharePoint as data library  • Working experiences of ISD and ADDIE model  Technical Skills: HTML, SharePoint, SQL Plateau LMS System Administrator and HRIS Department of Labor January 2007 to May 2007 Develop  Plateau Learning Management Systems Application Developer and Learning Content in higher education environment Management Systems Administrator.  • Set up learner/user accounts and with LMS data systems and respond to inquiries on course upload procedures and status. Responds should include types of inquires resolved and amount of time it took to resolve the issue.  • Migrate to all training data, new or historical, internal or external, into the LMS database record. Provide an annual the Department of labor Training Database Report.  • Provide quarterly summary of the Department of labor E-Learning User Activity and Course Completion Reports. Provide annual summary of the Department of labor E-Learning User Activity and Course Completion Reports. Update course catalogue inventory, maintain course catalogue, upload new courses, and, EHRI data elements update.  • Examine current course data elements, fill the gaps of missing data elements, ensure course in the inventory are properly mapped.  • Assist contractors in course development staging sites and pilot sites.  • Develop and maintain system integrations with other company systems.  • Create Business Object Crystal Reports. Collect user's database from people power (HR) migrate data from legacy system to upload into Plateau LMS and automate the process.  • Create and configuring domains for the agencies/sub-agencies and assign user access to the resources using Active Directory/Directory Services.  • Analyze Oracle database/information benchmarks from agencies and validate the accuracy. Storing information for the users LMS and LCMS using DTS/ETL (extraction, transformation and load), and documenting the process.  • Technical hands on knowledge with Taleo/Learn, Plateau, Blackboard, Angel, SumTotal, Saba, E-companion and many other mini applications for LMS.  • Support customer services as Tier 2 and tier 3 for Troubleshooting, supporting Windows 2000, MS Office 2000, Outlook 2000, and clarifying cases.  • Set up user's notifications template globally and automate the processes  Technical Skills: HTML, PHP, SQL Server. Database Administrator Integrity Quality Controller American Red Cross November 2005 to December 2006 • Analyze database Integrity and Networking Quality Controller of donations from organizations and persons donations, using Raisers Edge program in Oracle database.  • Assure database network system is up and running and current.  • Set up new computers to the network and setting up new user's accounts and E-mails. Access Database Administrator American Psychological Association June 2005 to October 2005 Manage the organization's membership database building with using Access Database  • Design master table for 150,000+ member's database and network systems.  • Create Business Object Crystal Reports.  • Update membership attributes using geographical information systems (GIS), using USPS.  • Create queries like update, edit, create, delete, and run to the database for retrieval.  • Normalize data anomalies for cleaning up data for enhancing database quality.  • Organize the database system for sharing and operating efficiently. Plateau LMS System Administrator and HRIS American Red Cross July 2003 to May 2005 Systems administrator in project management team using Plateau system and Learning Management Systems in higher education environment and Training Technology and end-user support  • Create course components, catalogs and testing using biomedical integrating training systems (bits).  • Create Business Object Crystal Reports.  • Database: SQL Server, data migration, metadata, data model and system implementation.  • Administration of Learning Management Systems (LMS) Network.  • Create project schedule using Program Evaluation Review Technique, (PERT), Critical Path Method (CPM) and GANTT Charts. Accounting Administrator American Red Cross - Washington, DC October 2001 to June 2003 • Team leader in account payable  • Reconcile chapter, paid and volunteer staffs credits against advances in Oracle financial  • Assist in the reviewing and processing of payment requests  • Assist in maintenance of accurate documentation to support transactions  • Review database for accurate posting of travel activity and identify duplicate payments.  • Verify the validity of the General Ledger account codes used for travel vouchers  • Process cash receipts and other cash transactions.  • Create Business Object Crystal Reports. Network Operations Center Technician Spacenet, Inc January 1999 to August 2001 • Test, locate and coordinate the repair and installation group of basic communications problems by interpreting trouble calls and analyzing circuit and/or network diagrams using published troubleshooting procedures and standards. Reconfiguration of electronic equipment and testing. IT help desk specialist and user support environment tier 1, 2 and 3 levels call centers or NOC.  • Administered a network operation center (NOC) consist of thousands of high speed satellite connections both uplink and downlink, setting up IP/TCP and subletting as well as parameters for nodes connecting networking through VSAT to hubs, satellites then to the clients by monitoring signal strength through spectrum analyzer and resolve if there are any issues.  • Internet sites (UNIX backbone, Windows front-end).  • Monitor signal integrity for individual problem sites using spectrum Analyzers.  • Provide technical support for field techs for problem installations.  • Record site changes/updates using, Remedy, SAP R/3/Siebel.  • Network Management Systems, setting up, building and configuring technical parameters for sites, Troubleshooting of VSAT systems.  • Satellite equipment specialist (VSAT modem), hubs, spectrum analyzer, and transmitters. Education Masters of Education in Management Technology Strayer University 2011 Masters in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Strayer University 2007 Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Strayer University 2004 Master of Art and Science in Art and Science Somali National University - Mogadishu, SO 1991 Bachelors of Science degree in Management School of Human Development Resources and Leadership - Mogadishu, SO 1984