DBA and Cloud DBA and Cloud DBA and Cloud - Cybermedia Technologies, Inc Temple Hills, MD I am experienced with all major phases of information technology and business management. My expertise with large, complex projects, from application development, scrum and Agile design specifications to implementation, testing, functioned in roles as Senior Database developer/Enterprise/Data Architect, Solutions/SOA Architect, System Integrator, Project Manager/Lead, Oracle DB Architect, and Data Modeler (logical and physical design). Work Experience DBA and Cloud Cybermedia Technologies, Inc January 2019 to Present CTEC. January 2019 - Present    I provide advanced setup of migration tools and data for the client Customs and Border Patrol CBP. Included but not limited to migration from Oracle CRM to Salesforces CRM. Oracle data to Amazon Web Services as DBA and Cloud administrator via Dynamo DB and Amazon S3 and S3 Glacier cloud repository via utilizing open source tools, automation, and cloud services to implement enterprise DevOps solutions. Liaison to CBP application consultant to maintain integrity of existing database objects during reengineering of CBP internal database architecture. Sr. DBA\Network Consultant Accel Solutions LLC May 2016 to July 2018 I provide assistance and advice to scientific users on the technical aspects related to software, hardware and peripheral equipment essential to support of research in the USDA ARS Nutrient Data Laboratories (NDL). I provide Network administrative assistance with the set--up and maintenance of new user accounts to the USDA ARS Domain and demonstrates familiarity with network software. I am the lead on the existing legacy USDA ARS and NDL Oracle application. I modify existing Oracle forms, Oracle reports, WebLogic middleware interfaces to application, Java access and upgrades along with maintaining Oracle patching, Symantec, Microsoft, Dell server and power management. I also maintain the National USDA ARS Nutrient Databank System (NDBS): This includes servers, open source tools, automation, and cloud services to implement enterprise DevOps solutions hardware, software, IP addresses and network access, while transitioning to the new database application. Performs DBA tasks as needed and ETL Integration of data from Oracle 11g to MS SQL Server 2016 as needed. I support the NDBS systems for anomalies that may occur from all software modifications or other sources. I maintain current legacy AIM--NDBS during transition to the ARS FooDs master database system. I Support the New Productions ARS FooDs application as primary production Administrator and Lead Development Liaison. Configuration and Administration of DevOps tool Jenkins and Artifacts for Development, Testing and Production environments. I also act as liaison to groups that share and import data such as Food and Nutrient Services, National Agriculture Library and Nutrion.gov at both USDA Beltsville MD and Ft. Collins Co. sites. DBA CTI Global Solutions May 2015 to August 2015 May 2015 - August 2015  I support the National Endowments for the Arts as a senior database developer and application database administrator DBA. I supported the conversion of legacy Oracle grant data and information via Grants.Gov system to NEA database repository residing primarily in MS SQL Server 2012 databases. I work as liaison to the primary NEH (National Endowment for the Humanities) development team to adhere to the development standards for NEA integration. I also act as technical liaison to National Endowments for the Humanities to the new Grants Management Shared System eGMS. As liaison to NEH system, my role also requires my expertise as the NEA eGMS application administrator. I supported the US Coast Guard January 2015 to March 2015 I upgraded and data Integration of Oracle 11i Financials Suite to Oracle 12.1 E-Business Suite in their Dev, Test and staging environment.  Oracle E-Business is part of an exciting effort to modernize and provide integration for Accounting and Financial for the US Coast Guard, TSA and DNDO at HQ DHS Division. Task  Include but not limited to, database maintenance, database SQL script development, requirements gathering, documentation, implementation and ETL Integration. Form development and modification, report modifications and databases administration as needed. Oracle DBA\Developer Purisolve, Inc September 2013 to July 2014 September 2013 - July 2014  I support the Internal Revenue Service TASIS and TAMIS, Oracle database and application as a senior Oracle DBA\Developer. I for the upgraded patched on the Development, Test and pre-deployment servers and systems support via OEM and command line utilities. Support the testing process by providing insight to the independent testing staff when complex issues arise. Provide software maintenance to Oracle forms and reports of existing services to the present database running on Oracle 11g r2 in preparation for Integration to Oracle 12c. We are part of an exciting effort to modernize and provide integration for the Taxpayer Advocate's office, which integrates multiple IRS databases, and application for compliance. I support a Department of Navy client August 2012 to January 2013 I migrated and upgraded from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g r2. Test environment Oracle 12c within the Agile Development environment. We are part of an exciting effort to modernize and provide integration for ship maintenance efforts across the Navy within the Maintenance Figure of Merit (MFOM) application. Tasks include, but are not limited to, database maintenance, database PL SQL development, ASP.NET web development, ASP.NET services development, requirements gathering, documentation, implementation and ETL Integration. Strong background in databases administration/development with good knowledge of application development, specifically in ASP.NET and C#. Work as Multi Mass processing Database analyst/engineer/ administrator Internal Revenue Service August 2011 to August 2012 Gathering for review deliverables produced by other Test Analysts and IRS groups that feed document, artifices and other pertinent database infrastructure documentation for integration into new RRP EMC Green Plum Database. Coordinate project testing, often including testing involving multiple test teams Tasks include, but are not limited to, Coordinates the creation of generic data needed for testing for database maintenance, database PL SQL and PostgreSQL database development with access to appropriate personnel to ensure test environment is ready for Informatica and Power Exchange development, ETL Integration, EMC GreenPlum NET services and Hortonworks tools for development, requirements gathering, documentation, and implementation. Develop test plans, schedules and test cases with for result analyst with other RRP Team groups and members. Manage data source feed; develop reports for the IRS Return Review Program Office. On Contract at Department of Housing and Urban Development July 2011 to July 2011 Analysis of HUD Multifamily Database Applications & Program. Modify ASP.NET application forms and coordinate changes with the SQL Server 2008 database. On Contract Department of Army - Washington, DC October 2009 to May 2011 Maintain daily load of the Physical Disability Agency data load and Integration. Maintain backups and recovery strategies. Develop ad-hoc reports. Maintain legacy database and process while gathering requirements for Integration, testing and upgrades as needed. Set up user access to data repository and migrate data from clipper data source to Oracle and SQL Server for management reporting. Recovery Manager On Contract Department of Justice - Washington, DC January 2009 to May 2009 Washington DC January 2009 - May 2009  Manage, administer and upgrade multiple Department of Justice Civil Division Office of Litigation Support Oracle 9i and Oracle 10g databases and servers up to 10 terabytes of data  (DOJ, Office of Litigation support OLS). Manage Oracle Content Database, Oracle Fail Safe RAC, ASM Backup Strategies and TOAD for primary databases. Reconfigure backup and recovery strategy via Recovery Manager (RMAN) for upgrade. Backup to SharePoint OLS administer. Utilize, managing and monitoring hot standby database using (Data Guard) as well as monitoring primary database. Assist with EMC SAN deployment and coordinate implementation with Dell Engineers, Lockheed and other Server Engineers. Support  Development Team throughout OLS. Integrate existing Oracle Content of OLS legacy systems into database technology using Oracle, SQL Server, and SharePoint of other database technologies. I upgrade and maintain other database daily responsibilities. Perform application testing of new DOJ Integration, applications and interface. (Data Guard) for production database On Contract the Missile Defense Agency - Arlington, VA October 2007 to August 2008 Arlington, VA October 2007 - August 2008  Manage, administer and upgrade Missile Defense Agency (MDA) Oracle database 9i and Oracle  10g database technologies. Manage backups and recovery strategies using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Modify Cluster expansion through node additions with existing infrastructure elements for secure BEA Plumbtree portal access. Cluster-ware monitoring and diagnosis for Integration of existing legacy systems into database technology using either Oracle Portal application server single sign-on technologies. Testing and Integration of 2 terabytes of data into MDA Portal. Implement hot standby database (Data Guard) for production database. Testing and implementation of database replication for move to Huntsville, AL. Integrate Oracle Content into BEA portal for upgrade and maintenance of other databases using SQL Developer and Toad to interface oracle daily applications as needed. Perform application testing of new MDA portal applications and interface. Developer problem solving support POWER BI August 2006 to December 2007 Portal/Discoverer) configuration, Oracle XML Publisher configuration  * Oracle 10g database administration  * Oracle 10g, Linux 4 EAS, and Windows 2003 Enterprise troubleshooting  * FDCA application code Integration to cluster and Test RAC environments  * Developer problem solving support  * Linux 4 Enterprise Application Server script development  * Train (4) Junior Oracle DBAs on providing developer support  * Train (3) Junior System Analyst on providing developer support  * Monitoring of applications and Databases with Sun Solaris database farm * ASP with Arc IMS ActiveX Connector, HTML, JavaScript, DOM.  * Testing for 4-5 years' experience with using ArcSDE, ArcGIS * Desktop; at least an understanding of AJAX and web services.  * Requires excellent writing and communication skills.  * Experience with writing basic SQL statements; Knowledge of PL-SQL.  * Oracle APEX Architect/Developer On Contract at VSE Corp - Alexandria, VA March 2007 to July 2007 Alexandria VA March 2007 - July 2007  Manage Multiple Oracle 9i database. Integrate SQL Server 2000 database with Customized Chainbridge web development software. I supported and tailored commercial applications to meet unique VSE needs. Manipulate back-end Oracle and SQL servers and database tables using TOAD and primary interface. Integrate homegrown code and web-based utilities with commercial product. Perform rapid pace of change and fuzzy requirements. Able to evaluate business procedures and problems, break them down into component parts, and develop systems specifications and requirements; and evaluate computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software. Strong customer service ethic; able to smoothly provide staff and users with assistance solving computer related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems; able to train staff and users to work with computer systems and programs. On Contract at Cogent Communications December 2006 to January 2007 Develop & modify code for company billing. Upgrade and modify existing Communications client in Sun Solaris environment. Use of SQL Loader to update systems information to databases. Modify forms, reports, stored procedures models and other database objects, etc. for Oracle 9i 10g, Microsoft SQL Server 2000. Develop additional forms, reports, etc. Modify backup & recovery strategy. Test infrastructure of for bottlenecks a performance enhancement. Test development & production environments for transfer guidelines. Consult on other issues as they arise.    On Contract off site US Census /FDCA Project: Oracle DBA/Developer Consultant On Contract Offsite Department of Justice February 2006 to September 2006 Develop & modify code to link to Law Enforcement agency systems. Upgrade and modify existing Local, state and federal law enforcement system data. Use of SQL Loader to update systems information to LINK databases. Modify forms, reports, stored procedures models and other database objects, etc. for Oracle 9i 10g, Microsoft SQL Server 2000. Develop additional forms, reports, etc. Modify backup & recovery strategy. Test infrastructure of for bottlenecks a performance enhancement. Test development & production environments for transfer guidelines. Consult on other issues as they arise. Oracle Lead DBA/Developer On Contract at Food and Drug Administration September 2005 to January 2006 Upgrade FDA ORA database 9i to oracle 10g technology. Modify existing infrastructure elements for secure portal access. Integrate existing legacy systems into portal technology using Oracle application server single sign-on technologies. Manage J2ee development staff. Integrate present web applications into the Portal. Provide update documentations and reports to client as needed. SQL Server DBA/Developer Consultant On Contract Department of Army - Fort Detrick, MD April 2005 to July 2005 Upgrade and modify existing DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SQL Server databases forms, reports, stored procedures models and other database objects, etc. for 7.0, 2000. Develop additional forms, reports, etc. Modify backup & recovery strategy. Test infrastructure of for bottlenecks a performance enhancement. Test development & production environments for transfer guidelines. Consult on other issues as they arise. Oracle DBA Consultant On Contract Department of Army March 2005 to April 2005 Install, upgrade, and modify DOD Oracle database from 9i to 10g for Contract transfer. Develop backup & recovery strategy. The application and RDBMS will transfer to a Sun Solaris platform. Modified internal oracle packages and application PL/SQL Block for effective system integrity. Test development & production environments for transfer guidelines. Consult on other issues as they arise. Database DBA/Developer Consultant On Contract Federal Emergency Management Agency February 2005 to March 2005 Support develops and migrates Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA Production\Development applications and database back-end by SQL Server & Oracle.  Administrator for Development & Production Enterprise Manager for both SQL Server 2000 & Oracle 9i-10g Coordinate & document web based applications for turnover to primary & subcontracting FEMA groups for support and management. Develop web based application interface for scheduling and reporting. Create reports for users on demand and summary reporting as needed. Database DBA/Developer Consultant On Contract at Pentagon June 2004 to February 2005 Act as team DBA and Database architect for development staff that support of ASP.NET & C# development Knowledge Management team for SQL Server & Oracle back-end applications & databases development for conversion projects of OUSD (AT&L) Department of Defense Under Secretary of Defense applications. Backup to primary oracle enterprise dba for enterprise applications for OUSD (AT&L) for Department of Defense Under Secretary of Defense Primary DBA for SQL Server 2000 Enterprise Edition in production environment. Administrator for both Development & testing environment backups. Database Developer/ DBA On Contract at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency December 2003 to June 2004 Modification of existing National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) NCCOS database for Docks & Piers, National Products Database, Restoration Monitoring database using Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft ASP.NET Framework Technologies. Develop Web based application interface for scheduling and reporting. Create reports for users on demand and summary reporting as needed. Oracle Database Administrator On Contract at Department of Navy August 2003 to November 2003 Database administrator for existing Navy DOD national RESUMIX application & database. Responsible for repositories of Oracle version 7.4, 8I and 9I databases configuration using  Oracle Enterprise Manager as the main database interface. Implement Backup and Recovery Strategy using Oracle Management Server technologies. Provide user administration to Resumix application based on characteristics of system schema & management hierarchy. Modified internal oracle packages and application PL/SQL Block for effective system integrity. Maintained security, backup and recovery processes. Support development teams with access method, JavaScript, (ASP) Active Server Pages and user and web interfaces. Database Developer/ Administrator On Contract at Patent and Trade Office December 2002 to August 2003 Integrate existing Patent and Trade office computer parts Access database into single SQL SERVER 2000 using internal DTS packages. Maintaining tracking repository for system and software resources. Design & Maintain Web based database used for scheduling and reporting installation of deployments and relocation. Create reports for installations, deployments and summary reporting. Account for asset management information in the database. Create procedure for reconciling data and configuration (CFG) inconsistencies and problems. Create specifications, documentations and ensure backup and data reliability. Train client and in-house group users as necessary. Create data transfer using DTS & SQL Analyzer utilities for loading data between other databases. Act as a consultant to other groups both internal as well as PTO client. Access and JSP pages backed by stored procedures. Modify existing parts Access database for upgrade to SQL Server. Cleaning of data and systems testing prior to system upgrade, user group account setup and coordination of various relevant departments models for deployment. Monitor and upgrade existing database Stored Procedures, View, table etc. via SQL Server Enterprise manager. Develop reports and other duties as requested. Maintain backups and establish recovery procedure. PC Technician Onsite Technology, Inc April 2002 to October 2002 Analysis of all PC's throughout the Washington Hospital, Veteran Hospital and the Childcare's Hospital complex for PC upgrades, general maintenance and memory upgrades Database Specialist Ultimate Staffing, Inc January 2002 to April 2002 Update and maintain multiple Access membership databases in accordance multiple association's policies and procedures. Develop ad-hoc reports on demand, generating lists, labels, statistics, and reports as requested; create/modify tables and reports in iMIS and Crystal. Assists office staff when needed. Developing data access pages and (ASP) Active Server Pages for user web interface. Oracle Database Administrator Apex Sytems, Inc - Washington, DC November 2001 to December 2001 EOP Executive Office of the President  Tune existing EOP Oracle 8I social databases and UNIX/AIX systems configuration management using OEM as the main database interface. Implement replicate data for 24/7 database use base on characteristics of system schema. Modified PL/SQL Block for implementation. Replicate database from UNIX to Windows environment for testing. Maintained security and backup and recovery processes. Support Java Development Team with access method, JavaScript, (ASP) Active Server Pages, user and web interfaces. Access Developer/SQL Server Database Administrator On Contract at the Department of Energy April 2001 to October 2001 Responsible for developing import procedures and maintaining existing Dept. of Education (DOE) MS SQL Server 2000 & Access 2000 databases for DOE reporting purposes. Managed and modified how data is stored in terms of physical characteristics based on system schema, amount of space, access method, user and web interfaces using SQL Server Enterprise manager. Developed and modified Access 2000 tables, queries, lookups, reports Developed data access pages and (ASP) Active Server Pages for user web interface and forms using Visual Basic.  Converted SQL statements as well as data conversion from earlier versions of Access and Excel files. Setup, scheduled and publish web based database updates. Database Administrator (Consultant) On Contract US Coast Guard - Washington, DC February 2000 to February 2001 Imported, migrated and maintained existing CICS & IMIS client production MS SQL Server 7.0 and MS Access 2000 databases using SQL 7.0 Enterprise manager. Utilized Citrix to connect users to IBM Mainframe applications and databases from external and remote sources. Maintained database architecture of Freedom of Information ACT (EFOIA) via IPRO software to scan in Information request into database and track through the VBA interface for tracking of FOIA documents while referencing database, Correspondence Tracking System  (CORRTRACK), Waivers & Exemptions (Waivers) and Software Library database (Library). Managed modified and developed forms, reports, and tables as needed. Supported and enhanced web front-end to Microstrategy projects on Intranet servers. Worked with Microstrategy consultants to develop and implement QBE-like web interface to Microstrategy. Maintained security deficiencies were identified and appropriate countermeasures implemented to protect information processed, stored and transported by computer systems. Implemented how data is stored in terms of physical characteristics based on system schema, amount of space and access method. Imported copies of MS Access databases to MS SQL Server testing environment. Modified existing Access forms using Visual Basic. Installed, developed and maintain existing SMS Reports using Crystal Reports 8.0 software tool. Assisted help desk staff with logging calls and maintaining helpdesk database. Provide monthly status reports of database activities and progress of modifications and implementations. Database Administrator and Test Engineer (Consultant) IRS Oxon. Hill, MD March 1999 to January 2000 Worked as lead analyst for updating and maintaining Oracle database to track IRS Y2K compliance of COTS/GOTS, Unisys 4800/2200, IBM, COBOL, MVS, JCL, TSO/IPF, IMS and CICS products. Worked with consulting team members to design, test, and setup and maintain MicroStrategy infrastructure test network. Developed methods to reduce company IT costs and helped create improved availability and monitoring of mission critical systems. Created and maintained a Y2K Compliance Tracking Warehouse on MS Access 2000 for interface with system schematic and test plans. Modified string diagrams for connection to MS Access 2000 database. Managed database and produced reports on demand. Tested DB2 and Unisys 2200/4800 modules and code for Year 2000 Compliance. Documented testing parameters and developed interface for documenting mainframe system job runs. Senior Test Engineer (Consultant) Department of Health & Human Services October 1998 to January 1999 Documented and tested Year 2000 compliance of MS Access 97 databases and COTS/GOTS client/server and CICS applications. Documented and tested applications modules using WinRunner 6.0. Worked as Liaison to Network Administrators group, end user, test bed administrator and Government personnel. Consultant Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, DC June 1998 to September 1998 Documented and tested Year 2000 compliance of software applications running in Oracle 7.3, SQL Server 6.5, DB2, C, PowerBuilder, dBase, COBOL, MVS, JCL, TSO/IPF, IMS as well as client/server COTS/COTS applications. Liaison engineer between the government and the local reporting agencies for all issues related to computer systems. Developed 96 published reports in Microstrategy Architect/Agent and deployed. Serve as Network Administrators for testing group, end users, and test-bed administrator and government personnel. Oracle Consultant FAA - Washington, DC January 1997 to May 1998 Performed logical and physical design of PL/SQL blocks to filter data from various regional Air Traffic Services Systems into Y2K Compliance Database System running on Oracle 8.0. Maintained security to implement and protect information processed, stored and transported by computer systems. Used Oracle Developer 2000, Designer 2000, and Report Writer 2000 to develop Air Traffic Services, Y2K Warehouse Database & Web pages, and Web forms/reports and link them to the Main FAA Y2K Web site. Managed database and produced Data Mart for regional Management reports on demand. Oracle Programmer (Consultant) Government Services Administration, DC April 1996 to December 1996 Maintained Oracle 7.0/7.1/7.3 databases and SQL programs for production of the Glenn Asset Management Information Mainframe System (GAMIS). Verified Oracle PL/SQL triggers data and managed SQL statements to convert Oracle data through INFOPUMP to Lotus Notes 4.x National Database. Managed information processed, stored and transported by computer systems. I also developed and modified SQL statements and Oracle Forms for users as needed. Worked as team member for configuration management and version control. Coordinate activity with other GSA systems such as Comprehensive Human Resources Integrated System (CHRIS), Oracle US Federal Human Resources (OFHR) application and Payroll, Accounting, and Reporting (PAR). Integrated and developed MapInfo software mapping designs and produce a variety of maps for use by regional access groups in the field, for local government partners, for public use with Client data releases and congressional redistricting. Oracle Applications Developer (Consultant) The SMITH Company - Washington, DC October 1995 to March 1996 I developed and modified Oracle 7.0 tables, queries, and SQL statements as well as C programs for data conversion from dBase IV, Paradox, and Clipper database files. Ran a dual test of Oracle Databases to ensure client data is in proper payment and campaign format. Converted and maintained database architecture for merging of daily system work. Maintained sales and management reports daily. Assisted Network Administrator with additional duties and responsibilities as requested. Oracle DBA/Adabas Natural Support (Consultant) Department of Health & Human Services July 1993 to September 1995 Provided national DBA support for Oracle 7.0 Database of the Third Party Draft system. Maintained and modified PL/SQL triggers updated, treasury limit for drafts produced from Oracle Database. Developed forms and reports using Oracle software product provided. Responsible for Integration from Oracle 6.0 to Oracle 7.0. Act as Liaison with the region to maintain data integrity, speed, and maximum performance of data resources and to reduce redundantly storing of third party common data to system. Responsible for maintenance of C Programs as well as several multi-users Anabas Natural applications programs utilizing COBOL,  MVS, JCL, TSO/IPF, and IMS applications. Maintained sharing of data from Database and Natural 2 system among users. Produced reports on demand from mainframe system for management. Back-up to system Administrator Air Force Cost Analysis Agency - Arlington, VA September 1992 to June 1993 Arlington VA September 1992 - June 1993  Mounted tapes for system request on VAX 8550 system. Logged tapes and maintain the database of quarterly jobs. Run Bi Weekly backups of Oracle 6.0 file. Modified and developed C Programs for users. Back-up to system Administrator for system monitoring. Modify forms and reports, as needed using Oracle software product provided. Liaison Government National Mortgage Associations December 1987 to August 1992 On Contract at Housing and Urban Development GNMA Operations, DC December 1987 - August 1992  Managed and processed tapes library of financial institutions that are participants in the Government National Mortgage Associations (GNMA) program. Test tapes for conversion from hard copy to magnetic media. Act as Liaison between data processing and system personnel in order to maintain proper COBOL Reporting specifications. Managed information processed, stored and transported by computer systems. Prepared files for batch processing and transmission to mainframe system via gateway technologies utilized COBOL, MVS, JCL, TSO/IPF, IMS, SPSF and CICS technologies. Also, responsible for system backup files and operation and maintenance of office database using DBASE III Plus software. Education BS in Information Systems Strayer University - Washington, DC December 1996 Diploma in Computer Information Systems Strayer University - Washington, DC Additional Information SKILL SET  Oracle: Oracle Enterprise Manager 12C, 11g grid control, 9i, 8i (OEM), Oracle Application  Server CORE ID, Oracle 8i/7.x/6.x/5.x, Data Warehousing 8.1.6, Oracle Forms 6i, Oracle Reports 6i, Developer 2000, Oracle Designer 2000, Oracle Content DB Administration, Oracle APEX 4.2, Architect/Developer, Erwin 3.0, Replication Manager & Performance Tuning 8i, Databases: Oracle 12c, MS SQL Server 2016 - 2016, DB2, MS Access 97/2008.    Software: MS Visual Studios ASP.NET 2008, Visual Source Safe 2003, IMIS, Citrix,  WinRunner 6.0, Load Runner, Crystal Reports 8.x, Jenkins, Microstrategy 6/7.x, SPF Utilities, Norton, Map Info, Ranger, Micro services SOA  Utilities, Email 4.0, Microsoft Explorer 4.X, Netscape 4.X, and Microsoft Office 97/2000,  TSO/Rexx, Sun One Studio CE, Remedy Help Desk, EMC Greenplum - Deployed Compatibility  Validation and Builds, Hadoop ecosystem and/or related distributed processing technologies, Oracle 10g Database installation, Oracle 10.g Database patching, Oracle  Application 11g installation, Oracle Application 11g patching, Oracle Application 11g cloning,  Oracle RAC database configuration Oracle 11g Application on RAC configuration and Parallel Concurrent Processing (PCP) configuration, Oracle Database and Application, troubleshooting including Oracle workflow and concurrent manager, excellent understanding of Oracle Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Cluster Ready Services (CRS), Additional considerations: tree Enterprise Portal Software,  Languages: Structured Query Language (SQL), Basic, COBOL, C Programming, HTML, JavaScript, VBSCRIPT, ASP, VISUAL BASIC, Transact SQL, JSP, XML    OS/Platforms: TCP/IP, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 95, Microsoft Windows 3.51-4.0, MS-DOS  6. X, Banyan Vines 5.53(6), UNIX (File Management Command and Text Editing), AIX 3.X,  OpenVMS, MS/XA JES2, COBOL, CICS, TSO/ISPF, MVS JCL, VSE JCL, VSAM, and IMS Sun Solaris 6.x, Compaq 586 HD, IBM 3090 Mainframe, Caliber 486 CD, Digital VAX 8550, Dynex 486 HD, HP LaserJet II, Cray 9000, and Prime 750 Mainframe.