Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist - The Andersons Inc Holland, OH Work Experience Information Technology Specialist The Andersons Inc - Maumee, OH 2015 to Present Increased efficiency of the PC Replacement Program taking part in the Continuous Improvement project and by following through with the new procedures which has led to more PC Replacements being completed in previous years.  • Implemented Last Pass Password vault to increase secure password usage  • Manage access to all legacy and SAP systems by providing the appropriate level of access to financial systems preventing separation of duties conflicts.  • Performed Quarterly IT Audits  • Configured Security for New Agvance migration.  • Created and maintained procedural documentation for use within the department.  • Defined access control standards to provide more accurate security End User Support Technician The Andersons Inc - Maumee, OH 2011 to 2015 Increased efficiency of the PC Replacement Program taking part in the Continuous Improvement project and by following through with the new procedures which has led to more PC Replacements being completed in previous years.  • Successfully lead the PC Replacement Program.  • Managed the Windows 7 Migration  • Assisted in the migration of the Retail business group to new credit card readers at all retail stores  • Managed printer replacement program minimizing the repair costs by replacing older inefficient equipment with newer low-cost devices Technical Support Specialist Buckeye Cable System - Toledo, OH 2011 to 2011 Created and demonstrated creative solutions to technical questions from external customers.  • Exceeded Company standards for efficiency and productivity with a 94% approval rating.  • Resolved emotional conflicts with external customers in a technical environment. Database Administrator Heartland Information Systems - Toledo, OH 2007 to 2009 Maximized data integrity security and availability adhering to HIPPA standards.  • Verified and corrected reporting to ensure the accuracy of financial records and billing.  • Created documentation of departmental procedures  • Responded to service calls to maintain data integrity Operations Engineer Heartland Information Systems - Toledo, OH 2001 to 2007 Maximized data integrity security and availability adhering to HIPPA standards.  • Trained Operations Engineers in the use of monitoring and troubleshooting utilities  • Triaged support calls and provided trouble ticket resolution  • Created documentation of departmental procedures Education BA in Professional Studies University of Toledo May 2019 Associate Degree in Web Design in Web Design Stautzenberger College 2004