Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - UMass Westborough, MA Database administration specialist with more than 23 years of experience in managing, administrating and implementing a diverse array of OLTP and BI solutions using Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server. Recognized as an expert in Database administration, Architecture and Data Modeling of highly scalable and performing ERP, OLTP and DWH based databases.  Very strong learning abilities with keen interest in learning database related technologies and best practices, with passion to take on challenges and problem solving.  Excellent interpersonal and communication skills with the capability to lead teams along with being a good team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator UMass - Shrewsbury, MA May 2014 to Present • Currently supporting and managing PeopleSoft, Data Warehousing and OLTP databases.  • Ongoing patching for Oracle clusterware and databases for OBIEE and PeopleSoft.  • Work with Oracle support to resolve bugs and issues with the software.  • On-going troubleshooting of issues that could related to errors or performance tuning.  • Taking proactive steps to resolve issue before hand by monitoring DBs using Oracle Enterprise manager 13c.  • Periodic Failover and disaster recovery testing to ensure business continuity. Sr. Technology specialist UMass - Shrewsbury, MA May 2009 to 2014 • Worked as a Sr. technology specialist/architect to ensure successful delivery optimum architecture for running enterprise Databases.  • Effectively Installed, Configured, Managed and Patched around 100 Oracle GI/RAC Clusters 11gR2/10gR2.  • Architected and implemented enterprise monitoring using Grid Control 10gR5, which provides a single console for managing and monitoring enterprise technology resources, included but not limited to Hosts, Databases, EMC Storage, Weblogic and application monitoring using beacons.  • Successfully Managed DI40/ROR/Flexframe for Oracle, which gives a dynamic Linux provisioning platform to run Oracle RAC databases on SAN/NAS.  • Acting as a lead to the DBA team to provide technical leadership on managing RAC and non RAC databases.  • Successfully resolved numerous node evictions issues due to OCFS2/Linux Kernel/NAS/SAN by setting up kdump.  • Currently In the process of architecting and upgrading Grid Control 10R5 to Enterprise manager 12c on a high availability architecture using Oracle RAC and ASM/OCFS2.  • Setup Physical Standby databases using Data Guard.  Sr. Oracle Consultant  • Worked as consultant from Fujitsu America to implement Oracle Enterprise Manager 10.2.0.5 to monitor/manage and provision the enterprise resources from a single console. The responsibilities included are:  • Setup OEM monitoring with the enterprise databases which includes RAC and single instance databases.  • Setup monitoring and management of Linux environments.  • Setup a high availability active/passive environment for the OEM environment, i.e. OMS and the repository database.  • Help identify performance bottlenecks and recommend solutions on as needed basis.  Environment: Oracle 10/11g RAC, DI4O/ROR for Oracle, Resource Orchestrator, RHEL4/5, OEL 4/5, OCFS2/ASM,EMC VNX/EMC Celerra. Data Warehouse Sr. Development/Systems DBA AT&T - Atlanta, GA March 2007 to April 2009 • AT&T is one of the nation's largest communication services provider. As a contractor from Fujitsu Consulting, worked as a Sr. Application/Systems DBA. The application was a BI/DWH application. The responsibilities and achievements were as follows:  • Maintained and managed DEV/SIT/PRE PROD and PROD environments. The collective size of the production environment data was 2+ TB. A total of 25 Oracle instances were maintained on a 24*7*365 basis.  • Architected, designed and implemented application high availability solution using Oracle Data Guard 10g as a Physical Standby on a remote server.  • Periodically Cloned Pre Prod environment from PROD environment to provide production data for testing purposes and performance runs before deployment.  • Monitored, researched and identified database response time/performance issues and took proper corrective actions by using 10046, 10053 traces, ADDM, AWR and execution plans.  • Configured and implemented 10g GRID control to monitor, manage and schedule maintenance activities.  • Analyzed, recommended and implemented table/index partitioning strategies keeping in mind optimum performance and maintenance or large tables/indexes.  • Conducted code review and proposed code changes for high performance and scalability to meet SLA.  • Day to day DBA tasks and mentoring developers for coding best practices and performance.  • Managed Veritas Cluster Server environment for Node/instance failover.  • Participated in Capacity planning for Disk/CPU and memory needs  Environment: Oracle 10g, Sun Solaris 9, Erwin 7.x, Toad 9.x, Veritas Cluster Server 4.5, Data Guard, RMAN. ERP System Database Analyst Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA October 2006 to February 2007 • Wells Fargo is one of the major fortune 25 financial institutes in the US. As a contractor worked as an architect/oracle DBA in the Healthcare and Benefit Services Department.  • As a database Architect and developer converted legacy systems to new oracle based systems.  • Designed, architected and developed an automated system to generate daily/weekly/monthly/yearly reports based on configurable metadata.  • Designed the logical and physical data models for the integrated HBS (Healthcare and benefits systems).  • Consolidated various silo systems as one, contributing in the global logical model.  • Provided DBA support to the technical DBA partners to facilitate their tasks.  • Handled day to day task regarding Development, Test, UAT and PROD Oracle Databases.  • As a technical consultant and Subject matter expert contributed in the integration of various systems of the department.  • Performance tuned and optimized low performing areas.  • Wrote an ETL program to parse text files and load them in the Oracle Database essentially using bulk collection for performance.  Environment: Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server 2000, MS Access 2003, Windows 2K, Red Hat Linux 3 AS, Sun Solaris, ER/Win 4.x, TOAD. ERP System/Work flow System Database Architect Visionet Systems, NJ August 2005 to September 2006 • Liz Claiborne is one of the major retailers for the apparel, accessories and fragrance products with outlets all across US. As a database architect worked on the in house developed ERP. Formulated technical designs, wrote technical specifications, conducted Technical Specification/code reviews, provided Database related technical solutions for all of the systems being developed in the company. Developed style guides for coding best practices standardization. Actively participated on research in databases and proposed tools and methodologies to improve the productivity. Provided technical Leadership to group of DBA/Designers/ Database Developers.  • Worked as a Database Architect on a 3 Tiered web based BI planning application for Liz Claiborne Inc. Proposed design, re-factored existing code, methods to implement functionality and performance tuning all DB code in all tiers (Applet, Middle tier and DB).  • Contributed as a business analyst and wrote design documents for complex requirements to assist the developers.  • Dramatically increased Performance by tuning large data set processing for BI/Resource planning and workflow related applications.  • Designed and implemented a workflow system in Oracle and SQL server to be used in Java and .Net applications using Hibernate for data persistence and population. The workflow system was designed with consideration for it to scale to a very large number of users up to 1000.  • Supervised development of a number of applications being developed using Oracle, SQL Server, Java, VB and .NET technologies.  • Conducted design and code reviews of developed applications along with handling day to day issues related to database.  • Well versed in identifying slow performing SQL by using 10046 and 10053 trace files to break down Query execution phase statistics and drill down into the semantics of execution plans and take corrective actions.  Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, MS SQL Server 2000, Oracle AS 9i, Oracle 9i DS, Windows 2K, Red Hat Linux 3 AS, HP-UX 10.x, ER/Win 4.x, Quest Central 5, VSS. IS Manager, Car Rental System/ Workshop HANCO Rent a Car - Jeddah, SA July 2003 to June 2005 management systems  • Worked as an IS manager for Fathi Taleb and Sons, i.e. HANCO Rent a car Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. (www.hanco-ksa.com).  • Effectively managed the department and provided the necessary IT Services as per SLA. Configured and managed Oracle Advanced Replicated environment with 3 seamless interfaces including an interface with a legacy AS/400 system.  • Analyzed end user requirements, Architected, Designed and implemented the enterprise RELATIONAL data model for Distributed Applications.  • Successfully set up Basic and Advance replication environments on windows 2K Server and Red Hat Linux 3 environments.  • On a regular basis performance tuned the DB instances by querying V$ dynamic tables and effectively utilized Quest Central for monitoring and corrective actions.  • Architected and implemented backup and recovery strategy for the distributed and replicated environment on the Windows 2K platform, which involved an automated combination of hot and cold periodic backups using RMAN.  • Periodic carried out cloning of test environment from the production environment using RMAN.  • Periodically loaded data from difference data sources by using SQL*loader and stored procedure.  • Effectively managed group of junior DBAs to run the organization by giving them technical and managerial leadership.  Environment: Oracle 8i/9i, Oracle Advanced/Basic Replication, Windows 2K, Developer 6, ER/Win 4.x, OEM, DBArtisan 7.x, Quest Central 4.x, Seapine SCM 4.x, RMAN. King Faisal Specialist Hospital Oracle DBA at King Faisal Specialist Hospital - Jeddah, SA January 2002 to April 2003 Oracle Applications 11.5 Sr. Oracle DBA  • Worked as a consultant Oracle DBA at King Faisal Specialist Hospital, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Where primarily was responsible for the administration of Oracle apps 11i. (www.kfshrc.edu.sa).  • Administered 4 Oracle Apps 11i instances and 2 additional Oracle 8.1.7 instances on Sun Solaris 2.8 running on SUNFIRE 6800.  • Defined and implemented System Level agreements (SLA) for DBA/System services.  • Defined Backup strategy and recovery methodology specific but not limited to Oracle Apps 11i environment using Oracle RMAN and LSM NETWORKER.  • Analyzed and performance tuned poor performance areas by extensively using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, oracle performance manager, UTLBSTAT, UTLESTAT, performance pack, SAR, VMSTAT, TOP etc.  • Cloned test environments from production environment using ADCLONE utility and RMAN for application and database respectively.  • Additional efforts included helping and writing SQL queries for developers, sizing, capacity planning.  Environment: SUNFIRE 6800, SUN Solaris 8, Oracle 8i,Legato NETWORKER LSM, RMAN, Veritas Volume Manager, Exceed, TOAD 6.x, ER/Win 4.x, Developer 6i. Principal SE Cressoft Pvt. Ltd September 1996 to January 2002 • Worked as a Principal software engineer to design, develop and manage software using Oracle DBs..  • Worked as a Team Lead and DBA for an E-Commerce based (B2B) application using IBM DB2 5.2/7.2 DBMS and IBM NET.DATA.  • Administered UDB DB2 5.2/7.2 databases.  • Installed, configured, patched and setup UDB DB2 7.x/5.x environment on IBM AIX/Red Hat Linux and WIN2k clients.  • Defined and implemented Backup and Recovery methodology for web based B2B portal.  • Regular performance tuning of the web based application and the database.  • Oracle and DB2 databases backup and restore on different environment including production, development and testing  • Used DB2LOOK, DB2MOVE, LOAD and IMPORT/EXPORT utilities to move structure and data between databases.  • Utilized snapshot/event monitors for performance tuning of DB2 5.2/7.2.  • Maintained multiple Test and production environments.  • Handled day to day routines and resolved any issues related to the database.  • Researched and proposed a remote HADR strategy as a possible solution for High availability and Disaster recovery.  • Proposed the database architecture and database logical models for potential clients.  Environment: Net.Commerce 1.x, WebSphere Application Server 3.x, DB2 UDB 7.2/5.2, ER/win 3.x, UNIX Shell Scripting, IBM AIX, Red Hat Linux 8. DB2 Tools i.e. Control Center, CLP etc. Software Engineer/Oracle DBA Pace - Lahore, PK August 1995 to September 1996 As a Database Administrator/Developer, developed and administered a Retail System for PACE Pakistan.    • Effectively setup the IT reporting applications using Oracle Report and Forms from ground up in a startup organization.  • Successfully worked with IT vendor to develop custom applications and have them integrated into the existing systems using PowerBuilder and Oracle.  • Configured distributed databases to extract/transform and load data from EPOS terminals to the central Oracle DB.  • Played the role of lead DBA and developer to setup Configuration, DR and performance best practices for the Oracle DB based applications.    Environment: Oracle 7.1, Oracle Forms 4.5, Oracle Reports 2.5, Power Builder, SQL*Plus, Pl/SQL 2.0, Compaq PROSIGNIA, SCO ODT 3.0. Education Post Graduate Diploma Management in Information Systems Punjab University - Lahore, PK 1995 Skills Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Oracle forms, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Udb, Aix, Linux, Sco, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems/Platforms: SUN Solaris 9/10, SCO UNIX, IBM AIX 4.x, Redhat Linux 7/6  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  ERP: Oracle applications, Peoplesoft  Case Tools: ER/Win 7.x, ER/Studio  Database: Oracle 12c/11g, DB2 UDB 8.x, MS SQL Server 2000  RAD Tools: Oracle Forms/Reports (IDS 9i/6i/6), Power Builder 5  DBA Tools: Oracle Enterprise manager/DB console, Embarcadero DB Artisan 7.x, Quest Central 5/4.5/TOAD 9, UNICENTER SQL-Station 7.x, STATSPACK, SQL*Loader, RMAN, NETWORKER/Legato Storage manager, VERITAS Volume Manager for Solaris 8.x  DB technologies: Oracle Materialized View and Advanced Replication, RAC/Grid Computing, Dimensional Modeling  Misc. Tools: Unix Shell Scripting, Exceed, PVCS, VSS, FTP, Telnet  Applications: Airline Crew Resource Management, Finance, Transportation, E-commerce, Retail, Telecommunications, Healthcare, Mortgage Management