Richard Arrington Jr Richard Arrington Jr Richard Arrington Jr - NUCOR/SOUTHLAND TUBE Hoover, AL Work Experience Richard Arrington Jr NUCOR/SOUTHLAND TUBE - Birmingham, AL August 2006 to Present 35234    Data Engineer/Infrastructure Engineer  • Directed development of end-to-end, .NET-based ERP system - encompassing inventory management, production management, planning and scheduling, order entry, shipping, production metrics, and supply chain.  • Developed solutions for business problems, working with business process owners, department heads, functional groups, I.T and others. Designed and implemented the technical architecture for these solutions.  • Defined subsystems and their interfaces, allocate responsibilities to subsystems, coordinate solution deployments  • Introduced virtualization architecture that transformed the service model and exceeded all business requirements.  • Developed the enterprise data center and virtual server architecture data center to support system and enterprise applications.  • Led gap analysis exercises with all business units and vendor to analyze the impact of core EXACT Macola ERP system replacement and enhancements.  • Installed, configured and maintained multiple SQL Servers, databases and data warehouses for various applications.  • Enabled performance-based KPI bonus structure - increasing productivity and growing efficiency.  • Slashed inventory write-offs from $1M / year to <$150K through delivery of end-to-end inventory tracking capabilities and elimination of legacy, ad-hoc, paper-based processes.  • Streamlined sales forecasting by providing real-time, granular inventory transparency.  • Performed all SQL DBA responsibilities.  • Developed SQL data warehouse for storage of analytical and reporting data.  • Developed multiple SQL Integration Services to support data mining / transparency and online analytical and transactional processing.  • Develop new applications and databases to comply with corporate needs.  • Developed numerous Transact SQL Queries for data processing.  • Developed numerous SQL Integration Services projects for online analytical and transactional processing (OLAP) and data mining  • Implemented IBM Sterling Gentran to support EDI including standard and customer specific transaction trading sets and applications.  • Revamped the IT infrastructure and architecture to support newly developed business core applications.  • Led team in migrating core financial application from BTrieve Pervasive- SQL technology to Microsoft SQL technology. Led project to rewrite over 1,750 reports to run new Microsoft SQL reporting services reports.  • Developed training programs for new applications to train the users on the new systems.  • Implemented new Cisco VOIP phone system to replace older Avaya VOIP phone system.  • Improved manufacturing processes and efficiency developing shop floor manufacturing .Net ERP applications.  • Implemented the use of production shop floor touch panels in the production manufacturing process.  • Implemented wireless RF barcode scanning capabilities for both production shop floor and shipping applications use dramatically improving efficiency in the supply chain process.  • Implemented wireless access points throughout entire plant site for plant floor access on touch panel pc in industrial environment.  • Designed and developed Microsoft Active Directory infrastructure, DHCP DNS, Vlans and network infrastructure for enterprise  • Implemented Microsoft Exchange for corporate email system migrated to 0365 recently  • Implemented offsite virtual disaster recovery site for full disaster recovery.  • Implemented Microsoft CRM applications. Included Active Directory Federation Services for token signing authentication.  • Make necessary revisions to existing .Net, VB code, SQL databases, and reports to comply with corporate needs.  • Maintain firewall/ security policies within corporate network.  • Ensure all data has the required levels of security and protection for the enterprises business information.  • Eliminated potentially critical security holes.  • Ensured more robust security capabilities.  • Provided secure remote login capabilities.  • Conduct IT security audits.  • Manage monthly and annual operational/capital budgets for IT department. Reduced expenditure cost by 15% while increasing technology capabilities.  • Plan and review IT budget for upcoming year budget process.  • Manage all IT purchasing with various vendors.  • Develop and maintain all IT corporate policies and procedures  • Responsible for all contract negotiations with various vendors and developers. DIRECTOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SYSTEMS, INC - Birmingham, AL March 2000 to August 2006 • Manage internal IT department staff, and all outsourced staff.  • Oversee all planning, design, installation, upgrading, support and security of corporate infrastructure including application development, networks, programming modifications, databases, phone systems, and any leased lines.  • Define, strategize, and oversee the creation of necessary technical environments, environment stacks and technical aspects of data management.  • Translated business requirements into technical design, oversaw creation of technical designs.  • Recommended and implemented improvements on an ongoing basis, consistent with emerging trends and best practices.  • Migrated data platform from DB2 and FoxPro data platforms to Microsoft SQL Server platforms.  • Migrated applications from older Clipper applications to Visual Studio .Net applications  • Led team of developers to develop new .Net applications and SQL platform databases to comply with corporate needs.  • Migrated reporting from Microsoft Access reporting to Crystal Reports XI and then eventually to Microsoft SQL Reporting Services  • Developed Microsoft .Net based patient intake system.  • Developed Microsoft .Net based provider contracting system  • Develop and maintain current website and web applications.  • Develop new reports for corporate needs.  • Make necessary revisions to existing code, databases, and reports to comply with corporate needs.  • Manage monthly and annual operational/capital budgets for Technical Services department.  • Plan and review IT budget for upcoming year budget process.  • Manage all IT purchasing with various vendors.  • Develop and maintain all IT corporate policies and procedures  • Responsible for all contract negotiations with various vendors.  • Led committee to update corporate IT security plan for HIPAA compliance. Conduct IT security audits based upon plan.  • Manage all software licensing.  • Develop, manage, and implement business recovery plans for all IT functions within corporation.  • Develop, manage, and implement HIPAA compliance for corporation, including EDI ANSI X12 transaction standards, security and privacy rules, with regards to management information systems. IMPLEMENTATION ENGINEER\ LEVEL III TECHNICAL SUPPORT ANALYST SUNGARD HEALTHCARE - Birmingham, AL May 1999 to March 2000 402 Office Park Drive  Suite 150  Birmingham, Al. 35223    IMPLEMENTATION ENGINEER\ LEVEL III TECHNICAL SUPPORT ANALYST  • Responsible for providing implementation and level III technical support to SunGard's Macess business process management and enterprise content management solutions to large tier 1 healthcare insurance providers.  • Diagnose Sungard Macess application and database technical issues on both server and client sides.  • Perform ETL process on customers systems to load data from current systems into Macess platform.  • Perform upgrades to new Macess releases.  • Client systems include Windows NT 4.0, Windows 98, and Windows 95.  These systems attach to Novell, NT servers and Citrix Metaframe servers.  • Network systems consist of Novell 4.11, 5.0, and Windows NT 4.0 with Btrieve 6.15 or Pervasive P.SQL 7.0 databases. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR SOUTHTRUST BANK - Birmingham, AL January 1997 to January 1999 LOAN OFFICER/MANAGER  • Responsible for all computer and network operations including administration of the network, software, hardware, applications, configurations, maintenance, troubleshooting, and licensing of a 400+ user Novell network.  • Install and maintain desktop computers, configure software, hardware, and other peripheral devices.  • Diagnose and resolve all technical problems on both server and client sides., including all corporate banking applications  • Enhanced and supported various programs using Btrieve and Oracle databases that reside on several servers across the WAN, as well as various Access databases.  • Manager of 5 other positions in the System Administration department.  • Promoted to Loan Officer in 1 year. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR/ DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ADVANCE PREPAID PHONE COMPANY - Birmingham, AL January 1996 to January 1997 • Responsible for all network, database, and computer operations.  • Developed, administered and maintained Foxpro 2.5 databases with Lotus Approach 3.2 as the front-end client application module.  • Installed all workstations, software, applications, peripheral attachments, and diagnosed all technical problems both hardware and software related.  • Responsible for all communications with leased telephony switching companies related to necessary data implementation and configurations of data for telephony switch use.  • Traveled outside state to various locations to evaluate and make recommendations on telephony switching platforms for company use.  • Assisted in-house accountant with accounting procedures such as AR, AP, financial statements, budgets, and projections.  • Assisted staff in marketing plans and promotions. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR LAMAR, NELSON, AND MILLER P.C - Birmingham, AL October 1991 to January 1996 • Responsible for all computer and network operations including software, hardware, applications, configurations, and purchasing of necessary equipment associated with the system.  • Installed and maintained all software applications along with all hardware and peripheral devices.  • System consisted of a 25-user Novell 3.12 network with a Sybase SQL database.Programs include Lotus Ami Pro, Lotus 123, Juris Accounting, Time & Billing and Payroll, PC DOCS OPEN document management, Pagekeeping Scanning System, Cheyenne Arcserve Backup Systems, and various ODBC application-oriented programs. Education Business Administration University of Alabama Birmingham - Birmingham, AL 1990 to 1993 Atlanta Institute of Music 1986 to 1990 Business Administration Jefferson State 1987 to 1989 Skills Data modeling (10+ years), Saas (10+ years), Crm (5 years), Network design, Enterprise application (10+ years), System development (10+ years), Business analysis (10+ years), Integration (10+ years), Lan/Wan (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Routers (10+ years), Switches (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Visual Basic (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Reporting Services (7 years), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Consulting (10+ years), Contract Negotiations (10+ years), Data Warehouse (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), Scrum (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Core Competencies:  Business Analysis & Project Management • Product Pricing, Forecasting, & Revenue Projections •Program Management •Data Modeling • Enterprise Application Integrations • CRM & ERP Implementation • ERP Forecast Management Implementation • Virtual Technologies • Network Design and Implementation • Lan\Wan Routing Topologies • Cloud-Based/SaaS Solutions • Agile Development Methodologies • Scrum • System Development & Integration • Senior Executive Consulting • Leadership    HIGHLIGHT OF QUALIFICATIONS    • 27 + years in the information technology industry.  • 18 years successful experience in management.  • Proven leadership ability to create and manage a results-oriented team.  • Outstanding skills in analysis, strategy, budgeting, and planning.  • Proven ability to reduce risk and maintain cost control.  • Experience in clear and effective business communications.  • Successful liaison between departments and customers.  • Proficient in all aspects of information technologies.