Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Tempe, AZ Graduate Business Analytics student with three years of experience in Data Science and IoT domains. Excellent proficiency with cutting-edge big data tools, software development languages and strong knowledge of Analytical tools. Work Experience Software Engineer ALTIZON SYSTEMS - Pune, Maharashtra July 2015 to June 2017 Worked on the development of Datonis - a cloud based IoT platform - with team of 5 developers  ? Built and configured Apache Spark and Hadoop based Big Data platform to run ML algorithms  ? Developed machine learning algorithm in Scala, Java and Python to analyse IoT data  ? Worked on installation and execution of Apache Zeppelin - a web-based data analytics notebook  ? Migrated Rails platforms to ReactJS framework and made interactive dashboards with Fusion Chart  ? Built a Role based access control feature which uses Redis to cache user roles and permissions  ? Implemented LZF compression algorithm to compress IoT data streamed over the internet Database administrator JOHN DEERE - Pune, Maharashtra July 2012 to August 2013 Worked in the Microsoft SQL DBA team for Technology Centre India  ? Resolved the issues faced by customers by simulating them offshore and providing the best possible solution in appropriate time frame.    PROJECTS  Implemented Kohonen Machine Learning model in Scala  ? Only person selected amongst 180 students to work under Professor Asim Roy, on building a Health Monitoring System in collaboration with Mayo Clinic.  Physical to Virtual Migration of Ubuntu Operating System on OpenStack cloud, M.Tech  ? Developed a shell script to automate migration of Operating system to a virtual instance on cloud  Vehicle license plate recognition system, B.E.  ? Worked on KNN Algorithm, using MATLAB, to recognize the Vehicle Licence Number from its image. This project provided a 90% accuracy. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering KIT'S College Of Engineering - Kolhapur, Maharashtra June 2015 to May 2018 Master of Science in Business Analytics W.P. Carey School of Business, Arizona State University Master of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Visvesvaraya National Institute Of Technology - Nagpur, Maharashtra Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pooja-karande