Database Coordinator/ Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Coordinator/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator (Investment Firm) Clifton, NJ ?Over 19 years of comprehensive experience at a Financial Investment Firm  ?Experience utilizing Morningstar, DST Systems (now SS&C), IAS (Interactive Advisory Systems), Custom software Contrak system, Web Office, Microsoft Office, and Microsoft Excel fine tuning tables  ?Prolific experience solving internal process challenges by utilizing existing systems and developing streamlined steps to optimize workflow, thereby adding value and improved overall efficiency without increasing costs  ?Experienced tactician with the ability to detect and resolve differences in sell/buy, fee structure or other data issues by interacting with various fund companies to ensure data integrity and accuracy  ?Skilled communicator with proficiency in spelling, sentence structure, grammar, etc.  ?Experience collaborating with stakeholders of financial data including CFAs, CPAs, and CFPs, servicing high-net worth individuals and organizations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Coordinator/ Administrator Summit Financial Resources - Parsippany, NJ November 2000 to March 2019 Lead an effort to reduce or eliminate client callbacks for further information by detecting and investigating financial systems output for errors, omissions and inaccuracies.  ? Detailed process facilitator accurately importing data and at times altering standard procedures to suit changing source information condition and requirements  ? Key member of a team tasked with utilizing widely available systems like Morningstar, DST Systems (now SS&C), IAS (Interactive Advisory Systems), Custom software Contrak system, Web Office databases, Wealthscape and other platforms to obtain financial information  ? Created innovative spreadsheets and forms aimed at reducing wait time between initial request for information to fulfillment by up to 50%  ? Initiated the production of custom reports for various stakeholders in the firm, depending on client and target audience  ? Proficient at navigating Microsoft Excel fine tuning tables Quality Control Test Analyst Client Logic/LCS Industries - Clifton, NJ May 2000 to October 2000 ?Interacted with clients such as Highlights magazine, Maxim, and National Geographic  ?Analyzed client data to ensure consistency of projected vs. actual results.  ?Verification of monthly sales figures including (tax, price, shipping, and handling).   ?Editing of letter-text, for accuracy in spelling, sentence structure, grammar, etc.  Quality Control Data Analyst Infocrossing Inc - Leonia, NJ January 1998 to April 2000 Utilizing various operating systems for analysis, and insuring accuracy of clients’ data Education Graphic Art, English Majors Bergen Community College - Paramus, NJ Certificate Computer Learning Center of NJ - Paramus, NJ Skills Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Administrative Assistant, DST Systems (now SS&C) (10+ years), Contrak system (10+ years), Morningstar (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Computer Operations Present Certificate in Computer Operations Present