Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - SI Group Rotterdam, NY Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator SI Group May 2016 to Present • Manage SQL server environment along with SSAS and SSRS  • Leverage Enterprise Service bus to build and deploy automation across systems  • Maintain source control repositories  • Prepare yearly budget for growth  • Manage cross platform integrations using automation via Safe software FME tools Data Analyst Engineer PetPartners August 2015 to April 2016 • Manage SSRS/SSIS reporting to provide real time view to operations team.  • Lead server and database process improvement effort, leading to efficiency gains and cost reduction  • Own analysis for go-forward server and infrastructure requirements for yearly budgeting  • Support main office for IT related incidents, increasing office productivity.  • Monitor and analyze SQL server databases to increase responsiveness and eliminate downtime  • Responded to questions and provide feedback on reports and data related questions Advisory Data Engineer Pitney Bowes October 2000 to August 2015 Lead engineer responsible for the design, development, maintenance, and client interaction across multiple high revenue ($10+mm), high value data product lines within the Pitney Bowes Location Intelligence portfolio.  • Led technical supply chain interaction with public and private 3rd parties, eliminating waste, and increasing efficiency of communication.  • Designed and created database processes in SQL Server, Oracle and across systems, allowing "push button" execution of complex systems that would process 10s and 100s of GB/year  • Researched, tested and implemented new spatial ETL automation systems, resulting in significant process improvement. Coached a global team on the use of those tools.  • Learned and applied Agile engineering/Scrum methodology within Jira software with global teams.  • Communicated and documented entire data process flow for data development  • Led team in problem solving to identify and solve data deficiencies.  • Completed 'proof of concepts' for software deployment in environment. Document and train team on tool set to improve collaboration and standardize tools within the department. Software Support Engineer MapInfo October 1998 to October 2000 • Provided phone support for 20-30 calls per day on MapInfo product line  • Lead AutoCAD support to integrate drawings within MapInfo Professional  • Demonstrated product lead support for predictive analytics software  • Documented and add to Lotus Notes knowledgebase for department  • Prepared 'self-help' tutorials for internal and external customer base    Technical  Languages - TSQL, PLSQL, Java, .Net/ C#  Applications - MapInfo Professional, MS Visual Studio, MS Office, Safe FME  Database systems - MS SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017 and Oracle Education AS Computer Science Schenectady Community College AS Business Administration Schenectady Community College Skills INFORMATICA, WCF, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS SERVER 2012