Oracle Application Express / Discoverer Developer Oracle Application Express / Discoverer Developer Oracle Data Warehouse / Business Intelligence Architect / APEX Designer New York, NY A responsible and challenging position that utilizes an industrial and military background in computer science and mathematics and includes opportunity for future advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Application Express / Discoverer Developer PaeTec Communications March 2018 to Present Oracle Data Warehouse Architect / Discoverer Admin Paetec Communications October 2017 to February 2018 Designed a financial data mart incorporating management and end user feedback. To this end,  have built ETL processes to refresh the underlying star schema and associated materialized views.  Have also built bitmapped and fbi indexes, configured init.ora parameters, and used  various design principles (null management, deferred and rely constraints, etc.) so as to performance tune queries against the data mart. Have also created varioDiscovererreports  (delivered over the web via Plus and Viewer) in which Oracle's analytical functions are being used  to present aggregated revenue data, subscriber churn data, and other user requested metrics. Oracle Portal Designer / DBA Consultant / Teacher Computer Consulting Services July 2016 to September 2017 Designed an Oracle Portal web site for Central Police Services in Buffalo, NY.  The Portal presents complaint/arrest/property/vehicle data from disparate databases  integrated within a single web interface and accessible to authorized police personnel.  Also conducted weekly Oracle based training for IT staff as well as helping staff with SQL and dba tasks. Database Manager / Designer / Oracle Administrator Ajilon Consulting May 2015 to June 2016 Providing dba and development support for a large data warehousing project for Xerox Corp.  Using OWB (Oracle Warehouse Builder 9i) and Oracle Workflow to design and schedule  various phases of the ETL process in accordance to strict time constraints. Implementing  schema and sql modifications with respect to performance issues as well as building packages and shell scripts as required for the warehouse. Web Master / Developer Congregation Shema Yisrael July 2014 to April 2015 Designed, built, for my synagogue. Made extensive use of Javascript in combination with frames and .css stylesheets so as to incorporate the basic themes our Rabbi required on the site. Have also trained an assistant to help in this site's on going maintenance. Database Manager / Designer / Oracle Administrator Concentrix Corporation April 2013 to June 2014 • Manager - Lead the database department within the company, responsible for all backend project work and providing oversight and expertise to personnel engaged in database design and Oracle development.  • Data Warehouse Development - Responsible for creating large, Oracle-based, data warehouses for several clients. Each involved coordinating efforts of a team of developers, account managers, and client liaisons and encompassed ERD design, conversion and de-duplication of legacy data, index creation, SQL query design, design of needed packages and triggers, design of Bourne-shell scripts used to support ETL process, and construction of Business Objects based meta layers.  • Analytics Implementation - Design of Sql Server Data Cubes (includes ETL process design from Oracle OLTP system) and follow up analysis of data based upon client needs.  • Server Development - As a member of several teams, am responsible for design and implementation of Oracle 9i and Oracle 8i database systems in our SUN solaris and NT environment for several large, OLTP and OLAP based projects. Responsibilities include: creation and presentation of system/business requirements to customers and internal managerial staff, creation and presentation of ongoing Oracle training sessions to our internal IT staff, design of complex PLSQL packages and triggers needed to implement needed business rules, design of large database ERDs to model customer data requirements.  • Replication Designer/Manager - Designed a large sales force automation project in which our client's 250 sales personnel would replicate new and updated customer information with a central Oracle repository. This information would then be disseminated to other sales personnel and client managers. Sales personnel would use Oracle's "Oracle Lite" product installed on their laptops to communicate via SqlNet with our Oracle server on solaris. I built a sophisticated Oracle/PRO*C application on solaris that would be invoked via a PL/SQL trigger to funnel sales rep transactions between the Oracle Lite databases on their lap tops and the appropriate rows on our master replication server.  • Oracle 9i/8i DBA - Set up Oracle on our UNIX servers (SCO and solaris) in terms of tablespaces, storage configuration, memory allocation, backup parameters, authorized users and permissions.  • Asp Development - Created .asp pages as part of effort in transferring practical knowledge to web developers in how to use Oracle's OO4O (Oracle Objects For OLE) to access Oracle data via an .asp page through usage of cursor variables.  • Business Objects Administrator - Installed and configured "Business Objects" on an NT server, setting up directories, permissions, and passwords. Extensively used this OLAP tool to build universes, meta layers, and needed SQL queries as well as supported client end users in the building of reports based on our warehouse.  I made use of Business Objects' inheritance feature in the design of a "master - detail" universe. This allowed me to mimic our warehouse environment in which the "master" set of folders serve as a generic repository of items. Each of the "detail" sets of folders represents my company's clients. This allowed us to easily "trickle" newly added items from master folders down to specific client folders. This inheritance feature was also used to easily manage end user access rights.  Amongst the master folders (and, subsequently, passed on to specific client folders), I created items in which PL/SQL packaged functions were used to deliver result sets to any report in which these items were included. I also spent much time with our clients both documenting the types of fields and field calculations they wanted for their reporting as well as helping them in the actual building of reports. Many of these included use of Oracle's analytic functions in order to build trending type cross tab reports in which, for example, month over month revenue averages were compared.  • Predictive Dialer Administrator - Responsible for configuration and first line technical support of Interactive Intelligence's Predictive Dialer and EIC Server in support of Call Center outbound client campaigns. Involves much integration between MS SQL Server and Oracle. As part of these efforts, created web pages that incorporate the EIC Server's "Web Chat" and "Call Me Now" capabilities, using Javascript to integrate these technologies for a startup web based, online university Database Manager / Designer / Oracle Administrator Bad Dog Digital Services February 2012 to March 2013 Designed a large, Oracle 8i / Solaris based, OLTP database as the backend to a During this process, gave managerial direction to a team of 8 web and VB developers with respect to code and data flow designs. Created all database objects (tables, constraints, sequences, triggers), sized tablespaces, wrote SQL and DDL scripts, and gave lead advice on configuration of database and web servers. Also created, published, and maintained this site's data dictionary. Led meetings with all team members as part of our system design. Database Designer Questra Consulting November 2010 to January 2012 Server / Client Development - As part of a team, responsible for various parts of both server and client development of a client - server based proposal generation tracking system for a NY based international maker / distributor of steam turbine engines. Responsibilities include systems analysis and database design, implementing both logical and physical models, creating an Oracle - FORTRAN Interface, writing PLSQL packages and triggers for both our client-based Developer/2000 interface as well as an Oracle database residing on both a Windows95 laptop and a Solaris server. Included extensive collaboration with management and end users.    As part of another project, was responsible for the server development of a client - server based immunization information system for the State of New York. Responsibilities include systems analysis and database design, implementing both logical and physical models, writing procedures and triggers for both Sybase SQL Server and Sybase SQL AnyWhere products and assuring their mutual compatibility, and database configuration and tuning. Project Technical Leader Eastman Kodak Company January 2008 to October 2010 • Responsible for design and implementation of Motif-based GUI front-end development of EDS' Product Data Manager (PDM) product "Information Manager". Analysis of customer needs was translated into business requirements for interface modifications and reporting.  • Took lead role in development of needed UNIX scripts used to compile our PDM libraries and organize our directory structures. Created a makefile that dynamically changes its compilation parameters to accommodate for both Solaris and HP-UX environments.  • Made major modifications to a Motif-based file transfer program used in conjunction with "Information Manager".  • When a member of another PDM development team had a sudden heart attack, I took over his responsibilities of developing utilities needed to transfer millions of records of needed legacy data into the underlying Oracle database used with "Information Manager". This involved the development of Bourne Shell scripts that automate this legacy data transfer by forking as many asynchronous processes (up to a user defined maximum range) as needed. These scripts also automatically track and summarize in report format which data is being loaded, any errors encountered and their possible solutions.    • Responsible for design, development, and testing of a set of Oracle 7 - based packaged procedures and triggers which automatically track the flow of various toxic and non-toxic chemicals through hundreds of miles of pipes both inside and outside of Kodak Park's industrial facilities. Pipe and chemical attributes were stored and summarized in accordance with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards.  • Regularly met with customers to determine reporting and interface requirements and to report progress.    • Developed HTML and Perl - based CGI scripts to implement World Wide Web access to an Oracle 7 database on a UNIX server.    • Led effort to migrate an Ingres 6 - based problem-tracking system called PTDB (developed by ETI) into an Oracle 7 - based product. This involved much embedded SQL/C development and re-coding of procedures and triggers.  • Regularly met with customers to design enhancements to the basic system and then developed and tested these improvements.    • Led the design and development of a "Budget Analysis Tracking System" for Kodak's Copier Division. This involved regular meetings with engineering staff and coordination of the efforts of five other technical personnel. Further responsibilities included database design and tuning, report design, code development and deployment, and testing. Education Bachelor's Stanford Linear Accelerator Center at Stanford University - SLAC Additional Information Expertise  • Twenty years experience in translating customer needs into cost-effective business solutions.  • Strong experience coordinating customer - developer interaction and project deliverables.  • Extensive experience applying Software Engineering methodologies and tools in designing both GUI front-ends and database back ends.  • Strong experience leading, assuming responsibility for, and organizing the various project management and development aspects of several challenging projects.  • Experience designing and teaching courseware to several groups of people.  • Strong ability in working well within diverse groups of project team members.  • Strong ability and desire to stay abreast of latest information technologies.    Systems/Languages  • Hardware: Sun Sparc, EIC Server, HP 9000, HP 3000, IBM PC, DEC  VAX    • Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, HP UX, Linux), Windows (7/XP), DOS  • Networks / Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, Novell, DecNet  • DBMS: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i/7, MS SQL Server 2000 (includes  Analysis Manager), MS Access, Sybase SQLAnyWhere, HP TurboIMAGE, DBASE IV  • Data Warehousing Tools: OWB (Oracle Warehouse Builder) 9i/10g/11g, Sql  Server 2000 Analysis Manager  • Middleware: Oracle Sql*Net and Net8  • Internet Tools: Oracle APEX (Application Express) 4.x, FrontPage,  UltraDev  • Application Servers: Oracle WebLogic, OAS 10g (including Portal)  • OLAP: Business Objects Supervisor, Designer, and Reporter;  Oracle Discoverer 10g Administrator, Plus, and Viewer  • Languages: SQL, PLSQL, TSQL, PRO*C, OO4O, JQuery, Python, asp  pages, JavaScript, XML, JSON, HTML, DHTML, FORTRAN, Perl, AWK, Make, Bourne/C/Korn Shells  • CASE Tools: Power Designer, ErWIN