Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA Sr.SQL Server DBA - Spruce Technology Inc Columbus, OH • 9+ years of experience in SQL Server 2016/20142012/2008R2/2008/2005 with strong expertise in SQL Server development, designing Stored Procedures/Transact-SQL coding, SSIS/SSRS/SSAS, OLTP and OLAP.  • Involved in Migrating from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2005 to 2008 and SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012.  • Experienced in installing and configuring SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014.  • Production, Staging, UAT, Testing and Development server's maintenance related to financial,manufacturing and health care domain.  • Extensively worked in Data Migration between Homogeneous & Heterogeneous Systems using various tools (SQL Server Upgrade Advisor, DTS Package Migration Wizard, Import Export Data, DTS Packages, Bulk Insert, BCP and SSIS).  • Configured\Monitored\Supported and Troubleshooting of Database Mirroring and Log Shipping for multiple databases on Geo-graphically separated cluster environments to provide High Availability and Disaster Recovery. Support and troubleshooting for Transactional replication and Merge.  • Expertise Experience in Query Optimization, Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, and Linked Servers and analyzing the execution plans.  • Good Experience with Performance tuning, DMV'S, DMF'S, analyzing Locks, Dead Locks and Handling the Isolation Level and Concurrency Effects  • Experience in high availability SQL Server solutions with SQL Server 2012 Always ON availability groups, Replication, Database Snapshot, Log shipping, and Database Mirroring.  • Experience in automating the system by using Notification service and creating alerts, jobs and maintenance plans.  • Hands on Experience in Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring, Migrating and Troubleshooting SQL Server versions.  • Proficient with SQL Server tools, including Enterprise Manager, Management Studio, Query Analyzer, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, DTA and Business Intelligent Studio.  • Hands on experience on high availability SQL Server solutions, including SQL Server Log shipping, SQL Server clustering and mirroring using Different modes.  • Planning and assistance for creating Maintenance plans, Auditing plans and Backup/recovery plans.  • Hands-on working experience with Analyzing query plans, using extended Stored Procedures, managing indexes and locks, troubleshooting deadlocks.  • Experience in implementing High availability SQL Server solutions, including Replication Models (Snapshot/Transactional) and Implementing SQL Server clustering (Active-Active, Active-Passive), (Multi Node Cluster).  • Experience in maintenance jobs to perform Full, Differential and Transaction Log backups using Simple, Bulk-logged and Full Recovery Model experienced with Database Backup, Recovery solutions.  • Expert in analysis and resolution of performance bottlenecks involving CPU, I/O and memory usage.  • Expert level skills in creating objects like Tables, Views, Normalization, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and other SQL joins and query writing using T- SQL statements.  • Extensively involved in installation of MS SQL. Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, Performance Tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities  • Experience in Database designing, RDBMS, and Normalization/De-normalization  • Experience in Index Maintenance, Index tuning, Rebuild & Reorganizing according to Index fragmentation, running DBCC checks and Update Statistics to check Data Integrity  • Extensively used tools like SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning MS SQL Server performance  • Extensively worked on Active-Active and Active-Passive Clustering  • Experience in SQL Server 2008 new features like Policy Based Management, CDC, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Performance Data Collector and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)  • Experience in working with system administrators for creating/modifying/user/group accounts in Windows Active Directory to authenticate SQL server users through domain group/user accounts.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills combined with interpersonal and conflict resolution skills and possess strong analytical skills. Provide 24x7 on-call production support in case it requires. Work Experience Sr.SQL Server DBA Spruce Technology Inc - New York, NY October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configuration and support of TFS, Windows Native Clustering and SQL Clustering and SQL Always ON technology  • Implemented and troubleshoot Microsoft SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2014.  • Implemented and troubleshoot MS Azure Database, SQL PDW (Analytic Platform System).  • Created Solutions diagrams for corporate ERP systems within (Health, Financial, and Government environments)  • Created/Modified PerfMon counters to track/find issues within Windows Server 2012/SQL using the Server App Tools or Packages Select to process.  • Worked with application groups and peers to determine implantation details for enhancements, and applications  • Implemented and maintained Database as a Disaster Recovery Solution.  • Worked within TSQL, store procedures, packages and functions  • Service Now with lifecycle runbook documentation.  • Daily support, troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization and tuning of SQL server environments across entire system. Managed SSAS cubes and supported full, incremental load process.  • Involved in Change Control Management is the discipline of systematically identifying and controlling change requests to a project from both internal and external sources.  • Successfully migrate and upgrade SQL 2008 databases to SQL 2014/2016 and SQL 2008R2 databases to SQL 2014/2016.  • Setup and configure Database mirroring and Log shipping in High Performance, High availability mode as standard DR strategy.  • Provide our development team a list of the most resource-intensive queries and suggest ways to improve performance.  • Write, test and maintaining T-SQL and stored procedures.  • Design indexes for existing applications, choosing when to add or remove indexes.Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Document the company's database environment.  • Participate in planning, design, Implementation and testing of new and changing database configuration.  • Provides mentoring and support to all database teams and developers.  • Tracks emerging technologies; evaluating their applicability to business goals and operational requirements  • Researches and understands new and emerging technologies and recommends and develops solutions in conjunction with other technical leaders.  • Design database solutions to satisfy application (business and technical) requirements  • Implement database solutions using available database development tools ,AWS Cloud  • Lead database compliance effort in accordance with 21 CFR 11 and participate with internal and external audits resulting in fulfillment of VDA requirements.  • Configure and maintain transactional replications.  • Design and deploy SSIS packages to implement business logics and deploy SSRS reports and SSAS cubes in production environment.  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users  • GIS Primary objective of the project is to provide 24/7 production database support and manage all the databases of Retail Broadband DB running on MS SQL Server , DB2 Sybase, Oracle & MySQL  • Design, maintain and build conceptual, logical and physical database models. Database architecture and creation, optimization, deriving conversion and migration methods for existing data, and developing automated conversion and migration methods.  • Install and configure SSRS, SSIS and SSAS services.  • Automated daily database refreshes from production to staging and on-demand refreshes from production to test environments.  • Troubleshooting and resolving database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues, replication issues, log issues, connectivity issues.    Environment: SQL Server 2008-R2/2012/2014/2016, Clustered, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, TDP, LiteSpeed, Spotlight, Visual TRUVIEW Sr.SQL Server DBA NETE - Rockville, MD July 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Applied Patches and Service packs to update different versions of MS SQL Server in Clustered and standalone environments. Created linked servers between SQL Server 2005 and 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016. Clear, Fix &resolve Database Vulnerabilities Reported by Enterprise Security Manager (ESM).  • Implemented Database Cloning using Netapp snap manager for databases more than of sizes 5-10 TB.  • Monitoring database performance, identifying bottlenecks, and proposing ways to optimize performance on the production server  • Working with development teams to incorporate database changes required for release rollouts.  • Responsible for integrating data into a centralized database with dynamic design and user-friendly web application, to keep track of Direct Bill Payments and Commissions from various Clients across the nation.  • Involved in Data Center Migration project for moving databases across the location which includes around 500 servers with SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2012, 2014, & 2016.  • Worked closely with Microsoft to make sure the recurring corruption issues are fixed in our Database environment. Installation and managing SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008 on different environments.  • Upgraded to SQL Server 2012 and guiding the development and application team to fully utilize SQL Server 2012 enhancements. Implemented backup strategy for the new data center environment.  • Planning and Implementation of Data archiving strategies using OPTIM for the data life cycle management and data retention procedures.  • Moved/Copied of Databases from one server to another server using Backup-restore, Attach and detach methods and refreshing databases in development, QA and stage environments using production backup. Implemented Always ON, Transactional replication, DB Mirroring, Log shipping using SQL Server 2014/2012.  • Implemented wrappers for Smart Re-indexing features for DB maintenance Routines.  • Implementing Database audits based on risk levels and Security as per enterprise compliance.  • Built SQL Servers in Stand Alone and cluster Environments (Virtual & Bare Metal).  • Implemented Upgradations and Migrations from SQL 2008 to 2014which includes SSAS, SSIS and SSRS.  • Automated Data refreshes from Data Domain and NetBackup media servers using Command line scripts for 3rd party Plugin Backups based on retention requirements.  • Maintenance of existing trading instruments, and managing updates to their underlying data  • Implemented Replication Models, i.e., Snapshot and Transactional  • Manage and resolve trouble tickets for database related issues submitted by customer.  • Provide 24 X 7 supports for SQL Servers on-call responsibilities.  • Tested and installed SQL Server 2008.  • Migrate DTS packages from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008 Integration Services (SSIS).  • Database optimization, performance monitoring and index tuning.  • Creating jobs and alerts for monthly and weekly maintenance.  • Worked with SQL Server 2008 Management Studio (SSMS) to develop deploy and troubleshoot databases.  • Data migration from other data storage like Oracle and DB2 using SSIS.  • Migrated SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Implement Log shipping between production and DR servers.  • Tested and implemented Database Mirroring solution for Production critical application.  • Ensure that SQL Server databases are updated accurately and regularly.  • Implemented transactional replication for populating reporting database.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014, Clustered, VMware, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Spotlight, SCOM, CyberArk, Arcsight Database Administrator Karsun Solutions LLC - Herndon, VA August 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed and administered clustered and virtual SQL server 2014/2012/2008 and 2005.  • Installed Service Packs/Hot fixes and created documentation for tracking and SQL server installation purposes.  • Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases on Production, Test and Staging for various groups and ensured the availability of the database Servers.  • Patch updates in Standalone and Cluster Environments.  • Physical database designing & creation devising strategies for Backups, Recovery, DR-Failover & Query-tuning.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Involve in creating Schemas, Tables, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes, Views,functions and Stored Procedures.  • Used SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 Database Development and Administration.  • Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting, Upgrading and Migrating SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2008R2/2005 on standby environments.  • Installed latest service packs, applied hot fixes and cumulative updates.  • Migrated servers from 2005 to 2012 and 2008 to 2012 with In-place and Side-by-Side Processes.  • Involved in requirement gathering and interact directly with stake holders and business teams in coordinating the business needs.  • Implemented and maintained high availability systems (clustering, database mirroring, log shipping).  • Install, configure and administer SQL Server 2005/2008- R2/2012/2014 on clustered and VMware environment.  • Monitor jobs execution, and make correction actions when necessary.  • Deployment, configuration, troubleshooting and debugging of the application environments.  • Refreshed databases for Pre/Post Deployments and Data Loads activities.  • Work with EMC, Microsoft on multiple cases and fix the Database issues.  • Administered SQL Server/ Database level Security and utilized Auditing and Data Encryption (TDE) according to requirements and Integrity with HIPAA requirements.  • Created logins and database users, roles and provided permissions to users and roles according to the requirement and security policy.  • Implemented Data Masking and Database Security Hardening.  • Scheduled jobs and monitored and troubleshooting them. Task automation using power shell script and SQL agents.  • Created DDL triggers for auditing any DDL change.  • Created various jobs to monitor resources on various servers and to mail the necessary information when threshold was reached.  • Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases.  • Design/ developing SSIS (ETL) MDX developing components.  • Involved in migrating share point from one server to the other.  • Involved in migrating share point from one server to the other.  • Write, test and maintaining T-SQL and stored procedures as they relate to DBA support.  • Performed data partitioning for efficient management of database tables and indexes.  • Evaluated CPU, Disk I/O and Memory related bottlenecks using Performance Monitor and improve the SQL server performance.  • Fine tune slow running T-SQL queries using Execution Plan and Database engine tuning advisor.  • Worked with the application team on the planning, testing and implementing production database software upgrade cycles.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Clustered, VMware, SSIS, SSAS, SSRA, Tivoli, NetBackup SQL Server DBA Citadel Information Services Inc - Iselin, NJ February 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in quarterly meetings with Senior Management to discuss technical infrastructure and market recommendations assisting in the formation of the technology roadmap.  • Troubleshooting production server performance issues, performance tuning and optimization and proactively monitoring using IDERA SQLDm and ScaleArc.  • Implementing and maintaining disaster recovery servers using Always On Availability Group, and SQL transactional replications. Provide written status reports to management regarding project status, task, and issues/risks  • Develops, implements and manages the employer's enterprise database technology road-map to include:  • Building backup repository server, performing encrypted backups and restores using IDERA SQLSafe.  • Upgrading SQL 2012 servers to SQL 2016, migrating databases to AWS, migrating SSRS servers.  • Managed and administrated database and database applications 24x7 that include Oracle 10g /11g/9i Databases, Siebel and Cognos application databases, Micro focus Cobol, RAC (real application cluster) clustering server, OEM Grid, High Availability, Data Guard, Web service applications (WebSphere and WebLogic) and IBM Rational products. Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases. SAP Hana migration  • Used DBArtisan to conduct a majority of the daily database administrative tasks.  • Create joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables.  • Writing Transact-SQL Query (DDL-Data definition language and DML-Data manipulation language), involving sub queries and joins and experienced in configuring linked servers to access heterogeneous databases.  • Projects support DBA for SQL Server Design &Build for New applications (In-house and Vendor) and Migrations (Till GO Live) as per enterprise baseline and DRAs.  • Design Database backup and Archival solutions using Netapp, Veritas NetBackup and EMC Avamar.  • Implemented High availability and Disaster recovery solutions.  • Writing various scripts for server maintenance, monitoring, and data archives.  • Building and administering 220 SQL 7.0, SQL 2000, SQL 2005 production servers, and 35 backup servers on DELL 4600/6600, HP Proliant 380/385/530/570.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2005, Oracle, DB2, Windows 2000/2003 servers, MS Access, DTS, SSIS, Visio, LiteSpeed, Performance monitor, Query Analyzer, Enterprise Manager. SQL Server DBA GLOBAL DATA CONSULTANTS - York, PA March 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Performing database upgrades, servers performance tuning and query optimization.  • Writing stored procedures, triggers, various transact-SQL scripts and setting up replications.  • Working closely with the Development and Customer Support Departments in resolving issues.  • Writing stored procedures, triggers, and other scripts.  • Responsible for server performance optimization and tuning, building indexes, DBCC.  • Performing database backups and restores.  • Transferring database objects from stage server to live server using DTS.  • Brought all in-scope production environments into compliance with SOX regulations.  • Liaison between auditors and the Enterprise Operations Center, maintaining a perfect history of passing audits.  • Migrating database from Microsoft Access to SQL Server and worked with application team in integrating Access forms with SQL Server. Monitoring and resolving the tickets for development and testing boxes.  • Designed SSIS packages to retrieve system configurations from all the servers and loaded them in staging tables.  • Create stored procedures to be run as regular SQL Server jobs for cleaning the violations.  • Created SQL Server Agent Jobs to automate tasks such as to run Index Maintenance, Index defrag, Rebuild, Update Statistics etc. (DBCC). Also, created jobs to backup databases.  • Performed Root cause analysis to track down problems and used SQL profiler for troubleshooting.  • Recommend R&D Developers on proper coding techniques to avoid Timeout errors and Deadlock issues.  • Recommend, create and implement processes for clients to resolve performance issues and data integrity issues. Modified and optimized complex queries for data retrieval and modification.  • Presented with an award from the Director of IT for demonstrating to auditors that every user account with the capability of altering production data was SOX compliant under the new access control process.  • Recognized by the Senior IT Director for leading the team which rescued the company's current cloud project schedule.    • When performance issues arise, determine the most effective way to increase performance including hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes.    Environment: SQL Server 2008/R2/2005, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Education Bachelor's Skills Database (10+ years), MICROSOFT SSRS (7 years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Programming Languages C, BS, SQL, TSQL  RDBMS MS-SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014, Microsoft Access.  ETL Tools SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) 2005/2008/2008R2/2012, DTS.  OLAP Tools SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) 2005/2008/2008R2/2012.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2005/2008, Crystal Reports.  Database Tools  SQL Server Management Studio(SSMS), SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio(BIDS), Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer.    Operating Systems Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012, Linux, Unix.  Performance Tools Spotlight, Foglight, Idera, Tivoli, SCOM, Erwin  Backup tools Idera, Litespeed, Native Backup, RedGate.