Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant - Georgia Pacific LLC Coos Bay, OR Work Experience Administrative Assistant Georgia Pacific LLC - Coos Bay, OR December 2016 to Present Provide administrative support to the Controller and Human resources including assisting with payroll using  Kronos, entering employee time off requests, setting up new employee files, create new hire packets, assist potential employees with completing an application, assist HR with new employee computer access.  Receptionist duties such as filing, typing, copying, faxing, distributing mail, etc. Including answering the phone and greeting visitors. Manage and order office supplies. Prepare outgoing mail, as needed. Provide  customer service to internal and external customers. Obtain data from various resources and accurately  prepare daily reports. Provide administrative support to Log Procurement including preparing Log PO's, PAP's, etc. Assist Maintenance Department, by updating work orders in MP2, tracking unscheduled down  time and miscellaneous projects as assigned. Cover for storeroom staff on vacation by using MP2 to check  out inventory and enter receiving against purchase orders. Prepare and submit invoices for payment as they are received. Administrative Assistant Georgia Pacific LLC - Coos Bay, OR November 2015 to December 2016 Provide administrative support to the Controller and Human resources including assisting with payroll using  Kronos, entering employee time off requests, setting up new employee files, create new hire packets, assist potential employees with completing an application, assist HR with new employee computer access.  Receptionist duties such as filing, typing, copying, faxing, distributing mail, etc. Including answering the phone and greeting visitors. Manage and order office supplies. Prepare outgoing mail, as needed. Provide  customer service to internal and external customers. Obtain data from various resources and accurately  prepare daily reports. Provide administrative support to Log Procurement including preparing Log PO's, PAP's, etc. Assist Maintenance Department, by updating work orders in MP2, tracking unscheduled down  time and miscellaneous projects as assigned. Cover for storeroom staff on vacation by using MP2 to check  out inventory and enter receiving against purchase orders. Prepare and submit invoices for payment as they are received. Administrative Assistant Cardinal Employment Services\Harmony Estates - Bandon, OR September 2015 to November 2016 Created and updated forms and letters using Microsoft Word and Excel. Updated resident records and assisted with residents if needed. Receptionist Cardinal Employment Services\Johnson Rock Products - Coos Bay, OR January 2015 to March 2015 Answered multi-line phone, open mail, keep office clean, entered invoices for payment, created invoices to bill customers, created checks, filing, operated the copy machine, fax machine and scanner. Operated  the Neopost machine. Weighed trucks empty and full for rock purchases. Dealt with customers face to  face and on the phone. Took phone orders for delivery of rock. Took payment in cash and credit card from customers purchasing rock. Database Administrator U-Haul International - Phoenix, AZ March 2007 to March 2014 Managed an Oracle database  Installed software on PC's  Troubleshoot non-working software installations Wrote  basic SQL programs Customer service U-Haul International - Phoenix, AZ July 1989 to March 2007 Phoenix, AZ (Jul 1989 to Mar 2007)  Accounts Payable  Code and process invoices for payment  Processed credit memos and debit memos  Request refund checks for over payments to vendors  Request refund checks for large credit memos on vendor accounts  Researched vendor accounts  Created new vendor accounts  Called company locations to verify receipt of product  Created debit memos for non-receipt of product and incorrect pricing  Researched payments processed by outside U-Haul locations  Provided training to new employees  Promoted to a lead and managed up to 10 employees  Entered payroll time sheets into computer  Learned several different Accounts Payable software programs, including ones written internally  Used Word, Excel, email and internet in daily tasks  Accurately entered and retrieved data from the computer  Customer service experience dealing with company locations as well as outside vendors  Occasionally backed up the receptionist answering multi-line phone  Extensive 10-key by touch Education GED in customer service Maryvale High School - Phoenix, AZ May 1980