Database Architect <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Database Architect Carmel, IN Currently evaluating Data, Database, Database Architect opportunities and assessing the marketplace. I will only respond to Remote opportunties or those in the immediate Indianapolis area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Architect Anthem - Indianapolis, IN February 2011 to Present Indianapolis, Indiana ? February 2011 - Current  Nation's largest provider of healthcare benefits with over 40 million direct members and an additional 70 million members in subsidiaries.    Database Architect  Technology expert accountable for leadership and advisory services for enterprise scale projects. Specialized in data technology and architecture efforts.    Employment Highlights:  • Lead the 'DB Gatekeeper' function to ensure consistent database design and coding standards are followed across fourteen Scrum Teams and a mix of Anthem Associates and multiple consulting partners.  • Serve as the team expert on all database performance and tuning objectives for all project-based SQL Server environments.  • Define, enforce, and refine standards for development and support of all database objects including tables, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, views, and functions.  • Lead the database team's integration into the Agile Delivery model.  • Direct the efforts of the onshore and offshore database team and support a geographically diverse delivery team for the Medisys Project.  • Implemented process improvements to simplify and streamline the operational activities of the Medisys Data team.  • Participate in the early stages of DevOps rollout for support of all Senior Enrollment project initiatives.  • Lead team infrastructure projects such as database server ugprades, active directory rollout, and the transitions from Physical to Virtual Hosts. Director, Information Technology VMS Biomarketing - Indianapolis, IN May 2010 to January 2011 Indianapolis, Indiana ? May 2010 - January 2011  Leading provider of Patient Education and Management solutions along with Strategic Marketing and Meetings programs.    Director, Information Technology  Top level Executive accountable for the setting the strategic direction of Information Technology at VMS. Lead Applications Development, Project Management, Business Analysis, Quality Assurance, Infrastructure, and Service Desk components of IT with an annual IT budget greater than $3 million.    Employment Highlights:  • Lead efforts to restructure the IT Teams to reduce consulting headcount by 40% and drive the retention of intellectual capital within VMS.  • Drive the creation and enhancement of an IT Infrastructure that positions VMS to support the targeted level of client, employee, and revenue growth. Created and staffed internal positions that allowed for cost savings of 50% or greater for each position retained on the IT staff.  • Directed effort to push toward one framework for VMS's core IT project that will allow VMS to minimize the time-to-market and expenses for the on-board of new clients. Core technology is now positioned to reduce time-to-market and implementation expenses by 50% for most client projects. Engagement Manager (Eli Lilly) BUCHER + CHRISTIAN CONSULTING - Indianapolis, IN 2008 to 2010 Indianapolis, Indiana ? 2008 - 2010  Fast-Growing Global IT Consulting firm.    Engagement Manager (Eli Lilly)  Lead and Manage multiple teams of IT Professionals and Project Managers for Fortune 500 Client with annual project budgets between $2-3 million USD. Accountable for the overall quality and profitability of the information services provided to customers. Provide technology advice and leadership for multiple clients in BCforward's portfolio. Leverage IT business knowledge and IT systems experience to facilitate a common understanding between those in non-technical roles and those in hands-on technical roles. Partner with Architects, DBAs, Developers, and Management to ensure delivery of high quality service for database projects.    Employment Highlights:  • Lead the planning and implementation efforts to transition main engagement from Staff Augmentation model to a Managed Service with higher profit potential and greater client satisfaction.  • Lead the technology evaluations and associated budgets in response to RFPs with total project values greater than $4 million.  • Construct KPIs and Metrics to project future demands and monitor current performance of IT Teams against agreed-upon Service Level Agreements (SLAs).  • Improved employee morale by boosting training opportunities, incorporating job feedback programs, organizing team build exercises, and encouraging certification opportunities. Database Architect COX TARGET MEDIA - Largo, FL 2007 to 2008 Largo, Florida ? 2007-2008  Leading targeted marketing company as the provider of the Valpak and Valpak.com brands.    Database Architect  Initiate, Plan, Monitor, Execute, and Complete database system projects for Cox Target Media in the role of Project Manager. Lead the design of intelligent and effective database solutions that will position the firm to capitalizate on business intelligence and realize business opportunity. Direct the functional activity of the enterprise database administration team. Offer guidance to development teams on the migration from SDLC to an Agile development model. Perform Database Installations, upgrades, and SQL Performance evaluations across Microsoft SQL Server and Sybase Database systems.    Employment Highlights:  • Earned the opportunity to manage the Enterprise Database Management team within first two months of employment.  • Manage the delivery of new information system to manage nationwide sales leads, which resulted in an additional $28K of revenue during the initial month of deployment.  • Lead the database design effort for My Design Center project, which will revolutionize how customers and franchises develop advertisements for the Valpak product line. Senior Database Administrator THE NIELSEN COMPANY - Oldsmar, FL 2003 to 2007 Premier television audience measurement and advertising information services company with 38,000 employees worldwide. Senior Database Administrator / Architect THE NIELSEN COMPANY 2003 to 2007 Lead technical and design project teams, developing performance- and efficiency-boosting strategies including SDLC, XP and Agile. Sustain enterprise database systems in alignment with corporate goals, including expert-level architectural design, quality assurance, implementation and support.    Employment Highlights:  • Spearheaded Foundations project, which minimized time-to-market for new projects and accelerated new revenue opportunities while maintaining competitive advantage.  • Manage and Coordinate the release of Database Projects into production environments.  • Developed and launched Test Market Profiles project, delivering solution on time and creating new revenue stream previously unanticipated.  • Originated training modules for new and existing employees wishing to advance personal skill sets, which saved company up to $5K per classroom day.  • Recognized for authoring book, The Official New Features Guide to Sybase ASE 15 and for beta testing Sybase's ASE product. Reached more than 1,000 people via Sybase webcast as featured speaker.  • Contributed to The Administrator's Guide to Sybase ASE 15. Senior Database Administrator (Consultant) SIGNATURE CONSULTANTS - Clearwater, FL 2000 to 2003 Clearwater, Florida ? 2000-2003  Primary client was an International organization providing communication solutions, now part of France Telecom with $51B Euros in annual revenue.    Senior Database Administrator (Consultant)  At the client site, coached teams on multiple projects throughout software development life cycle, taking on extra operations to assist client during layoff period. Directed enterprise unit hosts, managed off-site tape storage rotation and ensured system maintenance throughout staff shortage.    Employment Highlights:  • Moderated most critical system requiring round-the-clock supervision with 99.99% availability during 1st year.  • Automated database maintenance administration functions.  • Established warm-standby solution, with dually located client systems so systems could be upgraded or repaired without service interruptions.  • Co-authored/Contributed to The Administrators' Guide to Sybase ASE 12.5. Database Administrator / Lead Developer THE NIELSEN COMPANY 1996 to 2000 Designed, executed and monitored Analyst Tracking System, providing design and revisions for annual outbound call management process, which boosted accuracy and employee efficiency. Managed and advised upon the continued support of custom software. Cultivated architecture and implementation of enterprise-scale databases.    Employment Highlights:  • Refined most complex physical database model.  • Simplified daily operations associated with database administration team, automating tasks and monitoring functions to alert the team of any concerns. Systems Consultant HEWITT - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1996 Conducted client-site meetings to gather customer information relevant to new information systems. Devised interfaces between client's arrangement and company's benefits administration system to outsource project. Originated validation techniques to validate data from client.    Employment Highlights;  • Exceeded client expectations delivering project on time.  • Modernized interfaces used to manage initial transfer, which are now utilized on an ongoing basis. Education Master of Business Administration in Management Information Systems and Finance The Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL Skills SQL (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Sybase (10+ years), Database Architecture (10+ years), Linux Certifications/Licenses PMP January 2008 to January 2021 Certified SAFe 4 Practitioner October 2018 to Present Scaled Agile, Inc Certification Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sp040a8g-oauqqoh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.