SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL DBA Houston, TX SQL Server Administrator for over 5+ years' experience on Data Design, Development, and Administration on SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and 2016 system in environment.   • Leading a team of 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support.   • Expert in RDBMS concepts and constructs to design relational databases model and implementation as per business needs.   • Expertise and Interest include Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production Support for Large (VLDB)   • Extensively worked on DTS in SQL Server, Performance Tuning & Application Design, Hot, Warm and Cold Backups, Disaster Recovery Planning, Security Management   • Expert in implementing business logic in backend using dynamic stored procedures, effective triggers and useful functions.   • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Database consistency checks using DBCC utilities and Complex Databases up to 2.5 TB.   • Experience in database migration to cloud (Azure,AWS)  • Experience in Database administration activities for DB Security (creating users, roles, and assigning permission to them).   • Specific hands on experience include administering large and complex Databases, Database Design, Normalization, Replication, Log Shipping, Full-text indexing, and Database Application Development using varied development tools.   • Expertise in high availability EDSS environments like log shipping, replication, and clustered environments. Migrating SQL Server 2000 data bases into SQL Server 2005 & 2008.   • Experience in extracting and transforming data using SSIS, DTS Import/Export Data, Bulk Insert, BCP and DTS Packages.   • Expertise in writing complex T-SQL (DDL, DML, and DSL).   • Expertise in SQL Loader and Import/Export Utilities.   • Expert in implementing Web services using ASPX and executing them from functions or stored procedures in SQL Server   • Extensively worked on 32 bit, x64 bit and i64 clustered and standalone server environments.   • Experience in Analysis Services, Reporting Services, Business Intelligence, Integration Services.   • Experience in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures.   • Experience in transferring the data from SQL Server to Oracle using DTS   • Extensive use of DTS in SQL Server, Performance Tuning & Application Design, Hot and Cold Backups, Disaster Recovery Planning, Security Management, Managing server and clients, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Cursors and Triggers etc.   • Intensive experience in monitoring and tuning SQL Server and database performance using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Windows Performance Monitor.   • Managing the clustering environment.   • Created PL/SQL packages, procedures and functions.   • Good experience in implementing SOX Compliance security   • Knowledge on Front-end application using Visual Basic, ASP in .NET framework, VB scripting and Java scripting.   • Expert in automating process by creating jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent.   • Working experience in Wall Street Office (WSO) - Reporting.   • Expert in designing and developing effective periodic and on-demand reports using SSRS, Crystal Reports.   • Configures SQL mail agent for sending automatic emails when DTS process fails or succeeds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Crown Cork and Seal - Houston, TX September 2018 to Present • Migrated Databases from SQL Server 2005 and 2008 to SQL Server 2008R2 in Production and test Environments. Currently working on migrating from 2008 to 2016  • Involved in Data modeling, designing, and building relational databases.  • Worked on high availability SQL Server solutions, including Log shipping, Mirroring and SQL Server failover clustering, Replication.  • Monitored Performance Monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries and enhance the performance of database servers.  • Backup and recovery of production databases using SQL native client tools and tuning them for better performance.  • Creating and managing schema objects for applications and created objects based on requests.  • Creating databases and logins and users with permissions in SQL server 2005/2008..  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases and rebuild indexes  • Configure regulated access and limit production access to users.  • Performed Backup and recovery & Automation of Backups using maintenance plans  • Work with system admin team to make sure failover cluster services are running without issues and report any issues  • Transfer logins and users after migration of database using stored procs.  • Apply security patches and hotfixes to lower environment and production for updated security releases. SQL Server Database Administrator TUALITY COMMUNITY HOSPITAL April 2015 to July 2018 Responsibilities:    • Installation and configure new SQL Servers (versions 2008+). As new systems are brought in-house, choose best technology to provide quickest scalable solution on local and cloud platforms.  • Database Performance tuning improvement strategies on existing legacy/new production systems including hardware or software upgrades, index optimization, etc. Extensively worked to detect and troubleshoot SQL Server related hardware resource contention such as CPU, memory, disk IO, Network IO etc.  • Configure SQL Server monitoring utilities to minimize false alarms and increase visibility into the database health metrics.  • Create profiler templates, automate profiling of development and production environment, and identify long running or problem queries, intrusions, or vulnerabilities.  • Develop and implement a backup strategy to ensure we can meet Recovery time objectives (RTO) and Recovery point objectives (RPO)  • Advanced experience with TSQL language and stored procedures, transactional replication, Log-shipping, multi node clustering (Active/Passive), mirroring, always-On etc. And High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options for SQL Server including database (Schema/data/stored proc./functions/trigger/views/jobs etc..) migration & upgrade.  • Automate regularly scheduled tasks and processes by creating generic utilities through SQL Agent Job.  • Provide support to the data engineering team by reviewing and optimizing ETL jobs supporting reporting data marts.  • Assist application developers with complex query tuning and schema refinement.  • Ongoing research of new technologies on making current MSSQL platform more efficient and scalable.  • Implement new database solutions in the area of NoSQL (MongoDB), and architect new backup and recovery strategies for NoSQL Databases.  • Working knowledge of database shading and scaling on NOSQL database (MongoDB).  • Provide 24x7 on call support for critical production systems.  • Document the company's database environment and implement best practices.  • Vendor management with outstanding communication, interpersonal and time management skills.  • Experience in troubleshooting and resolving database integrity issues, performance issues, blocking & deadlocking issues, replication/log shipping issues, network/connectivity issues, security and access implementation at database/ database instance level and troubleshooting etc. Education BSc. In Computer Engineering Oregon Institute of Technology OIT 2014 Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science Microelectronics Technology Portland Community college 2013 Skills Ado, Database, Dbms, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Odbc, Oltp, AWS (4 years), Sql, Veritas, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Amazon web services, Html, Perl, Reporting tools, Visio, Visual basic, DBA, Ssis, ETL, Postgresql, Sybase, Sql Dba, Tableau (4 years), PostgresSQL (4 years), Azure (5 years), Remedy (3 years), CICD (4 years) Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY    RDBMS/DBMS:  MS-SQL Server 2005 SSIS, SSRS, SSIS 2000 & 7.0, MySQL-5.7, SQL-2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 MS Access  Database Technologies/Tools:  SQL Server Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, MMC, I-SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, DTS, ODBC, SSRS, OLTP EDSS, ADO, SQL OLEDB, DBCC.    Operating System: Windows XP/7/2010/2008/2003/2000  Programming Languages: Visual Basic 6.0, HTML, XML, T-SQL, PL/SQL.  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports (version 10/11), SSRS, WSO (Wall Street Office) - Reporting  Design Technologies/Tools: MS Visio and MS Visual Studio, Erwin  Others: MS Office 2000/2003, Perl, Powershell  Storage EMC/IBM Storage SAN/ Hp/ Pure  Cluster Environments: VERITAS, MCSC (Active/Active & Active/Passive)  Network LAN (CAT5, CAT5e, and CAT6, CAT6e) WAN  System Backup Tools Veeam, Rubrik, and IDERA  Cloud Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS)