Consultant Consultant Ventura, CA Windows Server and network support. SQL Server Database Administrator or Developer.    ASSETS    Thirty years experience in systems administration, Windows desktop and server support, application and database development, network and user support. Highly skilled and effective. Extraordinary problem-solving skills. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Strong technical background in database modeling, coding and maintenance. Competence with all aspects of systems planning, integration, development, networking and user support. This fusion of expertise in database, programming and networking, coupled with a personable demeanor, make for an excellent addition to your team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant self-owned 2005 to Present Windows Server, Desktop and Network support. SQL Server support. Systems implementation and integration. Data migrations from legacy systems. Integration of PC networks to mainframe systems. Hardware and printer troubleshooting. Specializing in automation and streamlining operations using PowerShell and command batch scripting when necessary. Built user interfaces utilizing JavaScript, VbScript and HTML. Handled backup and security concerns. Database Administrator Navigant, International (FLYR) April 2001 to 2004 Specialization in Microsoft SQL Server  As the lead SQL Server DBA for the company's multi-million dollar centralization project, numerous databases were merged into one. Existing queries and data structures were analyzed and performance improved ten-fold, thereby making the centralization project feasible. Twenty mission-critical SQL Server databases had maintenance tasks, backups and error notifications automated. This led to being chosen as the sole DBA on the company's new web-based .NET development project done in coordination with Microsoft Consulting Services, twenty developers and five quality assurance people. This involved database design, stored procedure coding and security and performance issue resolution. Two database administrators were required to fulfill prior responsibilities. Familiarity with DB2 v7 on AIX.    Environment: SQL Server, T-SQL, SQL Clustering, Windows 2000-2003, RS/6000, AIX, DB2, Visual Studio, Visual Source Safe, Visio, DTS, Compaq, EMC Symmetrix Consultant and Certified Trainer Gifted Consulting, Inc 1997 to 2001 Specialization in Microsoft SQL Server  SQL Server consulting and delivering Microsoft Certified Training. Much of this consulting was provided to on-site SQL Server DBA's requiring assistance with tasks and problems they were otherwise unable to handle. Delivered Microsoft Certified courses on database administration and implementation for advanced users on how to code the creation of database objects, query and maintain them, and courses on how to code Visual Basic applications accessing SQL Server databases using embedded SQL and ADO. I also taught courses on Windows Server and Desktop operating systems and TCP/IP networking.    Environment: SQL Server, T-SQL, VB, Vbscript, ADO, Windows NT 4 Consultant and Certified Trainer IKON 1996 to 1997 Microsoft Certified Training and Education Center  Consulting and training on Microsoft SQL Server, Web Development and Windows NT. Consulted on the upgrade of older SQL Server databases for Maricopa County, AZ. Performed coding and testing of distributed transactions over a wide-area network for the U.S. Army at Fort Juachuca, AZ.    Environment: Windows NT, SQL Server, T-SQL, IIS, TCP/IP, ActiveX, Vbscript, ADO, FrontPage, HTML, Visual Basic, Novell NetWare and IPX/SPX Network Consultant Novell NetWare 1994 to 1996 Novell and Microsoft network installation, upgrade, and repair. Cabling, hardware troubleshooting and upgrade. Application installation and support.    OS: Windows 3.1, 95, 98; Windows NT 3.5, Novell NetWare, Unix, DOS  Protocols/Topologies: IPX/SPX, TCP/IP, NetBEUI, Ethernet, Token Ring, Arcnet, ISO/OSI  Desktop Applications: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, FrontPage, WordPerfect, Lotus, MS Mail, AutoCAD, and Ventura  Hardware: Compaq, HP, Dell, Gateway, Micron, Routers, Switches, NIC, 10baseT, coax, Cat5 Programmer, Network Administrator and PC Support Healthinfusion, Inc 1988 to 1994 now Coram (CVS), Inc.) https://www.coramhc.com/  Home Intravenous Therapy & Medical Office Management and The Newman Company (medical insurance billing service)  Client/Server Programming, networking, data communications, end-user support and training.  Responsible for local and wide area networks. The sole support for 75 users in eight offices  connected by Novell and Unix networks. Single-user medical billing software was converted to multi-user, client/server. Developed medical management pharmacy software. Five branches  were wide-area networked. Integration of Unix and Netware. SNA gateway connection to remote AS/400. Conducted classes and introduced new technologies that tripled user  productivity. Saved the company thousands of dollars by enabling users to share incompatible  databases. Programmer and Database Administrator The Carmack Group, Investment Consultancy 1987 to 1988 Securities analysis, programming, data communications, database development, graphics.  The productivity and quality of securities analysis output was enhanced by research and recommendation of graphics software, statistical analysis programming and database  implementation. Programmer First American Title Insurance Company 1984 to 1987 Team leader responsible for development and support of escrow applications in fifty branch  offices. Improved service and relations between the home office and branches. In three days  creatively integrated word processing and database to create an escrow forms generator, a feat which two other development teams had already failed to deliver after six months effort. Programmer American Dream International, Inc 1982 to 1984 Marketer of Personal Care Products  Programming, Operations, Systems Analysis  Month-end closing was reduced from one week to several hours processing time. Integrity was  programmed into this multi-level marketing system so participants no longer received errors in monthly statements. Education Bachelor's in computer science California State University Skills Sql server, Oltp, Replication, Sql, Visual studio, Javascript, Vbscript, Clustering, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Ethernet, Ipx, Token ring, Unix, Iso, Excel, Word Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    SQL Server  SQL Server Technologies: DTS, OLTP, Clustering, Replication, Automation  Languages: SQL, VBScript, Javascript, Powershell and batch script  Applications: Visual Studio, Visual Source Safe, Word, Excel  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix  Protocols/Topologies: IPX/SPX, TCP/IP, Ethernet, Token Ring, ISO/OSI