Sr. SQL DBA/Developerr Sr. SQL DBA/Developerr SQL server DBA/Developer and responsible to support 20 SQL server - Dovenmuehle, Mortgage Company Ewing, NJ • 10+ years of experience shipping highly available and scalable applications using Microsoft technologies    • Expert in the database modeling, design, development, maintenance and administration    • Primary database technologies: Microsoft SQL Server    • Experience includes System analysis and design, development, support on systems built on MS SQL Servers [ ] and 2008 R2  • Extensively used tools like SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning MS SQL Server performance.  • Excellent skills in database Backup, Restoration, Recovery, Replication, Mirroring, Linked Servers, Database Maintenance Planning.  • Excellent SQL Server administration skills including user authorizations, Database creation, Tables, indexes creation.  • Strong T-SQL Developer skills including stored procedures, Indexed views, User Defined Functions (UDL), Triggers, and Distributed Queries and Common Table Expressions.  • Experience migrating data from one server to another server by In-place upgrade process and as well as side-by-side upgrade process.  • Extensively Worked on Transactional Replication, Snapshot Replication, Merge Replication, and Log shipping for SQL Server High Availability  • Dexterous developer in creating Constraints, Defaults, Rules, Tables, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors and Dynamic sql queries  • Implemented the SQL Server concepts like Data partitioning ,Snap shot Isolation, Database Mirroring, Database Snapshot, DDL triggers, try-cache blocks, Online indexing, DMV's, DMF's, SQLCMD and dedicated admin connection.    • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities and DMVs and DMFs.  • Good at SQL Server 2008 new features like Policy Based Management, Data Compression, Resource Governor, Performance Data Collector and Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Proficiency in implementing different types of disaster recovery scenarios like Replication models like Snapshot, transactional, log shipping and Configure Database Mirroring in Cluster Environment.  • Proficient in high level design of ETL, DTS and SSIS Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, etc.)  • Created Linked Servers between SQL Server 2000 & Oracle 9i and 10g. Also created DTS package for data transfer between the two environments.  • Closely worked with development team to assist them in various problems solving and troubleshooting Web-based applications, which calls various Database objects like stored procedures, functions, and triggers.    • Proven ability to work in teams as well as independently.    • Experience in Manual and Automated Testing    • Experience in testing Client/Server and Web based Applications    • Experience in Html/CSS, C, C++, VB.Net, C#, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, WordPress, and PHP    • Implemented Smoke Testing, Black Box Testing, GUI Testing, Functionality Testing, Performance testing, Positive and Negative Testing, Security Testing, Stress Testing, Integration Testing, System testing, Load Testing, User Acceptance Testing(UAT) and Regression Testing of Web Based Applications and Client-Server Applications    • Planning and development of Test Plans, Test Cases and Test scenarios to meet product's business requirements    • Experience in developing website using PHP coding and WordPress    • Experience in using plugins including Contact Form, W3TotalCache, Yoast SEO plugins, Custom Widgets, Page Builders and SEO Slugs    • Experience in validation and optimization of codes Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL DBA/Developerr Dovenmuehle, Mortgage Company - Lake Zurich, IL March 2016 to Present 2008/2012/2014 which in turn supports MGC audit applications for various clients.  Responsibilities  • Install and upgrade SQL server databases.    • Setup and manage database full and incremental backups using maintenance plans along with update statistics, database integrity check.  • Migrate SQL server database from physical to VMware servers.    • Develop TSQL procedures and functions.    • Review error logs, notifications, and monitor performance of the database.    • SSIS, SSAS, SSRS configuration and development.    • Develop ER diagram for new requirements and generate DDL and data dictionary reports using Oracle SQL Developer Data Modeler tool for SQL Server 2012.  Environment: SQL server 2005/2008/2008R2 with clustering, replication, Windows 2003, 64 bit, SQL profiler, SSIS administration and SSRS.    MS SQL Database Developer/DBA MS SQL Database Developer/DBA Colorado Natural Heritage Program - Fort Collins, CO September 2014 to February 2016 -Fort Collins, CO Sept 2014 - Feb2016    The Colorado Natural Heritage Program is Colorado's only comprehensive source of information on the status and location of Colorado's rarest and most threatened species and plant communities. We share information with a wide range of stakeholders in partnerships that work to ensure the Colorado's biodiversity resources are not diminished. CNHP has an enormous impact on conservation in Colorado through these partnerships.  Responsibilities    • Managing and administering SQL Server 2000/2005/2008R2/2012/2016 production and non-production servers.  • Working closely with different teams to gather and understand the database requirement, setting up of new databases in both development and production environments and coordinating with the clients for enhancements.    • Migrating SQL 2008 R2 to SQL 2012, SQL 2005 to SQL 2008 R2, SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005.    • Used Change Data Capture (CDC) to record INSERTs, UPDATEs, and DELETEs that applies to SQL Server tables.  • Involved in Capacity management and Analysis at hardware of the SQL Server including CPU, Memory and Storage.  • Implemented high availability strategies like Always ON, Database Mirroring, Replication and Log shipping.    • Configured Security at AD group and SQL Server level by creating Principals (logins) and mapping Users to Roles. (Securables and Permissions).  • Backup and restoring databases from Production to Development for testing.    • Created jobs for capturing daily operational metrics like backup failures, SQL Job failures, and error log activity.  • Involved in performance tuning with stored procedure and T-SQL having high response time.    • Designed SQL Jobs to capture index usage, duplicate indexes, overlapping indexes, fragmentation etc. to periodically monitor the performance of the application databases.  • Used DMVs in SQL Server for troubleshooting indexes, performance tuning and instance health check activities.  • Troubleshooting Blockings & Dead Lock issues in SQL Server.    • Responsible for query optimization using SQL tools such as SSMS, SQL Profiler and Index tuning wizard.    • Created and Modified complex stored procedures.    • Good experience in running jobs and fixing errors in Data Stage 5.0 and 11.0.    • Data stage jobs scheduling and troubleshooting.    • Worked with developers providing best practices, tuning queries & deploying SSIS packages.    • Experience in creating Maintenance plans, Backup, Restore, Table level Compression, Partition and Data Archiving.  • Has the ability to work in a fast paced environment, good team player and can work independently.    • SSIS packages created to load warehouse databases from production databases.    • Access databases created to generate reports according to needs of analysts.    • Working with business unit closely and solve the issues immediately.    • Configured lock pages in memory for servers with memory problems.    • Did troubleshooting, performance tuning and query optimization using DMVs, profiler and performance monitor.  • Configured and troubleshooting Merge replication, transactional and snapshot replication.    • Creating Linked servers for distributed queries.    • Worked with developers and application teams to assign permissions and fixing security problems.    Environment: SQL server 2005/2008/2008R2 with clustering, replication, Windows 2003, 64bit, SQL profiler, SSIS administration and SSRS.    Sr. Database Administrator Database Administrator DCP Midstream - Denver, CO July 2012 to September 2014 -Denver, CO July 2012 - Sep 2014    DCP Midstream is the largest gas company in and around Denver, CO. They are the largest gas provider in Colorado. The SQL server applications of DCP integrate all the modules like employee details, gas prices, storage and supplying gas, invoices and till to the billing.  Responsibilities    • Managing and administering SQL server 2005/2008 production and non-production servers.    • Creating and maintaining databases. Applied normalization and de-normalization rules.    • Expert in taking backups and point-in-time recover of database.    • Involved in disaster recovery planning    • Intensively worked and managed SQL server high availability like clustering, database mirroring, and replication.  • Good knowledge on sqlcmd and dedicated administrator connection to recover master database from disaster.  • Side by side migration of databases from SQL server 2005 to 2008.    • Installed, configuring and maintenance of SQL server 2008.    • Creating linked servers and modifying linked servers.    • Did trouble shooting and performance tuning, query optimization in case of slow running queries.    • Index creation and updating statistics.    • Good knowledge of bulk copying and bulk inserting statements.    • Extensively used tools like SQL server management studio, SQL profiler and database engine tuning advisor.    • Good knowledge of DMVs and DMFs and DBCC commands.    • For improving performance of queries applied database partitioning.    • Effectively worked on security like fixing failed principals and user permissions, applied object level security.    • Involved in sql jobs creation and maintenance. Created and managed credentials.    • Administering and managing SSIS packages.    • Expert in creating reports using SSAS, SSRS and SSRS administration.    • Provided daily on call 24X7 support for Production.    Environment: SQL server 2005/2008/2008R2 with clustering, replication, Windows 2003, 64 bit, SQL profiler, SSIS administration, SSAS and SSRS.    Database Administrator SQL Server DBA UCSF Medical Center - San Francisco, CA 2010 to June 2012 -San Francisco, CA Mach 2010 - June 2012    UCSF Medical center has licensed EPIC software developed by EPIC Systems, located in Verona, Wisconsin. The software will be customized to meet the needs of UCSF Medical Center. EPIC software is an end to end solution for Healthcare organizations, enabling them to seamlessly integrate all modules starting from patient registration, all the way to billing.  Responsibilities    • SQL SERVER 2005/2000 Production Environment.    • Fixed the failed PRINCIPALS (logins), user permissions and security in ACTIVE DIRECTORY and at the    • SQL SERVER LEVEL.    • Implemented SIDE BY SIDE Migration of databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005    • Involved in Normalization, Database design, Performance Analysis and Production Support for very large (VLDB) and Complex Databases.  • Used native tools like DATA BASE TUNING ADVISOR, PROFILER and ACTIVITY MONITOR for performance analysis.  • Worked with SQL Server 2008 new MERGE statement.    • Handling Memory configurations for SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2005/2008 on Windows 2003    • Implemented the new SQL Server 2005 concepts like Data partitioning , Snap shot isolation, database mirroring, database snapshot, DDL triggers, try-cache blocks, online indexing, DMV's, DMF's, Mail Setup, Jobs, and Alerts, DTA, SQLCMD and dedicated admin connection and Compressed Backups.    • Created Documentation for steps need to be taken while upgrading the SQL server 2000 to SQL server 2005.    • Work based on Business Intelligence (BI) and Data Warehousing in SQL Server 2005    • Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 that are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE).  • Configured more than 2 GB ram on 32 bit Environment    • Migrated DTS packages to SSIS packages and maintained the archival data    • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS    • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning    • Recovered the System and User databases from suspect mode, Expert in sizing Temp database.    • Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan , Worked in Active passive cluster environment    • Implemented new topics like CLR integration on Development Server    • Wrote and debugged Stored Procedures and (DDL /DML)Triggers , Functions as per client requirements    • Extensively worked on trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance , Rebuilding indexes with different fill factors and update statistics manually  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery    • Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  • Daily routine Developer/DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and handling maintenance Jobs including backups and restores.  • Did Performance Tuning of the Stored Procedures.    • Hands on experience in trouble shooting database issues. Update statistics, database integrity check and Backup operations  • Extensively used lite speed backup with MS SQL SERVER 2005/2008.    • Expertise in SQL server Reporting Services(SSRS) and SharePoint    • Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find the performance and dead locks.    • Worked on call 24/7 Support on weekly basis    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 with clustering, Replication, T-SQL, Windows2003 64-bit, DTS, Profiler, XML, Web Services.    SQL Server DBA SQL Server DBA Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2008 to February 2010 -Charlotte, NC Nov 2008 - Feb 2010    Bank of America is the largest financial services company in the North America. The Financial team will be providing financial services and financial tools. The objective of this project was to create a Consolidate Reporting Project. Build a data mart for the Retail Customer Service department. The data is from the call center coming from different modules.  Responsibilities    • Managed and Administrated the SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 production and Non-production servers.    • prepared maintained and modified SQL server installation and configuration documents    • Involved in the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2005.    • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Evaluated data storage considerations to store databases and transaction logs. Created databases using Transact SQL Statements, SQL Server Management Studio and Database Wizard.  • Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 that are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE) , Data Partitioning, Snapshot Isolation  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Created Database Maintenance Plans for the performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity checks, update database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Developed and optimized database structures, stored procedures, Dynamic Management views, DDL triggers and user-defined functions.  • Identified, tested and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure data optimization.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.    • Managed trouble shooting of Client connections, viewing error log and applications.    • Developed automated backup and DBCC scripts for databases and transaction logs.    • Maintaining the database consistency with DBCC utility at regular intervals.    • Worked on log shipping for synchronization of database.    • Worked in Cluster Environment.    • Authenticated logins and validated permissions. Created SQL Server Database users and Roles.    • Writing stored procedures, triggers, and functions and maintained coding standards.    • Involved in database Normalization, logical and physical data modeling using ERWIN.    • Created and supported complex database schemas.    • Used SQL Profiler to capture the activities of the databases and used the trace file as workload file to the Database Tuning Advisor for index recommendations.  • Installed SQL Server 2005 and created Development Database for testing, upgrades and development.    • Monitored servers using Spotlight third party software.    • Transferred data (ETL) to Data warehouse Environment using SSIS.    • Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.  • Worked on DTS, Import and Export utility, for transferring data.    • Installed, authored, and managed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services    • Configured IIS, Report manager, Report server and implemented role based security to end users and developed report models for creating Ad-hoc reports using SSRS.  • Worked with Application Developers to design databases and tables to support Development activities and achieve optimal efficiency.  • Suggested better way to recover databases from disaster i.e. disaster recovery.    • Configured SQL Server settings using configuration manager.    • Extensively used Red Gate SQL Compare and Data Compare tools to compare and synchronize SQL Database Schemas  • Involved with development team and developed functions, procedures and packages performed Logical Backups by Export and Import utilities.  • Handled numerous change management requests on production servers    Environment: Windows 2003 server, ASP, XML, MS SQL Server 2005/2005, T-SQL, MS Access, MS Excel, Oracle    Web/ Database Developer Web/ Database Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY June 2007 to October 2008 Credit Suisse began with Swiss railroads in 1856, when the country needed to finance the expansion of its network and (the forerunner of) Credit Suisse, (Schweizerische Kreditanstalt), was founded. The bank has since turned into an integrated bank operating in over 50 countries around the world.  Responsibilities:    • Developed UI pages using HTML, Ruby on Rails, Node.JS XUL, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQUERY and AJAX  • Created XHTML pages with CSS and the Box Model    • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages    • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications    • Developed and tested many features in an environment (AGILE) using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Bootstrap  • Extensively used HTML5, ReactJS, Angular.js, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations    • Created web application prototype using Angular.JS.and modified and implemented functionalities using Node.js, Angular.js  • Developed user interface using HTML4/5, CSS3, JSON, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery    • Created images, logos on the webpages by using adobe flash player and Photoshop    • Developed the designs of wireframes, Mock-up and Layer composition by using the Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Involved in the retrieval of the images using the adobe Photoshop    • Built websites using Magento, PHP, Xml, JavaScript, ReactJS, Html, SASS and LESS (CSS Preprocessor)    • Developed in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks such as Angular.JS for creating Single Page Application (SPA)  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree    • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework    • Used jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms    • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively    • Designed PDF, excel and print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQLStored Procedure  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms  • Developed scripts in the backend using PHP programming    • Contacted with different customer for their requirements and modified code as the customer needs    • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views & Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Temp net Framework    • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model    • Written SQLQueries to interact with Oracle database    • Used SVN for version control and ClearQuest for defect tracking    • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles DBA Global Technology Services Service Delivery - Southbury, CT January 2006 to May 2007 Coordinated DBA support for highly utilized primarily mainframe reporting platform. Supported management reports for hundreds of IBM corporate customers. Responsible for DBA support of DB2 z/OS and DB2 LUW.  Responsibilities:  • Architected and production deployed server-based copy of GSMRT, reporting database model in cost-optimized manner (ported from Z/os to LUW).  • Defined and deploy efficiencies each year providing significant and real savings in Storage and CPU costs, driving efficiency by optimization of repeated queries using explain, indexes, and modification of SQL statements, and saving storage costs by expanding use of archiving and compression, where possible.  • Defined and deployed processes to extract, transform, and load data, including Unix scripting, REXX code, and defining FTP processes. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO Skills DATABASE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), DATABASES (9 years), MS SQL SERVER (9 years), SQL SERVER (9 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Database (10+ years), databases (9 years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases MS SQL Server [ ] [ ] Access, Oracle Database tools    Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Data Transformation Services, Upgrade Wizard, Replication.    Programming languages SQL, TSQL, XML, C,C++, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, WordPress, and PHP, VB.Net, C#    Tools SQL DB Access, Performance Monitor, Backup Utility, Net Backup, Data Stage 5.0. Operating Systems Windows [ ] Windows Server 2003 [ ] Unix, Linux