Database Engineer/DBA (Cloud and On-Premises) <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer/DBA (Cloud and On-Premises) Database Engineer/DBA (Cloud and On-Premises) - US State Department Fairfax, VA I am an accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator with Over 15 years (including 10+ US) of professional IT experience in Data Engineer and Database Administration, Modeler, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of various database, data warehouse, software applications and developing and managing automate scripts. I have worked on very large production databases, performing various DBA roles, across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, Solaris, and UNIX) in production, development and test environments. I am an enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication & documentation abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. Dedicated team player whom listens, thrives on collaborating with diversely talented team members, and integrates their divergent thoughts, opinions, and perspectives into meaningful actions.    Job Related Summary:    • 15+ years of experience in Data Engineer/ Database Administration, Performance Analysis and SQL Tuning  • 15+ years of experience in RDBMS: ORACLE 11g/12c, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer  • 4+ years in experience and exposure in OLTP databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server  • 10+ years of experience in ETL Script/Programming.  • 10+ years of experience in Modeling/Architecture of OLTP, OLAP (Data Warehouse)  • 4+ years of experience with JavaScript, XML/JSON  • 3+ years of experience with Agile.  • Good exposure on data migration tools: AWS Migration tools  • Good exposure on NOSQL and BIGDATA databases  • Good communication and interpersonal skills.    Detailed Summary:    • Comprehensive experience in AWS Security Groups, CloudWatch  • Experienced in Database Installation, Provisioning, Creation, Configuration, Administration, Upgrades and managing of On-Premises and Cloud - AWS. Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server  • Working with the application team on supporting Database Design/schema design for OLTP and OLAP (Data Warehouse) - table, index, column creation and management. Monitoring databases for database performance analysis and SQL Optimization using native tools such as AWS, ADDM and OEM other metrics: including PL/SQL and complex Queries  • Experienced in database refreshes, data movements between Production and Non-productions; and between Non-productions  • Experienced in database migration: moving data from one place to another. Like from database unto S3 bucket; or S3 bucket unto database - I use Database Migration Tools, Native Tools (Export/Import and RMAN, Goldengate (OGG)  • Database DR solutions / TREX solutions (enabling/managing SNAPSHOTS cross regions)  • Capacity Planning and Health Checks for the databases such as free storage, used and adding capacity  • Database design and modeling (Logical to Physical) and assisting Data Architects, Data Analysts for their quick resolutions for their data transformation and loads  • Ability to adapt to New Technologies quickly    Technical Skills:    OS/Platform HP-UX/SOLORIS/AIX UNIX, SUSE & RH-Linux, Windows 2007/2000/NT/XP, VMWare, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  Cloud Technologies AWS (Amazing Web Services) -CloudWatch  Database Oracle 11gR2/12c, SQL Server 2008/2012, MySQL, PostgreSQL, TERADATA  Database tools  AWS database migration tool, Native tools, Golden Gate, Performance metrics (AWS, ASH, ADDM, OEM), SQL Developer, SQL Workbench    Monitoring Datadog, AWS CloudWatch  Application Java platform, Visual Basic, Web Technologies (PHP, JS, XML, AJAX, .NET)  Data Modeling E/R Modeling, Dimensional Modeling (Schema Modeling) Work Experience Database Engineer/DBA (Cloud and On-Premises) US State Department - Falls Church, VA May 2018 to Present Jelani Consulting LLC)  The United States Department of State, commonly referred to as the State Department, is a federal executive department that is equivalent to the foreign ministry of other countries, advising the U.S. President on foreign policy and conducting international relations. It is responsible for carrying out U.S. foreign policy, operating the nation's diplomatic missions abroad, negotiating treaties with foreign entities, and representing the U.S at the United Nations. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with AWS Cloud technologies with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and in-house growing applications.    Responsibilities:  • Database Creation, Configuration, Administration, Database Upgrades. provisioning and managing. Technologies: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL  • Working with the application team on supporting Database Design/schema design for OLTP and OLAP (Data Warehouse) - table, index, column creation and management  • Monitoring databases for database performance analysis and SQL Optimization using native tools such as AWS, ADDM and OEM other metrics: including PL/SQL and complex Queries)  • Database Refreshes between Production and Non-productions; and between Non-productions  • Database migration: ETL design and moving data from one place to another. Like from database unto S3 bucket; or S3 bucket unto database - I use Database Migration Tools, Native Tools (Export/Import and RMAN, Goldengate (OGG)  • Capacity Planning and Health Checks for the databases such as free storage, used and adding capacity  • Assisting Data Architects, Data Analysts for their quick resolutions for their data transformation and loads  • Datadog (monitoring) setup/configuration - development, testing and production.  • Rehydration (automate) - using Shell Scripts.  • BAU work as needed to manage database changes, infrastructures. Database Engineer/DBA (Cloud and On-Premises) Capital One - Richmond, VA May 2015 to May 2017 Capital One (C1) is a premier financial and banking company includes mortgage, financial, banking having individual consumers, small and middle level business all over world. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with AWS Cloud technologies with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and in-house growing applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided database administration, configuration and maintenance for the databases including OLTP/OLAP (Data Warehouse) of PROD, DEV, QA environments in on-premier and cloud.  ? Provided support in database design/architect, data analysis, data modeling (logical & physical), data profiling, ETL, automatic solutions using Unix shell scripts, database Scripts for data migration, and Optimizing Queries  ? Provided support for Oracle, PostgreSQL, AWS ( database object management, User/Access  ? Developed, tested, optimized, implemented and supported queries: SQL, PL/SQL, PSQL, TSQL, ETL scripts.  ? Coordinating and implementing databases on AWS Cloud and on premises  ? Providing Performance & Query Optimization and troubleshooting for databases: Oracle, SQL server, PostgreSQL, Redshift  ? Worked with Storage Team, Unix Team, and Capacity Planning Counsel on reviewing capacity assessment the resource utilization such as CPU, Memory, IO and Storage and request process.  ? Co-ordinated pre-production and production deployments. Developing deployment plan (implementation steps for Production DBA) and rollback plan. Supported prod-fix.  ? Providing technical support on WINDOWS, UNIX systems; SHELL SCRIPTS, and Health check scripts  ? assisting with lifecycle management and marketing business intelligence. Senior Oracle DBA Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA October 2014 to May 2015 Fannie Mae is a leading source of residential mortgage credit in the US secondary market and supporting today's economic recovery and helping to build a sustainable housing finance system. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with AWS Cloud technologies with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and in-house growing applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided support in Database Administration and architect solutions for OLTP/OLAP (Data warehouse). Optimizing ETL Scripts, SQL and PL/SQL procedures and database performance tuning and proving best practices is main role and responsibility.  ? Provided support in Analyzing, designing, developing, data modeling and database design, data profiling, testing and implementing ETL solutions for Data Warehouse projects.  ? Provided support in Maintaining and enhancing legacy Oracle databases in support of production break fixes and application enhancements.  ? Provided support in Working with development team to perform database tasks related to application enhancements such as creating new tables and/or columns, writing and tuning PL/SQL, SQL scripts, stored procedures, debugging production database issues.  ? Provided support in Database structure changes such as tablespaces, schemas, tables, synonyms, sequences, constraints, indexes, roles, table/system level privileges and profile.  ? Provided support in Reviewing data model review packets and normalization, start schema, snowflake schema  ? Provided support in Helping development team and configuration management to make build scripts, rollback scripts and unit test scenarios and ensure deploy to the QA environment for testing and then to the production environment.  ? Provided support in Installation, configuration, troubleshoot Oracle Application/Web services and databases Oracle DB 11gR2 and 12c, SQL Server  ? Troubleshoots oracle databases issues and optimization issues using Explain Plans, AWR, ADDM, 12C and other performance metrics and analysis and providing solutions.  ? Database performance tuning through database configuration, partition, parallelism.  ? Ensure SQL and PL/SQL scripts as per Fannie Mae standards.  ? Planning, defining and implementing backup, recovery and restores  ? Working with Network/UNIX team for any network / server level needs and issues;  ? Providing middle range of technical support on UNIX systems; SHELL SCRIPTS, and Health check scripts and cleaning databases.  ? Reviewing database and server level violations and fixing the violations as per company standards.  ? Helping and guiding Application Developers in creating/developing SQL scripts / PLSQL scripts appropriately; and getting access to database. Coordinating pre-production and production deployments. Developing deployment plan (implementation steps for Production DBA) and rollback plan. Sr. Database Administrator/SQL Analyst Bank of America - Falls Church, VA May 2013 to October 2014 Bank of America is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company based on Charlotte, North Carolina with central hubs in New York City, London, Hong Kong, Minneapolis, and Toronto. Bank of America was formed through NationsBank's acquisition of BankAmerica in 1998. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with AWS Cloud technologies with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and in-house growing applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided support in Database Administration and architect solutions for OLTP/OLAP (Data warehouse). Optimizing ETL Scripts, SQL and PL/SQL procedures and database performance tuning and proving best practices is main role and responsibility.  ? Provided support in Analyzing, designing, developing, data modeling and database design, data profiling, testing and implementing ETL solutions for Data Warehouse projects.  ? Provided support in Maintaining and enhancing legacy Oracle databases in support of production break fixes and application enhancements.  ? Provided support in Working with development team to perform database tasks related to application enhancements such as creating new tables and/or columns, writing and tuning PL/SQL, SQL scripts, stored procedures, debugging production database issues.  ? Provided support in Database structure changes such as tablespaces, schemas, tables, synonyms, sequences, constraints, indexes, roles, table/system level privileges and profile.  ? Provided support in Reviewing data model review packets includes data model and normalization, start schema  ? Provided support in Helping development team and configuration management to make build scripts, rollback scripts and unit test scenarios and ensure deploy to the QA environment for testing and then to the production environment.  ? Provided support in Installation, configuration, troubleshoot Oracle Application/Web services and databases such as Oracle DB 11gR2 and 12c, SQL Server  ? Troubleshoots oracle databases issues and optimization issues using Explain Plans, AWR, ADDM, OEM 12C and other performance metrics and analysis and providing solutions.  ? Database performance tuning through database configuration, partition, parallelism.  ? Ensure SQL and PL/SQL scripts as per Fannie Mae standards.  ? Planning, defining and implementing backup, recovery and restores  ? Working with Network/UNIX team for any network / server level needs and issues;  ? Providing middle range of technical support on UNIX systems; SHELL SCRIPTS, and Health check scripts and cleaning databases.  ? Reviewing database and server level violations and fixing the violations as per company standards.  ? Helping and guiding Application Developers in creating/developing SQL scripts / PLSQL scripts appropriately; and getting access to database. Coordinating pre-production and production deployments. Developing deployment plan (implementation steps for Production DBA) and rollback plan. Senior Oracle Database Engineer Wells Fargo - Vienna, VA August 2011 to May 2013 Wells Fargo is a premier financial and banking company includes mortgage, financial, banking having individual consumers, small and middle level business all over world. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and in-house growing applications.    Responsibilities:  • Provided performance tuning/SQL tuning support for PROD and NON-PROD env.  • Generated performance metrics such as EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM. Real-time performance monitoring using SQL*Monitor and GRID CONTROL (OEM)  • Database performance and SQL tuning includes table analysis, index analysis for schema tuning. Performed stats gather (Histograms), extended stats on column level. Used SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer, SQL Tuning Set and other advisors to generate tuning recommendations; reviewing, analyzing and providing solutions.  • Helped Application Developers in creating/developing SQL / PLSQL scripts appropriately; Deploy scripts and Rollback plans for production deploys. Created and managed PARTITIONING/Sub-partition as VLDB solution. Configured PARALLELISM to speed up the execution process.    Provided support as 'Application DBA' such as  • Worked with Production DBA to co-ordinate the production deploys. Developing Action scripts (deploy steps/implementation steps) and rollback plans for deploys.  • Worked with Infrastructure Team in building new servers and databases; design and implementing data center migrations. Worked with Network/UNIX team for network and server level issues; and resolving the issues.  • RAC/Non-RAC, Grid Control and ASM - software installation, Cluster ware installation, migrations, upgrades (10g to 11gR2), cloning, patch management and data refreshes. Grid Control and Agent management - OEM practices  • Working with development team to perform the database tasks related to application enhancements such as creating new tables and/or columns includes XML tables, writing and tuning PL/SQL, SQL scripts and prod-fixes.  • Performed health checks for databases, servers, listeners, connectivity, RMAN backups and recovery.  • Created and managed database objects such as user/passwords, schemas, tablespaces, tables, indexes, views, columns, synonyms, sequences, database links, constraints etc.  • Performed CAPACITY ASSESSMENT for storage and submitting request to add new file systems (mount points)  • Provided data model support - creating and managing PDM (physical data models). Ensured the Entities and Attributes having appropriate NAMING STANDARDS and appropriate DEFINITIONS; Entities having primary keys, appropriate JOINS (relationships), appropriate INDEXES; and appropriate ROLES, TABLE/SYSTEM level privileges; and security standards.  • Data move/migration from source to target server's native tools such as data-pump, SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Change management for tracking and processing all types of DATABASE tasks and production and non-production deploys.  • Involved in two GOLDENGATE IMPLEMENTATION PROJECTS. Performed OGG Installation, implementation, trouble shooting on source and target environments. Configuring OGG components: EXTRACT, DATAPUMP, Shell scripts for monitoring and managing processes Senior Oracle Database Engineer Verizon Business - Greenbelt, MD August 2007 to August 2011 Verizon Business is a worldwide telecom company having individual consumers, small and middle level business all over world. In order to provide 24*7 services to all its consumers, company is equipped with high end servers, storage and network systems. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and developing applications which are in-house grown applications and ERP/E-Business suite applications relating to Circuit inventory, Equipment Inventory, Billing and Order Entry management.    Responsibilities:  Development DBA - supported about 50 databases (OLTP/OLAP) sizing 100GB to 500GB. My regular typical tasks include  • Provided database solutions to the production and development databases. Provided database support for the databases: ORACLE 9i,10g,11gR1, R2, SQL Server, DB2 (UDB). E-business databases  • Working with Application teams, Business analysts and QA Team on database design and business requirement.  • Supported production deploys; worked with Production DBA to co-ordinate the production deploys. Provided Action scripts (deploy steps/implementation steps) and rollback plans for deploys.  • Worked with Infrastructure Team in building new servers and databases; design and implementing data center migrations. Worked with Network/UNIX team for network and server level issues; and resolving the issues.  • Worked with Application Team in creating/developing SQL / PLSQL scripts, ETL scripts as require; testing and deploy scripts in production. optimizing the scripts for better performance. developing rollback scripts for production deploys  • RAC/Non-RAC, Grid Control and ASM - software installation, Cluster ware installation, migrations, upgrades (10g to 11gR2), cloning, patch management and data refreshes.  • Provided DB services such as creating and managing tablespaces, tables, columns, constraints, indexes, views, sequences, database links and synonyms etc., Managed user accounts, password management, data security through encrypt/decrypt, data accountability through auditing; and access controls through privileges, roles and profiles; etc.  • Provided replication solutions using Data Guard, Materialized Views.  • Use/remove of HINTS in queries to change directives so to improve performance;  • Recommended INDEXES such as b-tree, index-organized table, reverse-key indexes, descending indexes, b-tree cluster indexes, bitmap indexes, function-based indexes, application domain indexes to speed up the access.  • Created and managed PARTITIONING  • Data move from source to target system using DATAPUMP, IMPORT/ EXPORT.  • Performed monitoring database, analyzing the database changes trends and providing solutions.  • Provided Performance and SQL tuning solutions: AWR, ADDM, ASH, Explain Plan  • Database performance tuning using Memory, PGA tuning, Partitions, parallelism  • Provided support to Business Applications (ERP, E-Business, Oracle Application Server, SOA) such as writing PL/SQL scripts, packages, stored procedures, triggers, functions and constraints.  • Shell scripts in UNIX/LINUX Oracle Database Engineer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD September 2002 to April 2007 The Government Employees Insurance Company is an American auto insurance company with headquarters in Chevy Chase, Maryland. It is the second largest auto insurer in the United States, after State Farm. RAC and Non-RAC databases as backend support to the existing and developing applications which are in-house grown applications and ERP/E-Business suite applications relating to Circuit inventory, Equipment Inventory, Billing and Order Entry management.    Responsibilities:  • Managed and coordinated multiple IT projects in Finance department, Andhra Pradesh, involved in design, development, implementation and maintenance. I was in-charge for the district level operations - one district data processing centers and 18 remote data processing centers. Managed a team of 20+ data processing assistants (5 onsite and others remote) including junior DBA, developers and production support. Training and facilitating 20+ professionals (those support the operations in the allocated district, on project implementation including database, application and ETL jobs.  • Worked closely with the customers and their requirements and attending state level project meetings for analyzing and planning for improvements and new techniques.  • Provided database solutions to the production and development databases. Provided 60% support as DBA; and 40% as Database Development includes ORACLE /FORMS/REPORTS and ETL jobs.  • Co-ordinated a Major Conversion project from Legacy application to Oracle Application. Developed staging tables, scripts for Extract, Transformation  • Database administration and system analysis and design; and database support for the databases: ORACLE 9i,10g, Worked with Application teams, Business analysts and QA Team on database design and setup reviews and business requirement.  • Supported production deploys; worked with Production DBA to co-ordinate the production deploys. Provided Action scripts (deploy steps/implementation steps) and rollback plans for deploys. Created and managed database objects such as tablespaces, tables, indexes, views, sequences, database links and synonyms etc.  • Performed System Administration such as installing, configuring and managing Operating systems such as Windows, Linux and UNIX; and networking administration - OS level and application level.  • Performed Database Analysis, Modeling and Design including Capacity planning of system storage and application growth for the projects. Helped Application Developers in creating/developing SQL / PLSQL scripts appropriately; Deploy scripts and Rollback plans for production deploys  • Installing, Configuring and Tuning the Oracle Database. Upgrading Versions and patches. Cloning database and Database refreshes. Cold/Hot Backups using RMAN, old EXP/IMP. Performed data capturing, data transforming, data conversion, data load and extracts using SQL*Loader, and PL/SQL scripts and creating  • Management - provided strong leadership, direction, guidance, decision making. Project Management - facilitation, risk assessment, task decomposition, resource planning, tracking the work and reporting. Asset Management - routine maintenance including system, database, hardware, application; asset recording system (identification, verification and reporting), budgeting. Vendor/Procurement: vendor management, volume agreements and inventory management Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Software Engineering University Institute of Technology 2010 Skills Sql Server, MYSQL, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA