Teacher Teacher Philadelphia, PA Rising professional opera singer and actor with experience in areas outside of artistic performance that include administrative and clerical work, small business management, technology, graphic design, and teaching and leadership. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teacher Freelance/Self employed 2013 to Present Private voice and piano teacher. Vocal ensemble coach for Florida Southern Opera (2017). Guest coach for “The Mocappellas” (2016) and “The Singers at Ibis Country Club” (2015-2016). Former music director for Phi Mu Alpha – Theta Sigma men’s chorus in Lakeland, FL (2014). Co-Manager/Manager The Parson Brown Singers - Philadelphia, PA 2007 to Present Initially a child performer, currently co-manager of a professional vocal ensemble that performs in Miami, Philadelphia, and New York). Aside from being a performer with the group, tasks include booking jobs, communicating with agents and clients, hiring performers, scheduling rehearsals, and arranging travel for performers. Singer/Performer Freelance/Self employed Present Professional singing career began 2006, professional theatrical debut in 2015. Credits include leading operatic roles for companies such as Imperial Symphony Orchestra and the Musica e Musica festival (Italy), a promotional tour with YMCB records, and a variety of freelance work. Grad Assistant Temple University - Philadelphia, PA August 2017 to May 2019 Graduate Assistant in administrative work for Temple University Opera Theater. Primary tasks are assisting the producer of TU Opera, scheduling rehearsals, communicating with production staff and student artists, clerical duties, photography and photo editing, creating graphics for TU Opera events, and database management for the university’s props storage system. Database Administrator St. Ann Catholic Church - West Palm Beach, FL May 2014 to August 2014 Occasional substitute for parish office manager. Developed an electronic database system for tracking and managing the needs of clients for an associate non-profit homeless outreach organization, St. Ann Place, in 2014. Education Master's in Music - Voice/Opera Temple University - Philadelphia, PA August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Music Florida Southern College - Lakeland, FL August 2013 to May 2017 Skills ACCESS, EXCEL, INDESIGN, OUTLOOK, PHOTOSHOP, Teaching, Organizational Skills, Time Management, Marketing, Social Networking, Social Media Management, Social Media Marketing, Clerical, Calendar Management, Personnel Management Assessments Written Communication — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3zwxq4w49snpypyv English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ojg9jerhg646x5lk Verbal Communication — Expert May 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f7jx4zgvzp9g7yoi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  Microsoft Office  Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Access, Publisher, Outlook  Photo, video, graphics, audio  Photoshop, InDesign, GIMP, iMovie, Windows Movie Maker, VSCO, Audacity,  GarageBand