Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Arrowpoint Corporation Silver Spring, MD Work Experience Database Administrator Arrowpoint Corporation June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Run daily RCMS reports  • Uses logical data modeling techniques.  • Uses productivity tools/software..  • Prepare project plans and assign tasks as required and report progress of each project to the client.  • Track, monitor and prioritize service request to meet customer deadlines.  • Perform complex PL/SQL performance tuning and troubleshooting techniques to address availability, scalability, and stability and other performance issues Database Cybersecurity Analyst NetCentrics - Washington, DC December 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities  • Assist with the development and maintenance of the Cyber Action Team (CAT) database server.  • Write queries to extract information from data stored in the SQL database.  • Work with the analysis teams to leverage the database and automate functions of their jobs using scripts and small applets.  • Address datacalls across the enterprise or leadership to gather data regarding vulnerable assets and trending across the enterprise.  • Correlate datacall information against reports and dashboards in systems such as ACAS, HBSS and SCCM.  • Normalize tracking spreadsheets and reports to assure data consistency and accuracy.  • Update tracking and briefing documentation.  • Identify and report gaps in existing procedures and processes and provide recommendations for improvements.  • Use pivot tables to work with large datasets and provide actionable information to decision makers. System Administrator Obsidian Global LLC - Alexandria, VA June 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities  • Prepare existing servers for data migration by backing up and transferring the data.  • Install Windows 7, 8.1, and 2012 R2 on workstations and configure the Windows environment.  • Install and configure CODIS software.  • Stage CODIS software and archives by installing 7-zip, copying CODIS installation DVD contents to D: drive, and transferring old server migration archive.  • Install SQL Server 2012.  • Configure Internet Information Services.  • Restore CODIS data using SQL backup plan.  • Install supporting software such as Adobe Acrobat Reader XI, Google Chrome, Adobe Flash Player, Microsoft Office, Antivirus Software, and Backup Software. SQL Database Administrator Apex - Ft Mead, MD February 2017 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Analyze business problems and design and implement databases that meet business requirements and support ongoing application development.  • Lead the migration of databases between data centers and support the modernization and virtualization of systems and applications with dependencies on databases.  • Monitor databases and perform tuning enhancements to optimize their performance. Develop and maintain utilities to automate problem determination, system backups, change implementation, and monitoring activities.  • Participate as a team-member in data management strategies. Integrate data architecture with appropriate components of the extended enterprise and the data warehouse.  • Participate in data-sourcing, import and data validation activities. Provide technical consultation to Task Lead for supporting customer requirements.  • Comply with the project team's change management processes and standards. Document and update database related deliverables. SQL Database Administrator Amyx - Rosslyn, VA May 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities  • Provides overall database architecture, design, installation, configuration, technical support and maintenance of the SQL databases in a Storage Area Network and Cluster Server environment.  • Functions as a subject-matter expert, ensuring accuracy and completeness of data backup and recovery and formulates and monitors policies, procedures and standards relating to database management.  • Maintains error and system maintenance logs, administers replication and log shipping for large databases and issues reports on a regular basis.  • Monitors databases for optimal performance and establishes and monitors best practices, policies and procedures.  • Administers user accounts and monitors security requirements of the database.  • Develops database security standards compatible with efficient user operation and system security requirements.  • Ensures the on-going operation of databases and related applications by developing, testing and implementing appropriate back-up and recovery procedures, conducting periodic tuning of the databases, capturing and reporting database usage statistics as required, regularly monitoring space usage, allocating disk space and providing technical support as needed.  • Coordinates troubleshooting activities with support organizations of application engineers to resolve production configuration issues, to maximize platform performance, and to proactively assess platform configuration and standards.  • Plans, executes, and documents migration activities for software version updates and service pack installations. Database Administrator NetCentrics - Fort Belvoir, VA March 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities  • Provide day to day support for Microsoft SQL Server implementations  • Migrate SQL Server 2008 to 2012  • Investigate system performance problems and coordinate with various IT groups to resolve networking, server and application development issues  • Install network applications and system software onto file servers  • Assist in network planning activities  • Document database, connection and application  • Develop database recovery strategy as well as participate in disaster recovery planning and testing  • Work with developers to connect Web application to SQL databases  • Provide weekly activity report to the Program Manager  • Install and configure Microsoft Windows Server 2012 and Sql Server 2012  • Attend meetings as required with government and application developers  • Install security patches utilizing SCCM and Microsoft Software Center  • Harden database per DISA stigs Database Administrator Advanced Resource Technologies, Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities  • Provided day to day support for Microsoft SQL Server implementations  • Migrated SQL Server 2008 to 2012  • Investigated system performance problems and coordinate with various IT groups to resolve networking, server and application development issues  • Installed network applications and system software onto file servers  • Assisted in network planning activities  • Documented database, connection and application  • Developed database recovery strategy as well as participate in disaster recovery planning and testing  • Worked with developers to connect Web application to SQL databases  • Provided weekly activity report to the Program Manager  • Installed and configure Microsoft Windows Server 2012 and Sql Server 2012  • Attended meetings as required with government and application developers  • Installed security patches utilizing SCCM and Microsoft Software Center  • Harden database per DISA stigs Database Administrator Jacobs Technology - Andrews AFB, MD August 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Performed installation, configuration, upgrade and migration of SQL databases  • Created database backup and recovery plans, as well as planned the needs for storage capacity  • Performed monitoring and tuning  • Troubleshot and resolved various database errors and issues  • Designed and created database utilizing SQL Server R2 and Access 2010  • Utilized MS SQL Server R2 and Access 2010 to perform ad hoc queries and create views and reports  • Assisted in daily administration and maintenance of servers  • Ensured data availability for end users  • Developed system data availability reports  • Maintained the GeoBase SQL Server 2008 R2 database environment  • Created and maintained database system diagrams and documentaiton  • Reviewed and maintained data integrity  • Assisted in data QA/QC workflow creation  • Updated Certifitcation and Accreditation (C&A) for Authorization to Operate (ATO) in Emass and EITDR  • Harden database per DISA stigs  • Managed and maintained of production and non-production databases  • Generated reports, queries and documentation  • Set up access privileges for database  • Created and maintained user profiles for database access  • Checked and reviewed logs Campaign Management Specialist Decision Software, Inc - Landover, MD January 2012 to August 2012 Responsibilities  • Utilized MS SQL Server 2008 R2 to run universe counts and basic analyses of multiple databases  • Provided day to day customer support with vendors/clients  • Ran queries for generating reports on client and vendor accounts  • Analyzed reports of data duplicates and manipulated data to correct errors  • Monitored database for potential problems and performed data entry functions  • Worked with other database administrators on assigned projects  • Created new standard operating procedures (SOPs)  • Ran quality assurance reports to maintain accuracy of the department Vendor Master Coordinator - Temporary DB Schenker - Norfolk, VA February 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities  • Created new SAP accounts and maintaining of existing accounts  • Provided day to day database administration support  • Ran queries for generating reports on cleints and vendor accounts  • Worked with other Database Administrators on assigned projects Legal Assistant - Temporary Glasser & Glasser - Norfolk, VA July 2010 to February 2011 August 2009 - December 2009    Responsibilities  • Provided superior customer service to clients over the phone and email  • Created time sensitive material for processing  • Created letter, notices and advertisements in Practive Management database software Enrollment Analyst - Temporary Amerigroup - Virginia Beach, VA December 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities  • Created, maintained and deleted medical accounts in FACETS software  • Researched clients in FACETS & CMS to process documents for billing  • Created and processed enrollment applications in FACETS database  • Maintained patients information within database System Support Specialist I/Help Desk Cox Communication - Virginia Beach, VA November 2001 to August 2009 Responsibilities  • Processed incoming orders in Oracle database and Integrated Communications Operations Management System (ICOMS)  • Updated Remedy tickets and input work descriptions and work progress  • Tracked and verified accuracy of incoming invoices utilizing Excel and Access  • Completed monthly and weekly budget production reports Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Strayer University - Alexandria, VA Skills Database (10+ years), Ms sql server (6 years), Sql (6 years), Sql server (6 years), Oracle (2 years), DBA, Sql Dba Additional Information Technical Skill Set Summary    Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2012 Database Backup and Recovery  Patch management Oracle 10g/11g    Certifications/ Clearance  • CompTIA Security+CE  • MCP - Administering Microsoft sQL Server 2012/2014  • MCP - Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014  • MCTS - Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Implementation and Maintenance  • MCTS - Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Database Development  • Top Secret Clearance - Active