Database Administrator (DBA) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROFESSIONAL Highlands Ranch, CO Accomplished, multi-skilled information technology professional with extensive experience in designing and implementing Oracle and MS SQL Server database solutions. Skilled in database administration including architecture, data warehouse design/support, tuning and 7/24 production support. Solid background in a broad range of professional technology activities including technical staff lead, technical project management, business requirement analysis, database architecture design and database modeling. These activities have occurred in multiple environments across a broad range of industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (DBA) Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration Center - Denver, CO 2012 to Present Spearheaded the design and developed of software and processes to pull and consolidate database  metadata from 152 VAMCs (VA Medical Centers) into a central data warehouse. The application is  designed to support the VA Enterprise Cerner migration project.  ? Worked with key stakeholders to provide database design and analysis support to develop a system  to manage Veterans Health Administration (VHA) supply chain. Functionality enables clinical care to the Veteran by managing all aspects of the flow of supplies and equipment to the hospital end user.  ? Collaborated with team to migrate on-premise database and application servers to Azure Cloud  environment. Created virtual servers and databases in Azure with an emphasis on fail-over, resource  capacity and performance.  ? Responsible for day-to-day database administration for databases that supported Health Care Claims  processing, Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and provider payments. Tasks and duties include:  • 7x24 MS SQL Server (versions 2008 through 2014) database administration for 160 instances  • 7x24 Oracle (11g, 12c) database administration for 6 instances with multi-terabytes of data  • Oracle and MS SQL Server and database migration to Azure cloud architecture  • Oracle RAC/ODA implementation and patching support  • EDI 4010/6020 and ICD10 migration  • Oracle PL/SQL development and support  • Technical liaison to external contracting teams and vendors for various projects  • Database security management including data redaction and obfuscation  • HIPAA PHI/PII data security management  • DR management and planning participation  • SDLC (Dev, Q/A, UAT, Production) support on various projects using Agile/Scrum methodology  • Database technical and architectural expertise to VA senior management and technical teams  • Oracle and MS SQL Server database performance tuning.    Highlands Ranch, Colorado 80129 ? 303.912.5189 ? toneys@q.com DBA VA (Insignia, Adams AITC, 22nd Century Technologies) - Denver, CO 2012 to Present Delta Dental of Colorado 2009 to 2017 fulltime and part-time):  Responsible for day-to-day database administration for databases that support Dental Care Claims  processing, data warehouse design and data analytics. Tasks and duties included:  • 7/24 Oracle (10g, 11g) database administration and operations support  • Data warehouse design and implementation to support Claims and Eligibility reporting  • ETL design and support  • Oracle database and PL/SQL tuning to support reporting queries  • HIPAA PHI/PII data security management. IT Consultant MEDdac 2006 to 2017 Clients: Wildblue Communications 2006 to 2009 7/24 Oracle (9i, 10g) database administration operations, QA and development environments.  Database design and development projects include customer tracking data warehouse and out- bound customer Email communication. Delta Dental of Colorado 2004 to 2005 Data analysis to support claims processing database and application migration to Oracle based  RDBMS. Post migration database administration support. Managing DBA Consultant Berger & Company 1998 to 2005 AT&T Broadband 2003 to 2003 Provided expertise in building ETL interfaces to import data from specialized cable design software  into an Oracle Enterprise Spatial data warehouse. Data warehouse served as central access point for network design data. AT&T Broadband 2003 to 2003 on Oracle architecture configuration to support rapid database fail-over and fine- tuning the environment to support anticipated transaction volume. Instrumental in setup and  configuration for database backups and standby database using Oracle RMAN. Contact Sports 2001 to 2002 Managed project for Web-based IVR applications using Oracle 8i and ERwin. Implemented  automated client contact system to improve registration and schedule facilities. Forest Oil 1999 to 2001 Provided Oracle database support for production applications running on Sun and NT hardware and designed/implemented an application interface utilizing PL/SQL. Developed training programs for  specific clients/general public encompassing database administration, basic tuning, backup and recovery.  ? MapQuest (1998 to 1999):  Identified requirements and designed Oracle database solutions to accommodate membership  functionality and support for robust user demand. Implemented new features to provide service for over 50,000 registered membership users and expanded target advertising and services  opportunities for Web-based Company. Lockheed Martin Astronautics - Highlands Ranch, CO 1996 to 1998 80129 ? 303.912.5189 ? toneys@q.com    CAREER & PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYMENT SUMMARY DBA Lockheed Martin Astronautics 1996 to 1998 Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration / Economics Regis University Associate of Arts in Computer Science Community College of Denver - Highlands Ranch, CO Skills Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Server, Oracle Dba, ETL, RAC, Sql Database, Rman, Ssis