Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator Germantown, WI Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Veolia North America - Greenfield, WI October 2012 to 2015 10+ years as an Oracle DBA with Strong knowledge and Concept on Oracle 9i,10g, 11g, 11g GRID, HA, 12c, ASM,RMAN  As an Oracle DBA at Veolia, I provided Database Administration support for production systems and DBA services to application development teams, including database design, database security, coding, and database production support.  • Provide 24X7 production supports for all production Oracle databases.  • Configured and upgraded Grid Control DB to monitor all the databases and get critical alert message on Cell Phone.  • Monitored and managed 2-3 node RAC environments, databases using OEM Grid control, ASM and RMAN database backup and recovery  • Provide accurate and creative solutions to user problems of moderate nature to ensure user productivity.  • Provide Development and or Production support. This includes creating primary database storage structures, designing and creating primary objects, modifying database structure as necessary for enhancements or performance, creating documentation, designing interfaces, database objects, and creating plans.  • Monitor and optimize performance of the database, plan for backup and recovery of the database, and allocate system storage and plan future storage needs.  • Hands on experience with Oracle performance tuning tools such as Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c, AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Plan baselines.  • Created, database-related scripts and programs to support development and production environments.  • Research, evaluate, design, test, recommend, and plan implementation of new or improved RDBMS, ETL and database tools.  • Collaborate with vendors and Sys Admin to configure servers for high availability and performance and open SR with Oracle support when needed.  • Refreshed/clone the Test or QA environment with Production data.  • Automated routine tasks through OEM Grid control and shell scripts.  • Performed and tuned using AWR report, statspack, OEM Grid and tkprof Oracle Databases  • Created and configured Physical Snapshot Standby database using Flashback on Oracle 10g and 11g for Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Restore RMAN backup in another server for the purpose of testing Disaster Recovery Education BAC in Biological Science Associate of Science Montgomery College Maryland Biological Science University of Maryland Baltimore campus - Baltimore, MD Additional Information Skills: UNIX Shells, SQL*Loader, PL/SQL Developer, DBArtisan 8.0, TKproff, TOAD v11.0  Oracle Tools: Data Guard, Data Broker, ASM, RMAN, OEM, Flashback, AWR and Statspack  Databases: Oracle RDMS Oracle7 (v7.3.4), Oracle8 (v8.0.6), Oracle8i (v8.1.7), Oracle9i (v9.2.0), Oracle10g (v10.2.0), Oracle11g (v11.1.0 & v11.2) UDB/DB2, People Soft HR 8(v8.8), PeopleSoft HR 9(v9.0),    Application Server Environments: Oracle 9i AS, 10gAS, 11g, Web sphere, Remedy, Oracle Application Express R4, Oracle Utilities Work and Asset Management R1.8, Oracle Customer Care and Billing (CC&B)    Operating Systems: UNIX - (SunOS, Solaris, HP-UX, OpenVMS, Linux), Windows NT/2000/SP/2003  Database Management Tools: DB-Artisan 8.1.5, Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g, 11g & 12c  Volume Management: Automatic Storage Management (ASM), Oracle Clusterware, VERITAS Cluster, Snap View, Shadow Image, BCV's