Technical Advisor -System Administrator/Engineer Technical Advisor -System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Technical Advisor -System Administrator/Engineer - JSI Telecom Centreville, VA Work Experience Technical Advisor -System Administrator/Engineer JSI Telecom - Chantilly, VA May 2018 to Present • Coordinate with U.S. governmental personnel regarding proprietary software utilizing CentOS Linux, Windows, Virtual O.S. and servers (2008 & 2012) for application upgrades.  • Utilize Nagios, Putty, Wireshark, V Center, Puppet, WINSCP, review logs, and SQL studios, to conduct maintenance checks, updates and upgrades within proprietary software infrastructure deployment set-ups.  • Research technical issues and coordinate with engineering and development teams bugs and identify root causes with issues at governmental sites that are having issues with software.  • Utilize internal knowledge base, manuals and guidelines for deployment of ESX hosts, Symmetra UPC/APC systems, Rimage/Publisher.  • Make modifications to Group Policies, Registry Keys, DNS, DHCP, switches, ASA's to include Dell and Cisco appliances according to dark network protocols.  • Familiarity with bash, Power-shell, python, JSON's, utilization of notepad ++ to modify configuration files and understanding of file architecture. System Admin/Quality Assurance - Mid Metrostar Systems - Washington, DC November 2016 to May 2018 Washington, D.C. (November 2016 to May 2018) Department of State Office of the Secretariat of State & Bureau of Consular Affairs  System Admin/Quality Assurance - Mid  • Monitor networks utilizing EM-7, SCOM, VMware Horizon 6, 2008 R2 & 2012 R2 server management on both unclassified and classified systems. Additionally, utilize Service Now ticketing system.  • Modify, create, and edit accounts within Active Directories, Exchange Management Console, Print Management; DHCP distribution, the migration of O365 and apply appropriate group policies to accounts and workstation set-ups.  • Assist with integrating new applications and technologies into the current system, resetting passwords, creating distribution lists, troubleshooting issues on regular desktop workstations and virtual machines.  • Utilizing the principles of ITIL incident & problem management provide remediation of aged tickets and support for tickets flagged as high or critical in terms of priority.  • Provide advanced technical advice and guidance on installation, adaptation, configuration or enhancement of hardware and software.  • Perform trend analysis of incidents to identify patterns of similar incidents affecting multiple locations and then perform root cause analysis of problems working in conjunction with other support groups, developers and engineers to reduce re-occurring incidents.  • Install hardware, software, re-image laptops, pc's, as well as image and migrate from windows 7 to windows 10 on NIPR and SIPR operating systems. Database -Verification Analyst Serco Group - Fair Oaks, VA April 2015 to November 2016 • Analyze, review and verify federal account information located in participant service representative and agile client systems.  • Analyze the data stored in the database and make recommendations relating to performance and efficiency of that data storage.  • Serve as the quality assurance point of contact by reviewing and improving work flows, and working with team leads to define and establish standards to improve quality of work products. Special Operation Community January 2001 to December 2014 • Supervised, trained, mentored various special operations troops on different assignments domestically, and internationally.  • Trained at various government centers covering a multitude of topics from leadership, to different cultures, the intelligence collection cycle, intelligence report writing, surveillance, counter-surveillance, counter-insurgency, unconventional warfare, security, advanced security, planning and numerous advanced courses.  • Performed quality assurance/quality control on intelligence summary reports and disseminated to civilian and federal leadership for use during strategic planning sessions.  • Managed incoming intelligence by establishing protocols to direct information to appropriate personnel and coordinating intelligence to duty and field agents.  • Analyzed essential elements of information (EEI) for dissemination to staff team and field agents.  • Served as the Security Subject Matter Expert, created training plans, and provided guidance on defensive posture in Iraq and Afghanistan. Education Master of Science in Terrorism and Counter Terrorism Putnam University 2012 to 2015 Graduate Certificate in Business Management Villanova University April 2013 Bachelor of Science in Terrorism and Counter Terrorism Putnam University 2008 to 2012 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, Redhat, Red Hat, Linux Administrator