Senior Conversion Developer Senior Conversion Developer Senior Conversion Developer - Geographic Solutions, Inc New Cumberland, PA Work Experience Senior Conversion Developer Geographic Solutions, Inc April 2019 to Present • Senior conversion developer supervising team of 3 for conversion of the PA Department of Labor and Industry Unemployment legacy database to Geographic Solutions custom database.  • Provide ETL code review recommendations to team members with the goal of best practices, consistency, and data quality.  • Conversion of legacy data to SQL Server 2014 via SSIS and TSQL.  • Coordinate with Analysts for requirements gathering to produce source to target data mapping.  • Tracked client conversion issues to resolve in a timely manner.  • Provide conversion reports to client to include conversion rules for filtered records.  • Setup up table driven process to automate many manual conversion processes.  • Interact with client SME's to resolve data conversion issues.  • Interact with GSI and DLI analysts to produce transformation rules including crosswalk tables when needed.  • Report to senior management for weekly conversion activities status.  • Provide guidance to team for SSIS best practices on data conversion. Senior SQL Developer CM REGENT INSURANCE COMPANY November 2018 to April 2019 Senior SQL Developer  • Design and automating an ETL process for CM Regent and CM Wisconsin expansion data to provide quarterly report files to the Insurance Services Office (ISO).  • Coordinate with Analysts for requirements gathering to produce source to target data mapping.  • Develop an SQL Server 2014 database to stage import file data, reports, and ETL business rule functions.  • Develop complex SQL scripts for producing flat file reports for ISO  • Create a data driven SSIS package to handle importing, transforming, and creating report files for ISO. Senior Database Architect, CAI COMPUTER AID January 2018 to September 2018 Senior Database Architect  • Designed a SQL 2016 OLTP database for the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT). Logical and Physical database design with Erwin. Redesigned from a SaaS database.  • Conversion lead for FDOT legacy database to SQL Server. Imported SaaS data from bulk loads of data extracts to staging tables. Utilized crosswalk tables for normalization. ETL performed with SQL scripts.  • Led conversion of 10 SQL 2008 databases to a SQL 2014 database for a PA manufacturing company. ETL performed with SQL scripts. SQL 2014 database housed in Microsoft Azure environment.  • Conversion lead for migrating 2 LA State SQL 2012 databases to a CAI custom SQL Server 2014 database. Conversion ETL performed with SQL Scripts and crosswalk tables from excel workbooks.  • Reviewed/approved developers code for in house SQL Server databases  • Maintained databases for on premise and Microsoft Azure cloud environments.  • Performance tuning of database servers and SQL code Microsoft Data Platform Database Consultant PYTHIAN October 2017 to January 2018 Microsoft Data Platform Database Consultant  • Remote Senior SQL Server Database Consultant working directly with external customers  • Coordinating, analyzing, designing, implementing and administering IT solutions  • Recommending best practices for improvements to current operational processes  • Configure and maintaining database servers  • Installing, configuring and upgrading SQL Server 2008 - 2016 databases  • Administering proactive daily checks  • Troubleshooting operational problems for replication, log shipping, mirroring, clustering, Always On, SSIS, SSRS  • Communicating status and planning activities to customers and team members  • Participating in on-call coverage rotation  • Performance tuning of database servers and SQL code  • Responding to monitoring alerts Senior DBA WELLSPAN HEALTH February 2017 to October 2017 Senior DBA  • Designed an auditing solution for the DBA group to track SQL Server changes on hundreds of Server and database level modifications. Automated the process with table driven SSIS packages and SSRS reports.  • Designed a custom database maintenance process for the DBA group. Automated the process with table driven SSIS packages and SSRS reports.  • Designed a custom SQL Server health check process for the DBA group with SSIS and SSRS including weekly reports on server and database level health state. This is for the servers that are not included with Idera DM tool.  • Managed DBA production Remedy tickets.  • Performance tuning utilizing Idera Diagnostic Manager and scripts. Senior DBA DELOITTE CONSULTING February 2011 to June 2016 Senior Database Consultant, DLI CWDS Project  • Senior SQL Server Database Consultant for PA Department of Labor and Industry CWDS project.  • Design, installation, and support for SQL Server 2008 and 2014 standard and clustered environments.  • Provide SQL Server evaluation and recommendations for OLTP, Reporting, DR, and Data Warehouse environments.  • Instruct classes on SQL Server performance tuning and SSIS to DPW staff.  • Provide database development best practice for Deloitte staff. This includes best practices writing SQL code for SQL server.  • Utilized Rational ClearQuest for workflow application development.  • Setup table driven SSIS packages for capturing performance metrics of the CWDS database environments.  • Implemented performance tuning procedures for monitoring all SQL server instances for blocking, deadlocking, and long running queries. Setup SSIS table driven processes for gathering server information on all SQL instances for configuration, server performance, disk usage, database growth.  • Configured and automated process to import daily IIS logs into SQL server for report generation and performance evaluation.  • Installed and configured SQL 2014 on multiple environments including 2 four node physical clusters, and multiple virtual server installations. Utilized Clustered Shared Volumes for drive consolidation on cluster installations.  • Lead conversion of SQL 2008 to 2014.  • Data modeling with Erwin for creating/modifying logical and physical data models.  • Updating data dictionaries and creating database change scripts for deployment to Dev, UAT, Prod environments.  • Provide documentation for database environments, workflows, best practices, and standards.  • Teach best practice classes for database design, tuning, migration, SSIS. Senior Database Consultant, Administrative Office of PA Courts INTEGRATED STAFFING SOLUTIONS October 2008 to February 2011 • Senior Sybase Database Consultant for PACMS and MDJS redesign projects.  • Architect and implement a database performance tuning process for databases over 1 TB in size.  • Provide performance tuning recommendations for PACMS and MDJS databases.  • Scripted process for comparing databases to their logical models.  • Scripted database changes to be applied to Development, Test, and Production environments.  • Senior SQL Server DBA. Implemented performance tuning procedures for monitoring all SQL server instances for blocking, deadlocking, and long running queries. Setup SSIS process for gathering server information on all SQL instances for configuration, server performance, disk usage, database growth Database Architect, Daystar Consulting Positions DAYSTAR SOLUTIONS INC October 1998 to February 2011 Senior Database Architect / Data Warehouse DBA DATAQUEST July 2008 to October 2008 CAMPUS DOOR  • Senior SQL Server 2005 Data Warehouse DBA for Campus Door (a partner of Lehman Brothers Bank which provides financial aid to college students).  • Provide SQL Server evaluation and recommendations for all Campus Door OLTP and data warehouse systems.  • Provide ETL recommendations for loading data marts with SSIS.  • Provide database performance recommendations and security best practices.  • Maintained high availability and support of the MS SQL Server 2005 environment, backup and recovery, performance tuning and monitoring  • Write and support T/SQL scripts, triggers and SSIS packages  • Provide support and maintenance of existing database code Database Architect / Senior DBA, Department of Defense TEKPORT November 2006 to July 2008 • Joint Database Architect and Senior DBA for the D.O.D Defense Property Accountability System (DPAS) which provides general ledger control and reporting to D.O.D accounting systems, as well as documenting the physical control of real and personal property.  • Provide database architecture design for all Microsoft SQL Server 2005 database servers in multiple environments.  • Provided oral presentations to senior staff  • Provide database design expertise to enhance performance and security best practices.  • Provide class room training to D.O.D staff and consultants on best practices for database design, conversion, SQL queries, indexing, and performance tuning.  • Architect and manage the data migration process of converting 250 D.O.D databases.  • Direct the database team consisting of 5 DBA's providing technical guidance in database architecture, design, migration, performance tuning, change management, and database integration. Database Architect / Senior DBA, Constellation Energy TEKSYSTEMS August 2005 to November 2006 • Architect a data mart solution for the consolidation of 8 database servers located throughout the U.S. and Canada. Logical and physical data modeling with Erwin. Data driven ETL designed for optimal performance and recoverability.  • Architect and implement a database disaster recovery solution for CNE commodities group via log shipping.  • Evaluate over 200 Corporate and business unit database server configurations and propose recommended best practices for server configuration, data integrity, database design, maintenance, performance tuning, backup strategies, and disaster recovery.  • Act as Constellation Energy's liaison to Microsoft consulting services.  • Design and implement a merge replication process for Microsoft CE mobile devices used by field gas leak surveyors.  • Analyze data and database changes, and provide performance tuning solutions for OutlookSoft's business intelligence OLAP installation.  • Create standards for a data driven database backup and maintenance process  • Provided oral presentations to senior staff Senior Database Architect, PA State Police IIMS Project LOCKHEED MARTIN May 2004 to August 2005 • Designed, documented and guided the use of data and database changes for complex, enterprise-wide web based internal to company database integration.  • Analyzed needs and requirements of existing and proposed systems, and developed technical, structural, and organizational specifications, in addition to systems integration between Oracle and SQL Server databases on windows 2003.  • Provided oral presentations to senior staff.  • Created a data driven ETL development standard for PSP using Microsoft DTS.  • Provided SQL Server Data Transformation Services expertise for Data Migration process between Mainframe Legacy systems, Microsoft SQL Server, and Oracle.  • Provided oral presentations and training classes to Lockheed Martin and PSP DBA'S and programmers on database standards, SQL Server DTS development, SQL Server Administration and database recovery.  • Mentored Lockheed Martin employees on windows performance tuning techniques.  • Supported over 21 standard and clustered SQL Server instances for all development and production databases.  • Developed and implemented custom procedures for database maintenance, backups, and alerting.  • Interviewed and hired Data Migration Lead and Oracle DBA.  • Re-architected and proposed a solution for the design of a Datamart/Data Warehouse and decision support system to support Data Mining and OLAP functionality via SQL Server Analysis Services, Proclarity, and Crystal Enterprise. This included highly complex data driven ETL processes for Data Migration, Data Mart updates, and Data Warehouse report development.  • Performance tuning via stored procedure analysis, indexing of tables, SQL Profiler, application database connection options, and Performance Monitoring.  • Wrote Meta Data stored procedures for Meta Data Repository reporting.  • Wrote a custom SQL ETL process to automate loading new county intersection data to COTS database. This process will save Lockheed over $800,000.00  • Received awards from Lockheed and PSP for training DBA'S and programmers and for solving performance problems on critical web based production systems, developing a data driven ETL standard to be used with all state police DTS work, and designing data driven custom database maintenance and alerting procedures to monitor all production and non-production servers. VB.net and SQL Server consultant and reporting services mentor GLOBAL DATA CONSULTANTS February 2004 to May 2004 • VB.net programming for manufacturing applications producing reports with Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services.  • SQL Server database design, developing, and administration on SQL standard and MSDE editions.  • Data conversions from MS Access and Fourth Shift to SQL Server. SQL 2000 Data Warehouse Consultant, Deutsche Bank Alex Brown AJILON January 2001 to August 2003 • The database provided reporting for client Portfolio Analysis from an Advent Data Warehouse. The reporting database provided the InvestEdge web-based enterprise investment system with enhanced performance reporting to help assist with making strategic decisions.  • Wrote stored procedures to automate the data extraction from the data warehouse to the client reporting database.  • Wrote and optimized reporting stored procedures, UDF's, triggers and views for the reporting database.  • Modified Crystal 9.2 reports used to display exhibits. Index recommendations for staging and production databases.  • Increased batch reporting table transfer process from over 6 hrs to 20 minutes.  • Utilized Brio 6.5 for ad hoc queries.  • Reporting exhibits: Historical Performance, Change in Financial Position, Fixed Income Characteristics, Risk Analysis and Account Holdings.    Database Manager, Database Architect and Lead DBA  Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts ASAP project    • Directed Database group consisting of 4 DBA'S and 18 database developers.  • Provided technical guidance in database architecture, design, migration, software, and database integration.  • Developed database project work plans and presentations for Client Server and Web based databases.  • Performed installation, configuration and upgrades to multiple SQL Servers on Windows 2000.  • Designed Logical and Physical data models using Embarcadero ERStudio.  • Designed data migration procedures (ETL) and managed data migration group.  • Implemented database object definition and naming standards.  • Wrote stored procedures, functions and triggers.  • Mentored database developers for writing stored procedures and user defined functions.  • SQL2000 virtual server administration.  • Server maintenance via batch scripts, SQL jobs and DTS packages.  • Utilized Veritas Backup Exec for scheduled server backups.  • Trained DBA group on performance tuning techniques, identifying locking, and baseline and capacity planning tasks for increasing application performance.  • Performance tuning via stored procedures analysis, indexing of tables, SQL Profiler, application database connection options, and Performance Monitoring.  • Trained DBA group on SQL Server administration, log shipping, Full Text searching, auditing and disaster recovery (documentation included for all).  • Designed an automated database transfer process to simplify transferring or copying databases across servers.  • Designed and implemented a SQL server disaster recovery process. Setup custom email alerts for administering SQL servers. Database Manager/Lead Developer INTELLIMARK October 1998 to January 2001 The Pennsylvania Treasury Dept Unclaimed Merchandise Project    • Administered SQL Server 2000 on two Win 2K Advanced Servers Clustered using active\passive mode.  • Performed Analysis of databases and presented plan for improving the existing architecture.  • Database administrative tasks on SQL Server 2000 / 7.0 / 6.5.  • Migrated existing databases from SQL Server 6.5 to 2000.  • Installed and administered five SQL Servers on MS NT Clustering using active-passive mode and four Standard installations.  • Wrote procedures to fix record sequence numbering on production system.  • Disaster Recovery Documentation for SQL Virtual Server.  • Migration of Great Plains Enterprise Resource Planning software to SQL Server 7.  • Installation of 3rd party application (EMAT) for Audit Tracking of Great Plains Databases.  • Mentored staff on SQL Server stored procedures and Visual Basic data access.  • Wrote procedures to automate data scrubbing for loading data to Unclaimed Property Database via batch scripts, SQL jobs and DTS packages.  • Performance tuning via stored procedures analysis, indexing of tables, SQL Profiler, application database connection options, and Performance Monitoring.  • Setup referential integrity for Unclaimed Property database.  • Provided ASP page performance recommendations.  • Designed ASP.NET / VB.Net web pages for reporting of unclaimed Stock information.  • Wrote and installed auditing procedures for Payroll's database.    Senior Consultant/ Database Manager and Lead Developer  The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission Customer Account Information    • Re-architect and modified existing database schema on SQL Server 6.5 client server and web based databases.  • Installed SQL Server 7.0 and upgraded existing 6.5 databases.  • Designed Logical and Physical data models using Erwin and Microsoft diagram modeler.  • Utilized Visio for diagramming process flow charts.  • Instructed classes on SQL Server Design, programming and implementation.  • Performed Database Administration, SQL Server Standards, Disaster Recovery, Change Management, and Application Documentation.  • Setup System Migration procedures and documentation.  • Automation of data transfers from mainframe system.  • Performance tuning via stored procedures analysis, indexing of tables, SQL Profiler, application database connection options, and Performance Monitoring.  • Automation of FTP data transfers from PUC to Utilities. Administered Source Safe for Client Server and Web development.    Senior Consultant  Transcore Corp    • Disaster Recovery for SQL Server 7.0 on MS NT Clustering using active-passive mode.  • Setup messaging for Administrators. System evaluation and recommendations.    Senior Consultant  PA Dept. of Aging    • SQL Server 7.0 Database design and modeling for a web based system.    Senior Consultant  National Sexual Violence Resource Center    • Installed SQL Server 7.0.  • Setup recovery scripts and documented disaster recovery plan.  • Mentored staff on SQL Server tools and utilities.  • Recommend software and hardware for test and production environments.    Senior Consultant  Common Wealth Technology Center    • Installed SQL Server on MS NT Clustering using active-passive mode.  • Wrote disaster recovery scripts and implemented them into daily administration tasks.  • Recommended disaster recovery plan for NT and SQL servers.    Senior Consultant  Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts server evaluation    • Evaluated existing Cluster Server installation and tested fail-over.  • Applied service packs and setup daily and weekly administration scripts for performance and recovery.  • Recommended a plan for security and administration roles and responsibilities.    Senior Consultant  UTZ Quality Foods system evaluation    • Performed System evaluation and recommendations for existing SQL Server 6.5.  • Setup SQL Server daily and weekly administration tasks.  • Installed messaging for SQL server.  • Incorporated email alerts for reports on task results and system alerts. Database Administrator / Senior Programmer Analyst PENN NATIONAL INSURANCE February 1997 to October 1998 • Database Administration and operational support of 8 Compaq 4500 servers running MS SQL Server 6.5 and 6.0 with NT 4.0 operating system.  • Data Warehouse Administration of 2 UNIX servers running Sybase 10x.  • Designed and implemented an intranet "Keyweb" databases.  • Designed an Intranet Database Administration home page utilizing Visual Interdev.  • Provided off site disaster recovery testing and documentation.  • Migrated five servers to new hardware, three databases from version 6.0 to 6.5.  • Converted SQL Server 6.0 databases to version 6.5.  • Provided NT Administration for all SQL Servers.  • Setup a Year 2k testing environment for MS SQL Server.  • Provided troubleshooting of stored procedures for performance gains.  • Reevaluated indexing strategies and made needed modifications.  • Implemented system level stored procedures to simplify database management.  • Recommended database management software.  • Provided disaster recovery during a hardware failure on two SQL Servers.  • Implemented security auditing on all production SQL Servers. Provided support to all application development teams.  • Application performance benchmarking using Optimal software.  • Assisted with installation of Microsoft Terminal Server / Citrix. Programmer Analyst SOLUTION TECHNOLOGIES INC September 1996 to February 1997 EDS Call Center Project    • Development of a VB 4.0 32-bit application used for monitoring agent's calls. Supported 'Time Tracking' (vb3), 'NewHire' (vb3), and 'Snyder' (vb4 32 bit) applications.  • Database development with Microsoft SQL Server 6.0 and 6.5. Client Server Developer INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS INC November 1995 to September 1996 Material Financial Control System    • PowerBuilder 4.0 developer on the FMSO OMNIBUS II contract developing the StarFL applications maintenance module with a Watcom database.  • Visual Basic Development on the Material Financial Control System for the Navy Supply Systems Command with Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 database.    I.T. related jobs (11/1981 - 02/1995) Computer Technician Doctronics - Harrisburg, PA February 1995 to June 1996 Electronic Technician Holy Spirit Hospital - Camp Hill, PA February 1992 to November 1995 Computer Technician Qualitech Computer Center - Lemoyne, PA February 1994 to November 1994 Laser Technician United Technical Associates - Reading, PA November 1992 to March 1993 Laser Technician United Technical Associates - Reading, PA March 1991 to September 1991 Field Service Technician Full Service Security & ATC - Mechanicsburg, PA February 1988 to March 1989 Electro-Mechanical Technician Rockwell International Electronics - Richardson, TX August 1983 to August 1984 Quality Control Inspector Electronic Corporation of America - Manchester, NH November 1981 to August 1982 Various non-computer related positions (1978 to 1981) Education A. A. in Electronic and Computer Technology The Way College of Emporia - Middletown, PA Skills DATA CONVERSION, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MS SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, SQL QUERIES, SYBASE, DATABASE DEVELOPMENT, CLUSTERING, ETL, ERWIN, LIFE CYCLE, POWERDESIGNER, RATIONAL, SDLC, REMEDY