Clinical LIMS Analyst ( Database Administrator) Clinical LIMS Analyst (<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>) Clinical LIMS Analyst ( Database Administrator) Avon, IN High performance, versatile, and commercially astute forward thinker offering a career of impressive successes within a broad range of challenging disciplines. Contribute comprehensive organizational experience forged in the environment of public relations and issue management, and polished in the volatile market of health care. Particularly detail-driven and analytical with a willingness to view problems and recommend solutions from multiple perspectives. Adept at cross-functional leadership and cultivating long-term, strategic partnerships that yield high returns    www. linkedin.com/in/kendra-manning-holloway Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Clinical LIMS Analyst ( Database Administrator) Covance CLS - Indianapolis, IN 2007 to 2019 Administered management oversight of an effective database installations and upgrades ensuring operational stability.    • Performed quality assurance, system integration and user acceptance testing facilitating on-time, on-budget and acclaimed "go-live" of enterprise implementations for up to 10,000 global users.  • Enhanced performance by developing and executing an effective quality management and quality assurance  • Partnered with the product organization and functional partners to continually seek ways to enhance and quantify the value of existing services and solutions.  • Provided technical support to TIBCO CIM databases, by searching, creating, and modifying master, and existing element and test instance developed by the ELN tool.  • Support all Global Laboratory Information System instrument deployments and tasks in real time to LabWare systems.  • Liaised between Laboratory Operations and IT to troubleshoot internal workflow processes.  • Collaborated with senior leaders to, resolve conflict, and rectify patient regulatory requirements.  • Collaborated with faculty member, scientist and staff to design data intensive applications to capture, organize, analyze and report on data collected from scientific experiments and external sources.  • Supported "real time" Global Laboratory Information System instrument deployments.  • Diagnosed job errors and implemented solutions or worked with developers and/or Server Administration as necessary to solve break/fix and other issues.  • Participated in Initial unit testing and lab functionality  • Conducted users acceptance testing and assisted with test scripts.  • Reviewed LIMS Master Data pushed by the ELN Subject Matter Expert Clinical Laboratory Technologists 2004 to 2004 2004 - 20007  Identified and implemented process improvements to streamline workflow and improve quality control measures within the Clinical Information Management department.    • Attained continuous positive increases for incremental releases system application response time by performing as Subject Matter Expert for quality control of defects and enhancements.  • Increased incremental releases system application response time by serving as Subject Matter Expert for quality control of defects and enhancements.  • Streamlined product launches and regulatory submissions by creating standardized processes and providing specialized literature reports, resulting in faster issue resolution and enhanced quality control  • Assisted with test plans and test scripts.  • Maintained documentation for QA/UAT test cases and defect tracking.  • Performed reporting and data analytical functions to support Servicing, Fraud Prevention and Risk departments. Education MBA in Business Administration Keller Graduate School - Indianapolis, IN Masters in Public Health Administration Keller Graduate School - Indianapolis, IN Bachelor of Science in Biology Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL Skills DB2, SQL, LIMS, TIBCO, SAS, TABLEAU, GCP, BECKMAN, Excel, Mechanical Knowledge, Laboratory Experience, Laboratory Information Management Systems, Troubleshooting Links http://linkedin.com/in/kendra-manning-holloway Assessments Electronic Medical Records Knowledge — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s knowledge of EMR data and associated privacy regulations, as well as best practices for EMR use. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f7cshyq5bxxw53yn Basic Computer Skills: PC — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u6zmp9iq6j0zieby Technical Support — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ggjtzwyjb-bo4wym Medical Terminology — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and appropriately use medical terminology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fpevhem-nw4voi3r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.