Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Support staff Seattle, WA Work Experience Database Administrator Butter London - Seattle, WA September 2011 to Present Responsibilities  • Use ERP Net suite Pro, QuickBooks, MS Outlook, MS Excel, MS Word, VPN, Windows Vista Pro O/S, Windows 7 Pro O/S, FedEx Ship management console software, UPS Ship Management console software, and other various software, software tools and applications.  • E-commerce shipping and invoicing.  Schedule and transfer all shipping transactions with multiple carriers through vendor e-routing systems.  Keep all data and documentation in procedures and follow standard shipping compliance regulations.  File and retrieve organizational documents, records and reports. Support staff Medtronic/Physio-control - Redmond, WA 2007 to 2009 Redmond WA    Helpdesk Support 2007 to 2009  Handle technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment using system software and database programs in Microsoft Windows XP Pro 2003 O/S,Windows 7 Pro O/S using Microsoft Office Suite 2003, Active Directory 2003, Word, Excel, Office Outlook, email, and MFG Pro and many other software tools and applications    Administrate and keep all data in compliance with current documentation.  File and retrieve organizational documents, records and reports.  Multi-task  Support staff in assigned project-based work. Education BS in Computer Science Itt-Technical Institute - Indianapolis, IN 2012 to 2014 Associate in applied science in computer networking ITT Technical Institute - Seattle, WA March 2012 Additional Information IT Tech offering a strong academic background in IT combined with excellent internship experience as a helpdesk analyst.  Recognized for technical troubleshooting used rapidly and cost effectively, resolving challenging technical issues.  Quickly learn and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies.