Executive Assistant Executive Assistant Bloomington, MN Specialist with expertise in carrier freight bill auditing, freight desk management and customer relations. Able to proactively handle customer request including directions for special assignments. Positively resolve customer problems and complaints to ensure customer satisfaction. Proactively recognize potential issues and correct underlying problems. Work Experience Executive Assistant Bloomington Public Schools - Bloomington, MN July 2016 to Present Management multi budgets  Order Technology supplies for Bloomington School District, including all the computers  Maintain office calendars  Receive and Manage invoices Sublet Coordinator Martin Calibration - Burnsville, MN June 2015 to April 2019 Assist customers on getting items calibrated. Call and receive pricing and RMA's from suppliers to receive calibration of items. Contact customers for approvals. Review calibration certificates to see if items has passed or failed and process covers and prepare to send to customer. Bloomington School District Census Clerk - Bloomington, MN October 2016 to June 2017 Manage the entire district student address. Manage 10+ schools enrollments. Create and maintain Adhoc reporting. Create help documents and help train data leads. Assist with student registration. Technology Paraprofessional Bloomington School District 271 - Bloomington, MN March 2015 to October 2016 Maintain and manage Olson Elementary's technology, including the teachers and support staff laptops and presentation computers. Maintain and fix students chromebooks. Troubleshoot technology problems that arise with Smartboards, LCD projectors and Redcats. Assist with students at recess and lunch. Database Administrator/Problem Specialist Cerasis, Inc - Eagan, MN 1999 to 2013 Identified potential process efficiency improvements and proactively implement changes.  ? Manage, maintain and run queries, reports, forms in Microsoft Access.  ? Established new EDI communications and maintained ongoing EDI communications activities.  ? Customer Service, Answered Customer and Carrier calls  ? Call Center, Answered Incoming calls and enter in shipping orders  ? Create, Design and maintain Access Databases.  ? Planned and executed research project plans.  ? Receive Audit and pay carrier invoices Technology EDI Alternative Billing Solutions - Bloomington, MN 1997 to 1999 Setup new EDI communications and maintained existing EDI communications.  ? Proactively searched for potential EDI process efficiency improvements and implemented changes.  ? Installed and maintained company technical resources for new and exiting employees.  ? Generated monthly reports for company customers. Education Diploma Jefferson High School - Bloomington, MN Leadership Training for Managers Dale Carnegie Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Access Present Hazmat Training Certificate Present Adoboe Robohelp Training Present Additional Information Bloomington Athletic Association (2008-Present)  Divisional Director and Member of Board of Director    Serve as a divisional director for baseball, soccer and football of the nation’s largest volunteer sports organization. In this role, I serve as a public representative of the organization in order to sign up kids, organize teams, identify volunteer coaches and troubleshoot issues for parents, players and coaches. From an administrative perspective, I am responsible for inventorying existing equipment, ordering new equipment and organizing coach’s bags for the soccer program. I serve as a liaison between parents and the organization to gather both positive and negative feedback. I work with the organization to organize tournaments and present players with medals and trophies. My ultimate goal is to ensure the children involved in the organization have a great experience playing sports to help maintain a healthy lifestyle.