Server Analyst II Server Analyst II Server Analyst II - Midland Memorial Hospital Midland, TX Proactive IT specialist with 11+ years of experience developing and implementing solutions and strategies for organizational challenges and constantly changing technical environments within various operational, healthcare, and academic technology programs. Experienced building, developing and managing motivated IT teams, scaling IT processes and capabilities, and improving infrastructure and end-user technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server Analyst II Midland Memorial Hospital - Midland, TX April 2018 to Present Oversee the design, implementation, oversight, and ongoing management of the server environment for a hospital, including installing, configuring, supporting, and maintaining server software, databases and infrastructure components to maintain optimal performance. Manage and ensure efficient deployment of all hardware, software, and systems.    Key Accomplishments:    ? Lead technology planning, cost-benefit analyses and ROI assessments to prioritize IT implementation projects.    ? Implement IT policies and procedures, and created operational objectives and KPIs to support the hospital's strategic goals, streamline workflow, and reduce costs.    ? Led successful initiative to transform the hospital's document creation pursuant to its policies, procedures and technical information for supported hardware, software, and services.    ? Write and improve technical documentation, and    ? Evaluate current technology and software to provide recommendations to senior leadership for system improvements within budget allocations.    ? Coordinated transition from existing EHR system to new Cerner EHR system, leading to increased productivity, efficiency, and improved quality of hospital service.    ? Deploy production and test servers, develop server and storage templates, create scripts for automating deployment of standardized server and storage infrastructure resources.    ? Lead the transition of on-premises servers and services to cloud-based solutions primarily focusing on Azure for better reliability and end-user access. Database Administrator / Programmer / Webmaster Midland Independent School District - Midland, TX January 2014 to April 2018 Oversaw IT strategy, operations and support for school district, including network infrastructure, project and change management, and regulatory compliance. Created and implemented IT roadmap to support 60,000+ devices across 38 campuses, including classroom technology, for 4,000+ employees and 30,000+ students with a focus on scalability.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Managed, trained, and developed team of network and server administrators, and oversaw all custom applications, including an internal procurement site, an inventory management system, and the district's website.  ? Worked closely with Executive Director of Technology and Director of Technology Infrastructure in decisionmaking processes for new services, applications, and initiatives.  ? Administered, managed, and maintained inventory of databases, applications, and servers.  ? Planned, coordinated, managed and deployed IT projects, including gathering requirements, determining needed resources and overseeing project completion within deadlines and budget.  ? Researched and implemented new inventory management system, reducing yearly spend by $75K in software, licensing, and materials costs.  ? Improved efficiency of reporting services workflow for querying information from the iTCCS database.  ? Created and implemented IT policies and procedures for new technology and systems, and streamlined process for ordering and requesting technology equipment.  ? Revamped website, including redesign of content management system and transition of Skyward SIS/ERP system.  ? Minimized infrastructure downtime through major upgrade of Windows Server 2003 to 2012. Computer Technician Midland Independent School District - Midland, TX October 2012 to January 2014 Responsible for day-to-day support desk operations including request prioritization, tracking, and timely resolution, and provide technical support to 2,200+ students and staff as well as 500 desktops and 300 laptops.  ? Provided hardware, software, and network support, and identified and ensured resolution of IT troubleshooting.  ? Managed procurement, creation and implementation of IT policies and procedures, computer configurations, performing hardware upgrades, and assisting in server migrations.  ? Replaced 3,000+ aged desktop computers within 30-day deadline, and devised and executed plan to fully replace equipment across several elementary classrooms with minimal downtime to users.  ? Wrote technical documentation instructing end-users and management how to use architectural software, install applications, and various other tools.  ? Developed workflow plan to eliminate manual recording of 1,000+ equipment serial numbers through Evernote. Counter Intelligence Agent Geek Squad - Midland, TX March 2007 to October 2012 Provided direct customer support to address IT equipment issues, and repaired personal devices including  desktops and laptops.  ? Replaced hardware, removed critical viruses, installed operating systems, and performed data backups.  ? Managed Geek Squad check-in and check-out customer experiences and educated sales team on services, technology, and product strategies to improve overall customer experience.  ? Trained new employees and supervisors and explained company processes and procedures. Education Bachelor's Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MYSQL, Oracle DB, Python, MariaDB, AWS, Azure, SSRS, Windows Server, Linux Server, RHEL, CentOS, Debian, Cobbler, Puppet, Spacewalk, Salt, SCCM, LDAP, CPanel, SolusVM, HyperV, VMware, Nutanix, Active Directory, Docker, Django, Ruby, C++, Joomla, PostgresSQL, Citrix, VDI, Lenovo LTM Links http://linkedin.com/in/joshua-w-tipton