Planning and purchasing program manager Planning and purchasing program manager Normandy Park, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Planning and purchasing program manager Toshiba America Business Solutions - Lake Forest, CA 2006 to Present Planning and Purchasing Program Manager 2006 to Present * Develop monthly purchase, sales and inventory plan for all copier machines, accessories, and document solutions while optimizing profitability and cash flow goals.  * Develop channel specific forecasts based on sales history, market trends, account sell-through, and additional data. This includes analysis of economical and sales data and forecasting trends including revenue, gross margin, and profit metrics.  * Gained business intelligence and communicated factors which could impact demand, including seasonality, consumer spending trends, competitive promotions, sales objective and marketing lifecycle plans.  * Developed and presented a monthly forecast summary for senior management outlining variances for all key measures, supply issues, market share and risks and opportunities.  * Created budget and mid-term business plans utilizing historical trends, seasonality, market forecasts and company goals.  * Collaborate with management and regional sales director to create and develop sales programs, promotions and process required to successfully promote company products to ensure business objectives are met.  * Direct and manage procurement and inventory management to ensure finished goods are purchased and received to meet company financial goals.  * Research, collect, enter and analyze quantitative data on a monthly/weekly basis while ensuring data integrity for financial reporting to management and parent company.  * Identify problem areas, process gap and make recommendations for improvement or correction as required.  * Determine and manage standard and special pricing. Project Coordinator/ Database Administrator 2005 to 2006 * Create Tracking Database to manage all National Accounts awarded.  * Prepare recommendations based upon assessment data and established detailed implementation schedules to meet customer requirements.  Giao (kris) B. Walter  714-604-5365 • krisn24@hotmail.com    Professional Experience Continued:  * Provide Toshiba operations department with extensive detail of machine requirements for configurations to process order in a timely and concise manner to minimize order entry error and maximize output.  * Manage new account implementation, including: confirm order status, track installation progress, evaluate manpower requirement for installation, oversee that target installation is implemented within time-frame, collect data, analyze and provide detail report to end-user. Direct Sales Consultant/ Database Administrator QTI Professional Staffing, Inc 2003 to 2005 * Work collaboratively with direct sales management, product management and marketing to understand and execute marketing plans. Contribute to the creation of sales plans with support from sales and product management, to meet annual sales goals and critical success factors.  * Effectively perform all aspects of the sales process, which includes: lead generation and qualification; program positioning; customer education; sales presentations/proposal; lead and proposal follow up; addressing objections; presenting and negotiating contracts, and closing the sale.  * Through understanding of Credit Union strategic plans, proactively uncover new sales opportunities by engaging account teams (field and home office).  * Develop a thorough knowledge of solutions/programs and contracts to effectively educate others. Stay current on solutions and industry related news. Provide development ideas to product management. Search out, assess, and share competitive information with sales product and competitive intelligence management teams.  * Create Database system to house credit union information to track sales and assessment. Create monthly reports for management team. Update and improve database when necessary. Service Operations Coordinator Canon USA - Costa Mesa, CA 2000 to 2002 * Track all cost of Canon Service business related to warranty program and refurbish operations. Analyze data and provide detailed reports to management.  * Track monthly budget versus actual performance and report budget expenses as required. Assist in development of annual budget.  * Receive and audit vendor and service related invoices for accuracy. Provide the proper coding of invoices with appropriate accounting codes and provide summary reports.  * Coordinate service activities of third party maintainers with regards to service program operations and processes, identify performance anomalies and monitor compliance to established guidelines.  * Develop financial tracking and audit tools for all service operations, recommend improvements to procedures and provide summary reports as needed.    Giao (kris) B. Walter  714-604-5365 • krisn24@hotmail.com    Professional Experience Continued:  Assist with other special projects related to service operations as assigned by management.  * Coordinate all general department projects, functions and activities, including internal/external meetings and lunches.  * Other responsibilities: Preparing and developing presentations. Maintaining and setting-up all Corporate Extended Service Plan sales. Other tasks as required. Education Bachelor of science in finance California State University - Long Beach, CA Skills COMPETITIVE ANALYSIS, BUSINESS PLAN, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, BUDGET, PROCUREMENT, INVENTORY, ORACLE, COGNOS, TABLEAU, INTERWOVEN, PRICING, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD Additional Information Key Competencies    Sales & Business Analytics • Financial Analysis • Purchase, Sales & Inventory (PSI) Planning • Procurement & Inventory Management• Monthly Forecast Development • Fiscal Half Budget Development • Mid-Term Business Plan Development • Standard / Special Pricing Management • Project Management • Report Generation • Competitive Analysis • Process Improvement    Professional skills    Advanced skills: Office Suite (Excel, Access, Word, Outlook, PowerPoint),  Oracle, Cognos, Interwoven, Tableau