Sr ServiceNow Lead Sr ServiceNow Lead Sr ServiceNow Lead - IBM ? Over 10 years of experience as an IT Professional, including 7 years of experience as a ServiceNow Suite developer and Administrator with extensive experience on Technical implementation of various ServiceNow Modules.  ? ServiceNow Analyst with experience on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Service Portal, GRC, Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management and Release Management.  ? Experience on Finance Service Management (FSM).  ? Involved in managing system configurations, gathering and documenting user and process requirements, developing workflow customizations, and performing quality assurance testing, user acceptance testing and third- party integration for Service Now platform.  ? Worked on Project Portfolio Management PPM module to view all the related projects and application at the same time and track their progress.  ? Experienced in integrating Jira with ServiceNow and used Jira to create, track tickets for any issues and bugs.  ? Experience in the Release Management Process to support SYS/UAT/PROD environment  ? Prepare code migration schedule and Run book (steps for migration) for the Enterprise release management.  ? Evaluating a release process for informatics objects, Data base scripts, UNIX scripts using Change Man DS and TBD (Team based development).  ? Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now.  ? Experience with Service Portal creation and maintenance and well versed in AngularJS scripting as well as CSS  ? Technical implementation of Change Management, incident Management, Demand Management and Asset Management.  ? Experienced with PPM implementation including Demand Management and Change Management.  ? Extensively involved in development of moderately complex ServiceNow Custom applications and reports.  ? Excellent hands on Configuration and customization of Help Desk, Change/Incident/Problem Management Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, Dictionary Overrides, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements.  ? Experience developing ServiceNow applications from business requirements and technical design documents. Ensure 24x7 monitoring of enterprise server platforms, application interfaces, network infrastructure, and facility environmental.  ? More than 15 enterprise ServiceNow implementation. Experience in creating scripts like Client Scripts, Catalog Client Scripts, UI scripts and UI Policies. Experience in Implementing Single Sign On (SSO) using SAML 2.0 with Windows Active Directory and LDAP.  ? Determining Business services and discovering the infrastructure on which the BS Service runs.  ? Integrated SN with CA Identity manager  ? Experience in Inbound Email Integration and created Outbound Email Notifications using Email Templates. Experience in Client Script/Calling server side code using Glide Ajax in Client Script. Customized Scripting on Service Catalog/Email Template/Workflow script.  ? Implement ITSM functionalities including Employee On boarding, Self-Service Online, Service Catalog, Incidents, Problems, Facilities, SDLC and Knowledge Management functions for Discovery Communications' operations worldwide.  ? Wrote business rules to avoid empty configuration items to be stored in CMDB after discovery tool runs a scheduled job.  ? CMDB & Discovery administration, HP orchestration.  ? Worked on DISCOVERY and set up MID Servers and check for the connectivity.  ? Developed Probes and Sensors in Discovery  ? Involved in developing DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  ? Experience on DISCOVERY and setting up MID servers and populating CMDB.  ? Responsible for configuring and setting up Service-now (ITSM) Information Technology Service Management application, including the maintenance and support in the implementation of all modules.  ? Excellent Interpersonal skills, Communication skills, Documentation Skills, problem solving ability, Analytical and Programming skills in High speed, Quality conscious and Multi-tasked environment.  ? Goal oriented professional with excellent customer service skills and technical background and the ability to quickly grasp new skill sets.  ? Sell the market leading software as a service platform which provides service management for every department within the enterprise including IT, human resources, facilities, field service and more. Work Experience Sr ServiceNow Lead IBM - Armonk, NY August 2016 to Present ARMONK, NEW YORK  IBM Corporation is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York, United States, with operations in over 170 countries  Sr ServiceNow Lead, Aug 2016 - present    ? Worked closely with Analyst in understanding the requirements and improving them.  ? Involved in implementation of Service Portal and configure widgets and dashboards by instance.  ? Lead the team and performed bi-directional integration between ServiceNow and Jira using Rest Web Services.  ? Reviewed documentation of Analyst which includes Business Requirements Document  ? Created new service catalog requests and items with variables.  ? Designed CI orchestration activity layouts to automate CI processes across the ITSM spectrum from monitoring tools such as Solar winds to be able to create alerts and incidents into JIRA.  ? Worked as Service Portal Developer and was responsible for the successful design and delivery of modern responsive service management portals on the ServiceNow platform.  ? Extensively worked in creating customized service portal, UI Pages, Application Work Flows as per the client need.  ? Configured multiple forms for Asset module using CMDB.  ? Developed UI Appearance for Service Catalog Requests.  ? Created, monitored, modified and published service catalog workflows with approvals.  ? Responsible for designing, configuring and customizing new applications and modules.  ? Assisted the team in troubleshooting patch / release management issues. Designed Actual cost tracking module in Demand management process.  ? Involved in customizing the end user self-service portal pages, Service catalog forms & Incident forms based on the requirement.  ? Responsible for customization of Service Catalog (Demand Management), Time Card, Project & portfolio Management & Financial Management Application.  ? Worked on portal development that included writing down angular JS widgets more on the client side, server side so making sure these widgets work both on desktop and as well as mobile level.  ? Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application.  ? Act as tool expert and provide training and support to the development teams with Version control tools and Release processes.  ? Designed, developed, and maintained the report portal which provides user access to scheduled reports and report parameters.  ? Streamlined ServiceNow demand management process and managed release lifecycle.  ? Deferred demand through the portfolio and developed logic for calculating cost.  ? Involved in implementation of Service Portal and Configure Widgets and Dashboards by instance.  ? Developed custom internal applications for project estimation, management and peer review.  ? Working on Service Portal to build the widgets with a mixture of server-side scripting and Angular JS.  ? Worked on the Asset Manager Application designer as project was a new implementation, customization included creation of page, screen, tab, Fields, Buttons.  ? Worked as Service Portal Developer and was responsible for the successful design and delivery of modern responsive service management portals on the ServiceNow platform.  ? Worked on the Asset Manager Application designer as project was a new implementation, customization included creation of page, screen, tab, Fields, Buttons.  ? Designed the Full Assessment and Resource Estimations FA so that they could only be edited if status is in progress.  ? Working with vendors on the asset tag process, ensuring all vendor assets are recorded appropriately.  ? Communicate and work with Divisional Release Management and Application Release Leads to integrate 3rd party solutions for Fidelity Bank systems. Release Management process flows identified for efficiencies and SOX compliance.  ? Created a Release Management complexity model to determine the level of effort in hours for each complexity category to deliver Release Management solutions throughout Capital One Bank divisions.  ? Extensively worked in creating customized service portal, UI Pages, Application Work Flows as per the client need.  ? Supported Divisional Release Manager to integrate Chevy Chase Bank and monitor progress of support staff to accomplish the integration.  ? Developed the process and UI's for IT portfolio using ServiceNow Project & Portfolio Management application(PPM).  ? Created various ServiceNow applications, modules and tables as per the requirements.  ? Created customized and user friendly widgets so users can access specific platform features using Service Portal.  ? Cloned out of the box widgets and embedded them on Service Portal in order to achieve certain functionalities.  ? Experience installing, configuration and administration of CMDB.  ? Responsible for Communicating with end users, identifying their difficulties and changing the applications as per their requirements.  ? Created customized and User-Friendly widgets so users can access specific platform features using Service Portal.  ? Created various ServiceNow applications, modules and tables as per the client requirements.  ? Experience in manipulating, loading and maintaining data between ServiceNow and other systems.  ? Assisting client implementing the MSP (Managed Service Provider) instance for Service-Now and domain separation for Service-Now Instances.  ? Designed and Implementation of service requests through service catalog in service now  ? Created catalog items, workflows, inbound emails actions for service requests.  ? Expertise in End to End implementation of CMDB module using Discovery tool in ServiceNow.  ? Expert in ITSM, ITOM, CMDB and discovery, configuration management, cloud infrastructure and automation.  ? Involved in the ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB maintenance.  ? Finding applications and devices with in the network using Discovery, and updating the CMDB with the information it finds.  ? Wrote Classifiers and Identifiers to direct the discovery tool to gather the information of the configuration items with no error.  ? Implemented CMDB Bi-directional Web Service integration. It involves consuming Restful web service, publishing SOAP web Service, using Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Actions and other ServiceNow scripting modules to support data synchronization and business logic.  ? Working in conjunction with CMDB Data owners to ensure that the CMDB Data content truly reflects the IT and Change estate including all interdependencies between the individual components.  ? Compare/Analyze Source CIs records vs CMDB CI Records and provide discrepancies.  ? Managed staff for data integrity utilizing HP Service Manager Tools for RFC(s) Release and Change Management. This included Release Management Metrics to ensure 98% of data integrity per month.  ? Meet with application systems owners for new Release Management engagements and communicate with application teams to provide a complete service throughout the controlled release environments of Dev, QA and Production.  ? Support the roll out of all process initiatives from the customer for Release Management functions.  ? Suggested process and procedural improvements based on Release Management expertise and analysis.  ? Integrated SN with CA Service Operations Insight (SOI) POV for bi-directional flow of incident management data.  ? Build reports, gauges and home pages. Create and use update sets to move customizations between systems  ? Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  ? Enhancement and improvisation of tool in terms of features and capabilities to be made available to customers.  ? Developed the functionality of versioning of the Knowledge Management for the knowledge and knowledge admin role based user. Used Access Control Rules for securing and providing the right access to right person/role.  ? Integrated service now with Data Dog and Zabbix for event monitoring and then creating incident in SN.  ? Recommends appropriate design alternatives to be implemented based on customer constraints.  ? Worked on Release management, Incident Management, Change Management. Created several workflows and workflow scripts using Workflow Editor.  ? Develops conversion plans and procedures. Performed Data migration of CI Attributes for CMDB using import sets  ? Managing CMDB and Asset Management. Integrated ServiceNow with LDAP and enabled Single Sign on  ? Customization of applications according to business needs. Created process documentation for the solutions implemented.  ? Involved in development of Content Management system. Created groups for set of users, and used them for approval, assignment, receiving notifications.  ? Implemented Service watch , created custom pattern and formed CI relationship.  ? Configuring ServiceNow ServiceWatch to determine and map all the relationships from the Visio diagram related to the classes.  ? Involved in determining the relationships using ServiceNow ServiceWatch to find the relationships and mapping between app instances, applications, business services an infrastructure services.  ? Worked on CMDB from the scratch and configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  ? Worked with the Engineering Team to mature the CMDB data and relationships for operational processes.  ? Used ServiceWatch for discovering and mapping the relationships between IT components that comprise specific business services, even in dynamic virtualized environments.  ? Implemented Service watch , created custom pattern and formed CI relationship.  ? Integrated different back end systems using Web Services like SOAP and REST  ? Worked with JavaScript, XML to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  ? Developed Content Management System (CMS) solutions on ServiceNow.  ? Developed Unit test cases for testing of the developed applications. Reviewed Testing team test cases, scripts, test plans. Sr ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator The Biogen, Inc - Cambridge, MA January 2016 to August 2016 previously known as Biogen Idec) is an American multinational biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, specializing in the discovery, development, and delivery of therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative, hematologic, and autoimmune diseases to patients worldwide.  Sr ServiceNow Developer/ Administrator, Jan 2016 - Aug 2016    ? Worked closely with Business Resource, Stake holders, Analysts, different teams in understanding the requirements  ? Documented Business Requirements Document, Functional design documents, Process flow diagrams using MS Visio.  ? Involved in reviewing the requirements and designing of the workflows in ServiceNow  ? Maintained ServiceNow related documentation in SharePoint Portal  ? Implemented, documented and maintained the Service-Now platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  ? Managed end user portal and created dynamic, static block for the content management system.  ? Worked on the internal portal for accessing all the business services by using ServiceNow Content Management Application.  ? Provided process governance and oversight of ServiceNow Demand Management.  ? Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  ? Design and Configuration of workflows to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes  ? Involved in creating and migration of update sets between different ServiceNow Instances.  ? Optimized and Monitored system performance and provided system statistics and reports to the Business.  ? Customization of Incident Management Application.  ? Developed Service catalog by creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  ? Creation of assignment rules and Custom Related Lists.  ? Worked on all the ITSM modules, Orchestration, Procurement, CAB meetings, Implementations,  ? Worked with Orchestration which enables an IT organization to automate complex tasks on remote computers reliably and quickly, with best practices every time.  ? Performing integrations and process automations using ServiceNow Orchestration or other mechanisms.  ? Implemented catalog variable set to store and forward Service Request data to Orchestration workflows.  ? Developed orchestration workflows to perform repetitive tasks and reduce human effort.  ? Implemented Email Notifications and Inbound Actions.  ? Responsible for ensuring the system of record is kept up to date (HP Service Manager, HP Asset Manager, ServiceNow).  ? Configuration Administrator within HP Service Manager, responsible for overall cleanliness of asset Cis in the CMDB. This includes RFID tagging of all assets when arriving into facility.  ? Implementing, configuring, tailoring HP Service Manager to meet the needs of the various IT Service Management (ITSM) processes as described in the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL).  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in Development, implementation and administration of ServiceNow, HP Service Manager /Service Center, and Asset Manager.  ? Implementation experience of ServiceNow & HP Service Manager tools  ? Migration of the HP Service Center6.x to HP Service Manager7.x  ? Assessment of the client infrastructure for the implemented HP tools and process. Provided the assessment report with suggestions leading to a productive client implementation.  ? Created both inbound Scripted Web services and inbound Email Actions to incidents from Emails.  ? Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  ? Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications and Re-designed workflows using workflow editor, reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form.  ? Exporting and Importing tables, import sets, workflows, update sets data from one instance to the other.  ? Create, monitor, modify, and publish Service catalog workflows with approvals and maintain Single Sign-On integration.  ? Developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts.  ? Worked on DISCOVERY and set up MID Servers and check for the connectivity.  ? Developed Probes and Sensors in Discovery  ? Involved in reconciling process of CMDB Data in ServiceNow with Back end systems Sr ServiceNow Architect VMWARE - Palo Alto, CA October 2015 to January 2016 PALO ALTO, CA  VMware, a global leader in cloud infrastructure and digital workspace technology, accelerates digital transformation by enabling unprecedented freedom and flexibility in how our customers build and evolve IT environments  Sr ServiceNow Architect , Oct 2015 - Jan 2016    ? Design, configure and implement ServiceNow components to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes  ? Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules.  ? Configured Service Level Agreements to define SLA from both internal and external providers  ? Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, locations, configuration items, service catalog items.  ? Involved in working on UI configuration for each application in ServiceNow  ? Development of requirement for integration with different systems using SSO, LDAP, SOAP, REST, Email, Import Sets.  ? Converted the Legacy Proprietary Service Catalog into a more user friendly ServiceNow Content Management Module  ? Involved in design, configuration, testing of workflows to meet business requirements.  ? Configuration of Email Notification to alert users on ServiceNow activities, escalations, SLA issues.  ? Conducted meetings with customers, business users, analysts to design and build applications.  ? Involved in development activity of Catalog Items, Ordered Guides, Custom Related Lists, Custom Tables, Custom Roles and Dictionary fields  ? Involved in creating and testing Update Set migration between DEV/QA/Prod environments.  ? Created Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts ,Client Scripts, Scheduled Jobs, Wizard panels and Wizard Clients scripts, Content item, customizing UI header, Footer  ? Developed and maintained APIs and data integration processes between ServiceNow and other services using SOAP, Rest Protocols.  ? Developed Access Control list using Scripting  ? Documented entire ServiceNow development work and uploaded in SharePoint Portal ServiceNow Developer NASA - Palo Alto, CA March 2015 to October 2015 PALO ALTO, CA  NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Administration. NASA is a United States government agency that is responsible for science and technology related to air and space.  ServiceNow Developer, Mar 2015 - Oct 2015    ? Involved in gathering requirements from Client.  ? Technical implementation of various ServiceNow modules such as Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Configuration Management.  ? Implemented best practice of ServiceNow Scripting, which enhanced the System performance.  ? Implemented Risk Management for the Risk evaluation of the change Request associated with the Configuration Item.  ? Communicated with end users, identifying their difficulties and changing the applications as per their requirements.  ? Involved in resolving Production Support tickets.  ? Participating in meeting with SME's and Project Managers to analyze the requirements and developing the workflow design of request items using Agile Methodologies.  ? Involved in creation of different forms and implemented business logic using Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Pages, Macros.  ? Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  ? Planning and coordinating the execution of Implementation with different teams like Business, Stakeholders, Development, Testing, Production Support and have performed validations for all development activities in ServiceNow.  ? Configured UI Page and UI Macro using the Jelly and JavaScript.  ? Involved in developing DISCOVERY to load configuration information to CMDB.  ? Developed Integration with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  ? Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups.  ? Configured end to end process for Knowledge management, and worked on the knowledge Centered Support (KCS) plugin.  ? Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  ? Worked closely with testing team in developing test cases  ? Clarified testing team related tickets and closed them. ServiceNow Developer JP MORGAN CHASE - New York, NY April 2011 to March 2015 NEW YORK, NY  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a U.S. multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in New York City.  ServiceNow Developer, Apr 2011 - Mar 2015    ? Responsible for working with business systems analysts to understand the business requirements using Business Requirement Document (BRD), in conjunction with ITIL and prepare Technical design document (TDD).  ? Prototype as per the requirements to propose technical solutions and demonstrate to customers or users.  ? Development responsibilities include design, development, customization, configuration, deployment, testing and implementation.  ? Creating Update sets, client scripts, UI policies, UI actions, forms layouts, Business Rules, Workflows, Import Sets, Transformation mappings, applications and modules.  ? Portal Creation using Content Management System.  ? CMDB & Discovery administration, HP orchestration.  ? Writing batch scheduling jobs in Service-Now to update/calculate past and present data as needed.  ? Creating database tables, views, reports, data conversions and data cleansing.  ? Create database mapping documents to map service-now tables with the external data warehousing applications  ? Integration between Service-Now and external applications using SOAP Messages, Web Services (Scripted and Direct Web services).  ? Daily Service-Now data administration via incident tickets.  ? Responsible for debug, troubleshoot & resolve the issues. Prepare a root cause analysis (RCA) report.  ? Create Unit Test Plan, review test case document from QA (quality assurance) and create user guide.  ? Release Coordination, Maintenance and Support of the system.  ? Use Bugzilla or HP Quality Center tool for requirements gathering and defect tracking for release items which are under the development scope. Database Developer HP PPM - Denver, CO April 2010 to April 2011 MASSMUTUAL, DENVER, CO  Founded in 1851, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company is an American mutual life insurance company serving 5 million clients.  HP PPM - Database Developer, Apr 2010 - Apr 2011    ? This project involves development/enhancements in HP PPM Product suite. HP PPM implementation includes Demand Management, Change Management. The primary objective of the Project is to govern day-to-day project activities with the help of Request creation and Coding for functions which allows the flow according to the changes which is primarily done by functions in workflow objects by developing logic as per requirement or enhancements.  Keys Contributions:  ? Analysis and Development of Request Types, Enhancements of Workflows.  ? Analysis and development of Portlet Definitions, Drilldowns Portlets, Reports Developments.    LUFTHANSA AIRLINES  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, commonly known as Lufthansa, is the largest German airline and, when combined with its subsidiaries, also the largest airline in Europe, in terms of fleet size Database Developer HP PPM October 2006 to April 2010 Responsible to co-ordinate with Project Managers, System Analysts and Architects in design discussions.  ? Responsible for Creating design documents based on the design discussions.  ? Responsible for producing and consuming the REST as well as SOAP based web services.  ? Implemented web page layout using struts tiles libraries.  ? Responsible for deploying and testing the application in WebLogic and Oracle application servers.  ? Involved in writing oracle Joins, PLSQL stored procedures and functions.  ? Involved in fixing the defects and deploying and testing them in dev region.  ? Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for testing. Education Bachelor of Administration in Administration University of Education May 2007 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Json, Mapreduce, Perl, Php, Xml, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net