SQL Server Database Engineer SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer SQL Server Database Engineer Colorado Springs, CO • Over 20 years IT experience including tech support, development, report writing and  administration.  • Eight years of experience as a SQL Server DBA covering version 6.5 through 2014.  • Four years of experience as an Oracle DBA supporting Oracle 9i, 10G and 11 on  Windows and Unix platforms.  • Extensive production support experience.  • High availability experience.  • Scripting skills with Powershell.  • Excellent documentation and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Engineer Xero, Inc - Denver, CO April 2014 to March 2018 Daily duties  • Administer over 20 production four-node SQL Server availability groups hosted in Amazon Web Services.  • Administer Redshift database clusters  • Maintain online documentation for outlining support processes and maintenance tasks.  • Troubleshoot server and query performance issues as needed utilizing tools such as Solarwinds Data Performance Analyzer.  • Monitoring database servers with tools such as Nagios, Splunk, Sumo Logic and Datadog.  • Create Powershell scripts for routine maintenance as well as automation of tasks.  • Participate in an on-call rotation to provide 24/7 support of the production environment.    Key Accomplishments  • Developed monitoring reports used for daily status checks.  • Migrated four pairs of servers from virtual to physical configurations with zero  application and customer down time.  • Member of team responsible for migrating customer data from Rackspace hosted  servers to AWS. Senior SQL Server Database Administrator Healthware Systems - Elgin, IL January 2013 to February 2014 Daily duties  • Administer 50+ production and development MS SQL Servers for 30 client  environments.  • Apply patches and upgrades as needed.  • Maintain key server documentation  • Compare multiple copies of databases using RedGate Database Compare.  • Troubleshoot server and query performance issues as needed.    Key Accomplishments  • Developed and implemented centralized SQL Server database to monitor and report on all client SQL Servers. Database Administrator Weber-Stephen Products - Palatine, IL November 2011 to January 2013 Daily duties  • Administer 10 production and development MS SQL Servers for two client  environments.  • Apply patches and upgrades as needed.  • Maintain key server documentation  • Troubleshoot server and query performance issues as needed.    Key Accomplishments  • Developed and implemented centralized SQL Server database to monitor and report on all the SQL Servers in the company.  • Standardized and automated the backup processes. Previously each new database  required a new set of entries in SQL Server Agent whereas the new approach allowed for the configuration to take place within the database schema. Senior Database Management Specialist Dell, Dell Services - Elk Grove Village, IL March 2008 to August 2011 Daily duties  • Remotely administer 75 production and development MS SQL Servers for two client  environments.  • Apply patches and upgrades as needed.  • Maintain key server documentation  • Perform changes following client defined change process.  • Monitor servers for memory/disk/cpu usage using custom coded tools as well as 3rd  party tools such as BMC patrol.  • Troubleshoot server and query performance issues as needed.    Key Accomplishments  • Migrated ten SQL Servers from 2000 or 2005 to 2008.  • Built three SQL Server 2008 clusters.  • Implemented a home grown version of log shipping in SQL Server 2000. Not having the Enterprise edition of SQL Server, I utilized DTS packages and batch scripts to replicate  the log shipping functionality.  • Implemented regular maintenance tasks specifically designed to maintain performance  level for Kronos time keeping systems. Database Administrator Communications Test Design Inc - Elgin, IL June 2006 to March 2008 Daily duties  • Administer production and development Oracle 8.1.7 and 10G servers on Windows  2000/2003, IBM AIX, and HP UX servers including backup management, security, shell  scripting, and performance tuning. A total of 20+ instances were supported ranging in size from 500MB to 300 GB.  • Administer production and development MS SQL Server 2000 and 2005 databases on Windows 2003 including backup management, DTS packages, job scheduling, and data  migration. I also supported two clustered instances of SQL Server 2000.  • Develop various UNIX Korn shell and DOS batch scripts to execute database backups,  manage disk space and migrate data between server and instances.    Key Accomplishments  • Key member in the process of migrating application and database processes from Motorola supported systems to CTDI supported systems. This included assuming control  of existing systems, building new servers and databases to interface with and/or replace the functionality from the Motorola systems.  • Designed and developed a data mart solution to replace the Motorola solution that we    would soon lose access to as part of the business transition. Utilized existing structures;  however I developed new methods for retrieving and feeding data to the data mart and monitoring for failures in the data feeds.  • Migrated Kronos time clock database server from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005  including extensive conversion of DTS packages to the new SSIS functionality.  • Implemented Servers Alive, a server monitoring tool for over 20 UNIX and Windows  based database servers. Tool provided e-mail alerts in the event of database, server, or network outage. Contract Database Administrator Comsys - Colorado Springs, CO March 2006 to May 2006 Daily duties  • Administer production and development Oracle 9i and 10G servers on Windows  2000/2003, including backup management, security, patch installation, and performance  tuning.  • Build and configure database servers with Windows 2003 and Oracle 10G, ASM and RAC.    Key Accomplishments  • Defined Standard build for database servers regarding array structure, memory  configuration, and cluster configuration.  • Redesigned client's backup methodology to fully utilize RMAN for disk and tape  backups. Database Administrator AT&T - Hoffman Estates, IL October 1997 to March 2006 Daily duties  • Perform development and production DBA duties on 20 small to medium sized MS SQL  Server 6.5, 7.0 and 2000 instances.  • Perform SQL Server installs, upgrades, and patches for versions 6.5 - 2000.  • Administer production and development Oracle 9i servers on Windows 2003; including  backup management, security, patch installation, and performance tuning.  • Maintain and create database models with Allfusion Data Modeler (Erwin).  • Develop Oracle and SQL Server stored procedures and functions.  • Develop, maintain, and monitor automated data imports and exports and generate ad  hoc queries and reports.    Key Accomplishments  • Developed database naming standards, development best practices, security guidelines  and backup and recovery processes for application development group.  • Defined the team development release process flow outlining the steps required to move from Development to test and finally production.  • Provided training to development team covering fundamental differences between SQL  Server TSQL and Oracle SQL*Plus.  • Organized and managed key project involving conversion of Server tracking database  from SQL Server 2000 to Oracle 9i.  • Organized three separate yet interdependent development efforts into a single  logical project plan maintained in Microsoft Project.  • Led database design meetings with key development staff.  • Designed and implemented all data migration scripts and procedures.  • Developed multi-platform processes to import/export daily data feeds into the new database.  • Created new backup and recovery process.  • Provided training sessions outlining the new database structure and interface. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 1993 Skills Oracle (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Powershell (4 years), Database Administration (10+ years), Visual Basic (2 years), Unix Administration (2 years), JIRA (4 years), Confluence (4 years)