Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Wind Creek Hospitality Bay Minette, AL IT professional with twenty years of experience in the gaming and hospitality industry. Proven ability to provide solutions in a high stress, result oriented environment. Excellent analytical and organizational skills as well as a keen sense of urgency. Proficient in data architecture and infrastructure management/design (MCSE Data Management and Analytics certified), Windows server administration, translation of technical information to all user levels and root cause analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Wind Creek Hospitality September 2014 to Present • Responsible for the administration, maintenance and optimization of 300+ Microsoft SQL Server instances spanning six domains with versions including 2000-2016 and editions Express to Enterprise.  • Customization and implementation of best practices standard for SQL server specifications.  • Maintain conceptual knowledge of VM environments and SAN storage in effort to ensure DBMS optimization from hardware to software level.  • Implementation of standardized database maintenance jobs for backup, index maintenance and data corruption checking.  • Design and implement data movement models for replication and warehousing enterprise data.  • Design and implement high availability solutions across several versions of MSSQL and methods including Always On, database mirroring and transactional replication.  • Developed, implemented and maintained change control and testing processes for modifications to data architecture and underlying infrastructure.  • Design and implement database security audits.  • Establish appropriate end-user database access control levels.  • Respond to and resolve database access and performance issues.  • Support IT staff and application vendors during system outages.  • Provide guidance and recommendations to business owners, application vendor support and gaming commission.  • Create and maintain data architecture/infrastructure documentation in order to maintain a current and accurate view of enterprise data.  • Identify and develop opportunities for data reuse, migration, or retirement. IT Business Analyst - Gaming Wind Creek Hospitality January 2012 to September 2014 • Responsible for setting corporate standards for administration and maintenance of SDS and other gaming systems  • Escalate system issues to vendor support for timely resolution  • Work with system business owners to increase system utilization through enhancements  • Document known system issues and resolutions  • Develops backup retention policy for gaming systems  • Project manager and technical lead on the following projects:  • Enterprise wide transition from Bally BGS SAS to Bally SDS  • Enterprise wide Epicentral promo ticket implementation  • Enterprise wide CDI Globalsuite implementation  • Served as 24/7 on call escalation point for critical system outages Regional Gaming Support Specialist Caesars Entertainment - Tunica, MS January 2007 to January 2012 • Increased productivity by assessing time spent running reports manually along with data retention requirements then designing report automation scripts for casino operations, slot performance and IT users.  • Improved information availability for senior management through the design and implementation of application that sends hourly coin-in totals to mobile devices.  • Technical lead on the following projects:  • SDS upgrade from version 7 to 8.2.3 with slot ticketing (including installation of new server hardware and software)  • NRT ticket redemption station upgrades  • SDS upgrade from version 8.2.3 to 9.3.3  • Implementation of Bally Power Winners at Horseshoe and Sheraton Casinos  • Implementation of Caesars Beverage on Demand system for the Tunica region  • Implementation of PRISM (Caesars proprietary ePromo system) for the Tunica region and Harrah's New Orleans  • Served as 24/7 on call escalation point for critical system outages  • Served as liaison between casino operations teams and corporate gaming system support teams Support Specialist II Sheraton Casino Tunica - Robinsonville, MS December 2004 to January 2007 • Second level desktop and gaming system support for Horseshoe and Sheraton Casinos  • Network administration for Microsoft and Novell environments Senior Support Technician Grand Casino Tunica - Robinsonville, MS May 2000 to December 2004 • Second level desktop and gaming system support for Grand Casino Tunica  • Network administration for Novell Netware 5 and 6 environments  • Served as project lead for the implementation of the following products with duties including server installation, user and database administration and user training:  ? IGT EZ Pay  ? IGT Table Touch  ? NRT Quickjack Education Management Information Systems University of Mississippi January 2000 to May 2000 Management Information Systems Northwest Mississippi Community College August 1997 to December 1999 Skills DBA, ETL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Ssis, Windows Server (10+ years), Data Warehouse Certifications/Licenses MCSE Data Management and Analytics January 2019 to Present MCSA SQL Server 2016 Database Developer January 2018 to Present MCITP SQL Server 2008 Database Administration March 2012 to Present Network+ November 2002 to Present Additional Information I enjoy what I do and have worked with many great people over the years.