Health Systems Specialist (Analyst) Health Systems Specialist (Analyst) Health Systems Specialist (Analyst) - Naval Health Clinic Lemoore Visalia, CA To obtain a position as Health System Specialist Work Experience Health Systems Specialist (Analyst) Naval Health Clinic Lemoore - Lemoore, CA 2013 to Present • Conduct analysis and studies to improve systems, efficiency of operations, and identification of organizational trends.  • Analyze the complex problems relative to the management and operation of health care delivery systems.  • Use Analytical information to conduct management studies and business case analysis to improve the organization.  • Manage and analyze workload statistics for 20 departments. Present briefings and reports on studies, findings, and/or recommendations to higher level management. Prepare final products in the form of written/computerized staff studies.  • Coordinate across multiple organizational levels to facilitate data quality initiatives and program analysis. Keep staff abreast on current procedures, policies and directives and provide advice and assistance to managers and supervisors on complex personnel management matters involving staffing, recruitment and placement actions, classification actions, and actions requiring evaluation of the organization structure. Database Sustainment Specialist Naval Hospital Lemoore - Lemoore, CA 2009 to 2013 • Strong knowledge level of Medical Facility Operations, Administration, and Maintenance Program Planning.  • Remotely accesses MTF DMLSS servers to gather information to resolve Help Desk tickets.  • Track financial progress of all design and construction contracts in support of active projects to include contract modifications/change orders. Also, facility planning systems to include cost estimate and cost analysis practices.  • Responsible for assisting in the writing and verification of contracts and scope of work. Area of expertise lies in analyzing contracts for content, clauses and definition of outstanding contractual matters during in direct relation to requirements at the initial stages of all projects.  • Developing and updating Basic Facility Requirements and Maintenance Action Plans by evaluating existing assets and determining requirements for new projects, by applying skills learned on facility systems, engineering processes and investigative methods.  • Monitor and evaluates contractor quality control programs through inspections, contractor productions reports, customer feedback forms, and recurring and special statistical analysis. Aviation Administrator/ Database Administrator/Analyst United States Navy - Lemoore, CA 2005 to 2009 • Served as Maintenance Control Leading Petty Officer/System Administrator/Analyst. Responsible for performing Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System Administrator functions using database and computer skills.  • A driving force behind the efficient and accurate tracking of over 40,000 maintenance actions, while performing statistical analysis of aviation maintenance data. Aviation Administrator/Administration Division Officer/Command Legal Officer United States Navy - Rota, MP 2002 to 2005 Rota, Spain    • Meticulously complied and tracked required documents for over 800 incoming and transferring personnel. Personally processed 32 overseas screening packages for service members and families, eliminating the delay between the US Consulate and Spanish Government by streamlining the process.  • Key member in the implementation of Lean Sigma Six program to streamline maintenance practices for F404 F/A 18 engine program. Education Aviation Logistics Automated Maintenance Environment School 2005 Bachelors Degree in Public Administration Ashford University - San Diego, CA 1997 Associate Degree in Business Administration in Business Administration Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA 1987