Senior Primary SQL Server Database Administrator Senior Primary SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Primary SQL Server Database Administrator Charlotte, NC Work Experience Senior Primary SQL Server Database Administrator Remote Data Experts - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to August 2019 As a primary Senior SQL server database administrator, my role was to be responsible for all SQL server  Related activities for each client assigned to me. As the Lead DBA designed and implemented many  Different database technologies. Working with many different clients has given me a broad array of experiences and Problem solving skills. Applying best practices and SQL architectural design was a regular part of my duties. Please  Below some of the key skills that were required for my position at Remote data Experts. Below I will list some of the Client environments I supported.    ? 100% Always On Availability Groups  ? Microsoft Azure VM  ? FCI clustering environments  ? Amazon RDS  ? Heavy Transactional Replication supporting reporting environment  ? Performance troubleshooting utilizing server side trace/perfmon/profiler/PAL/DMV'S/DBCC  ? Served as Lead DBA and escalation point for all SQL server related issues Senior SQL Server Database Consultant - Data Warehouse Project Boston Tech Talent - New York, NY December 2017 to June 2018 Cope Health Solutions provided their clients with tools and services that would help manage their Health Care data, Focusing on all aspects of strategy, population management, CMS demonstrations, Medicaid redesign, and workforce  Development. As a senior SQL server consultant I was part of the data analytics team that would lead in developing a growing, enterprise-wide data warehouse. As a vital resource in the growth of Cope Health Solutions data analytics capabilities. As a senior resource, I worked with developers who utilized tools such as Tableau and SAS. Below you will see some of the accomplishments at Cope Health Solutions.    ? Leverage knowledge of RDBMS, database network technology, and database management, and tuning, configuration, and troubleshooting to optimize the clients data warehouse environment  ? Developed automated resource efficient databases packages to support the firms growing analytics capabilities, including evaluating new and existing technologies and processes for capacity, performance and scalability.  ? Monitoring system performance, develop recommendations, and advocate for buy-in proposed solutions to improve performance and reliability of RDBMS.  ? Develop disaster recovery strategy based on existing in-house technology.  ? Implemented strategies for database security and user management  ? Provided guidance and support to analytic colleagues to resolve hardware and/or software issues and/or failures on an on-call basis  ? Helped Developed automated process to extract flat file data from multiple sources. This was more of an ELT process then ETL. This required extensive data scrubbing before loading the data into data warehouse tables as well as use with Tableau or SAS. Senior U.S. Primary SQL Server Database Administrator Datavail Corporation - New York, NY November 2014 to October 2017 As a primary U.S. Senior SQL server database Administrator my role was to be responsible for all SQL server  Related activities for each client that was assigned to me. As the Lead DBA designed and implemented many  Different database technologies. Working with many different clients has given me a broad array of experiences and Problem solving skills. Applying best practices and SQL architectural design was a regular part of my duties. Please  Below some of the key skills that were required for my position at Datavail.    ? Influence and provide leadership beyond your own projects and across multiple customers  ? Provide technical escalation expertise for database system problems  ? Provide design expertise for complex database solutions  ? Maintain awareness of developments in emerging technologies and disciplines relating to present and future products and solutions through personal research, continuing education, seminars/trade shows and related activities.  ? Increase and contribute to customer satisfaction and profitability.  ? Promote and enforce adoption of standards, process, and SLA's.  ? Lead or manage work of others and other duties as assigned. Senior SQL Server Database Architect - Consultant Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft - New York, NY May 2014 to September 2014 As the lead database architect, my role was to design and implement a support structure that would allow the firm to implement industry standards and best practices across the SQL enterprise environment. My responsibilities included day-to-day production support activities; developing and implementing standard operating procedures for installing, configuring, and maintaining the health of all SQL servers in the environment. Other efforts included designing and implementing disaster recovery strategies using Multi-Site clustering WSFC plus AG utilizing SQL 2012 technologies.    ? Implemented a MS SharePoint disaster recovery solution that allowed the firm to recover the environment in 2 hours. This was accomplished by configuring a WSFC cluster with SQL server across muilti-site data centers, leveraged the AlwaysOn SQL technology to replicate the content databases to our offsite location.    ? Participated in the upgrade of the firm's document management system (DMS). This project had two objectives: upgrade from Windows 2003 SQL2005 to Windows 2012 Data Center SQL2012 architecture. I designed and implanted a failover strategy that included HA plus AG; in order to have redundancy on the OS and database level.    ? Completed an effort to enhance the Production support environment by configuring alerts and notifications for all SQL servers, by designing T-SQL scripts that created mail profiles and operators. Automated deployments using a SQL central management server topology; streamlining code deployment and maintain standards using policy based management. Other day- to-day activities included creating run books for system "Go-Live" events and fulfilling daily or weekly Change management request.    NBCUniversal Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey Senior SQL Server DBA\Architect, Infrastructure team NBC October 2012 to May 2014 As a senior level DBA I have the pleasure of being the lead DBA on some major projects for NBC. My responsibilities  include providing 24X7 production escalation support, for any issues that our first level support team could not  Resolve. I was part of the SQL Server infrastructure team which provided Support for many highly visible systems, such as GOLFNOW, GOLF CHANNEL, Wide Orbit Traffic (local Media), Universal Orlando Park systems,  Charlotte News Channel (VOD). Working towards a common goal and meeting challenges is why I'm in the IT  Profession.    ? As a senior DBA leading the Wide Orbit media (traffic) SQL server upgrade from SQL server 2005 to SQL  Server 2008. The wide Orbit upgraded consisted of being involved the architectural development of the new system, which included change data capture, page compression, clustering, mirroring, and setting Management data warehouse pointing to a UCP server. As Part of the go-live migration we set our servers up to minimize application downtime by keeping the old and new environments in sync from a data perspective.    ? As a senior DBA in the infrastructure team we are responsible for writing SOP(standard operation procedures)  For our service management team for each environment we deploy. Writing daemons to capture performance  related data that will allow our team to proactively troubleshoot any issues that the systems may have. We are also responsible for performance tuning, and testing before we deploy any system to production.    ? One enormous responsibility that I extremely enjoy is working with other groups and the business user  community. My experience in working with many groups has greatly increased my ability to meet timelines for projects that I lead. Some of the teams I interact with on a daily basis are (application business owners, backup  teams, Monitoring teams, Service Management team, Business Managers, project managers).    ? Currently I'm the lead DBA for the Universal Orlando theme parks ticketing systems Upgrade/Migration project.  The Project will involve a mix bag of system ranging from upgrading SQL2000 to SQL2008 and migrating these to our new York data center from Tampa and Orlando FL. The ticketing system is a web based transactional  system that will have high availability as well as business continuity SQL servers. Senior SQL Server DB TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC August 2005 to April 2012 As the lead DBA for TIAA-CREF Equity trading system my responsibilities included providing 24/7 support for any technical issues that occurred on a daily as well as nightly basis. As senior database administrator my responsibilities also included supporting the entire trust company SQL database environment, which was a separate entity of TIAA-CREF.    ? As the lead DBA for the equities trading system I lead the team in two major upgrades. The first upgrade consisted of migrating a standalone SQL2000 environment to a High availability SQL2005 multiple cluster architecture, which included an active passive cluster in Charlotte and Denver. I also designed and implemented the disaster recovery plan between the two sites. This particular application is one of the most visible and important applications for TIAA-CREF.    ? The equities trading system second upgraded consisted of migrating the existing SQL2005 multiple active/passive cluster configuration to a multiple High availability SQL2008R2 environment featuring log shipping as the primary method for our disaster recovery plan. I also configured a warm standby server that could be activated very quickly if the business deemed it necessary. Eventually Log shipping was configured to use SAN to SAN replication to replace the copy function.    ? One of my best skills and one I enjoyed very much was my ability to communicate with the systems development team. We were task with coming up with solutions that could not only improve the performance of the application, but make the environment more robust and secure as a whole.    ? As the lead DBA for the equities trading system I was also called on whenever performance issues such as dead locking or any interruption to daily trading. The equities trading environment required a DBA who could handle issues very quickly under extreme amounts of pressure.    ? As senior DBA I was also task with Creating procedures and processes that would be run on a daily basis to check the health of the Enterprise database environment. These process included streamlining backup procedures, health checks, SQL monitoring and Maintenance jobs.    ? As senior database administrator I was also task with taking the lead DBA role for TIAA trust company which had a different report structure than TIAA-CREF. My role for trust including more tradition DBA responsibilities such as configuring Log shipping, backups, maintenance jobs. I also work closely with developers to resolve any common issues such as performance.    ? As the Trust lead DBA my responsibilities also included heading up the trust upgrade project from SQL2000 to SQL2005.    ? My responsibilities also including the evaluation and recommendation of third party products that could support management initiatives regarding the overall health and stability for our Enterprise SQL environments.    ? In my tenure as a SQL DBA I have upgraded/migrated 100's of database through many different OS and database platforms. Senior SQL Server DBA TIAA-CREF - New York, NY January 2000 to August 2005 Investment accounting systems responsibilities were to calculate fund prices and adjustments during the business day. As well as sending the company's daily NAV file to our vendors (i.e. NASDAC, BFDS).    ? Net Asset Value which we call the NAV is a system that calculates the entire companies Net Asset Value on a daily basis, which will reflect every morning in the New York Times.    ? Longview Trading system supports the company traders in three locations NY/CA/NC. The support for systems requires 24/7 coverage. The Longview trading system is a third party product present many challenges in the performance and tuning area.    ? As senior database administrator I was assigned the task of creating a real-time disaster recovery plan for our investment accounting SQL server environment. I was also given the task of upgrading our SQL 6.5 environment to SQL 2000 during a period of great change at our company.    ? Another group initiative was to develop an SQL SERVER ALERT system. This system would notify Database administrators, mangers or any other support personal via email or pager notification. This was accomplished by incorporating Microsoft Exchange server and SQL server. SQL server used Exchange server as a message distributor whenever certain SQL server errors were raised.    ? As senior database administrator my responsibility also included supporting some of our most important Database applications such as our Portfolio Management system, National call center system, Individual/Institutional websites, Landmark trading system and Reconciliation. All of the systems mentioned were all daily measurements of the company's day to day success. Education Management Information Systems University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma - Chickasha, OK 1994 Associates Degree in Liberal Arts Fulton Montgomery Community College - New York, NY 1990 Skills Database, Database design, Dbms, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Stored procedure, Stored procedures, Disaster recovery, Sox, Veritas, Clustering, Active directory, Netiq, Scom, Solarwinds, Tivoli, Tsm Additional Information Technical Qualification:  Software: SCOM, TSM, NETIQ, Tivoli, PBM, VERITAS Net backup, SolarWinds, Logic Monitor  Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017 Standard/Enterprise/developers Edition  Op Systems: Windows 2000/Windows 2003/Windows 2008R2/Windows Server 2016    SQL Server Skills - 2005/2008R2/2008/2012/2014/2016, Azure, Amazon RDS  ? Good Communication skills - ability to understand and solve technical challenges as well as affective communicate solutions to the business community.  ? SOFT SKILS - strong work ethic, willing team player, sharing knowledge among team members. Collaboration between global teams.  ? Database Architecture -spec out SQL instance based on requirements, Logical and physical database design. infrastructure planning,  ? SQL Server VM Consolidation Projects  ? SQL Database and server level configuration - Best Practices  ? Ability to perform Custom Database Maintenance utilizing T-SQL code.  ? SOX database Management ( Extensively Involved in DBMS that were under SOX guidelines)  ? PBM - Policy Based Management - Enforce company database standards and SQL best practices  ? Disaster recovery Planning based on RPO/RTO  ? Database Mirroring Design and Implementation  ? Log Shipping for Legacy SQL server systems  ? Collect Vital SQL server data using stored procedures and DMV'S  ? Advanced error handling for Stored procedure execution  ? SQL server security/ Active Directory  ? QUERY STORE  ? High Availability - Microsoft database Clustering - Installation, configuration, Maintenance  ? HA + Disaster recovery AG Design and Implementation  ? Multi-Site WSFC + AG Design and configuration  ? FCI SQL Server Clustering - Active\passive, Active\Active\passive  ? CDC- Change Data Capture  ? SQL Server Management Data Warehouse - MDW  ? SCOM - Installing and configuring SQL Server management packs  ? Microsoft Azure PaaS and IaaS hosting SQL server technology    Senior SQL Server DBA Responsibilities included but not limited to: Current Role  ? Influence and provide leadership beyond my own projects across multiple customers  ? Provide technical escalation expertise for database system problems  ? Provide design expertise for complex database solutions  ? Maintain an awareness of developments in emerging technologies and disciplines relating to present and future products and solutions through personal research, continuing education, seminars/conferences and related activities.  ? Promote and encourage adoption of standards, processes, and SLAs  ? Lead or manage work of others and other duties assigned by my Management