Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Computer Aid INC Plains, PA Seeking a full time/part time position. Would like to be able to use my expertise in the IMS, DB2,ORACLE, SQL SERVER,Cobol, systems programming , MQSeries environments running on Mainframe z/OS, AIX or Windows operating systems to help companies looking for short or longterm resources. Work Experience Database Administrator Computer Aid INC January 2011 to Present Harrisburg/Pennsyslvania  As IMS DBA working on z/OS operating system: Currently 1 of 3 IMS DBA's supporting over 200 Production Databases in a 2 way Data Sharing Environment for a large Healthcare Company. We also support 12 IMS Test Environments- 4 Environments with 2 way Datasharing and 2 IMS Training Environments with over 200 Databases - some at production size spread over 4 LPARS. We run IMS V14 and use both IBM IMS HIGH PERFORMANCE TOOLKIT and the suite of NEON/BMC IMS, BMC MAXM and CA/IMS Utilities( Database Director, iChange, iCopy, iRecover, Reorg Utilities, Application Restart Control and HALO). The IMS Databases are a mix of HALDB,HDAM, HIDAM and FAST PATH with Secondary Indexing. We run IMS DB/DC with TM anc CICS front ends. Some of the other software we utilizize in the shop are Endevor(Source Control), ESP(Scheduler), INSYNC, IOF, IBM IMS COPE(to maintain multiple IMS systems in a single control region), Macro4(Tracemaster,DumpMaster,Data Utility) and many homegrown utilities written in REXX and SAS, we utilize Assembler mainly for our IMS Database Randomizers.  My duties include but are not limited to the creation, modification and maintaneance of our IMS DB/DC regions and all objects including databases associated with it. Database Types include FULL FUNCTION(HDAM,HIDAM). FAST PATH and HALDB(PHDAM,PHIDAM). Participate in design reviews to advise project leaders and Application programmers of data structure requirements and performance considerations when establishing or modifying database systems. Analyze proposed data and processing requirements, ensuring that performance is maximized and the system's integrity is maintained. Design databases by physically and/or logically organizing the required data into a database structure that can be efficiently processed by current and future applications. Develop and maintain test databases and VSAM files for the applications staff. Evaluate, implement and maintain secondary indexes and logical relationships. Define database designs to be accessible using the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Define the database structure by coding and generating database descriptions (DBD's). Allow applications to access the databases by coding and generating Program Specification Blocks/Application Control Blocks (PCB's and ACB's) to be used with IMS/VS DL/I. Advise the programmers of the abilities and limitations of the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Perform database tuning. Reorganize the databases as necessary to ensure maximum performance with minimal response time.  Conversion of existing database types(HDAM, HIDAM, FAST PATH) to HALDB. Monitor and rebalancing of existing HALDB Databases using the DFSMAID0 utility.  The 3 IMS DBA's rotate 24x7 call on a weekly basis. Database Administrator Commonwealth of PA. Dept of Labor - Industry, PA September 2002 to January 2011 OIT-BBAD Scranton/Pennsyslvania  As IMS DBA working on z/OS operating system: Create, modify and maintain our IMS DB/DC regions and all objects including databases associated with it. Participate in design reviews to advise project leaders and Application programmers of data structure requirements and performance considerations when establishing or modifying database systems. Analyze proposed data and processing requirements, ensuring that performance is maximized and the system's integrity is maintained. Design databases by physically and/or logically organizing the required data into a database structure that can be efficiently processed by current and future applications. Develop and maintain test databases and VSAM files for the applications staff. Evaluate, implement and maintain secondary indexes and logical relationships. Define database designs to be accessible using the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Define the database structure by coding and generating database descriptions (DBD's). Allow applications to access the databases by coding and generating Program Specification Blocks (PCB's) to be used with IMS/VS DL/I. Determine whether Application Control Blocks (ACB's) need to be predefined or built dynamically. Advise the programmers of the abilities and limitations of the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Perform database tuning. Reorganize the databases monthly to ensure maximum performance with minimal response time. Utilize buffers and buffer pools efficiently to improve performance. Use IMS Utilities to perform database backup and recovery procedures for the test and production databases. Install, maintain and upgrade database software products (IMS/VS DL/I, Database Tools). As ORACLE DBA running on AIX and Windows: Responsible for - Installation and Maintenance of Oracle Database Software on our IBM RS600 AIX Servers, Backup and Recovery of all Oracle Databases using RMAN and Tivoli Storage Manager, Database Data Modeling using Erwine Data Modeling Tool, Design of Databases, Oracle Database Diagnostics Tuning and Troubleshooting, Establish Standards and Documentation relative to Databases, Establish and Implementation of Database Security Standards and Procedures, Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system, Creating primary database storage structures(tablespaces) in conjunction with application development initiatives, creating primary objects(tables, views, indexes, etc.) in conjunction with application development initiatives, modifying the database structure as necessary in conjunction with application development initiatives, enrolling users and maintaining system security, controlling and monitoring user access to the databases, ensuring compliance with Oracle license agreement, provide guidance, training and technical assistance to team members and application development staff on all Oracle Products and all third party software used in conjunction with the ORACLE DBMS, project management of all database related projects.  As Microsoft SQL Server DBA: Responsible for - Installation and Maintenance of SQL Sever Software on our Windows Servers and Desktops. Create, maintain and support of all database objects which iclude users/schemas, tablespace, tables, stored procedures. Monitor and debug any SQL Server processes using SQL Server Management Studio. Responsible for backup and recovery of the database's. Responsible for the import of data from our Oracle database's into Sql Server. Systems Programmer/DBA Alternative Resources Corporation - Allentown, PA March 1998 to January 2010 Supervisory experience: Supervise and oversee all staff associated with projects concerning any database changes and/or projects that involve IMS and our CICS regions. As a database administrator on IBM z/OS operating system: Create, modify and maintain hierarchical databases And VSAM files. Participate in design reviews to advise project leaders and Application programmers of data structure requirements and performance Considerations when establishing or modifying database systems. Analyze Proposed data and processing requirements, ensuring that performance is Maximized and the system's integrity is maintained. Design databases by Physically and/or logically organizing the required data into a database Structure that can be efficiently processed by current and future applications. Develop and maintain test databases and VSAM files for the applications staff. Evaluate, implement and maintain secondary indexes and logical relationships. Define database designs to be accessible using the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Define the database structure by coding and generating database descriptions (DBD's). Allow applications to access the databases by coding and generating Program Specification Blocks (PCB's) to be used with IMS/VS DL/I. Determine whether Application Control Blocks (ACB's) need to be predefined or built dynamically. Advise the programmers of the abilities and limitations of the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Perform database tuning. Reorganize the databases monthly to ensure maximum performance with minimal response time. Utilize buffers and buffer pools efficiently to improve performance. Use IMS Utilities to perform database backup and recovery procedures for the test and production databases. Install, maintain and upgrade database software products (IMS/VS DL/I, Database Tools). As a systems programmer: Install system software utilizing SMP/E. Install and maintain CICS regions, including all CICS tables. Maintain system security using RACF. Perform alterations on our I/O configuration for additions or modifications to our hardware. Perform maintenance to all our system software. Provide training to our applications and operations staff on the use of particular software products. Confer with vendor support on system problems, hardware and software. Install program fixes and zaps to avoid or correct system hardware and software problems. Perform storage management to avoid contention between devices and space abends. Create system backup and recovery procedures. Systems Programmer/DBA Blue Cross of Northeastern Pennsylvania January 1999 to September 2006 State:PA  Supervisory experience: Supervise and oversee all staff associated with projects concerning any database changes and/or projects that involve MQSERIES. As a database administrator on IBM z/OS and AIX operating systems: Create, modify and maintain our IMS DB/DC regions and all objects including databases associated with it. Participate in design reviews to advise project leaders and Application programmers of data structure requirements and performance considerations when establishing or modifying database systems. Analyze proposed data and processing requirements, ensuring that performance is maximized and the system's integrity is maintained. Design databases by physically and/or logically organizing the required data into a database structure that can be efficiently processed by current and future applications. Develop and maintain test databases and VSAM files for the applications staff. Evaluate, implement and maintain secondary indexes and logical relationships. Define database designs to be accessible using the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Define the database structure by coding and generating database descriptions (DBD's). Allow applications to access the databases by coding and generating Program Specification Blocks (PCB's) to be used with IMS/VS DL/I. Determine whether Application Control Blocks (ACB's) need to be predefined or built dynamically. Advise the programmers of the abilities and limitations of the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Perform database tuning. Reorganize the databases monthly to ensure maximum performance with minimal response time. Utilize buffers and buffer pools efficiently to improve performance. Use IMS Utilities to perform database backup and recovery procedures for the test and production databases. Install, maintain and upgrade database software products (IMS/VS DL/I, Database Tools). I am also our backup DB2 DBA and assist in the maintenance and design of our current and future DB2 systems, including Databases, Tablespaces and Tables. As a systems programmer for IBM z/OS operating system: Install system software utilizing SMP/E. Install and maintain IMS regions. Install, maintain and administer our MQERIES subsytems. Responsible for the installation and maintenance of all our COMPUWARE products including XPEDITER CICS/TSO/IMS/DEV ENTERPRISE, ABEND-AID MVS/CICS, FILE-AID. Perform maintenance to all our system software. Provide training to our applications and operations staff on the use of particular software products. Confer with vendor support on system problems, hardware and software. Install program fixes and zaps to avoid or correct system hardware and software problems. Perform storage management to avoid contention between devices and space abends. Create system backup and recovery procedures Senior Programmer Alltel Information Services July 1998 to December 1998 State:PA  Supervisory experience: Supervise and oversee seven staff members for our Year 2000 project. This project ran for 15 months and involved a multitude of changes to our Billing Software package. As a Senior Programmer Analyst I will be working on our newly formed software development team. My main functions will be to add new enhancements to our Reformaster software, analyze the software from a performance perspective and add performance enhancements where necessary. Also, I will be highly involved in the effort to move Reformaster to new platforms, such as UNIX. I will still be involved in helping our team on any necessary production issues. I will also be responsible for the delegation of work for several Programmers and or Programmer Trainees. My lead of our Year 2000 project will continue until the project is moved into production. Computer Programmer/Analyst Alltel Information Services July 1997 to July 1998 State:PA  My functions at Alltel deal with our Billing Software Package known as Virtuoso I and Virtuoso II. The Software is purchased by our clients to process their cellular data from when one of their customers utilize their cell phone until they get their bill. In this environment I am responsible for the creation and maintenance of Cobol batch programs and Job JCL which make up the core of this Software Package. I also develop and maintain tables and vsam files, which are also part of the package. I work with our clients on any issues they may have concerning how their data was processed. I am the Project Leader on our Year 2000 conversion for our area of the Software. Systems Programmer/DBA Pennsylvania State Workmens Insurance Fund - Scranton, PA September 1994 to July 1997 Supervisory experience: Supervise and oversee all staff associated with projects concerning any database changes and/or projects that involve IMS and our CICS regions. As a database analyst: Create, modify and maintain hierarchical databases And VSAM files. Participate in design reviews to advise project leaders and Application programmers of data structure requirements and performance Considerations when establishing or modifying database systems. Analyze Proposed data and processing requirements, ensuring that performance is Maximized and the system's integrity is maintained. Design databases by Physically and/or logically organizing the required data into a database structure that can be efficiently processed by current and future applications. Develop and maintain test databases and VSAM files for the applications staff. Evaluate, implement and maintain secondary indexes and logical relationships. Define database designs to be accessible using the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Define the database structure by coding and generating database descriptions (DBD's). Allow applications to access the databases by coding and generating Program Specification Blocks (PCB's) to be used with IMS/VS DL/I. Determine whether Application Control Blocks (ACB's) need to be predefined or built dynamically. Advise the programmers of the abilities and limitations of the IMS/VS DL/I data manipulation language. Perform database tuning. Reorganize the databases monthly to ensure maximum performance with minimal response time. Utilize buffers and buffer pools efficiently to improve performance. Use IMS Utilities to perform database backup and recovery procedures for the test and production databases. Install, maintain and upgrade database software products (IMS/VS DL/I, Database Tools). As a systems programmer: Install system software utilizing SMP/E. Install and maintain CICS regions, including all CICS tables. Maintain system security using RACF. Perform alterations on our I/O configuration for additions or modifications to our hardware. Perform maintenance to all our system software. Provide training to our applications and operations staff on the use of particular software products. Confer with vendor support on system problems, hardware and software. Install program fixes and zaps to avoid or correct system hardware and software problems. Perform storage management to avoid contention between devices and space abends. Create system backup and recovery procedures. Computer Systems Analyst Pennsylvania State Workmens Insurance Fund - Scranton, PA August 1992 to August 1994 Develop and maintain on-line and batch programs. Develop and maintain job JCL to run batch programs. Perform interviews with end users and other data gathering methods to determine the feasibility for the adaptation and conversion to an electronic data processing system. Write system specifications for data processing requests by end users. Develop system testing and conversion plans. Prepare procedures, operational manuals and training specifications for system. Provide on-call support for nightly batch cycle. Education Bachelor's Degree Bloomsburg University May 1980 Associate Degree Lackawanna Junior College May 1978 Old Forge High School June 1976 Skills Data modeling, Db2, Dbms, Sql server, Oracle