Oracle Database Administrator in Training Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> in Training Oracle Database Administrator in Training - IBM Charlotte, NC IT Support Technician / Engineer  Persistently Diagnose & Resolve Technical Issues Quickly & Efficiently,  Providing Translated Resolution with Customer-Centric Style    Provide valuable service as an innovative, team leader with strong IT base, specializing in computer networking technology and hardware / electronics. Deliver excellent customer service and communication skills while interfacing with vendors, clients, and colleagues. Focus on efficiency and quality completion at high standards and attention to detail to exceed expectations and demands. De-escalate customer worries by delivering properly researched and timely fixes that lead to reduced operating costs. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator in Training IBM - Charlotte, NC 2018 to Present Full-time immersion in Oracle Database Administration concepts and classes through Oracle University and other online resources. Work towards certification in Oracle Database SQL.  • Gained valuable knowledge by completing the Oracle Database 12c Learning Path for New DBAs through the Oracle Online University. SSR Technician (Shared Services) IBM - Charlotte, NC 2017 to 2018 Repaired Lenovo laptop and desktop computers. Assisted with Walgreens' account calls.  • Generated second-lowest overtime percentage at 3.1% (IBM's goal was =/<10%), achieving 1 out of 4 in department to exceed productivity goal at 75.1% (goal 70%).  • Received 4.7 (out of 5) customer service rating while delivering 98% first-visit repair rate. Senior Field Services Technician WALGREENS - Charlotte, NC 2004 to 2017 Maintained, analyzed, troubleshot, installed, and repaired computer systems, electronic equipment, hardware, and computer peripherals and networking equipment in stores and offices. Mentored and trained subordinates and new technicians. Assisted in managing operations of depot and technicians.  • Reduced service times and increased productivity by developing and implementing team training program.  • Attained 5 out of 5 customer satisfaction score (2017) and average of 4.7 out of 5 (2012 - 2017) by providing accurate and timely services to a market of 230 stores.  ? Communicated with customers, including market store operations and district office personnel.    WALGREENS )  ? Managed and coordinated all major project scheduling within market, including hardware and software and additional equipment.  ? Completed service level agreement (SLA) management, including incident problems, service request, and site surveys.  • Maintained 97% first-time repair rate from 2012 - 2017.  • Maximized installation and configuration of computer systems, electronic equipment, and networking devices in 55+ new stores in 50% of time and resources required for setup.  • Set up and monitored store in Bank of America building during Democratic National Convention, grossing over $1M in 1 week with 0 equipment failures. Education Associate of Science in (AS), Computer Networking ECPI College of Technology - Charlotte, NC IBM Certified East Carolina University - Greenville, NC Skills Database, Oracle, Cisco, Remedy, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Telnet, Ethernet, Ftp, Ios, Voip, Telephony, Linux, Unix, Firewall, Ms office, Security, Cctv, Help desk, Pos Links http://linkedin.com/in/moniquepompili Additional Information Technical Skills    Software: MS Office-365, Linux and Unix, PLSql, Oracle Database, Cisco WebEx, Remedy Help Desk, Agile  Operating Systems: MS Windows (Vista, XP, Win 7,8,10) Cisco IOS, iOS7, OS X Mavericks  Hardware:  Intel and IBM Servers, Desktop and Laptop Computers, Cisco Routers and POE Switches, Fortinet Unified Threat Management (UTM / Firewall), Satellite System, Cisco VOIP Phone Systems, Bosch IP CCTV Systems, Checkpoint Security System, IBM POS, Bosch Alarm System    Protocols: TCP/IP, VoIP, IP Telephony, FTP, SSH, Telnet, Ethernet