Vice President Vice President Vice President - Nomura Securities Franklin Park, NJ Highly accomplished Database Architect/ Administrator over 22 years of experience in Database Management Systems with DB2 LUW, MySQL, Oracle, and Informix database design, administration, and performance tuning in large OLTP and Warehouse (DSS) environments. Knowledge of AWS Cloud, Big Data, NoSQL MongoDB database administration. Interested in learning new technologies and adapt to new challenges and ability to work as individual and as a part of team. Ability to effectively interact and work well with Architecture, Network, System Administrator, and Application Development teams with varying degrees of technical experience to develop and deploy applications globally.    US Citizen with Security Clearance: SECRET (DoD) Final Approval valid until 2023    ? Have experience in implementing MySQL, DB2 LUW, Oracle, Informix, and MongoDB database technology solutions in broad range of industries including financial services, insurance, telecommunications, wireless, and education firms.  ? Have ample experience with MySQL v5.x, DB2 LUW v11.x/v10.x/v9.x, Oracle v12c/v11g, Informix v11.x/v10.x, and MongoDB v2.x on IBM AIX (UNIX), LINUX, Solaris, and Windows operating systems.  ? Have good knowledge in technologies such as MySQL Replication, DB2 BLU columnar database, DB2 DPF, HA Clustering (HACMP), EMC SAN, BCV, SRDF, RAID and RAW devices.  ? Experience in establishing standards for Database management, data security, and troubleshooting policies to ensure efficient use of technology and services.  ? Have sound knowledge of Database, SQL, and stored procedures code performance Tuning.  ? Strong understanding of data files, containers, file systems, and raw devices relationships.  ? Have good knowledge of Data Analysis and Data Modeling in both logical and physical database design. Strong in mapping the business processes and business information needs to data storage and retrieval.  ? Ability to Analyze Data flow and Data synchronization and integration issues.  ? Demonstrated competency at most DBA roles including installing and upgrading DB2 LUW, Oracle, Informix, and MongoDB database servers and third party application tools.  ? Provided Mentoring and leadership to less experienced associates and offshore consulting staff. Maintained seamless working relationships with offshore DBA teams to ensure 24/7 coverage.  ? Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate with-in the DBA team and in a multi-cultural environment groups such as Enterprise Architecture, QA Testers, and Application Development, and Support teams.  ? Ability to effectively communicate in a professional manner with both technical, non-technical staff members, and clients.  ? Ability to effectively prioritize and multi-task in an organized fashion in a mission-critical environment while paying attention to details.  ? Ability to work closely with stakeholders to ensure that an acceptable outcome is achieved.  ? Ability to work with a high degree of independence with minimal supervision and to oversee and guide others. Work Experience Vice President Nomura Securities - Piscataway, NJ August 2015 to Present MySQL, DB2, Oracle Database Operations  • Working as Vice President Role in Enterprise Infrastructure Services (EIS) - Database Operations team, in charge of the database architecture, administration and management of our enterprise, large-scale database systems.  • Played a key role in managing and improving the health, availability, reliability and scalability of our database instances in a 24x7 environment hosted on premise.  • Implemented a standardized set of database maintenance jobs for MySQL, DB2 DBMS platforms.  • Played project management role in co-ordination of MySQL v5.x software installation, and database creation, upgrades and migrations from v5.x to v5.7 with application teams.  • Participated in MySQL database performance tuning and resolution of replication related issues.  • Coordinated and provided Support to the full data center isolation and application level DR testing.  • Implemented the Auditing and password complex Policies for MySQL databases using Percona Audit Plugin, and DB2 databases using native audit feature according to the company security/audit policies.  • Developed and implemented MySQL Database copy shell scripts to restore Prod databases to non-prod environments using mysqldump and xtrabackup utilities.  • Implemented partitioning in several of the large MySQL Databases which improved the performance.  • Involved in defining procedures to maintain Q replication in DB2 database environment.  • Consolidated/Optimized DB2 database cluster infrastructure to minimize the costs with-in corporate DBMS licensing limits.  • Implemented DB2 WLM feature in Euclid Application databases to limiting long running SQLs database resources usage.  • Participated in upgrading all DB2 Q replication environments to MQ v7.5.  • Involved in resolution of DB2 authentication and authorization related to LDAP and Kerberos.  • Involved in Oracle SQL performance tuning by checking the table/index stats, access plan flips, and creating sqlprofiles.  • Participated in ETL tool Informatica upgrade from v9.6 to v10.1 which is used across all the enterprise applications.  • Mentored Several Interns and Jr. DBAs. Lead Database Administrator Citi Group - Jersey City, NJ February 2015 to August 2015 • Working as Lead Database Administrator in Commercial Credit Cards Technology Solutions division as consultant. Primary responsibility is to perform data analysis and DB2 LUW data warehouse design for a large commercial cards application and providing production support to the existing application databases.  • Worked extensively on tuning SQLs and stored procedures used for data transformation and loading into existing application databases.  • Supported day-to-day Database administration activities like troubleshooting tablespace issues, mount point space issues, high CPU utilization, locking/blocking sessions, backup and recovery, and data movement using export/import/db2move/load. Lead Database Engineer MetLife - Somerset, NJ July 2007 to January 2015 • As Lead Database Engineer in Distributed Database Engineering team, responsible for all aspects of DB2 LUW databases used by all enterprise applications Design, Architecture, and Performance, and Database standards to ensure efficient use of technology and services.  • Supported highly critical applications including multi-TB Individual Business Data warehouse (IBDW), and Institutional eBusiness Suite (eBiz) of application OLTP Databases and other small to medium OLTP, and DataMart databases with minimum downtime.  • Participated in planning of both single partition and multiple partitions (DPF) DB2 LUW server builds, new version software evaluations, gathering pre-requisites, installation, and documentation to use by system administrator, and application development teams.  • Provided senior Technical Leadership to the international 'metlife.com' application Databases Design and Architecture.  • Involved in database architecture design that cover technologies such as Database Scalability, Database High Availability (HA), Disaster Recovery (DR), Backup and Recovery, Data Purging, and Data Retention strategies.  • Developed shell scripts for heavily used database utilities like Backup-Recovery, Reorgchk, Reorgs, Runstats, DB2move, DB2look.  • Expertise in Sql tuning by getting db2expln, Visual explain on the SQLs and creating MQTs, MDCs wherever needed.  • Prepared shell scripts to check the pre-installation requirements, and installing the DB2 LUW Enterprise Server Edition using response files. The installation process is automated through marimba.  • Developed a Procedure/process to address the impact of hostname, and IP address change to DB2 LUW Database server software, Client software, Database configuration, application server configuration for Hardware Software Refresh (HSR) initiative to replace aged/leased infrastructure to avoid penalties. These Procedures are adopted across the Enterprise and implemented as the standard methodology.  • Developed a series of shell script programs to check OS pre-requisites for new version database server software installation, and OS level tunable parameters check on database servers in our highly complex environment. These programs were adopted across the Enterprise and implemented as the standard tool-set for all RDMS environments in the company. This resulted in increased stability, security and uniformity across the Enterprise and resulted in a substantial reduction in effort/expense.  • Configured and converted log-shipping to HADR as DR strategy for DB2 LUW OLTP and DataMart Databases.  • Implemented Range Partitioning, Multi-Dimensional Clustering (MDC), and Materialized Query Table (MQT) features on several key IBDW database tables in order to improve performance on low cardinality field searches and sorting.  • Implemented table level compression on largest IBDW database tables, and dropping the unused indexes, which resulted in 40-50% in storage cost savings.  • Worked with Network Engineering and Support teams in researching and configuring Global Site Selector (GSS) for Geo Failover and Load Balancing.  • Managed offshore operations which include staffing, trainings, work assignment, quality check, meeting statement of work service levels (SLA), and coordinate and manage vendor communication.  • Responsible for problem escalation to Product vendors IBM, and Oracle support/ development teams and other third party vendors to troubleshoot database issues and perform root cause analysis.  • Developed shell scripts to automate the data feeds process from different vendors to load in to data warehouse and data mart Databases using loader/import utility.  • Developed automated shell scripts to perform the FTP, export, and import the databases from Hartford data center to New York data center servers/LPARs. Used UNIX named pipes and compression of files while exporting the Database.  • Developed shell scripts to automate the data migration and data transform (ETL) process along with stored procedures using Global Temporary Tables and also by using the import, and load utilities.  • Responsible for installation, and upgrade of Informix database server from v10.x to v11.7 for west coast dental insurance application Safeguard/NOVA.    Verizon Wireless, Orangeburg, NY  McGraw Hill Companies, Manhattan, NY  MetLife, Somerset, NJ  Verizon Communications, White Plains, NY  Deutsche Bank Securities, Manhattan, NY  McGraw Hill Companies, Hightstown, NJ  Computer Horizons Solutions Division, Parsippany, NJ  Prudential Properties & Casualties, Holmdel, NJ  Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Chennai, India  Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), Bengaluru, India Education Master's in Computer Science and Engineering Barathiyar University - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu Bachelor's in Computer Technology and Engineering Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra Skills AIX (6 years), application server (7 years), ArcSDE (Less than 1 year), Avamar (Less than 1 year), BMC (Less than 1 year), BMC Patrol (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), CICS (Less than 1 year), COBOL (Less than 1 year), COBOL II (Less than 1 year), databases (10+ years), DB2 (10+ years), Informix (7 years), loader (7 years), marimba. (7 years), MySQL (3 years), Oracle (10+ years), replication (3 years), SQL (10+ years), UNIX (7 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rmechineni Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems AIX v7.x/v6.x/v5.x, Red Hat LINUX v7.x/v6.x, Solaris v10/v2.x, HP UNIX v10.x/v9.x, SCO-Unix v5.x, Windows  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Python, Perl, SQL PL, C++, C, JSON, X-WINDOWS/MOTIF, COBOL II, CICS  Databases MySQL v5.x, DB2 LUW v10.x/v9.x, Oracle v11.2.x/v10.2.x, MongoDB v2.6/v2.4, Informix v11.7.x/v10.x  Tools MySQL Workbench, Info Sphere Optim Performance Manger (OPM), IBM Data Studio, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control, mysqldump, xtrabackup, ASM, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Data pump, export/import, RMAN, Data Guard, Flashback Recovery, SQL*Loader, Remedy, Marimba, Maestro, Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM), BMC Patrol, EMC Avamar, Guardium, Erwin v7.x/v4.x/v3.5.2, SQL Navigator v4.x/3.x, TOAD, BMC WEB DBA, PVCS v6.5, CVS, Service Now, Autosys  Others IBM MQ Series, DB2 Q replication, DB2 LUW Spatial Extender, Microsoft Office 2013/2010 Suite, Outlook, Oracle Replication Manager, Oracle Application Server v8i, Forms 4.x, Reports 2.x, Weblogic and Websphere App Server, Lotus Notes 5.x/4.6, ArcSDE v9.1, Arc Explorer v9.1