Secretary II Secretary II Secretary II - West Virginia Division of Personnel Spencer, WV Work Experience Secretary II West Virginia Division of Personnel - Charleston, WV November 2017 to Present • Created Access database solutions for various sections of Personnel as needed.  ? Improved efficiencies and accuracy through Access database solutions and use of templates.  * Disqualification Process from 2-3 day minimum down to 2-3 hours maximum.  * Settlement routing time reduced to half  ? Increased accuracy and ease of reporting.  • Process and track Settlement Agreements and Grievance Documentation for agencies under the jurisdiction of the Division of Personnel.  • Review, update and maintain procedures and reference books for both Employee Relations and Legal sections of the Division of Personnel.  • Provided support and coordination for Legal Counsel, including but not limited to database tracking, mailings, archiving and scheduling.  • Provide support and coordination for Employee Relations, including but not limited to scheduling, advisory, reporting and archiving. Executive Administrator/ Database Administrator Main Street Project (nonprofit) - Northfield, MN February 2015 to March 2017 consultant 2015; employee 2016-17)  • Organized and implemented tracking database and controls for office.  ? Created database solutions as needed  ? Continuously maintain, update and track critical information using File Manager Pro/Server database  ? Developed and implemented various procedures both office and farm related for consistency and accuracy  • Review and edit training and production manuals.  • Implemented new accounting policies and procedures to address audit concerns  • Coordinate schedules and essential functions of staff, supporting CEO, CFO and COO  • Compile and send out quarterly newsletter to contact database  • Provide support and coordination of information and scheduling for Board Members  • Additional office support and management duties as needed Field Service Manager/ Senior Field Service Manager GTECH - Miami, FL September 2010 to December 2014 Roseville, MN - May 2007 to September 2010  Department/State level responsibilities and accomplishments (87 personnel, including 5 direct reports):  • Trained, evaluated, mentored, created and enforced policies and procedures.  • Created, maintained (and improved) budget of 7M  • Created a Get Well program for Florida; Reduction of Penalties  • Team won Presidential Award from Company (highest honors)  Corporate level responsibilities and accomplishments:  • Developed and maintained corporate reports.  • Request for Proposal (RFPs) Drafting and editing: assisted and led the field service related contract responses resulting in four contract wins for 2014 and one for 2015.  • Provided backup support to Regional Director.  • Led and sponsored multiple Corporate Initiatives.  • Mentored Wisconsin Supervisor Technology Section Supervisor GTECH - Roseville, MN February 2003 to May 2007 • Supervised eight operators and their daily activities, schedules and training  • Developed, wrote, and maintained disaster recovery, security manuals, and operational procedures.  • Responsible for testing, tracking and downloading software changes.  • Assisted in incident investigations, provided information necessary for incident reports and follow up items to the customer.  • Interfaced with local management and customers, assuring immediate response to all critical and non-critical issues. AIX Senior Systems Administrator IGT, OES - Roseville, MN February 1999 to February 2003 • Monitored and maintained nine IBM RISC boxes (approximately 100 users)  • Interfaced with local management and customers, assuring immediate response to all critical and non-critical issues.  • Provided testing of new software and participated in the South Dakota Online Conversion (new systems and software).  • Created and maintained System Administration, System Emergency Procedures, and Training Manuals. Lead Operator/Operator IGT, OES - Roseville, MN September 1996 to February 1999 • Assisted in incident investigations.  • Assisted in the daily operation of computer systems.  • Generated reports required. Verified the validity and clarity of computer reports and other output before release.  • Provided Hotline support.  • Interfaced with local management and customers, assuring immediate response to all critical and non-critical issues.  • Assisted with training of operational staff and provided staff support for all shifts.  • Provided testing of new software and participated in the Montana instant conversion Administrative Specialist US Army 1984 to 1987 Honorable Discharge Education Business Management Metro State University - Saint Paul, MN September 2009 to May 2010 Axia College - Phoenix, AZ January 2007 to May 2008 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SP4 Additional Information SKILLS    • Executive Administrator/Support  • Program Management  • Contract Negotiations  • Fiscal Accountability (Budgets up to $7M)  • Information Management  • Organization and Scheduling  • Create and enforce Policies and Procedures  • Create Reports to Streamline Operations    • Communication Skills (oral and written)  • Leadership  • File Maker Relational Database  • Advanced Excel User  • Advanced MSWord User  • Advanced Presentation preparation  • UNIX AIX  • Access