Manager, Development Manager, Development Destin, FL Work Experience Manager, Development CDK Global October 2017 to Present • Promoted to manager of development for database development in February 2019; began as a Senior DBA Developer, Service Release Train Data Architect.  • Lead a multi-product team of 15, including full time employees and contractors which were on-site and off-site. Also, managed a small team of 2 off-shore resources.  • Acted as the primary liaison between the database department and the Service Release Train.  • Lead data design meetings.  • Modeled and implemented Parts Matrix, Parts Pricing, Scheduler Capacity, Scheduler Exception, Scheduler Loaner/Waiter, and Disclaimer database schema and wrote supporting.  • Reviewed and tested previously in-fight Service database schema replacement. Wrote recommendation and revision document for the new schema. Optimized several test versions of the schema.  • Wrote stored procedures to return JSON that replaced a number of inefficient front-end processes, dropping the average execution time from 850 ms to 15 ms while drastically reducing the number of database calls.  • Reviewed database changes made by developers while helping improve their database knowledge and evangelize proper database design, development and usage.  • Created GM OSS integration processes to send data in a SOAP envelope.    Technical Environment: SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2017, SSIS, SSRS, ER/Studio, New Relic Database Architect Engle Martin & Associates - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to July 2017 • Business and technical analysis and development of XML messages sent through a Web Service to MSMQ using SSIS and T-SQL.  • Creation of CLR SQL user defined functions for the increased performance of string manipulation and converting historical dates to UTC dates.  • Used SSIS, SSRS and T-SQL, including geo-spatial geography functions, to create a Tropical Storm tracking report that acquires storm information from NHC.NOAA.gov, the National Hurricane Center at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in the form of KMZ/KML files and allows a number of filters and sub-reports to cross-reference Policy holder locations with current and predicted storm information.  • Created traditional relational data models and views to assist in the rollout of self-serve Power BI reporting.    Technical Environment: SQL Server 2012, MS SSIS, SSRS, Power BI, Visual C#, SQL CLR, MSMQ. Principal Data Engineer Cardlytics - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to May 2016 • Worked in an Agile environment on the EDW Scrum team.  • Worked on both maintenance and new development for the current data warehouse.  • Analyzed the DEV, QA, UAT and Production instances and servers for optimizations for configurations and settings.  • Modified and maintained the existing Cardlytics EDW SSAS cube.  • Began a complete redesign on the Cardlytics EDW SSAS cube.  • Wrote SSRS reports to allow a quick view into ETL processes, Meta Data and system overview.  • Drove the start of the EDW team meetings and code reviews to increase the communication between team members and improve the conformity of code being developed.  • After analyzing the longest running step in the EDW load to understand the complexities of the current data model and the production server, I designed a SSIS package that allowed for the asynchronous and concurrent execution of child packages through an execute process task. The package would dynamically determine the best number of concurrent child packages to run and would manage the MAXDOP of all queries in the process. The parent package tracked the execution of the child packages through constant logging of metadata, available resources and process execution. This changed dropped the average execution time of this step from 18 hours to 2 hours. This process averages 40 concurrent child packages to utilize 70 to 80 percent of CPU while avoiding the RESOURCE_SEMAPHORE wait type that is indicative of too many concurrent queries or memory pressure.  • Designed and developed the institution and customer dimensions for the new data warehouse. This included modifying the proposed data model, researching the current requirements, understanding the shortcomings of the current dimensions and data model, developing ETL packages, a method for historical data load and thorough testing.    Technical Environment: SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2016, MS SSIS, MS SSAS, MS SSRS, SQL Sentry, ERWin, Redgate Toolbelt, Jira, Git. Senior Database/BI Developer and Technical Lead American Safety Insurance - Marietta, GA August 2012 to May 2015 • Technical lead under the Sr. Data Architect of the Data Services resources which included mentoring them, setting daily and weekly goals, keeping them productive and managing them as needed.  • Lead the design, construction and support of a data mart for claims reporting.  • Assisted with development and implementation of a data mart for bonds reporting.  • Supported all current application database, OLTP systems and OLAP systems.  • Created conceptual, logical and physical data models in support of projects and support.  • Replaced the third party reporting and dashboard tool iPartners/SNL by reverse engineering reports and the extracts they were based on. Created a star schema and ETL to load it from the extracts that had been going to iPartners. Created SSRS reports based on queries that are pulling from the new data mart.  • Modified HP Compellent SAN configuration to improve performance by following best practices in moving tempDB to their own dedicated RAID 10 high performance drives. And, modified other data and log files to improve performance.  • Modified maintenance jobs that were not currently rebuilding indexes. The modifications performed rebuilds based on a fragmentation level greater than 30% for the majority of indexes.  • Modified transaction log for databases that had large numbers of VLFs, thousands in some cases. This included creating transaction logs with appropriate sizes from the start of the modification and size based growth logic that would allocate space in a sensibly way as to not allow VLFs to grow out of control.  • Removed forwarded records that had caused over 100 billion forwarded record reads in the last few months.  • Followed a waits and queues methodology to find and improve performance problems.  • Discovered a number of applications holding unused connections for long periods of times and worked with developers to modify connection logic.  • Found contention in a number of jobs that were being called and modified the jobs (and Event Chains in SQL Sentry) to remove contention and allow must better performance.  • Wrote recommendation documents for SQL Server 2012 logging, SQL Server SSIS, SQL Server MDM, SQL Server CDC/Change Tracking and other proposals of design.  • Created diagrams to help understand the complexities of the current system.  • Assisted the team in performance considerations, design considerations and provided numerous recommendations for everything data related.  • Modified a number of critical stored procedures and reports that had been running long to complete in milliseconds.  • Recommended some overall indexing modifications and daily ETL redesigns.  • Performed proof of concept documents and development to include SQL Server CDC and SQL Server 2012 SSIS logging.  • Worked with SOA architecture using MSMQ, RabbitMQ, PilotFish XML Transformation services and SQL Server 2012.  • Found 32 bit/64 bit compatibility issues with MSMQ and PilotFish and worked with the PilotFish development team to correct their issue so that PilotFish XML Transformations could support ASI's needs.  • Created a Python service with a round robin architecture to consume a Rabbit MQ queue and insert the consumed message into the ODS.  • Configured Sharepoint 2010 with SQL Server 2012 with PerformancePoint and Power View.  • Created cube based and table based reports, dashboards, score cards, filters, KPIs some for test/proof of concept and others for production  • Created data dictionaries to help everyone understand what data means and where it is stored.  • Developed stored procedures, SSIS packages and reports.  • Assisted QA in testing of builds and releases.  • Discussed business needs with senior managers, project managers, business analysts, underwriters, developers and other end users.  • Created a Master Data Management solution for Accounts, Underwriters, Underwriter Assistants and Agencies.  • Created a recursive SQL Server process based on stored procedures to process ETL loads with a set based approached that allowed errors at the row level to be tracked by recursively dividing the batch and calling the process again. Logic was used to determine the optimum number of divisions and batches needed to prevent exceeding 32 deep nest level (@@NESTEVEL) for stored procedures.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server SQL 2005, MS SQL Server 2008, MS SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012, AS400, MS Access, MS DTS, MS SSIS, MS SSRS, MS SSAS, MS Visio, ER/Studio .NET, Java, MSMQ, PilotFish XML Transformations, SQL Sentry, Business Objects, SharePoint, PerformancePoint, Power View, Python, Rabbit MQ. Data Architect/DBA Georgia Department of Education - Atlanta, GA December 2011 to August 2012 In charge of architecture for the COPS (Capital Outlay and Provisioning  System) applications that controlled over $700,000,000 in yearly financial allocations to school districts.  • Redesigned COPS Planning, a legacy Access and Oracle application. The design tied data from COPS Planning to around 10 other databases and Oracle schemas. The new architecture included a completely new database design including a new ETL and linked server architecture. Newly designed and implemented features included a change management system with status tracking and request/approval/denial capabilities, support for new reporting functionality, corrections to previously implemented logic errors and other new required functionality. The redesign required meeting with other internal customers, stakeholders and development teams as well as significant reverse engineering to understand largely undocumented and unsupported applications and data.  • Developed core functionality of COPS Planning and assisted a team of .Net developers to ensuring data access was performed correctly and efficiently.  • Was responsible for bug fixes on COPS Planning (Access and Oracle); COPS Finance, the finance side of the Capital Outlay and Provisioning System; and Portal, the core repository for the State of Georgia School System hierarchy. Bug fixes were performed in parallel to architecting and DBA duties.  • Identified key problems and performance issues and recommended numerous solutions and best practices while championing improvements for a number of databases, applications and business processes.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server SQL 2005, MS SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10, TOAD, MS Access, MS DTS, MS SSIS, MS Excel, MS Visio, ERWin, SVN, Open Source reporting and FTP programs. Database Administrator Arby's - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to December 2011 • Assisted in the separation of the Wendy's Arby's Group.  • Assured SQL Server, Oracle and Access data and data transfers were configured correctly for zero-loss on separation.  • Replaced joint FTP jobs with Arby's specific jobs.  • Added relevant database maintenance to SQL Servers.  • Performance tuned critical financial database processes from a total of over 11 hours to fewer than 4 minutes.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, MS SQL Server SQL 2005, MS SQL Server 2008, MS DTS, MS SSIS, MS Excel, SVN, Open Source reporting and FTP programs. Data Architect - Contract AT&T/Deloitte - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to September 2011 • Short term contract expected to complete prior to October 1st.  • Designed and documented the data model for a centralized DNS, Do Not Solicit, reporting repository.  • Wrote initial queries for ETL from 7 source systems.  • Assisted in the training of a more junior reporting developer.    Technical Environment: Teradata, MS Excel, ER/Studio  AVG - Atlanta, GA Database Engineer January 2011 to July 2011 • Responsible for extracts to Hadoop HDFS and historical queries using Hive when needed.  • Responsible for Microsoft feeds, a process that exchanges information about security threats to and from Microsoft.  • Created Verisign A/B feed which included 5 tab delimited files to summarize and track different sets of users, one with the Verisign symbol next to links and one without the symbol, and their behavior.  • Responsible for stored procedure optimization of developers.  • Responsible for ad-hoc reports, reports to Excel and SSRS reports.  • Produced ETL between OLTP systems to OLAP systems.  • Created extracts, feeds, ETL, reports and all SQL server objects using T-SQL, BCP, SSIS, SSRS, SQL jobs, HDFS, batch files, shell scripting, Perl scripts and Unix services.  • Managed several VLDBs with sizes up to 300 TB using efficient queries, prudent choices of indexes and partitioned tables.  • Analyzed performance problems using Perfmon, Profiler and DMVs.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, Hadoop, Hive, MS SQL Integration Services, MS Reporting Services, MS Excel, Visio, SVN, Clustered environment, Windows, Linux Systems Database Administrator INgage Networks - Atlanta, GA August 2009 to January 2011 • Primary/Lead DBA on the OpenForum.com, a high transaction website for American Express.  • Primary/Lead DBA for a single data warehouse to support multiple company wide clients.  • Managed a team of four off shore database development resources for the data warehouse until the team was released.  • Primary DBA for ongoing administration tasks for the Amex and DW project and secondary DBA for other customers. Administration tasks included disaster recovery plans, server performance tuning and troubleshooting, and general maintenance of 'databases.  • Developed stored procedures, scripts, reports (ad-hoc, Excel and SSRS) and SSIS packages for Amex and the DW.  • Configured replication in Amex test environment using Transactional Replication with a central publisher and remote distributor topology.  • Analyzed performance problems using Perfmon, Profiler and DMVs.  • In charge of approving and promoting all database objects through SIT, QA, CAE and Production. This included stored procedures, views, tables, SSIS packages and SSRS reports.  • Final tier for DB related production issues.  • In charge of database optimization including indexing, database model restructuring, and script tuning.  • Created a partitioned table for a daily archive process that help minimize the size and optimize performance of reporting queries.  • Added indexed views for optimization of poor performing, numerous join stored procedures.  • Assisted in development and guidance of Amex developers and data warehouse off shore resources.  • Helped design and recommend data warehouse and reporting solutions to product managers.  • Responsible for design and development of custom extracts/exports.  • Responsible for ad-hoc queries/reports for custom client requests.  • Exposure to SQL 2008 in the American Express About Us Project and in test environments.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Server 2008, MS SQL Integration Services, MS Reporting Services, MS Excel, MS Visio, ERWin, RedGate Toolbelt, SVN, Perfmon, Clustered environment Senior DBA Global Payments - Atlanta, GA January 2009 to February 2009 • Performance Tuning contract to modify GP's 10 worst performing stored procedures.  • Analyzed table structures and recommended design changes and archiving of older records.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Integration Services Senior DBA QuickParts - Atlanta, GA November 2008 to January 2009 • Short term contract to troubleshoot migration process using ETL techniques with SSIS.  • Successfully assisted overdue migration project that required analysis of business logic, proposal of solutions for complicated off-line quotes, creation of mappings, development of SSIS packages and SQL 2005 queries. Migration includes two systems, current Production system and Legacy system, migrated into new complete production OLTP system.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Integration Services DBA/SQL Developer/Project Manager AT&T - Atlanta, GA February 2008 to October 2008 • Developed a centralized SQL Server 2005 database to aid in the creation of an intranet used by the Southeast Construction and Engineering department to assist the new Digital Television rollout, PLS, Project Lightspeed  • Designed and Developed the PLS intranet and added applications and reports using ColdFusion and SSRS.  • Developed the Distribution Area Management Tool used to track, analyze and update efforts to assist the PLS effort that required the development of a GUI front end and a SQL Server 2000 database.  • Developed the GEO Franchise tool used to track, analyze and update "franchise" rights to upgrade and place PLS supporting equipment in the Southeast which included the design and development of an OLTP database and a ColdFusion front-end  • Developed numerous reports to support the PLS rollout using SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005 including Reporting Services, ColdFusion and Excel.  • Developed flat files and feeds to be sent to AT&T corporate  • Responsible for performance analysis of stored procedures  • Responsible for creation of indexes  • Managed Database Security and set up users with associated rights.  • Review database and coordinate changes during deployment.  • Responsible for ETL to combine data from multiple sources.  • Designed Business Object reports and executed reports for data acquisitions for consumption by ETL processes.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Integration Services & DTS, MS Reporting Services, MS Excel, Visio, MS Sharepoint, Business Objects Senior SQL Developer/Performance Specialist MS SQL Developers - Alpharetta, GA October 2007 to February 2008 • Responsible creation of Archiving process for 5 high volume critical 24/7 OLTP databases.  • Responsible for capacity planning in support of the Archiving process.  • Responsible for performance analysis of stored procedures and scripts created by MS SQL Developers  • Responsible for creation of indexes including clustered and non-clustered covering indexes.  • Responsible for re-write of 10 worst performing queries.  • Responsible for ETL production support of credit files.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, MS Excel, Visio, MS Sharepoint SSIS Developer Online Vehicle Exchange - Sandy Springs, GA August 2007 to September 2007 • Responsible for development of multiple SSIS packages to load vehicle and user data.  • Developed controlling SSIS package that called other SSIS packages.  • Developed SSIS packages that processed files at near real-time by being set into a continuous loop.  • Developed SSIS packages that retrieved data from XML files.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Integration Services, MS Excel, Visio, MS Sharepoint Senior SQL Developer Matria Healthcare - Marietta, GA March 2007 to July 2007 • Responsible for development of multiple SSIS packages to load patient and claims data.  • Responsible for ETL between flat files and databases.  • Managed two off-shore resources.  • Responsible for new design and development of a SQL 2005 database transformed from an Access database.  • Responsible for creation of data models.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS Integration Services, MS Access, MS Excel, Visio, MS SourceSafe, Track-IT SQL Reports Developer/Consultant Innovative Architects - Duluth, GA December 2006 to February 2007 • Responsible for the development of a sales force OLAP cube using MS Analysis Services and reports generated from them us MS Reporting Services.  • Responsible for ETL between OLTP databases and a star schema Data Mart.  • Created an OLAP cube based on specifications of report needs.  • Responsible for the creation of a sales related Data Mart.  • Responsible for processing of data from the Star schema into the cube for testing and reporting purposes.  • Wrote approximately 25 SSRS reports with parameters and drilldowns by using SQL and MDX.  • Used MDX to query multidimensional cubes.  • Responsible for documentation including data dictionaries and data mapping.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS Analysis Services, MS Reporting Services, MS Integration Services, ASP.Net, MS Excel, Visio Development DBA Printegra - Peachtree City, GA October 2006 to December 2006 • Responsible for setup of security and user accounts.  • Responsible for the creation and documentation of maintenance plans including backups and restores.  • Responsible for the setup of a SQL Server Failover Cluster.  • Responsible for multiple high volume OLTP databases (up to 500 gigabytes in size) and centralized data stores optimized for reporting performance and data flow between them and processors.  • Responsible for the development of a centralized database that tied over nine locations to a centralized warehouse.  • Responsible for ETL between databases and flat files.  • Managed Database Security and set up users with associated rights.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Server 2000, VB.Net, MS Excel, Visio Production Database Developer/DBA Pre Solutions - Atlanta, GA February 2006 to August 2006 • Responsible for multiple databases (up to 600 gigabytes in size) and centralized data store and data flow between them and processors.  • ETL development for vendor and partner data.  • Responsible for new database development including stored procedures for high volume OLTP databases, DTS packages, DB2 to SQL interfaces, reporting, indexes.  • Responsible for database maintenance plans, account administration, job scheduling, optimization and other DBA duties.  • Used Business Objects to create and deploy BI reports.    Technical Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL Server 2000, MS Reporting Services, IBM DB2, Business Objects, Crystal Reports 10, MS Excel, Visio Database Developer/Architect Connecture - Atlanta, GA January 2005 to February 2006 • Developed and maintained new and existing databases (up to 1 TB in size) and all types of database objects and scripts for OLTP web-based insurance applications with constant consideration for performance.  • Troubleshot Deadlock contention.  • Worked to improve the performance of existing queries for overall and specific application speed.  • Wrote stored procedures to produce XML files to eliminate the need for front-end reloads on change of drop downs or other front-end changes.  • Transformed requirements into requirement documents and technical specification documents.  • Migrated changes through numerous environments.  • Review database and coordinate changes during deployment.  • Worked with MS SQL Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Profiler, Visual SourceSafe, Track-IT, Visio, stored procedures, functions, tables, views, ETL processes, DTS packages, imports, exports, ad-hoc queries/reports, XML files among others. Application Specialist / DBA Developer / DBA Administration Thomco Insurance - Kennesaw, GA January 2004 to January 2005 • In charge of most of the DBA/SQL duties including database maintenance, creation, imports, exports, view creation, triggers, stored procedures, data modeling using Visio, DTS packages, ETL, data cleansing, performance tuning, indexing strategies, job scheduling for several MS SQL Server 2000 databases.  • Worked with both OLTP and OLAP databases.  • Created several Insurance specific Data Marts.  • Worked closely with the IT Director to analyze the abilities of MS Analysis Services by creating Star and Snowflake schemas and processing data into the OLAP cubes.  • Created interfaces between Oracle and MS SQL server databases.  • Designed, developed, and maintained new and existing Website pages, applications, company Intranet applications and reports using ColdFusion MX, Flash, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, JavaScript, HTML, Crystal Reports, Excel, Word, XML, and Adobe Acrobat.  • Utilized VB.NET to create an application to automate their renewal process.  • Migrated legacy Oracle and Access databases to MS SQL Server databases.  • Generated numerous ad-hoc reports, dashboards, and data dumps to support all in-house departments including HR, Finance, Underwriting, IT, Legal, and external companies.  • Gathered requirements from in-house end users, state government agencies, and associated companies.  • Review database and coordinate changes during deployment.  • Managed Database Security and set up users with associated rights.  • Developed Insurance and department pertinent reports using Crystal Reports 9 and Crystal Reports 10.  • Familiar with ReadSoft, QuickSolver, ImageRight Insurance applications.  • Used Track-IT, Visio, XML. Developer SiteWhirks - Atlanta, GA August 2002 to April 2003 • Used ColdFusion 4.5 and MX, Flash, JavaScript, HTML, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, and MS-Image Composer to design, develop, and test e-commerce Websites, web applications, and Intranets.  • Used MS SQL Server 2000 for data source development including OLTP database creation, table creation, indexing and initial population of tables.  • Gathered requirements from clients.  • Custom Crystal Report Development as needed. Junior Developer Telemate.Net - Atlanta, GA August 1999 to July 2001 • Developed reporting interfaces using Visual C++ and MFC.  • Used SQL Server 7 including Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, and Profiler for database management.  • Hand wrote T-SQL queries including numerous complex stored procedures and update scripts.  • In charge of database partitioning for reporting performance.  • In charge of Crystal Report development included stored procedure based reports, standard reports, drill downs, sub section reports, graphs, and charts.  • Used ASP, HTML, JavaScript, VB Script, and COM for Web GUI feasibility testing.  • Used Visual SourceSafe for source control.  • Used ONYX for task management. Software Quality Engineer Lockheed Martin Aeronautical Systems - Marietta, GA August 1998 to August 1999 • Assured the successful completion of software loads to flight/mission-critical units.  • Verified correct configuration of all flight and test loads.  • Developed an Access database to keep track of discrepancies.  • Assisted Quality Assurance department in regression testing. Education Computer Science Southern Polytechnic State University - Marietta, GA 1998 to 2002 Certificate Northwestern University Skills DATABASE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), STORED PROCEDURES (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information KEY SKILLS  SQL Server 6.5 - 2017  Oracle  Teradata  MySQL  Hadoop  DB2  Database Administration  Database Development  Data Modeling  ER/Studio, ERWin  Reporting  T-SQL  DDL/DML  Stored Procedures  Triggers  Indexing  Optimization/Tuning  ETL  DTS  Integration Services (SSIS)  Reporting Services (SSRS)  Analysis Services (SSAS)  OLTP  OLAP  Data Warehousing  Data Marts  ODS  Data Cleansing  MDM  Metadata Management  CDC  SQL Sentry  Redgate Tools  SOA  ESB  MDX  .NET  SharePoint  Power BI  ColdFusion  PilotFish XML Integration  C++  Linux  Shell scripting  Batch files  Python  MSMQ and Rabbit MQ  Full SDLC (Waterfall, Agile, others)  Database size  Management Exp.  Lead Exp.