Software Developer Software Developer Software Developer - Sandhills Global Helena, MT Software Developer, Network Administrator, Programmer, Computer Systems Administrator/Analyst, Cyber Security, Information Assurance, Helpdesk (All Tiers), Web Server Administrator. Work Experience Software Developer Sandhills Global - Scottsdale, AZ October 2018 to Present Participate in solution design to satisfy a wide range of business needs. Analysis and translation of business requirements into technical requirements for development, and creation of design documents and technical specifications.  Adhere to best practices and standards in the areas of development, technology, and security. Provide post-implementation support, including, but not limited to, monitoring application performance and debugging existing code.  Keep up with advancements and changes in technology and develop an understanding of how new technologies can be leveraged to provide business solutions. Many projects also employ client-side technologies, including JavaScript, React, jQuery, CSS3, and HTML5, to develop robust and highly interactive web-based user interfaces. Projects often include development of new products and new features or maintenance of existing software using agile practices as part of a collaborative and open environment. Programmer / Network Administrator / Computer Systems Analyst State of Montana - Helena, MT February 2016 to October 2018 Develop and maintain several different types of software applications, including C# MVC and Web Apps, Java, Access, Oracle Forms and Reports, DNN built websites, Microsoft Dynamic CRM, VB, VBA, and a few others, directly for the Governor of Montana, as well as his staff and assistants.  This position requires extensive knowledge of the concepts and theories of computer science and business administration, proprietary computing languages (C#, VB.Net, JSON, JS), data management products, data structures and interrelationships, computer operating systems, relational databases (SQL Server, Oracle), and project planning and management.  The position also requires a basic knowledge of telecommunications and information systems networking, networking capabilities, equipment and software, and information system budgeting. The position requires skill in managing system development and management projects, isolating and resolving advanced technical problems, communicating effectively both verbally and in writing with people of varied technical levels, managing multiple tasks and workflow, developing project plans, and establishing project goals, timelines, and standards. Computer Systems Analyst State of Montana - Fort Harrison, MT November 2013 to February 2016 Maintain a small network of approximately 200 endpoint devices, including workstations, servers, printers, projectors, Polycom phones, cameras, etc. The network is comprised of several subnets, which are used to create a logical separation between locations. SCCM is used for software distribution, as well as batch files that I wrote to automate a few repetitive processes.  Due to security restrictions, some processes must be done on-site, so I travel to every armory in the state of Montana 3 or 4 times per year to resolve issues with workstations falling off the domain, broken hard drives, updating hardware, etc.  There is a lot of telecommunication and information systems, as well as video teleconference equipment and software in the armories that is also my responsibility to maintain. Other departments have requested my assistance on troubleshooting issues that are beyond their scope, as well as assistance in automating some processes. The national guard helpdesk has used me as a tier 1, 2, & 3, depending on their needs at the time. I have written several pieces of documentation for users to solve ongoing problems. I also do trainings for end users on how to use specialty equipment, as well as basic workstation usage. IT Project Manager / Database Administrator Dynamic Page Solutions - Mesa, AZ September 2004 to November 2013 Planned, coordinated, and implemented system development projects. Maintained web server and web services, as well as lead migration to cloud. Sustained SQL server environment and lead databases migration to cloud as well as previous internal migrations. Handled modifications to web server and services in order to reduce client, and end-user issues. On-site as well as remote management of key servers held at Sungard colocation in Scottsdale, prior to cloud migration.  Provided solutions to a wide variety of requests from customers, as well as internal personnel. Troubleshoot computer systems, projectors, printers, cameras, hardware installations, SAN, NAS, and network problems with a variety of tools and techniques. Recreated end-user problems, or errors in order to resolve operational difficulty. Maintained workstations, servers, printers, projectors, Polycom phones, cameras, etc.  Tracked quantities on hand, and reorder when necessary, computers, software, and other equipment. Trained end-users on new equipment, and software, including distance learning tools. Researched equipment for purchase, or issues in need of repair. Education Associate in Computer Technology, Webmaster, Magna Cum Laude 3.87 GPA University of Montana Helena College of Technology - Helena, MT January 2014 to January 2016 Associate in Computer Technology, Programming, Magna Cum Laude 3.87 GPA University of Montana Helena College of Technology - Helena, MT September 2013 to December 2015 Skills Javascript, ASP, HTML 5, jQuery, MySQL, PHP, React, Java, Node Additional Information Languages:  • C#  • MVC  • ASP.NET  • JavaScript  • React  • JSON  • SQL (MS & Oracle)  • PL/SQL  • Java  • HTML  • CSS  • PHP  • XML  • PowerShell  • Batch Scripting  • Bash Shell    Software:  • Microsoft Visual Studio & Team Foundation Server  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Microsoft Access  • Oracle 12c  • SQL Server Management  • SCCM  • MS Exchange  • IIS & Apache  • SharePoint, WordPress, DotNetNuke (DNN), etc.    Certificates:  • Security +  • A+  • ITIL Foundations