Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA Sr. Oracle DBA - Wipro Technologies Irving, TX 9+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator, having hands on experience on Oracle 10G,11g and 12c, Real Application Cluster (RAC), installation, configuration, upgrades, Migrations, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management, production support, database security.  • Experience in Installation and administration of Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c on UNIX/LINUX environment.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Experience in Database upgrades from 11.2.03 to 11.2.0.4 and 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2.  • Experience in Database Migration from AIX to LINUX and Solaris to LINUX.  • Planning and implementation of PSU and CPU patches on standalone and RAC databases.  • Configuring RMAN backups to TSM, AVAMAR and Disk.  • Experience in creating SOP'S.  • Experience in Performance tuning (SQL Tuning, Database/Instance Tuning, and Memory Tuning).  • Experience OLAP, Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, export/import.  • Expertise in Oracle Enterprise Manager (12C OEM) and setup of Oracle Grid Control, agent installation, adding targets, creating users and monitoring performance of databases using OEM  • Experience in Golden gate.  • Experience in working on Database security Database Vault and database complains CIRATS.  • Experience on oracle apps and upgraded experience in oracle apps HRMS and financial databases.  • Experience in project planning and implementations.  • Experience in working on Manage now, Remedy, Service now tools.  • Good knowledge in ITIL process. Work Experience Sr. Oracle DBA Wipro Technologies - Irving, TX April 2016 to Present Citibank is the consumer division of financial services multinational Citigroup. Citibank was founded in 1812 as the City Bank of New York, later First National City Bank of New York. The United States is the largest single market with approximately 26% of branches, generating 51% of revenues. Citibank's 983 North American branches are concentrated in major metropolitan areas including New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington, D.C., and Miami. Latin America markets make up 25% of revenues, Asia 20%, and Europe / Middle East / Africa 4%.    Responsibilities:  • Installing Oracle databases 11gR2 and 12c.  • Installing OEM 12C agents and monitoring database through OEM.  • Cloning/Refresh of databases through RMAN and expdp/Impdp.  • Creating physical standby databases using active databases clone future.  • Upgrading database from 11g to 12C.  • Golden gate replication.  • Migration of oracle databases to different OS platforms, migrated/merged CATALOG database.  • Creating test databases using active clone future for reporting and performance tuning tests.  • Monitoring database through OEM.  • Database security complains and User administration: Managing users, roles and grants and privileges.  • Applying the database PSU, CPU and one-off patches.  • Handling performance issues, analysing long running queries using sql adviser and AWR reports.  • Scheduling RMAN backup's jobs and fixing backup issues.  • Recovering database from user errors and corruptions using RMAN.  • Handling RAC related issues like relocating services to their respective nodes, checking CRS services, Creating Services, enabling SRVCTL trace to find out the issues.  • Performing root cause analysis of production downtime issues like node eviction and issues due to hardware failures.  • Performing DR test and restoring the databases to past time using flashback.  • Working on ITIL process, creating change records, Problem tickets (RCA), Incidents and request.  • Joining CAB, TAB calls on weekly basis.    Project: 3  Oracle DBA  Wipro Technologies Oracle Database Administrator Williams Companies - Tulsa, OK November 2012 to March 2016 The Williams Companies, Inc. is an energy company based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Its core business is natural gas processing and transportation, with additional petroleum and electricity generation assets.    Responsibilities:  • Installation of oracle database software and creating databases as per the application requirement.  • Upgraded 11g database to 12c database using DBUA and export/import.  • Upgraded ERP 11i application database from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 and upgraded critical (HRMS, financial) application databases from 11g to 12C.  • Creating and configuring oracle 12c dataguard physical standby database.  • Creating Database vault and tablespace level encryption and configuring backups for Wallet files.  • Lead Database Migration/Upgradation Projects and played a key role in ERP Upgrades and PeopleSoft Database encryption Project.  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Manage agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c.  • Configuring administration groups, automatic discovery of targets and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Cloning a 11g real application cluster database using rman to create a duplicate rac database  • Installed 11GR2 RAC on RHEL 5.5 and involved in migration of databases to RAC environment.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Configured Physical Standby for Production databases and converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby and ACTIVE data-guard.  • Configured DataGuard Broker and registered, maintained primary and physical standby databases.  • Configured Extract and Replicate pumps for Golden gate replication. Troubleshooting issues in GOLDENGATE Environment using LOGDUMP.  • Experience in Administering Oracle Database 10g and 11g using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Applied patches on 10g from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.x and upgraded databases from 10g to 11g.  • Performing Database clone/ refresh activity as per the client requirement.  • Experience in performing backup and recovery operations using RMAN.  • Scheduled Oracle Jobs and Backups using CRONTAB.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.    Environment: Oracle Database 11g, 10g, 9i, Sun Solaris, Linux, SQL SERVER, RAC , Data Guard, PL SQL, RMAN, AWR , ADDM, TKPROF, Toad, DbArtisia, Grid Control, SQL*Loader. Oracle DBA IBM September 2010 to November 2012 Supported various development efforts, installed, patched, upgraded, tuned, troubleshot and performed other various DBA functions surrounding Oracle's Database technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Handling more than 1600 databases including Production, Pre-production and Development boxes.  • Installation of Oracle 9i and10g on UNIX and Windows platform and creation of Database.  • Installation of Database security patches and performing the point release upgrade.  • Installing Oracle Client of version 10.2.0.4, OEM.  • Standby Database Rebuild using RMAN.  • Frequent refreshing the Database of size 1.2 TB using RMAN.  • Involved in the server migration activities.  • Administrating oracle9i, 10g, and Oracle 10g RAC, standby database.  • Performing periodical Backup, Restoration and recovery using RMAN.  • Database Restoring from Production to Test and Development Database using RMAN and performing Point in time Recovery.  • Monitoring databases space requirements and adding spaces as per the database.  • Managing tablespaces, data files, redo logs.  • Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  • Monitoring disk Space utilization CPU, Long running SQL jobs.  • Handled Databases in RAC and OS Cluster environments.  • Day-to-day business database support and management of the production DB.  • Support activities that include areas like Problem Management, Incident Management and Change Management.  • Handling Alert tickets and the severity tickets with incident tracking tools Remedy and Manage Now.  • Co-ordination with the team to meet the SLA between vendor and client.  • Working on CIRATS with customer and application owners to fix complains.    Environment: Oracle10g, 11g, RAC, DATA GUARD, ASM, DATAPUMP, FLASH BACK, OEM Grid Control. Oracle DBA IBM May 2008 to September 2010 Supported various development efforts, installed, patched, upgraded, tuned, troubleshot and performed other various DBA functions surrounding Oracle's Database technologies using Oracle 11g/10g/9i. RAC and ASM technology for over 3000 databases.    Responsibilities:  • Handling more than 3000 Databases it includes production, Development and Test Databases.  • Providing 24x7 on-call supports.  • Performed a Major role in Knowledge Transfer Process from IBM to Wipro.  • Documentation of SOP'S and SMTD.  • Performing CPU and PSU Patching activity on all database as per the process.  • Monitoring the Database through tools and alert mechanism (Custom scripts, OEM, HP Monitoring Tool )  • Coordinating the patching activity and working on complains issues (testing the patches and creating the documentation).  • Installing oracle database software and creation of Database.  • Installing OEM 11g client on the Databases servers.  • Providing RCA for high severity incidents.  • Creating AWR reports and stats pack reports whenever required.  • Audit of the Data/ Database objects for auditors.  • Performing the schema refresh with IMPDP/EXPDP.  • Refreshing development and test databases from Production Databases, with RMAN as per the customer requirement.  • Performing Database upgrade 10G to 11G and migration from AIX to Linux.  • Monitoring daily database backups and resolving the issues.  • Monitoring databases space requirements and adding spaces as per the database.  • Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  • Creating Standby and standalone Databases with active database future.  • Performing manual log sync on standby databases when required.  • Performed Physical Offline and online Backups.  • Performing Complete and Incomplete Recovery.  • Creating snapshots, restore points and restoring the database.  • Restoring the tables using flashback option and restoring tablespaces by mentioning auxiliary location.  • Creating Service requests and working with to Oracle Team for technical support.  • Performed Database Build on new servers.  • Implementation RAC and ASM on standalone databases.  • Implemented RMAN backups with AVAMAR.  • Working on Database performance issues and tuning where required with the help of OEM and DB artisan.  • Creating Incidents, changes and services requests through service now tool.  • Attending CAB, TAB and RCA meetings.  • Managing other projects apart from BAU project.  • Close interaction with customer, applications owners and the business users.  • Co-ordination with the team to meet the SLA between vendor and client.  • Co-ordination with audit and practice teams from within the organization.  • Arranging technical training to team by external teams.  • Scheduling shifts and managing team.  • Providing support in High priority issues and joining escalation calls and reviewing, approving changes.    Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, Sun Solaris, HP-Unix, UNIX, Linux 4.0., RMAN, DBCA, DataGuard, EXPLAIN PLAN, Cloning, OEM, TKPROF, Toad, PL/SQL. Education B -Tech JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2007 Skills ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, LINUX