Lead Database Administrator / Lead Technical Specialist Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Lead Technical Specialist Lead Database Administrator / Lead Technical Specialist Park Ridge, NJ • 20 years of experience in IT industry with extensive experience in Application/Production Support.  • Delivered Level-3 production support and on-call on rotation supporting for 400+ servers (instances) in MS SQL server, Oracle and Sybase.  • Developed intelligent maintenance jobs, such as DBCC and statistics update, providing tool that removed hours' maintenance windows and improved on 24X7 production accessibilities.  • Developed alerting systems using Unix Shell, Powershell, Perl, and SQL and stored procedures to detect database errors, long-running blocking processes, and performance-based unusual metrics spikes, helping backend maintain reliability and allowing DBA and development teams to take proactive actions.  • Identifying and Solving Complex Production Issues with Ease Under Pressure  • Extensive IT experience in financial services industry as programmer, analyst, and database administrator. Possess strong equities and derivatives product knowledge and excellent scripting skills.  • Migrated databases to Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure. Work Experience Lead Database Administrator / Lead Technical Specialist Refinitiv & Thomson Reuters - New York, NY May 2008 to March 2019 • Directed support DataScope Select (DSS) and DataScope Onsite (DSOS), major platforms for delivering market and reference data, including equities and derivatives to global financial and investment management community.  • Delivered Level-3 production support and on-call on rotation supporting for 400+ servers (instances) in Sybase, MS SQL server, and Oracle.  • Developed intelligent maintenance jobs, such as DBCC and statistics update, providing tool that removed hours' maintenance windows and improved on 24X7 production accessibilities.  • Supported quality objectives by architecting benchmarking tests and creating scripts in Unix Shell / Perl in Linux and Solaris on patch and server (instance) installations, database version upgrade, and migration to new hardware and operating systems.  • Developed alerting systems using Unix Shell, Powershell, Perl, and SQL and stored procedures to detect database errors, long-running blocking processes, and performance-based unusual metrics spikes, helping backend maintain reliability and allowing DBA and development teams to take proactive actions.  • Minimized downtime through creation of tools for performance tuning, reverse engineering, backup, troubleshooting, and disaster recovery.  • Migrated databases to Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure.  • Handled numerous production releases, incidents, and crises by working with teams worldwide from application development, DBA, QA, and Operations to business analysts and customers. Lead Database Administrator Refinitiv & Thomson Reuters - New York, NY October 2001 to April 2008 • Supported mission-critical, fixed-income information services which included 200+ servers (instances) in Sybase, MS SQL server, and Oracle distributed worldwide. Trained offshore DBA teams.  • Improved DBA's administration work by writing and improving stored procedures.  • Developed ETL project, refreshing fixed income and pricing data.  • Deployed ABS, CMO database schema changes for releases, working with CMO development team on query optimization and at entitlement management and index rebuilding. Senior Programmer / Analyst, Senior Database Administrator Bridge Information Systems - New York, NY June 1998 to September 2001 Carried out development for fixed income and pricing services. Set up replication systems for CMO data distribution; Developed DBA's website using Perl / Unix Shell / HTML. Programmer / Analyst Dow Jones Markets - Jersey City, NJ May 1996 to May 1998 • Established ABS and MBS market data.  • Designed projects extracting and processing multiple feeds from Oracle, integrating and loading in Sybase using PL/SQL, Perl, Unix Shell, and BCP.  • Established customer order and billing systems. Managed Sybase database server for the development team and handled data modeling and installing schema changes. Wrote procedures, triggers, and scripts using Sybase DB/C Lib. Education Master of Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA 1995 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tie-peng-zhou-2106318