Senior Database Architect Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Senior Database Architect - Korn Ferry League City, TX Work Experience Senior Database Architect Korn Ferry - Minneapolis, MN April 2014 to Present Currently I am architecting, leading, and implementing data solutions for cutting edge employee pay and assessments applications. These applications utilize multiple database platforms from SQL 2012-2016, Oracle, and MySQL via AWS, Azure and on premise. Our current pay initiative is implemented using Analysis Services (Tabular), Power BI and Reporting Services for both dynamic and static reporting. Our assessment and scheduling (Java and C#.net applications) utilize SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL and Mark Logic databases. As a database architect, I am developing new data warehouse solutions, providing support and training to other developers, optimizing poorly performing queries, creating database standards, monitoring production environments, and migrate databases to specific database standards.    ? Implemented database standards for database object design, naming conventions, Integrated Services packages, and Reporting Services.  ? Defined standards for new Integration Services projects and environments deployment strategies.  ? Provide training on database technologies; from Integration Service and Reporting Services to query optimization and performance tuning.  ? Implemented a service broker solution to ensure user details are replicated asynchronously to another data store.  ? Converted a poorly performing linear java based application to a scheduled SQL Job which reduced total processing time from minutes to less than a second.  ? Built an SSIS package to compile data from multiple data sources into an XML document and sends it through secured web services to reporting and analytical teams.  ? Setup and configured SQL Azure database instances (IaaS/PaaS).  ? Overhauled maintenance plans to ensure backup types and schedules meet business needs as well as proper index and statistics maintenance. Adjunct Faculty Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN May 2002 to December 2016 Provide an alternative learning style for higher education students, by ensuring that students are given both theoretical knowledge as well as industry knowledge. Current core classes which I instruct include ICS 140 Introduction to Java Programming and ICS 325 Internet Application Development.    ? Instruct the client and server side web development courses.  ? Instruct introductory Java Development courses  ? Core Lectures Include: XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, ASP, MySQL, XML, and Java  ? Minor Lectures Include: Database Management, Software Engineering, Software Development and Design, Encryption, Flash, and secure transactions. Sr. SQL Server Consultant/SQL Architect Cargill - Hopkins, MN December 2013 to November 2014 Provided reporting services consulting for an aggressive Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager roll out. As a consultant I provided data discovery, report development, reporting best practices, reporting design, query optimization, and SQL training services.    ? Created a data dictionary for commonly used artifacts in the SCCM Database.  ? Implemented security using role based access control functions.  ? Reduced a Corporate Hardware report from a 5 minute runtime to less than 15 seconds.  ? Implemented functions for CSV processing in procedures.    BI Worldwide, Eden Prairie MN Database Architect December 2013 to April 2014 Architected multiple SQL Server Databases for customer engagement, employee survey, and prize distribution web applications. As a data architect I am implemented and developed database standards, optimizing poorly performing queries, constructing ETL solutions, and migrations from Oracle to SQL Server.    ? Migrated a pseudo transactional database from Oracle and SQL Server to a SQL Server data warehouse.  ? Implemented an SSIS ETL solution for extracting customer engagement surveys.  ? Implemented a data solution for customer region, district, and market sales for employee incentives and initiatives.  ? Created a random prize generating algorithm based on user participation. Tech Lead Database Architect 3M - Saint Paul, MN September 2011 to December 2013 Architected a SQL Server Database for an innovative advertising and marketing web application using Visual Studio Database Projects. As a tech lead I was responsible for providing guidance, direction, and support to other database team members. As a database architect I developed optimized database artifacts, ETL solutions, and conceptualized the future database paths.    ? Integrated CRM with the primary operational data store with SSIS using the CRM software development toolkit.  ? Implemented an SSIS ETL solution for extracting point of sale data.  ? Implemented an SSIS slowly changing dimension solution for migrating type two operational data into a data warehouse solution.  ? Created Data Mart and Operational Data Store Databases for storing quick service entities  ? Created SSIS unit testing solution to ensure changing database artifacts do not disrupt running SSIS solutions  ? Implemented an SSRS quality analysis report for validating accurate data  ? Responsible for creating and optimizing stored procedures and functions  ? Worked close to the project owners and business analysts to properly develop Agile user stories and detailed implementation plans for development and testing strategies Application Architect / Database Administrator Ceridian Corporation - Bloomington, MN February 2004 to September 2011 Managed application and database development processes and resources to ensure the reduction of implementations time for new customers while improving the quality and experience for a new customer. Design and assist in development of cost saving tools, to drive down customer costs, while increasing company profits.    ? Developed an enterprise data store and BI solution which allows accessibility into replicated customer data stores and provides detailed business metrics.  ? Implemented a Tax Service SSIS package to import Oracle tax and payroll data to ensure implementation consistency for new customer onboarding.  ? Developed database architectures for enterprise applications. Managing schemas and implementation plans using Visual Studio Database Projects. Revising Entity Framework models to match the database schemas.  ? Migrated several DTS package to SSIS packages.  ? Migrated a legacy IBM Knowledgebase solution to an ASP.net application which integrates into the Microsoft Dynamics CRM solution, and embraces Single Sign On technology from multiple applications utilizing WIF and ADFS.  ? Built an activity based costing tool, which monitors resource utilization and provides metrics for bottlenecks in a process.  ? Administer SharePoint web development and design. Built an external facing customer tool external users can security access their documentation stored on an Internal SharePoint Server utilizing SharePoint Web Services technology.  ? Developed a reporting application based on Microsoft Word 2003's WordML, which the templates are developed with Microsoft's Smart Tag functionality Software Developer IQ Ventures, LLC - Bloomington, IN May 2003 to February 2004 Primary responsibilities as a software developer for IQ were to ensure quality software releases and provide development documentation and support. While developing software I was involved in developing an online reservation system using asp.net web services. Also began the design / development for the new reporting engine within the POS system. This reporting system was scheduled to have a local interface for the restaurant reporting, as well as using SQL Reporting Services for enterprise reporting.    ? Develop IQ Point of Sale Restaurant System using VB.NET  ? Develop Internet Interfaces for Web Access to Data using ASP.NET  ? Develop testing strategies for new system releases  ? Development Documentation for all existing products and future product enhancement. System Administrator Nath Companies, Inc - Bloomington, MN August 2000 to May 2003 While employed with Nath Companies I managed many large initiatives including both Software development and Hardware improvements. I converted a nightly data polling system, which had 70% success, into a data replication solution, which had 95% success. I updated and standardized over 200 restaurants computer infrastructures, which reduced IT support levels by 40%.    ? Implemented POS flat file extracts with Data Transformation Services.  ? Managed performance and development of SQL Server Databases.  ? Build Reporting/Business Applications using Visual Basic  ? Develop Interactive Web Pages with ASP, IIS, JSP, Servlets, and Apache.  ? Manage and Support Denny's and Burger King's Networks and Back Office Servers.  ? Maintain and monitor the Windows 2000 network infrastructure  ? Build and implement Windows 2000 workstations.  ? Install and set up IIS, and SQL Server 2000. Remedy Developer/System Analyst Unisys - Eagan, MN June 1999 to August 2000 I started as a helpdesk analyst and quickly moved into a development role. I managed the internal helpdesk web site, and began developing the Remedy Helpdesk solution. While working on the Remedy development team, I developed many custom reporting and web applications to view statistical help desk data.    ? Developed and implemented helpdesk software with Remedy.  ? Developed Interactive Web Pages with ASP to access the Remedy AR Database.  ? Developed and maintained a helpdesk and Remedy web pages.  ? Provided hardware and software assistance on personal computer issues.  ? Troubleshot and resolved issues on 2200, A-series, UNIX, and NT mainframes.  ? Developed support web pages for new external clients acquired by Unisys.  ? Maintained and developed C++ code to complement Remedy. Project Manager Advance Circuits Inc - Roseville, MN June 1992 to April 1999 I was involved with many quality assurance processes and teams while employed with Advanced Circuits. I developed an application which would take in measured data from solder thickness x-ray, and display statistics which were used to determine current process quality. I lead a team to an "Excellence in process characterization" award given by Motorola for improving a process from a two sigma to a six sigma process.    ? Developed Visual Basic 5 Applications  ? Managed Six Sigma Teams to ensure Quality within processes  ? Developed Access applications for quality assurance.  ? Managed a variety of projects in a production environment.  ? Maintained quality and production flow in high production areas. Education Bachelors of Science in COMPUTER SCIENCE Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN 2002 management Century College - White Bear Lake, MN 1995 Skills Database (10+ years), Data warehouse (10+ years), Uml (10+ years), Business intelligence, Integration (10+ years), Business requirements (10+ years), Sql Server (10+ years), Ssis (10+ years), T-SQL (10+ years), ETL (10+ years), SSRS (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solution Associate February 2014 to Present SQL Server 2012 Microsoft Certified Professional: June 2013 to Present 70-461 Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012   70-462 Administering Microsoft SQL Server   70-463 Implementing a Data Warehouse Additional Information Areas of Knowledge:    ? Writing complex and performing queries to solve business needs  ? Tuning poorly performing queries  ? Designing and implementing data warehouse artifacts using Kimbal and Inmon techniques  ? Using business intelligence tools to create integration services packages and reporting services reports  ? Creating database upgrade scripts and deploys using schema and data comparisons  ? Understanding and communicating business requirements though UML diagrams and implementation plans.