Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Chief Technology Officer (CTO) TECHNOLOGY LEADER ( HANDS ON ) Orange, CA Work Experience Chief Technology Officer (CTO) SENEGENCE INTERNATIONAL - Irvine, CA 2017 to 2019 • Hands on Leader  • Migration of All WEB, ECOMMERCE and Internal corporate applications to Microsoft Azure  • Created effective strategic planning, program management, governance, processes & communications.    • Created Development CI/CD pipeline using VSTS and Devops Platforms.  • Oversaw Development using Development Platforms (React, Angular, Micro-services).  • Create and Launched Mobile Platforms using IOS and Android native languages.  • Creation of Global Customer Support Groups for and internal Support Applications.  • Upgraded the technology group, and drove a culture shift from a support organization to a strategic asset, driving digital innovation, architecture and execution excellence.  • Greatly enhanced Technical Operations stability, availability, scalability and security through personnel, process/ governance and technical/platform improvements.  • Management of Enterprise Reporting for the Company as well setting up ADHOC and Reporting process for the business.  • Responsible for data architecture definition, data reference model, data dictionary and metadata repository in a Microsoft SQL database. VP OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SENEGENCE INTERNATIONAL - Irvine, CA 2017 to 2017 • Migration of Email Exchange to Office 365 for US and International Offices  • Supported the ERP Accumatica Systems and WMS Systems for US and International Locations  • Creation of Support Groups for Web Applications and Customer Support Groups.  • Developed Azure DEVOPS Group and DEVOPS Automation strategy platforms (Terraform, Octopus, Arm Scripts) SENIOR DIRECTOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BEAUTYCOUNTER - Santa Monica, CA 2017 to 2017 • Migration of Email Exchange to Office 365 for US and International Offices  • Actively work with organizations to insure our support a stellar DEVOPS team in an effort to create superior automation process using (Chef and Jenkins) within the Amazon Web Services Platform  • Create and develop NOC team and procedures for Reliability, Availability, Scalability, and Performance (New Relic and Data Dog)  • Build-out of Global Service Desk Team and Partner with 3rd party companies to create a 24x 7 support structure (JIRA Service Desk)  • Rollout and cutover of Google Business Email to Office 365 with OKTA integration  • Management of Enterprise Reporting for the Company as well setting up ADHOC and Reporting process for the business SENIOR DIRECTOR TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS ARBONNE - Irvine, CA 2014 to 2017 • Fully enmeshed with the IT Executive team to create and transition an IT department from a tactical support IT organization to a strategic global asset.  • Refreshed a stalled Salesforce.com implementation by collaborating with Salesforce personnel and realigning the implementation approach with the business.  • Actively worked with organizations to insure our support a stellar DevOps AWS team in an effort to create superior automation process using (Terraform, CI/CD, Salt, Beanstalk).  • Responsible for Reliability, Availability, Scalability, and Performance. Substantially improved latency in our remote offices with architectural changes, measurement, and continual follow-up.  • Introduced measurements, including creating and publishing a full IT Operations metrics report and monthly review for my teams, followed with metrics from other IT teams to better inform Executive Management.  • Implemented ISO 27001 and PCI/DSS Privacy/Payment Card Standards (Tokenization of Critical Data Solution).  • Migration of Email Exchange to Office 365 for US and International Offices  • Consolidation of US Based Data Centers from 4 to 2 and Migration to AWS East and West Coast for all web applications  • Creation of Support and Network on Call Groups for Web Applications and Support Groups. SENIOR DIRECTOR DATABASE OPERATIONS ARBONNE - Irvine, CA 2012 to 2014 • Introduced measurements, including creating and publishing a full IT Operations metrics report and monthly review for my teams, followed with metrics from other IT teams to better inform Executive Management.  • Management of personnel - Database administrators and Operations Personnel, Database Engineers, Data Warehouse developers within the group - including assigning tasks and projects as well as managing time within the team.  • Responsible for data architecture definition, data reference model, data dictionary and metadata repository in a Microsoft SQL database.  • Improved on current data Warehouse by implementing optimization of load procedures as well as redesigning. Also architected the Data warehouse using Star Schema and ETL Design.  • Management of Business Objects XIR4 for Enterprise Reporting for the Company as well setting up ADHOC and Reporting process for the business.  • Designed Apache Big Data Solution on Hadoop 2.3,Implemented Data Loads Using Hadoop Tool Sets (Sqoop),Creation of Queries and Data Updates using (Hive and Pig)  • Management of Operational aspects of the Oracle EBS, Oracle financials 11i, and migrations of other ERP systems into the Oracle financials application.  • Oracle Database Administration of Oracle 11G RAC Database Server which included maintenance of table spaces, security, performance tuning and backups.  • Database administration of SQL 2008,2012,2014 SQL servers which consists of setting SQL Clustering, replication, database maintenance. Performed optimizations of queries, triggers and stored procedures for development teams as well as code review. SENIOR DIRECTOR OF DATABASE OPERATIONS LIVENATION ENTERTAINMENT - Hollywood, CA 2006 to 2012 • Supported and Implemented Live Nation Ticketing System, which supported all Live Nation Ticketing for North America.  • Created company roadmap for server consolidation project for moving development, UAT and Production environment to a VMware ESX environment, which saved the company money and increased the development effort.  • Created CRM system based on Ticketmaster data and about 25 years of Live Nation history with over 10 million customers opted in about 250 million customers in the database.  • Build & maintain Enterprise Data Model to ensure consistency across enterprise including Development and Engineering Teams.  • Build & maintain Reference Architecture and Standards for communicating direction of Data Architecture.  • Improved on current data Warehouse by implementing optimization of load procedures as well as redesigning. Also rearchitected the Data warehouse using Star Schema and ETL Design.  • Oracle Database Administration of Oracle 9i, 10G RAC Database Server which included maintenance of table spaces, security, performance tuning and backups.  • Management of Operational aspects of the Oracle EBS, Oracle financials 11i and migrations of other ERP systems into the Oracle financials application.  • Management of Business Objects XIR2 for Enterprise Reporting for the Company as well setting up ADHOC and Reporting process for the business.  • Responsible for database administration of SQL 2000 and 2005, 2008 SQL servers which consists of setting SQL Clustering, replication, database maintenance. Performed optimizations of queries, triggers and stored procedures for development teams as well as code review.  • Creating SDLC process for Reporting Departments and other Development Departments within the company using subversion.  • Created company roadmap for server consolidation project, SQL 2005 Server upgrade project for 50 SQL servers within the company.  • Management of 21 personal, which included database administrators and report developers and Data Warehouse developers within the group which also included assigning tasks and projects as well as managing time within the team. LEAD DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NEW CENTURY MORTGAGE - Irvine, CA 2004 to 2006 • Responsible for database administration of SQL 2000 and 2005 SQL servers which consists of setting SQL Clustering, replication, database maintenance.  • Performed optimizations of queries, triggers and stored procedures for development teams as well as code review.  • Improved on current data Warehouse by implementing optimization of load procedures, as well as redesigning the hardware platform that enterprise Data warehouse resided on to SQL Server 64 Bit Enterprise Edition. Also architected the migration of the Data Warehouse to EMC SAN solution for overall performance improvement.  • Oracle Database Administration of Oracle 9i Database Server, which included maintenance of table spaces, security, performance tuning and backups.  • Created company roadmap for server consolidation project, SQL 2005 Server upgrades project for 394 SQL servers within the company and 175 SQL Servers in the DR Site.  • Management of 10 other database administrators within the group, which included assigning tasks and projects as well as managing time within the team. SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NTN COMMUNICATIONS - Carlsbad, CA 2002 to 2004 • Responsible for Database Administration of SQL 2000 and 7.0 SQL servers which consisted of replication, database maintenance and backup and recovery.  • Performed optimizations of queries, triggers and stored procedures for development teams as well as code review.  • Architected and Created new data warehouse which included implementation of new data loads, new data marts as well as new cubes using snowflake design.  • Oracle Database Administration of Oracle 8i Database Server, which included maintenance of table spaces, security, performance tuning and backups.  • Provided support for Epicor (ERP) E Back office suite as well as Epicor's Clientele (CRM) Customer Solution that included customizations and upgrades of Clientele E Back office 7.2 and 7.3 as well as service packs. SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AVS CORP - Rancho Dominguez, CA 2000 to 2002 • Responsible for Database Administration of SQL 2000 and Oracle 8 servers which consisted of replication, database maintenance and backup and recovery.  • Performed optimizations of queries, triggers and stored procedures for development teams as well as code review.  • Database Development for Inventory and Warehouse software, which included implementation and creation of Queries, triggers and stored procedures using T-SQL, PSQL.  • Provided support for Epicor (ERP) E Back office suite as well as Epicor's Clientele (CRM) Customer Solution that included customizations and upgrades of Clientele E Back office 7.2 and 7.3 as well as service packs.  • Supported and maintained Microsoft NT 4.0 servers and Microsoft 2000 servers as well as clustering and Network troubleshooting. SENIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR EPICOR - Irvine, CA 1998 to 2000 • Responsible for Database Administration of SQL 2000 servers which consisted of replication, database maintenance and backup and recovery.  • Database Development of Epicor's (ERP) E Back office Accounting and Manufacturing System which included implementation and creation of queries, triggers and stored procedures.  • Provided support for Epicor (ERP) E Back office suite as well as Epicor's Clientele (CRM) Customer Solution that included customizations and upgrades of Clientele E Back office 7.0 as well as service packs.  • Management of 3 other database administrators within the group which included assigning tasks and projects as well as managing time within the team.  • Architected and created new data warehouse which included implementation of new data loads and new data marts for reporting. Education A.A. in Computer Science in Computer Science Golden West College - Huntington Beach, CA 1998 to 2001 Additional Information Successful professional with proven experience in provision of IT, projects, operational/administrative, and business management related support services and activities. A results-oriented systems thinker who solves difficult problems and challenges that have multiple variables and timeframes, with ability to sort through complex situations to develop sound, creative, sustainable solutions. Can effectively use analytical/assessment skills to implement strategic initiatives in supporting critical operational objectives, work with teams in meeting or exceeding established deliverables, and apply relationship building ability in working with both internal and external stakeholders across the industry. Maintain strong commitment to adding value, making a positive contribution, and effectively providing high quality sustainable outcomes via utilizing of skills and experience to measurably benefit an employer.