LEGAL CONTRACTS ADMINISTRATOR LEGAL CONTRACTS <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> Legal Contracts Specialist Waltham, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LEGAL CONTRACTS ADMINISTRATOR Arbor Networks, Inc - Westford, MA October 2017 to Present Develop and maintain all contract and legal databases, including Oracle and NetSuite, Shared drive, SharePoint while managing legal department intake process  ? Create, maintain, and update a deal chart with all drafting activity  ? Obtain all legal contract signatures according to company guidelines  ? Assist Sales Operations team with relevant contracts to ensure compliance of orders with legal terms  ? Draft contracts, amendments, assignments, letters for Customers and Vendors and other general legal department projects  ? Communicate effectively with functional counterparts in a collaborative manner while meeting organizational deadlines  ? Prioritize department activities while taking into consideration larger organizational priorities  ? Accurately and professionally represent the Legal Department  ? Timely and accurately respond to legal inquiries from internal and external clients and customers  ? Along with 4 co-workers, currently assisting in development, integration and implementation of a new CMS (Contract Management System) SpringCM (Training Certified) involving bulk imports of existing contracts and capturing metadata, and update Manifest file and assign attributes, destination paths, etc.  ? Develop training materials according to the inputs of each Process Owner and assign a security level as needed DEAL OPERATIONS SPECIALIST Pegasystems Inc - Cambridge, MA October 2016 to March 2017 Review broad range of contracts including NDA's, alliance, teaming. and sub-contractor agreements  ? Draft simplified template-based contracts, acknowledgement forms, and other legal documentations as needed  ? Negotiate and draft required contractual changes with relevant internal and external stakeholders  ? Create and maintain contract templates and non-standard terms databases  ? Coordinate with Business Officers, Sales, partner and/or the end user customer to provide timely and accurate fulfillment of contractually obligated software deliveries via internal systems and processes  ? Provide deal level support to Legal and Sales personnel concerning product nomenclature, availability, compatibility and embedded functionality issues  ? Track and monitor quarter end deals to ensure all potential delivery issues are addressed in proactive manner prior to contract execution  ? Develop and continuously update partner and reseller template agreements, in collaboration with legal team CONTRACTS ANALYST Aspen Technology, Inc - Bedford, MA July 2006 to August 2016 Counsel sales personnel in the correct development of required informational documents from which the contract will be drafted  ? Verify that all necessary cross-functional pre-approvals have been obtained which will authorize a contract to be drafted  ? Draft the contract document based on pre-defined company formats  ? Manage the iterations of complex transactions which require multiple versions to be drafted as negotiations with the customer continues  ? Manage the document through the final cross-functional approval process which once obtained will authorize the contract to be issued to the customer for execution  ? Insure that all documents, approvals and other relevant items are saved in the company's database as prescribed by defined policy and procedure  ? Respond to audit requirements of any of the documents that I draft in order to insure compliance with company policy, procedure, and practices to allow for proper revenue recognition  ? Daily use of Salesforce.com to locate new requests for contracts  ? Split/ Flexible schedule, cover regions such as APAC, working remotely during overlapping hours to be available real time for different time zones. DATABASE MANAGER (Microsoft Access) VISIONLAB Communications - Miami, FL 2005 to 2006 Coordinate and manage all aspects of Data Management for assigned studies  ? Manage the integration of data from all sources  ? Keep track of the customers' status on eligibility of using certain data  ? Create and maintain Data Management Plan and other Data Management documentation Education Master Certificate Clark University, Computer Career Institute - Cambridge, MA 2002 to 2003 Business / Computer Sciences Curry College - Milton, MA 1998 to 2001 Skills Excel (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Contract Administration (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Organizational Skills (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Salesforce (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Contracts (10+ years), Contract Management system (Less than 1 year), Team Building (10+ years) Additional Information Bilingual - born and raised in Paris.