Senior Informatics Applications Specialist Senior Informatics Applications Specialist Sr Informatics Systems Specialist. Certified in Netsmart's myAvatar (EMR); Certified Project Manager. Guilford, CT - Health IT Electronic Medical Records Systems Administrator with 15+ years of experience.  - Successfully completed a conversion project for Practice Management application.  - Electronic Medical Record implementation team member in 2012.  - Successfully created a Microsoft SharePoint Foundation farm project.  - Over 7 years of experience in Project Plan  - 15+ years of Crystal Reports report development  - SQL Database Support and Maintenance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Informatics Applications Specialist Brattleboro Retreat - Brattleboro, VT May 2019 to Present The Sr. Informatics Applications Specialist plays a key role in the formation of an integrated approach to clinical and financial data reporting improvement. This is an effort to create a more complete database to closely track the organization's delivery and reimbursement for care delivery functions used within the Electronic Medical Records (EMR). Works in highly collaborative, multidisciplinary teams on various project activities in efforts to deliver a more robust and discreet data capture; and is integral in application support, systems configurations and customization. Applications System Administrator Brattleboro Retreat - Brattleboro, VT April 2003 to Present Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration. Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements. Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades. Provided documentation on start-up, shutdown and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff. Provided on-boarding and termination documentation to help desk staff. Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services. Continue to build custom screens and reports in the Electronic Medical Record (EMR) to support clinical staff in administration of patient care. Developed a SharePoint Server Farm for the IT department. Designed SharePoint master page and page layouts, serving as the department's main SharePoint support for all technical complications. Consistently meet deadlines and requirements for all production work orders. Managed and participated on creative projects from concept to completion while managing and collaborating with outside vendors. Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work. Application Specialist Brattleboro Retreat - Brattleboro, VT November 1997 to April 2003 Worked exclusively with Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, and Access). Created and customized interactive forms using Office application with Visual Basic for Application (VBA). Created and maintained Access databases used throughout the organization. Database Developer Berkley & Veller Greendwood Real Estate - Brattleboro, VT February 1997 to November 1997 Developed and maintained Microsoft Access databases of Real Estate listings for internal use. Performed computer troubleshooting and repair work for end users. Education Master's in Science Management Marlboro College-Graduate School - Brattleboro, VT September 2014 to May 2016 Certificate in Project Management Marlboro College-Graduate School - Brattleboro, VT September 2011 to June 2012 Bachelor's in Computer Science Franklin Pierce University - Keene, NH September 2002 to May 2004 None in Accounting Southern Vermont College - Brattleboro, VT September 2000 to June 2002 Associate in Accounting Community College of Vermont - Brattleboro, VT September 1997 to May 1999 Skills SQL Database administration (10+ years), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Project Management (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Dynamics GP Administration (10+ years), Data Analysis (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), Sharepoint (4 years), Sharepoint (4 years), SQL (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Quickbooks (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Website Design (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Project Manager June 2012 to Present Complete a 12 credit course in Project Management based on PMP principles. myAvatar Systems Administrator June 2017 to Present Certification covers multiple modules of the myAvatar application suite. Radplus Modeling I, II & III; Billing Setup and Configuration; CWS Administration; and Billing Troubleshooting.