Job Seeker Tempe, AZ Work Experience Hunter Tool LLC - Tempe, AZ January 2017 to May 2019 IT Dept and Shipping  ? Started the IT department and worked toward building a database.  ? Created reports and call lists using the billing software in conjunction with Excel.  ? In charge of fixing phone and network issues as well as issues with individual pc's.  ? Ran credit checks and performed data checks on customers and potential customers.  ? Shipped packages throughout the country including Guam, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Canada  ? Performed various IT functions. SQL Programmer Whitehat Data Services - Tempe, AZ August 2013 to July 2016 Customizing imports of raw data for regular updates for individual clients.  ? Creating SQL procedures to work with an online databse interface.  ? Creating and customizing reports to clients specifications.  ? Checking and maintaining data integrity. Independent Contractor Tempe, AZ June 2012 to August 2013 PC and Laptop Configuration and Repair  ? Repair work on PC and Laptop Computers  ? Install and configuration of Software Database Administrator/Reporting Analyst/SFTP Server Administrator PracticeMax Inc - Scottsdale, AZ November 2008 to June 2012 Ongoing maintenance of SQL/Oracle SQL Database by creating queries and stored procedures.  ? Assisted in creation and maintenance of a data warehouse.  ? Maintaining and troubleshooting an SFTP server.  ? Automating processes to run on a schedule.  ? Creating reports and checking Data Integrity.  ? Working with management to implement procedures to ensure improved data tracking.  ? Maintaining user ID's for several systems.  ? On-site support for Software and hardware for employee pc's.  ? Manipulating data to produce reports using Crystal Reports. Database Administrator/Reporting Analyst GC Services - Lakeland, FL August 2003 to July 2008 Ongoing maintenance of SQL/Access Database by creating queries and stored procedures  ? On-site support for MS Access databases and analyzing architecture to identify problems  ? Creation of MS Access databases for project groups.  ? Creating reports and checking Data Integrity  ? Maintaining user ID's for several systems  ? Manipulating data to produce reports and pivot tables with Excel  ? Working with management to implement procedures to ensure improved data tracking  ? TV Presentation using Astound and PowerPoint Mainframe Operator 3/Day Shift Supervisor Wells Fargo Bank - Tempe, AZ March 2000 to May 2002 Maintaining and running the Mainframe print room  ? Organizing job Priorities, maintaining the Mainframe print queue, and Supervising the work of 3-4 other Operators  ? Implementing and managing Data Transfers Configuration Tech 3/Day Shift Supervisor MicroAge Corp - Tempe, AZ January 1999 to May 2000 Configuring Hardware and Software to client's specifications  ? Task leadership to assigned staff as well as on-site activities for client and helpdesk interface  ? Supervised several accounts by coordinating job flow and performing quality audits  ? Performing off-site fixes when necessary Desktop Support Technician 3 Entex - Intel - Chandler, AZ February 1996 to December 1998 Installation, configuration and support management of computers and networks  ? Responsible for troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving all software and hardware problems on PCs in a Windows environment  ? Member of networking group to migrate all Banyan print queries to the NT network  ? Implemented subgroup in charge of pre-configuring PCs for client usage Skills Data integrity, Database administration, Database administrator, Database, Sql, Sql queries, Stored procedures, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Networking, Excel, Ms excel, Powerpoint, Word, Microsoft windows, Desktop hardware, Detail-oriented Additional Information Skills & Certifications  ? 5+ Years Experience working as SQL Database Programmer  ? 3+ Years Experience working as SQL Database Administrator  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures  ? Proficient in maintaining tables and data importing in SQL database utilizing SSIS  ? Networking, Database Administration, and Job Flow Management  ? Extremely analytical & detail-oriented with data integrity  ? Extensive work with MS Excel, Word and PowerPoint  ? Proficient with all versions of Microsoft Windows  ? Desktop Hardware and Software Resolution  ? Knowledgeable in TCP/IP as well as Remote Desktop