Freelance Interpreter Freelance Interpreter As the enclosed resume will attest I have a vast amount of experience working within the human service sector providing services to our community through all source of communication. Davie, FL I have acquired professionally related experience as a program coordinator; care planner; educator; case manager; interpreter and administrator. I have developed a broad knowledge of the human service sector. I would welcome the opportunity to become a member of your department and I believe that my education and experience have prepared me to make a positive contribution to your team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Interpreter Lionbridge July 2018 to Present Provide over the phone Spanish interpretation for numerous consumers such as detention centers; clinics; hospitals; banks; and call centers. Educator Broward Health June 2014 to December 2017 As an educator, I was able to reach the clients and provide education on SIDS; drowning prevention; car seat safety; breastfeeding, childbirth and parenting education. I was able to provide these services individually or in group setting reaching over 85 people in attendance. Negotiator GMMI August 2013 to May 2014 Completed contracts with doctors; clinics and hospitals for our clients. Program Coordinator Sunshine State Health Plan August 2010 to August 2012 Worked in the SSFB program and screened consumers for eligibility. Completed assessments and referrals for those eligible. Educator (Lead Case Manager) Broward Health July 2009 to August 2010 Supervise and train staff in various capacities to be able to reach a diverse group of clients and reach our mission. Educator Broward Health March 2007 to July 2009 Conducted Initial Contact; Initial Assessment; Family Support Plan; referrals; provided case management; and classes to all populations. Intake Representative Broward Health March 2006 to March 2007 Met with clients in a individual setting and screen for eligibility to the Healthy Start Program. Completed IC; IA; FSP; and referrals as needed. Administrator Phoenix House January 2001 to July 2005 Supervised various staff members; completed monthly and quarterly reports; conducted staff schedules; completed staff meetings; maintained inventory; provided payroll and weekly petty cash. Database Specialist Covenant House - New York, NY June 2000 to January 2001 Research referral resources and provide information to the staff, complied and complete resource information forms from referral agencies, perform data entry of referral information into a computer database, conduct mass mailing to referral agencies to provide and obtain information Education B.A.S Broward Community College - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2010 to August 2013 Certified Medical Assistant Mandl School of Allied Health - New York, NY September 2003 to September 2004 Associate in Arts Bronx Community College - Bronx, NY June 1997 to August 2000 Diploma in Nurse Assistant in Experience Jane Addams Vocational H.S. - Bronx, NY June 1993 to June 1997 Skills A/R (5 years), AMYSIS (Less than 1 year), ANNUITIES (Less than 1 year), Billing (5 years), Database (10+ years), Teaching, Customer Service, Data Entry, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Time Management, Organizational Skills, Communications, Microsoft Word Additional Information Skills    Bilingual (English, Spanish), CMA, U/A, Phlebotomy, BLS, Medical Billing, Microsoft Word/ Excel/ Powerpoint/ Access, Window Vista, CRM, CCMS, EDS, AMYSIS, Citrix, HMS, MACESS, HEDIS, Univitas, Tru Care, Preparing For Leadership, VCC, Life Insurance License, WFS, EHR    ADMINISTRATIVE SKILLS  • Verified member's eligibility via AMYSIS, CRM, EDS, CCMS, Tru Care, Univitas  • Enroll members to the SSFB program via claim inquiry/self referral/authorization/NOP  • Coordinate care for the members with community based organizations  • Answer phone queues within established standards  • Provide ongoing one on one care coordination via phone/clinic/home setting  • Conduct IC/IA, educate participants in childbirth, breastfeeding, and interconceptional counseling, and parenting, monitor for maternal depression and make referrals. FOCEP Certified Childbirth Educator  • Screen and enrollment of eligible prenatal/parenting women and their infants/ children in the Broward County Healthy Start program for CM assessment  • Research referral resources and provide information to the staff, complied and complete resource information forms from referral agencies, perform data entry of referral information into a computer database, conduct mass mailing to referral agencies to provide and obtain information  • Establish and maintain direct agreements, liaison between providers and GMMI, perform direct negotiations, database maintenance, spreadsheet analysis, review and investigate claims for reasonableness of charges.    MANAGEMENT SKILLS  • Supervise case managers, assigned caseload, maintain inventories on office supplies  • Distribute payroll to staff members, train new employees  • Supervise welfare liaison; intake counselor; and facility driver  • Entered invoice into a computer database system, provide conflict resolution to the direct client and staff, provide billing services: A/R and post payment, maintain inventories on office supplies and clinical supplies  • Oversee cash transaction, prepare daily and monthly statistic reports