Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - Wyndham • Over 20 years IT experience (including development and system engineer) with 15 years plus core/Apps DBA experience, capable to design the reliable, scaleable architecture and build the manageable enterprise technology for a company in the industry.  • Expert level experience in Oracle 9i/10g/11gR2 RAC, Data Guard, EBS11i/R12, OEM Grid Control, RMAN backup/recovery, and Networker.  • Expert level experience in Oracle installation, upgrade, large system architecture designing, capacity planning, consulting, backup/recovery.  • Expert level experience in performance tunings on SQL statements, indexes, network, OS and DB parameters using various tools such as tkprof, Statspack, SQL trace, AWR, ASH, ADDM, RACCheck, etc.  • Knowledge of the best practice in SQL and PL/SQL coding for the performance.  • Experience as a Principal Consultan for Oracle Corp.  • Experience as an Oracle DBA instructor in one of Oracle training schools.  • Experience in mentoring other DBAs.  • Experience in OBIEE, Hyperion, ASCP, Streams, GoldenGate, AS10g/FM11g, Linux, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Shell Script, NetBackup, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Strong ability in identifying problems, developing new ideas, and finding the best solutions.  • Experience on 24 by 7 on call for production database support or maintenances.  • Highly self-motivated and detail-oriented individual with excellent communication and personal skills.  • Broad knowledge in related areas such as Redhat Linux, Unix, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, Suse Linux, Network, TCP/IP, Storage LUNs, Partitioning, Interconnect, Load balancer, etc. Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator Wyndham 2013 to Present Performed Oracle 11g RAC and Dataguard installation and configuration for Informatica repository databases on Linux multiple times including RQA and production environments. Performed hardening on Oracle databases based on the PCI compliance requirements.  • Provided the DBA supports for the Data Warehouse migration to Teradata 14.10 database. Set up the DEV/QA/Production database environments the project team. Worked with Teradata consultants and off-shore consultants to resolve various issues during migration.  • Implemented the backup strategy using RMAN and Networker. Scheduled the backup to tape and monitored the daily backup jobs including incremental and archivelog backups.  • Provided the DBA supports for the Reservation System migration/upgrade. Worked with the vendor on various issues during and after migration. Resynchronized the standby database in production using the Rman backup when the standby was out of sync with the primary due to lost of archivelogs caused by the server reboot.  • After the QA database was corrupted, with RMAN, rebuilt the entire QA RAC and Data Guard environment with two nodes on the primary site and two nodes on the standby site.  • Applied quarterly PSU in rolling fashion in the RAC and Data Guard environments. Created the document for operation and maintenance. Performed the standby switchover test.  • Configured the Goldengate extracts/datapumps/replcats for oneway replication.  • Installed OEM 11g/12c agents and configured OEM to monitor the production databases and send alerts to DBA team, Operation personnels and business owners. Investigated and troubleshot various issues and performed the root cause analysis and provided solutions to fix various issues. Performed various tunings for performanance issues.  • Provided the database security related reports to the Compliance department and remediated various security concerns based on the compliance requirements.  • Cloned production database from RAC to single instance on the scrub box then the single instance was cloned to the QA in RAC configuration.  • Provided recommendations on the best practice to improve performance and stability  • As a DBA SME, reviewed and approved various database change requests/tasks including the design details documentations, database modifications, and database access, etc.    EXPERIENCE Sr. Oracle Apps DBA/DBA Lead Murad, CA April 2008 to February 2013 Provided support on the whole life cycle of Oracle E-Business R12 implementation. Installed and configured Oracle Appplications EBS Release 12.1.1 on shared application tier file systems including APPL_TOP, COMMON_TOP, and technology stack (10g ORACLE_HOMES). Applied HRMS HRglobal patches and performed other post installation configuration.  • Analyzed the requirements for 12.1.3 upgrade and Oracle Financial Critical Patch Collections (CPC). Upgraded RDBMS to 11.2.0.1, Oracle AS 10g to 10.1.3.5, patched Oracle AS10g Forms/Reports 10.1.2.03, upgraded R12.1.1 to R12.1.3.  • Configured R12 Workflow notification mailer. Troubleshot WF agent listener and Notification Mailer startup and connection issues. Created request WF Control Queue Cleanup. Ran wfctqrec/ afwfqgnt to drop and recreate wf_control. Cleaned old open items and error workflow messages in master table wf_items.  • Created the custom printer driver such as portrait_duplex, pasta_portrait_duplex to print PDF and XML reports for single side and duplex printing. Downloaded and Installed acroread driver and configured /etc/cups/mime.types, IX Libarary. Created pasta.cfg and Pasta_pdf.cfg, pasta_pdf_ls.cfg (Landscape) and pasta_hp9050dn.cfg (duplex). Register various printers such as hp9050, Sharp, etc. Troubleshot and resolved various printers or reports issues.  • Configured the MWA Telnet Server and Dispatcher for the mobile WMS - Warehouse Management System. Troubleshot and tuned parameters to fix connection timeout or dropout issues.  • Implemented the Oracle 11gR2 database in the RAC environment. Configured kernel parameters, NTP, and hangcheck-timer kernel module; installed required rpms and ASMlib 2.0 on Redhat Linux 5.3. Configured SSH and enabled SSH user equivalency. Worked with the System Administrator to configure the NIC bounding, private, public, and virtual IP addresses for RAC. Installed the Cluster Verify Utility, Oracle Grid Infrastructure (clusterware) 11.2.0 and the Oracle Database 11.2.0. Worked with the SA to configure EMC powerpath, multiple HBAs, LUNs and created LUN partitions and ASM diskgroups on EMC CX3-40. Also installed the patchset update PSU 11.2.0.1.2 on the top of 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure (clusterware) and RAC installation on all nodes. Installed Cluster Health Monitor (IPD/OS).  • Cloned R12 instances from development to test then to production and vice verse using RapidClone utility (adpreclone.pl, adcfgclone.pl).  • Used rconfig.sh to convert single instance to RAC. Configured autoconfig on db tier and two-node apps tier with failover, load balance, and Parallel Concurrent Processing (PCP).  • Deconfigured, deinstalled, cleaned up and rebuilt the clusterware on the crashed node and added the node back to the cluster.  • Created Concurrent requests to purge obsolete wf runtime data, request logs, alert message, signon audit data, etc. Created Concurrent requests to gather statistics on schemas and some specific tables.  • Create specialized concurrent managers to dedicate certain processes either for short or long running jobs. Tuned the parameters such as cache size, processes, and sleep seconds for Standard Manager, Conflict Resolution Manager, etc.  • Configured the Data Guard and created the standby database using RMAN duplicate from active instance. Tested switchover and failover procedures in both SQL*Plus and the Data Guard Broker command line. Reinstated the failed primary database using the flashback database feature.  • Designed and implemented the backup/recovery strategy and configured RMAN with EMC Networker and tested backup/recovery scenarios by restoring or duplicating from hot backup without target and catalog connection or duplicating from active database.  • Installed and configured the GoldenGate for the replication to the reporting instance.  • Installed and configured Oracle Grid Control master agent using Oracle 11g repository and client agents on multiple nodes.  • Defined Signon Password profiles to enforce password complexity. Enabled Sign-on audit to user and responsibility level.  • Troubleshot and resolved the pending request issues due to dead lock, database errors, and resource constraints. Troubleshot and resolved the concurrent manager starting up and stopping problems in the cloned environment. Ran cmclean.sql to clean up request history in fnd_concurrent_requests and fnd_concurrent_processes tables.  • Monitored the performance and generated AWR, ADDM and ASH (Top Cluster events and Top remote instance waits) reports for performance tunings. Reviewed RACCheck report and configured hugepage. Monitored the interconnection bandwidth utilization such as RX, TX and packets errors, dropped, overrun, collisions, interrupts and worked with SA to fix various interconnect issues. Verified interconnect setting. Tuned SDU value to reduce network roundtrips and response time. Reviewed AWR report for high Global Cache Block Access Latency and increased UDP buffers.  • Performed tunings on apps tier: Tuned FORMS_CATCHTERM and FORMS_TIMEOUT. Tuned the profile values for ICX:session timeout. Set FND: Enable Cancel Query to "No" to disable the cancel query profile.  • Performed tunings on db tier: Tuned various SQL statements to reduce the high I/O waits by creating missed indexes or function based indexes; increased initrans on few tables and indexes to reduce the block contention for ITL; tuned SGA size to minimize the number of connection timeout occurrence; increased log_simultaneous_copies value to lower redo copy latch waits.  • Migrated and converted the database character set from US7ASCII to AL32UTF8.  • Installed/configured Fusion Middleware/Weblogic/OBIEE11g/SOA/IDM, Hyperion, OBI Apps, DAC server repository, Informatica server/client.  • Installed/configured Oracle NoSQL database, MySQL 5.5, MySQL Cluseter 7.2, MySQL Workbench, MySQL Enterprise Backup/Monitor.    EXPERIENCE Sr. Apps DBA/DBA Lead Raytheon - Fullerton, CA March 2007 to April 2008 contract  • Performed requirement and strategy analysis on the migration from the single instance for 11i (115.10.2) to RAC (10.2.0.3) and developed the plan for the migration.  • Merged and applied the latest AD.I Minipack, Family pack, and TXK/ADX patches and cloned the production environment to a test environment.  • Installed and configured the RAC environment on the new node first. Configured SSH and enabled SSH user equivalency. Worked with the System Administrator to configure the private, public, and virtual IP addresses for RAC. Installed the Cluster Verify Utility, Oracle Clusterware 10.2.0.1 and the Clusterware patchset 10.2.0.3. Verified and prepared all requirements for RAC using the Cluster Verify Utility. Installed Oracle 10.2.0.1 software for ASM instance and applied the patchset 10.2.0.3. Created the ASM instances and disk groups using DBCA.  • Created additional redo threads, undo tablespace, and executed the script to prepare the existing database for RAC operation and Data Guard. Cloned existing database to the new RAC node and apps tier to the new location on the existing apps tier.  • Converted the new RAC instance into a local Data Guard physical standby for the existing database then added the existing node as a secondary RAC instance into the RAC cluster. Sr. Oracle DBA AMC - Orange, CA October 2006 to March 2007 Provided the DBA support on the production and QA databases in the Oracle 10g environment.  • Providing the DBA support for the application teams throughout the development cycle. Migrated the source code from development to QA then to production. Tuned the SQL statements and tested various tuning options and improved performance 300% better for few. Troubleshoot various issues such as performance related issues, connectivity issues, space management issues, report job failure issues, etc. Sr. Support Engineer Quest Software - Aliso Viejo, CA October 2005 to September 2006 Installed Shareplex 5.1.0 and patches on Solaris, HP-UX, and Linux. Worked with clients to resolve various Shareplex issues related to library errors, slow capture or post performance, log wrap, export or import idle, core dump, queue corruption, compare hanging, reconcile hanging, out of sync between source and target, configuration, network connection error, and Oracle database related issue such as full table scan, index problem, privilege problem, slow performance such as inittrans contention, etc. Sr. Oracle DBA Toyota Financial Services - Torrance, CA October 2004 to October 2005 Contract  • Providing the database support for five application teams throughout the development cycle and production databases in Oracle9i and Oracle10g environment. Sr. Oracle DBA New York City Government - New York, NY February 2003 to April 2004 Contract  • Provided DBA support on Oracle Applications 11.5.7 production running on Sun Solaris and development support on development and QA databases. Sr. Oracle Apps DBA ON Semiconductor - Phoenix, AZ June 2002 to September 2002 Contract  • Provided the 24 by 7 DBA support to Oracle Applications 11i and discoverer 4i developers, QA, and production users worldwide in a three-tier Solaris environment, including cloning (including controlfile and database recreation, database recovery) the databases in development, QA, and patch environment from production, performing daily refresh on the report instance from production, patch installations using adpatch utility and compiled invalid objects and forms using adadmin. Database Manager/Sr. Oracle DBA/Lead Princeton December 2000 to February 2002 Provided the DBA support on the development, QA, and online billing production databases in the Oracle 9i environment. Sr. Oracle DBA/Lead Bigfoot Interactive - New York, NY September 1999 to November 2000 Managed a multi-million dollar project which involves migration of all production databases from Microsoft SQL Server on Windows NT to Oracle 8.1.5 on Sun Solaris 2.6. Sr. Database Administrator HIP Company - New York, NY October 1998 to August 1999 Provided both Oracle and Peoplesoft DBA support to more than a hundred users in multiple locations. Principal Consultant Oracle Corporation - New York, NY August 1997 to October 1998 Designed the enterprise architecture for one of the largest insurance companies to integrate systems on various platforms (IMS/DB2/Lotus Notes on IBM mainframe/AIX, Oracle on Solaris, Access on NT) from 23 international branches. Database Administrator AT&T, New Jersey 1996 to 1997 Contract  • As a development DBA, provided the DBA support to the development and QA teams including debug of the stored procedures and packages, application tuning, logical and physical backup and recovery. Oracle Database Administrator and Developer NDB Brokerage - New York, NY 1993 to 1996 Installed and configured Oracle 7.2 Server, SQL*NET 2.2, ODBC, Oracle client software, and the data modeling tool Designer 2000 in Windows NT. Designed the logical and physical database model for the Oracle application using Oracle Designer2000. Created the database, multiple instances, tablespaces, segments, procedures, tables, indexes, roles, and users on the Oracle 7. Systems Engineer Electronic Data Systems Corporation 1989 to 1993 Developed and maintained the Agency Information System used to process millions of records in the database which contains 2 years of statistical data collected from about 21,000 Western Union Money Transfer Agencies all over the World. Education B.A. in Computer Science Queens College of the City University of New York 1988