Cognos Administrator Cognos <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cognos Administrator Euless, TX Work Experience Cognos Administrator GM Financial - Fort Worth, TX October 2016 to July 2019 Install/configure/administer/upgrade multi-server distributed Cognos Analytics (CA) POC/CIT/DEV/UAT and PROD environments; create training documents and videos and conduct training for end users and report/cube/dashboard developers; program and maintain SQL Server/Oracle stored procedures/materialized views for performance management and daily status reports; install/configure MotioCI for versioning and migrating CA content across all CA environments; monitor and restart Informatica workflows for daily table updates and month end/quarter end processing; design Cognos Analytics dashboards for management on reporting and training metrics; monitor ServiceNow ticketing system for standard and ad-hoc access requests/report requests/ database information; performance tune reports and any developer created direct SQL; Conduct weekly vulnerabilities review with DBA/Server Admins and Security.  • Administer and support five multi-server distributed Cognos Analytics Environments.  • Program and maintain SQL Server/Oracle store procedures and materialized views.  • Document ETL/Migration for Auditing/management review and admin training.  • Conduct weekly vulnerabilities review with DBA/Server Admins and Security.  • Migrate Oracle 11g source DB's to Oracle Exadata and validate data/security. Database Developer/Report Developer TEK Systems - Fort Worth, TX September 2015 to October 2016 Primary Cook Children's Home Health (HH) IT support; design SQL Server back end Data Mart solutions for various application level database data moved using SSIS packages; develop Access Databases used as a front-end by Home Health personnel to augment FastTrack/McKesson database reporting; develop SSRS, Crystal and Tibco reports requested by the Home Health business; program stored procedures and design tables/views/triggers to be used in reporting and data processing; design dashboards using TIBCO Spotfire for use by Patient Service Coordinator personnel to replace various Access DB's; all requests for Database or Report development are logged into SalesForce to track delivery; performance tune Stored Procedures to speed slow running queries; download State level Medicare pricing information and load into SQL Server table for comparison to existing costing to ensure profitability.  • Document Home Health Database reporting requirements for IT/IS team review.  • Design and program stored procedures/views/triggers for use in various reporting tools.  • Develop Data Mart/Data Store/Data Warehouse solutions for data access and reporting.  • Download Texas State Medicare pricing for comparison against existing HH costing. SSRS Specialist / Database Developer DSS Research - Fort Worth, TX July 2012 to August 2015 Design and develop SSRS Reports in support of Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers (CAHPS); coordinate with statistical analysts to ensure calculations meet government and industry guidelines; design and program stored procedures with dynamic SQL to be used across multiple standard reports; programmed statistical analysis functions to show significance differences between user-selected periods; Pivoted transaction data to support reporting requirements; conduct database and report level performance tuning to address slow running reports; developed Data Store, Data Mart and Data Warehouse solutions for transactional data source, analysis and reporting requirements across multi-spectrum healthcare platforms.  • Cross-train team members on reporting tool and report specific calculations  • Design and program dynamic SQL stored procedures for multi-use reporting.  • Document business requirements and report calculations for review by Q/C team.  • Assist Marketing Analysts in investigating data for Benchmarks and Norms across various healthcare specialties.  • Meet government and business auditing guidelines to confirm proper handling and security of Personal Health Information of customers. Solution Architect Power New Mexico (PNMR) - Cognos Architect - Las Colinas, TX March 2010 to June 2012 for Power New Mexico supporting Cognos 8x and 10.x environments; evaluated available new features in Cognos 10 environment and established base-line testing method for current models, cubes and reports prior to defining migration procedures; designed and developed database solutions for financial and energy related data in Mart, Store and Data Warehouse formats; authored Meter Data Management System (MDM) models and reports at a summary and detail levels; documented business steps for data aggregation of PowerPlant and PeopleSoft General Ledger/Journal data for automating the Cost of Service (CoS) reporting for the Public Regulation Commission; designed DataStage ETL Scripts for daily and monthly level processing; transformed Transaction data for use in reporting tools and to meet Quality Assurance requirements; designed Stored procedures to compare Transactional data to transformed data to ensure data integrity; conducted server/model/report level performance tuning methodology to address slow running reports and impacted portal performance; Administered Tableau Server portal for First Choice Power/Direct Energy.  • Automated server scripts for daily maintenance of BI Portal environments.  • Documented user standards and business requirements for Cost of Service reports.  • Migrated from Server 2002 / Cognos 8.4 to Server 2008 R2 / Cognos 10.1.1 and defined methodology for future migrations.  • Designed group level Pages for portal entry based on user access levels.  • Administer Tableau reporting environment for subsidy (Optim Energy). Contractor New Mexico - Public Education Department - Santa Fe, NM March 2009 to February 2010 Primary Architect for contracted to support New Mexico Public Education Department (PED) education database and reporting through Cognos 7.3&8.2 environments; trained state personnel to use the eScholar Model and database for supporting State Educational Reporting; designed Federal Education Data Exchange Network (EDEN) reports to meet State and Federal educational reporting requirements; conducted audits of Canned Reports to ensure that reported results matched the source data; coordinated with PED Personnel on data extraction for populating state-sponsored "Carve Your Path" website for use by students and education staff; provided PED officials with quarterly reports tracking timeliness and reliability of data imports from regional offices to central database; investigated migrating from Cognos to SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and provided a cost-benefit analysis to PED Directors;  • Trained State and Regional users in report development and maintenance.  • Designed State and Federal database tables and reports to meet No Child Left Behind requirements.  • Develop EDEN (Education Data Exchange Network) reports for meet State and Federal guidelines.  • Convert all Cognos reports to SQL Server SSRS reports based on individual user requirements. Cognos Architect eScholar, LLC - White Plains, NY July 2007 to January 2009 Supported and maintained Cognos ReportNet on Server 2003 platforms; maintained and updated reporting layer in Framework model; developed and implemented security layer in Cubes and ReportNet reports; administered prod/dev environments for New Mexico Public Education Department; migrated all reports and cubes from ReportNet 1.1 MR3 to Cognos v8.2/8.3; designed Database solutions for educational transaction systems as well as the Data Warehouse for New Mexico statewide Reporting and Analysis; developed and implement dashboard reports for Attendance and Discipline/ Infraction reporting; customized model for State specific reporting; implemented Higher Education schemas for use in cross-domain reporting; worked with various superintendents and their principals on delivering reporting solutions for Student longitudinal data.  • Managed 3 developers in ReportNet and I-NetSoft support/development.  • Designed training documents on customer Model & data in Cognos environments.  • Supervised Data Warehouse team to add new schemas and relationships to Model/War files for state and district level customers.  • Developed reports to meet Federal DoE Education Reporting requirements.  • Defined multi-level security and reports, including LDAP & Java security sources. Primary Cognos Architect Cognos Architect - Taylor, TX April 2005 to July 2007 for all Cognos software on LINIX platforms; defined ReportNet Model for Transaction Database; updated Reporting Database on an Oracle 11g environment for 300+ user base; implemented power-grid real time reporting for load balancing, stand-by power generation, market pricing, and failover capacity planning; established data security standards for Oracle pass-through security credentials; maintained background clearances.  • Wrote Administration "step-by-step" document for use by IT personnel.  • Addressed and resolved Remedy tickets involving reporting/cube requests and enhancements.  • Designed and enhance report/cube requests for expanded and new financial access and Key Performance Indicator requirements.  • Designed and implemented Cognos and LDAP security roles and Oracle level security pass-through ID's. Cognos Developer/ Administrator Diageo - Cognos Development - Stamford, CT March 2003 to April 2005 Installed, supported, maintained, and upgraded all Cognos software on UNIX HP-UX platform; created reporting layer for business report developers; developed and implemented security layers in catalog and end-user portal implemented across IWR /Cube and ReportNet reports; administered all environments with a 1300+ user base; Migrated Concur reporting from IWR to ReportNet; developed and implemented role-based pass-through Oracle ID's; customized Upfront Portal in HTML to use company graphics  • Designed operating procedures for admins, developers, and systems support.  • Developed and enhanced reports and cubes for new financial access and Key Performance Indicator reporting.  • Defined business relationship for ETL script from SAP to Oracle Data Warehouse.  • Conducted performance tuning review and redeveloped Transformer MDC's for improved build times. Cognos Administrator Citi Financial Mortgage - Coppell, TX October 2002 to March 2003 Administered highly distributed Cognos environment, consisting of 12 INTEL/W2K servers; conducted daily monitoring of Server 2000 environments for application stability; published report sets and updated/new cubes to Production for use by 1500+ local/remote user base; defined business user standards for new report requests and developed output to meet user requirements; installed Informatica PowerMart/ PowerCenter V6.0 on a Unix platform.  • Assisted mortgage and real estate business users in building client online reports for city/district/regional level access.  • Trained new personnel to use Cognos Impromptu/IWR, PowerPlay, Transformer.  • Assist Administrator in planning conversion from Cognos v6.x to v7, including parallel processing statistics for hardware conversion, and pricing of new servers. Cognos Developer Cambridge Integrated Services - Carrollton, TX July 2002 to October 2002 Developed Impromptu reports for Clients at remote locations; deployed an on-line environment for remote access; troubleshot previously written reports for updating to V6; trained personnel on Model and Cube development.  • Designed customer-specific calculations in catalog and reports.  • Trained personnel to use Cognos PowerPlay, Transformer, Access Manager.  • Designed software upgrade plan, including complete system and end-user testing. Cognos Developer US Department of Navy - Randolph AFB - San Antonio, TX December 1999 to July 2002 Supported contract with the Department of the Navy to install, configure and maintain Human Resource reporting database in an Oracle 7.3.4 environment; installed, updated and maintained Cognos Web Server software for use by remote personnel in seven regional locations; installed Windows NT, and upgraded to Windows Server 2000 Web Servers; developed the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System Web Applications implementation plan; trained regional offices to define and create reports; create user-based training in support of client/web based software installation, configuration and maintenance for use by Government personnel  • Trained Human Resource personnel on Cognos Applications using DoN (Dept. of Navy) model and data.  • Installed and configured web integration using the latest COGNOS technologies: IWR 6.0, PowerPlay Transformer / Enterprise Server 6.61  • Documented all work in Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). CACI - Production Systems Programmer/Informatica Developer US Army - Chantilly, VA November 1998 to December 1999 Constructed Extract, Transformation, Load (ETL) procedures using Informatica PowerMart software for use at US Army site; used Cognos PowerPlay and Informatica to create Cubes and Reports; Installed Cognos web software for client-site implementation; documented Access Manager/Netscape Directory Server (LDAP) installation steps based on Department of Navy regulations; formatted IIS and FTP sites and documented configuration requirements for implementation; used Oracle utilities to create, define, update and maintain testing databases in developing client source/target tables for development of ETL procedures.  • Performed data design review and submitted requirements for future expansion.  • Implemented multi-phase ETL solution for data extraction from of-site input device.  • Created Oracle Stored Procedures and functions as a subset of the ETL solution. Senior Programmer Analyst US Geological Survey - Reston, VA July 1990 to November 1998 Supported Federal Financial System (FFS) operations on an AMDHAL 5870 & IBM 3090 mainframe system; updated, and modified JCL and COBOL programs and trained new personnel; implemented and utilized CA-7/11 reporting tool, and Control M/R/D processes to handle scheduling and automated problem resolution; responsible for General Ledger balancing; supervised day, swing and night crews; conducted employee reviews.  • Created and maintained SOP documentation in accordance with DOI guidelines, written at a level where a minimum of familiarity with the system would allow a user to perform any task covered.  • Contracting Office - Technical Representative expressed 100% satisfaction with quality and thoroughness of work performed, and documentation provided. Tape Librarian Pentagon - Washington, DC September 1986 to May 1990 Army non-commissioned officer Rank E-2 to E-4; lead Computer Operator of Honeywell mainframe and Tape Librarian for 3,000+ unit library; updated Tape Office Sourcing Control software, version 4 (TOSC-4); created communications wiring for networking of Pentagon offices; defined and implemented tape access system for internal users.  • Operated World Wide integrated mainframe system for Command Control purposes for the Department of Defense, Army.  • Maintained a Top Secret, SCI, SBI background clearance from 1986 to 1990. Education Bachelor's in Business Information Systems/Technical Management DeVry University-Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2005 to October 2007