Associate Director, National Joint Utility Team Associate Director, National Joint Utility Team Associate Director, National Joint Utility Team - AT&T Casselberry, FL Work Experience Associate Director, National Joint Utility Team AT&T 2018 to Present Leads national team of 10 mid-level managers, responsible for 940+ Electric Company Joint Utility contracts with an operating budget of over $250M.  * Developed the process plan for an automated invoicing database that will result in a YOY savings of $1.2M. This process will free up managers from manually processing invoices and allowing them to redirect their time to essential operational needs of field partners. AT&T 2000 to Present National Area Manager AT&T 2014 to 2018 Leads national team of 15 managers, directing 180+ unionized employees across traditional and virtual office environments, executing GIS facilities maintenance for 21 states of wireline. Manages 3 vendor contracts with annual value of $9.5M and a total of 200+ vendor employees managing and maintaining engineering and GIS records.  * Co-manage a $25M+ project to consolidate 4 groups across 35 centers into 1 group with 2 locations, leveraging automation and cross-training programs to empower employees to execute end-to-end processes leading to increased efficiency and productivity.  * Developed an automated financial reconciliation report that eliminated manual processes and immediately increased productivity. This report identified 40% of all work financially reconciles 100%, proving a cost benefit and receiving new project funding to automate the completion of work and drive a $2.25M YOY savings.  * Increased productivity by 12% by creating and utilizing a KPI report to coach direct reports on individual and organization performance.  * Eliminated outsourced tasks, bringing GIS boundary maintenance processes in-house to capture $250K savings.  * Works closely with VP-level leadership, analyzing results and presenting monthly team and project updates, potential issues, challenges, and solutions. Senior Staff Support AT&T 2009 to 2013 Supported 1 director, 8 area managers, and 5 coaches across 5 different work groups, through creating, automating, and maintaining workforce analysis metrics, facilitating employee coaching and development plans, and presenting monthly productivity results to senior leaders. Served as Green Belt project manager for numerous projects and initiatives.  * Green Belt Lead for numerous continuous improvement projects:  - Reduce Congested 208 Scale PLRs in OPTI Lean Project: managing team of 32 to proactively restructure 1,280 maps (plats), reducing map sizes to optimal working dimensions for engineers, eliminating issues with overstrikes and facilitating a more efficient engineering process.  - MYRIAD to OPTI Northeast Conduit Transfer DMADV Project: managing team of 30 to migrate conduit records from legacy MYRIAD database to newly integrated OPTI database, successfully completed project in less than 1 month with no additional charge to budget and no loss of records.  - Centers 2020 Project that reviewed 4 center groups interactions through value stream mapping and process mapping, leading to the creation of a large-scale National Records Group consolidation project.  * Completed the required business impact analysis to request $58K funding to establish a feed compiling data for technician time and motion studies to gauge employee efficiency; this project resulted in annual cost avoidance of $28K and annual cost savings of $1.7M from increased efficiencies.  * Served as project manager for the Phase 6 TRAKS release, creating a 21-state workflow reporting tool and eliminating the need to manually assign all final engineering records maintenance in the 13-state Outside Plant Records Reconciliation Centers (OSPRRC).  * Designed detailed production processes for the Northeast to reduce engineering records maintenance, resulting in 2 projects completing 2 months ahead of schedule.  * Restructured the Northeast OPTI posting function, eliminating multiple unneeded functions and reducing paper usage by 30%+ through creating detailed process flowcharts and documentation.  * Designed and maintained SharePoint sites for the Northeast and Southwest OSPRRC, creating centralized repository for reports, presentations, methods, and procedures. Operations Manager AT&T 2006 to 2009 Directed team of 3 management and 6 non-management employees, executing center operations, as well as managed and supported vendor team with 125 employees performing engineering records maintenance for the Southeast region. Supported all problem resolution, quality control, database support, and new methods and procedures. Tracked production progress and created daily, weekly, and monthly reports to leadership.  * Key contributor in driving $40K annual savings through designing a workflow that created automated receipt processes and paperless posting process for the Southeast OSPRRC.  * Secured $1M+ savings and 200,000+ print backlog reduction within the first 16 months of new vendor contract; assisted with framing new production and quality requirements for the new contract. Database Administrator AT&T 2000 to 2006 Provided database support for 185-200 vendor employees with all Byers EWO database issues, utilizing SQL and MicroStation EDG to eliminate roadblocks and increase productivity. Served as centralized point-of-contact to resolve all Southeast district engineering records issues during the design process.  * Created methodology, procedures, and process maps for all critical engineering records, training staff to ensure consistency and promote efficiency across field engineering processes.  * Served as the SME for engineering work order posting issues, providing solutions for entire Southeast OSPRRC. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Skills Managerial Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joshskiendziel Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Green Belt April 2012 to Present Six Sigma Orange Belt July 2012 to Present Lean Gold Certification November 2014 to Present