Database Administrator, Data Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Data Analyst Database Administrator, Data Analyst - Freedom Disposal Gibson, NC I AM A VETERAN OF THE AIR FORCE    Bachelor's in Computer Science and Master's Level Certificate in Information Systems and Operations Management. 12 Years proven MS SQL SERVER (6.5 - 2008 r2, 2012 and some 2014) experience in a production environment. Microsoft Professional Certification, MS SQL MSDBA Classes, MS SQL BI Classes, Oracle 9i and 10g Classes and Oracle 10g Certification. Experience working with 3 hospital facilities and with 2 pharmaceutical facilities. NOTE: My work experience has been in the Production Environment. See a list of additional Attributes on the last page. Work Experience Database Administrator, Data Analyst Freedom Disposal - Kennesaw, GA April 2018 to Present • Building reports as needed using MYSQL SQL Reporting with Select Statements.  • Importing, Exporting, T-SQLAssisting with data conversion to another software  • Automating New Customers with Customer Importing  • Help clean up data entry with backend coding to update entries to be consistent.  • Offering suggestions to help improve daily procedures.  • Skillsets used Advance Microsoft Excel and Google Docs, Google Spreadsheet.  • CSV, Access, Excel Files into MYSQL. Senior Database Analyst TIAA (Contract TrueBridge - Charlotte, NC April 2016 to June 2016 • Assists in the building and the maintaining of a custom data mart solution  • Act as a part time senior data analyst.  • Skillsets used were Microsoft SQL Server, Advance Microsoft Excel, a variety of tools for data mining and presenting of data in a business metrics.  • Microsoft SSIS - ETL job creation and documentation, Importing Oracle, SQL, CSV, Access, Excel Files into MS SQL, Create .bat files and Scheduled Task for SSIS ETL packages.  • MS Visual Studios 2013, SQL 2008 and 2012 Management Studios Configuration Release Engineer/DBA/Developer Lashgroup - (Contract MDI Group - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to April 2015 Charlotte, NC    th contract extended Configuration Release Engineer/DBA/Developer Lashgroup (AmerisourceBergen) (Contract with MDI) - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to April 2015 • ITSM Tickets –Type of Tickets. Backup/Restore, User Security Access, Starting/Stopping SQL Jobs, Scheduling Jobs, Troubleshooting Jobs, Executing SQL Scripts, Executing Stored Procedures, Executing SSIS Packages, Using Team Foundation Server Scripts and Creating Custom Scripts to (Delete Insert, Select and Update) table information with TSQL to resolve data entry errors and etc. The Commit = 1 and Commit = 0 was utilized. In order to have Rollback on Prep Work the Commit = 0 was used.  • Customer interaction was required either by email, by chat sessions and/or by phone.  • SOPs were met, Virtual Team Experience (using VPN Connection), Self Driven, Proactive and Responsive to customers (users)  • Argo - For Installs in Test and Staging Environments  • Configuration Release Management Database - For Installs in Test and Staging Environments  • Build Release Management  • MS Visual Studios 2010 and 2013 Premium Team Foundation, SQL 2008 and 2012 Management Studios were used for both Installs and ITSM Tickets Resolutions.  • Manage Active Directory Security Group Access. Database Administrator Listingbook, LLC (Contract) (Some Remote Work) MS SQL - Greensboro, NC February 2012 to March 2012 Provide MS SQL (2008 r2) Server DBA support (Total SQL Server 6) (Application used at this location was a customized front end GUI)    • Word processing, spreadsheet and access applications.  • T-SQL  • Import/Export Wizards/DTS/SSIS, Created SQL Job Agents  • SQL Server troubleshooting; ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • SQL Server environments OLTP.  • Virtual Team Experience using VPN Connection  • Backups with Native SQL (Full, Diff and TLog), Restores and Modifying Recovery Models (Full, Simple and Bulk Logging).  • Monitor/Manage/Modify TLogs (VLF's) as needed - using "DBCC sqlperf(logspace)" and etc.  • Experience with query, index and DB I/O performance tuning, Stored Procedures and SQL coding.  • Monitor/Troubleshoot (automated database maintenance plans including backups, indexing, integrity and consistency checks, update statistics, etc.) as needed, Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (SQL Job Agents for various task and reports) as needed.  • Monitored database resources and monitored server resources to ensure optimum performance and availability (Disk Space Management).  • Moved (.mdf's, .ldf's, Tempdb and System Databases) to other drives as needed.  • Troubleshoot minor to major problems on an as-needed basis - often requiring time sensitive response and pro-active communication to different groups within the organization. Some of the tools used for these tasks would include DMV queries, Query Analyzer, Perfmon, SQL Profiler and Trace Flags.  • Shrink Database as-needed. Database Administrator MS SQL - Charlotte, NC December 2011 to January 2012 MS SQL 2005 training provided to Oracle Database Administrator in order for this person to manage 1 SQL Server with SQL 2005.    MS SQL Database Admin. & Bus.Intelligence Developer MedCath - (Contract w/CSI) Server DBA support MS SQL - Charlotte, NC November 2010 to December 2011 Total SQL Servers - 32 Production in the IT Dept and Total SQL Servers - 4 Production in the Decision Support Dept.)    • Word processing, spreadsheet and access applications.  • T-SQL  • Import/Export Wizards/DTS/SSIS, Created SQL Job Agents, Created .bat Files and Created Scheduled Tasks for .bat Files.  • SQL Server troubleshooting; ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • Support large SQL Server environments OLTP, VLDB. Over 32 SQL Servers.  • SQL database(s) on a virtual platform (VMWare).  • Virtual Team Experience using VPN Connection  • managing an existing MS SQL BI - Data Warehouse (2005)  • Experience with Backups with Native SQL and RedGate (Full, Diff and TLog), Restores and Modifying Recovery Models (Full, Simple and Bulk Logging).  • Monitor/Manage/Modify TLogs (VLF's) as needed - using "DBCC sqlperf(logspace)" and etc.  • Experience with query, index and DB I/O performance tuning, Stored Procedures and SQL coding.  • Database conversions/implementations/migrations/installs/upgrades and applied patches as-needed.  • Conversions (Access Back-End Database to MS SQL Back-End Database and Excel Spreadsheet to MS SQL Back-End Database).  • Facilitate server-side database development when needed.  • Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (automated database maintenance plans including backups, indexing, integrity and consistency checks, update statistics, etc.) as needed, Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (SQL Job Agents for various task and reports) as needed.  • Monitored database resources and monitored server resources to ensure optimum performance and availability (Disk Space Management).  • Troubleshoot minor to major problems on an as-needed basis - often requiring time sensitive response and pro-active communication to different groups within the organization. Some of the tools used for these tasks would include DMV queries, Query Analyzer, Perfmon, SQL Profiler and Trace Flags.  • Shrink Database as-needed.  • Managed Existing - (Replicated, Clustered, Mirrored) Databases.  • Created (SQL Ad-Hoc Report with Select Statements and Crystal Ad-Hoc Reports).  MS SQL Database Administrator/Oracle Database Administrator(light experience with Oracle)  High Point Regional Health System Perm Position Server DBA High Point, NC November 2006 to March 2010 support Managed, (with one other DBA over 400 databases on about 38 servers with about 100 databases over a Terabyte in size)    • Word processing, spreadsheet and access applications.  • T-SQL  • Import/Export Wizards/DTS/SSIS, Created SQL Job Agents  • SQL Server troubleshooting; ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • Supporting large SQL Server environments OLTP, VLDB. Over 400 Instances with over 100 Instances over a terabyte in size.  • SQL database(s) on a virtual platform (VMWare).  • Oracle 9i and 10g - Very light on this experience. The hospital required me to have the Vendor on the phone to step me through the database task because it was patient database information.  • Virtual Team Experience using VPN Connection  • Experience with Backups with Native SQL and RedGate (Full, Diff and TLog), Restores and Modifying Recovery Models (Full, Simple and Bulk Logging).  • Monitor/Manage/Modify TLogs (VLF's) as needed - using "DBCC sqlperf(logspace)" and etc.  • Experience with query, index and DB I/O performance tuning, Stored Procedures and SQL coding.  • Database implementations/migrations/installs/upgrades and applied patches as-needed.  • Facilitate server-side database development when needed.  • Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (automated database maintenance plans including backups, indexing, integrity and consistency checks, update statistics, etc.) as needed, Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (SQL Job Agents for various task and reports) as needed.  • Monitored database resources and monitored server resources to ensure optimum performance and availability (Disk Space Management).  • Moved (.mdf's, .ldf's, Tempdb and System Databases) to other drives as needed.  • Troubleshoot minor to major problems on an as-needed basis - often requiring time sensitive response and pro-active communication to different groups within the organization. Some of the tools used for these tasks would include DMV queries, Query Analyzer, Perfmon, SQL Profiler and Trace Flags.  • Shrink Database as-needed.  • Managed Existing - (Replicated, Clustered, Mirrored) Databases.  • Created (Databases, Tables, Fields, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, SQL Ad-Hoc Report with Select Statements and Crystal Ad-Hoc Reports). SQL Developer Data Warehousing Alphanumerics - Raleigh, NC November 2004 to December 2004 • Researched the Back End MS SQL 2005 Database for SiteKeeper Software.    • Developed a Data Warehouse by importing selected tables from the Back End SQL Database for Sitekeeper Software and by importing data from Excel Spreadsheets for (Citrix Users and EPO Software). Information from Sitekeeper Reports was saved as CSVs and then converted to Excel to prepare for the import. SQL DTS Packages were used for the import. SQL Views were created to produce MS Access Reports. (For user reporting) MS SQL DB Admin October 1998 to January 2004 Provide MS SQL DBA Wilmington, NC October 1998 to January 2004 6.5, 7.0 and 2000 Server Support. Saleslogix and CATSWEB Applications Support(SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle)    • Implemented Saleslogix Application by importing Excel Spreadsheets into MS SQL 6.5 and creating snapshot replication databases for Sales people. (SDLC)  • Implemented CATSWEB Web Application for the Quality Assurance Department. (SDLC)  • Word processing, spreadsheet and access applications.  • T-SQL  • Import/Export Wizards/DTS, Created SQL Job AgentsSQL Server troubleshooting; ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • Backups with Native SQL (Full, Diff and TLog), Restores and Modifying Recovery Models (Full, Simple and Bulk Logging).  • Monitor/Manage/Modify TLogs (VLF's) as needed - using "DBCC sqlperf(logspace)" and etc.  • Experience with query, index and DB I/O performance tuning, Stored Procedures and SQL coding.  • Database conversions/implementations/migrations/installs/upgrades and applied patches as-needed at the application level and the MS SQL level.  • Conversions (Access Back-End Database to MS SQL Back-End Database and Excel Spreadsheet to MS SQL Back-End Database, MySQL Back End Database to MS SQL Back End Database).  • Facilitate server-side database development when needed.  • Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (automated database maintenance plans including backups, indexing, integrity and consistency checks, update statistics, etc.) as needed, Implement/Monitor/Troubleshoot (SQL Job Agents for various task and reports) as needed.  • Monitored database resources and monitored server resources to ensure optimum performance and availability (Disk Space Management).  • Moved (.mdf's, .ldf's, Tempdb and System Databases) to other drives as needed.  • Troubleshoot minor to major problems on an as-needed basis - often requiring time sensitive response and pro-active communication to different groups within the organization. Some of the tools used for these tasks would include DMV queries, Query Analyzer, Perfmon, SQL Profiler and Trace Flags.  • Shrink Database as-needed.  • Implemented/Managed - (Replication at the Saleslogic Application Level) Database.  • Created (Databases, Tables, Fields, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, SQL Ad-Hoc Report with Select Statements and Crystal Ad-Hoc Reports).  RPG II/III/IV 400 Programmer Alydaar Perm Position DBA Charlotte, NC February 1998 to October 1998 Charlotte, NC  • Year 2000 Date modifications made on various company source code.  Ross Database Administrator Cape Fear Valley Medical Center DBA Perm Position DBA Fayetteville, NC June 1996 to August 1996 Accounting, HR, Payroll, AR, GL) (Vax/VMS) Operating System environment with SQL Command  Language)  Public Schools Robeson County Perm Position Abacus Database Admin Novell Network - 11 schools - Lumberton, NC October 1994 to June 1996 Lumberton, NC  • ABACUS DBA (Education) (Project Management - Implementation - (Software Development Life Cycle - SDLC)  Novell Network - 11 schools) Education Master's Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/donnawright1957 Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 February 1983 to December 1984 Served in W. Germany at Sembach Air Base as a Personnel Specialist in the Training Department. I notified the Airman in the surrounding areas when they could retrain into other fields of interest. Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present Oracle Certified Associate 10g Present Additional Information MS SQL Data Analyst/DBA/Developer - BI Data Warehouse Versions 6.5, 7.0, 2000, 2008, 2012, 2014 (Since 1998)    Oracle DBA Versions 9i and 10g (with Unix and Linux)  (I consider myself still a beginner in this software even though I have passed the OCA Certification I haven't had enough  Hands-on experience yet.)    MYSQL DBA/Developer/Data Analyst Workbench 6.3    Senior Database Analyst - SSIS MS Visual Studios (2010 & 2013) Premium    Configuration Release Engineer/DBA/Developer ITSM, Argo, Configuration Release Management Database, Build Release Management, MS Visual Studios (2010 & 2013) Premium Team Foundation, Manage Active Directory Security Group Access, Virtual Team Experience, Manage Active Directory Security Group Access, Virtual Team Experience    MS DBA/Dev/Data Analyst/Configuration Engineer Technical Skills (Summary)  • 15+ years of experience with word processing, spreadsheet and access applications.  • 12 years of experience with T-SQL  • 12 years of experience with Import/Export Wizards/DTS/SSIS, Created SQL Job Agents, Created .bat Files and Created Scheduled Tasks for .bat Files.  • 10 years of experience with SQL Server troubleshooting; ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • 5 years of experience supporting large SQL Server environments OLTP, VLDB. Over 400 Instances with over 100 Instances over a terabyte in size.  • 4+ years of prior experience with SQL database(s) on a virtual platform (VMWare).  • 2 years Oracle 9i and 10g - Very light on this experience. The hospital required me to have the Vendor on the phone to step me through the database task because it was patient database information.  • 1 year 8 months ITSM, Argo, Configuration Release Management Database, Build Release Management, MS Visual Studios (2010 & 2013 Premium Team Foundation, Manage Active Directory Security Group Access  • 1 year 8 months Virtual Team Experience using VPN Connection.  • 1+ years managing an existing MS SQL BI - Data Warehouse (2005)  • <1 year MYSQL (Importing, Exporting, T-SQL, Reporting with Select Statements).  • SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle and Project Management. Note: Project Management was w/o the project software.