Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Clinton, ME I am an accomplished Accounting, Finance, and Manufacturing professional with considerable experience in Non-Profit accounting, private industry and consulting. My clients have included Non-Profits, manufacturing, Construction, and financial services organizations. I have hands-on experience and understanding of computerized systems at all levels. I am proficient with most well-known Financial Software in the market place: Microsoft Great Plains, Timberline (MAS 300), QuickBooks, MAS 90 and Peach Tree. Work Experience Chief Financial Officer Spectrum Generations November 2017 to July 2019 Spectrum Generations is a one of five non-profit Area Agencies on Aging in Maine. My responsibilities include managing Finance, including all functions associated with the department, AP,AR, GL, financial analysis, Meal Cost, Meal Production, Purchasing, Inventory, cashflow, insurance and federal and state quarterly reporting associated with Spectrum Generations programs and grants., I.T. including infrastructure, reporting and state reporting, and facilities which includes acquisitions, sale and maintenance of several facilities in the central Maine area. I also work with the board of directors, providing reports and analysis of the organization's activities. Other responsibilities include agency annual budget creation, audit coordination and contract writing and review. Managed IT, Finance and Facilities departments  1. Successfully facilitated the sale of 2 properties that the agency had been trying to sell for 8 years  2. Helped develop and write Healthy Living for Me grant to the ACL.  3. Managed all facilities including leasing and buildouts  4. Updated facility contract language to protect the agency  5. Develop a strong leadership team (Finance, IT, Facilities)  6. Implemented Juniper Software package Controller KBS Builders February 2017 to August 2017 KBS Builders is a modular home manufacturer in western Maine. My responsibilities producing monthly financial reports, AP, GL, Compliance, Cash Management, Vendor Negotiations, Inventory control, cost accounting, Cost/Profit analysis and purchasing.  1. Brought the company current on tax compliance issues. Controller Richard Brothers Financial Advisors August 2013 to February 2017 Richard Brothers is a 20-year-old Financial Advisory Firm. My responsibilities include producing monthly financial reports for 4 entities, budgeting, Audit coordination, AR, AP, GL, FINRA Reporting, SEC Reporting, HR, Compliance, Payroll, Marketing, Team building, development, Building management, contract negotiations and Strategic planning.  Successes:  1. Developed and implemented a Dynamic record update form to simplify data entry into the CRM system for both apple and pc platforms.  2. Developed and implemented a custom report and analysis database for CRM to produce reports and analysis in a timely manner.  3. Planned and executed the company data migration to the cloud to improve company BCP and customer service.  4. Production and analysis of ROI on capital investments. Controller/General Manager Brahms Mount, ME January 2010 to July 2013 Brahms Mount is a 31-year-old company producing top of bed textiles. My responsibilities included production and maintenance of all financial documents and reports, day to day entries, AP, AR, GL, Payroll, Taxes, month end activities, IT, HR and inventory control. I was responsible for all production planning; ensuring resources were best allocated to meet production and customer needs. I worked closely with customers and vendors to insure their needs and the company's were satisfied.  Successes:  1. Instituted changes that increased efficiency, resulting in company growth from 600k in sales to 2.1 million during my tenure; with 2.4 million projected revenue in 2013 by developing an MRP database and implementing lean techniques.  2. Directed the build out of the new textile mill in Monmouth Maine.  3. Planned and executed the merger of two mills in the final location and had the operation fully functional within 3 days of completion.  4. Directed the project to transition to lean manufacturing principles.  5. Developed and maintained all product costing.  6. Increased inventory accuracy from 85% to 99% by developing and implementing an inventory database.  7. Responsible for all hiring, discipline, and reviews for personnel during my tenure.  8. Managed 25+ employees.  9. Mentored direct reports as needed.  10. Production and analysis of ROI on capital purchases. Controller Allied Cook Construction - Scarborough, ME April 2007 to January 2010 Allied Cook Construction is a fifty year old company with annual revenues of 25 to 35 million dollars. As Controller I was responsible for the production and integrity of all internal and external financial reports and functions of the accounting department. I was also responsible for providing accurate and timely cost analysis and cost projections for both internal and external customers. I frequently interfaced with owners, vendors and financial institutions to ensure the needs of the customer and company were met.  1. Production and analysis of ROI on capital investments.  2. Responsible for Cost to Complete analysis of all jobs and projects for internal and external reporting.  3. Assist in the establishment of project budgets and identify potential and existing profit areas.  4. Regularly met with Project Managers and Superintendents to review Job Cost Variance Reports to identify areas of possible cost overruns and profit.  5. Maintained all Contracts and Change Orders in accounting system. Controller Medical Networks - Portland, ME May 2004 to May 2006 As controller for MedNet I was responsible for all financial internal and external financial reporting. I provided the Board of Directors with financial guidance, I also wrote and managed the grants to fund the chronic illness programs Business Manager/ Database Administrator Northern York County YMCA April 2003 to May 2004 Responsible for Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledger and month end closing. I also managed the membership data base, and assisted the finance Director to develop their annual budget. Production Manager Sanmina SCI - Westbrook, ME June 1995 to January 2002 At Sanmina I worked my way from the production floor as a quality technician to Production Manager. I was responsible for meeting the production schedule for multiple product lines, managing 30 to 85 direct reports. The role required mentoring and team development to meet the needs of our production demands. I also submitted an annual budget and performance reviews for my direct reports.  1. Responsible for 20-85 employees at multiple sites and product lines.  2. Developed cross training programs to increase production capacity on varying product lines.  3. Material planning for production lines to insure no lost time due to material shortages.  4. Experience and training in Lean, TQM, Prato, Kaizen, Six Sigma, Poke Yoke Techniques.  5. Developed and wrote processes and procedures in accordance to ISO 9000/9002. Education Bachelor Degree Business Administration University of Southern Maine Bachelor Degree in Accounting in Accounting University of Southern Maine Skills Financial Reporting, Management, Strategic Planning, Word, Payroll, cash, accounting, Financial Modeling, ADP, budget, access, Microsoft Office, Finance, Quickbooks, Financial Analysis