Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Taylor, MI To gain employment in a position where I can use my experience with office software, phone communications, and the ability to multitask in a manner which will help to further the company's mission of providing excellent service to clients. Work Experience Administrative Assistant Pen 2 Pen Multimedia - Detroit, MI March 2012 to Present Pen 2 Pen is a small independently owned digital publisher and my duties are to provide administrative and editorial support for the publishing house and the contracted authors from the conception of a book to the eventual release. The position requires my approval and denial of manuscript submissions, managing the human resource department in recruiting, directing, and managing the day to day functions of contracted authors, providing intense social media and hand-to-hand marketing, and coordinating events such as book signings, interviews and discussions for authors. In addition, I perform bookkeeping duties such as company expenses, royalty payroll, and deadlines and release schedules using Quickbooks, Microsoft Excel, and Word. My duties also include filing, scanning, and managing all author files, answering emails and incoming calls promptly and effectively, and keeping active relationships with book stores, libraries, and other vendors. Database Project Administrator Huron Capital Investments - Detroit, MI July 2018 to November 2018 As a temporary full-time office employee, my duties are to update the company's Salesforce list by reaching out to contacts through email and phone messaging. The position requires the everyday usage of Excel, Outlook, Saleforce, and Linked In Navigator to interact and record progress of updated contacts. Member Service Representative DFCU Financial February 2018 to July 2018 My duties were to balance cash drawer at the beginning and end of all shifts , accept cash and checks for deposit, and process cash withdrawals. Member service representatives receive and verify loan payments, mortgage payments, record all transactions promptly, accurately, and in compliance with bank procedures, answer inquiries regarding checking and savings accounts and other bank related products, and attempt to resolve issues and problems with customer's accounts. Teller Public Service Credit Union February 2014 to January 2015 Accepted retail and/or commercial deposits, loan payments, process checking and savings account withdrawals. Cashed checks. Maintained an adequate cash drawer at all times; this includes buying and selling currency from the vault as necessary. Balanced cash drawer in accordance with Bank procedures and regulations including periodic batching of cashed checks. Processed credit card cash advances. Answered customer inquiries and refer customers to the proper service area for issues that cannot be resolved at the teller line. Maintained the highest level of confidentiality with all information obtained. Promoted the bank's products and services. Cage Cashier Greektown Casino-Hotel - Detroit, MI January 2011 to July 2011 Provided excellent customer service by first seeing, greeting, smiling, and suggesting to the guest, performed clerical duties such as handling all monetary transactions, maintaining the balance of the drawer, processing transactions on a computer, filing paperwork and maintaining the cleanliness of my work area through out the shift. Teller Best Bank - Detroit, MI June 2008 to February 2011 Detroit, MI  06/2008 to 02/2011  Performed in-aisle sales, performed clerical duties such as processing cash and check transactions, answer phones, fax and file paperwork, open accounts, close accounts, data entry and other duties as required. Education Diploma in Liberal Arts Wayne County Community College Skills bookkeeping (10+ years), cash (10+ years), data entry (2 years), ordering (Less than 1 year), payroll (4 years), Bank Teller, Customer Service, Credit Union, Administrative Assistant, Word, Outlook, Accounts Payable