Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Hyattsville, MD • 5 years' of experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing, implementing Databases, and Application development.  • Proficient in Oracle Database Administration activities such as Upgrades, Patches, my oracle support.  • Experienced in Oracle installations, migration, configuring logical/physical architecture, SQL, Tuning, database access and Security and auditing  • Oracle Database Administration experience in variety of different environments like, SUN SOLARIS, AIX, RedHat Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in Installation of high availability RAC environment and upgraded standalone databases to RAC environment.  • Cloning, Backup and Recovery, capacity planning and Documentation.  • Good knowledge in creating RMAN Duplicate Databases and FLASHBACK recovery features.    • Active database using RMAN. Cloning of RAC to Non-RAC database using RMAN. Test & validate restore and recovery for SLA.  • Responsible for all database activities such as User management, space management, database  • security management.  • DBA activities which include Creating Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security of databases, tablespaces, indexing, data maintenance, user management, and maintenance and solving critical errors like ORA-600, ORA 7445.  • Prepared backup strategy and disaster recovery management of the databases by using in-house tools written using UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Setting up Oracle read only replication with materialized views and developed scripts for automating the rebuilt process of replication.  • Regular DBA activities like Undo segments, Rollback segments, database auditing, space management, database issues, locking, creating database links, managing user groups and tuning.  • Maintained Very Large Multi-Terabyte (VLDB) in Data Warehouse Environment for DSS. Strong Exposure on High Availability Concepts (RAC, Standby) Extensive Knowledge of 10g and 11g ASM.  • Planned and implemented Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c Standby Databases (Data Guard) for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR).  • Experience with Oracle Cloud Control, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), ASM, AWR, ADDM, Flashback Technology, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, and SQL server undo advisor.  • Proactive monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, AWR, ADDM, and 10g OEM Grid Monitoring. Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. CRON jobs Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator State Street - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to June 2017 • Defining the standards, to maintain the health of the server. RAC to RAC physical standby configuration of data guard for Disaster recovery requirement.  • Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and also defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • RAC- Administration/Troubleshooting 8 Node cluster on Oracle 11G R2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Troubleshoot resource related issues. Cluster wide Resource management such as create resource plan, Service configuration/relocation, instance caging.  • Upgraded 10.2.04 to 11.2.0.1. Upgrade database along with OH, ASM_HOME and CRS. Upgrade RAC from 11R1 to 11R2 on 3 nodes.  • Installation, Administration of 11gR2 RAC on HP-UX. Configured ASM, and RAW devices for storage. Investigation of node eviction, CRS resources failure. Running Queries in parallel, setup inter instance parallelism, Load balancing. Resource utilization on each node. Fix corrupted OCR disk.  • Tuning of RAC environment. Managing fail-over of instances. Configure table for parallel load.  • Managed ASM storage. ASM cloning. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  • Data guard - configure primary - standby using duplicate from active database in 8-node RAC environment. Apply SCN-based Incremental backup to sync standby after loss of archive logs on primary. Measure data loss based on latency/lag. Cross-platform migration using Data guard.  • Tuning Database using AWR/ADDM/SQL trace. Analyzing tuning Advisor. Migrate SQL plans & statistics from QA to PROD. Schedule stats Job using DBMS_SCHEDULER. Used AWRSQL/SQL tuning package. Tune various SQL's. Provide Primary investigation on Performance issue to application team in minimal time. Troubleshoot/mitigate various wait events in DB. Tuning of RAC instances and Database.  • ASM storage management. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem. ASM migration.  • GRID - Oracle Cloud Control 12c installation, agent configuration and maintenance.  • RMAN advanced features - Implementation of RMAN duplicate from active database feature for migration.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM) Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo Bank - Charlotte, NC April 2014 to May 2017 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Have set up the cronjobs for runalert, space watch monitoring, RMAN backup (level_0 and level_1) and recovery, deletion of archive logs and AWR reports  • Used normal import and export and also datapump import and export for exporting and importing schemas, tables etc from one database to another.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK Reports and AWR Reports.  • Production Support for Critical Application Databases.  • Implemented Oracle Patches (CPU, PSU) on the Compliance databases Device a plan to patch them quarterly so that we can cover all the databases in a year.  • Checking Databases Backup and Restore validity periodically, and Data refreshes from Production to Non-Production environment, Creation Duplicate Databases using RMAN Backups.  • Extensively worked with dba_jobs, dba_scheduler_jobs, functions, procedures and packages.  • Responsible for tuning the database performance issues like query tuning and memory tuning (SGA tuning) and also partitioned the tables and indexes for better performance.  • Have used different tools like TOAD (10.1), EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM Oracle enterprise manager (GRID CONTROL)  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management. Education Bachelor's