System Analyst System Analyst System Analyst - Tech Mahindra (America) Inc Durham, NC * Experience in Machine Learning Methods implementation using Python, MongoDB, Solar Search, web-Scraping methods. Analyze the data quality and interpret the data using ML methods.  * Onsite experience at Baltimore, USA for FADB Support project to requirements collect.  * Experience in Data Migration oracle 11g to 12c using Data pump.  * Experience in Oracle APPs Concurrent Programs, request sets, menu, Values sets and Concurrent Manager Creation. Experience in FND_LOAD.  * Experience in Oracle Edition schemas and Edition views for zero down time for code drop in prod environment. Knowledge on NoSQL and Big Data.  * Performance Tuning of SQL queries using Explain Plan, PL/SQL code tuning by using the advance concept (such as MERGE, MULTI TABLE Insert, External table, Data Pump, PIPE Lined Table Functions, REF CURSOR and BULK COLLECT etc.).  * Experience in Complex Query writing, Performance tuning and PL/SQL Stored procedure, function packages and expectation handling. Experience in SQL Server DB and T-SQL code migration into Oracle DB.  * Experience in scripting Languages i.e. Shell script, Perl script, VB script, Autosys and Crontab Scheduling jobs.  * Experience in Data migration, ETL Process, managing the data and loading data from various external systems. Migration utilities are Oracle SQL*Loader, UTL_FILE, External Table and SSIS.  * Experience in Oracle DBA Activity Installation on AS4 Linux Oracle 10g, Database creation or Schema creation, Roles maintenance, DB Space maintenance and Exp, Imp utility and Database Recovery.  * Experience in SQL Server 2005 T-SQL Procedures, Functions, with Exceptions File Handling in SQL SERVER, Developing SSRS Reports and SSIS  * Experience in VB6.0 Application Programming, Product Frame work Designing and Data model Design and exp in Erwin Data model Tool and expertise in VBA Excel Macro creation.  * Experience in various kinds of Business reports using Oracle reports/VB reports/Tableau/Excel reports/ Hyperion Interactive Reports/Crystal Reports.    Strengths  * Quick adaptability to changing environment.  * Commitment, Accountability & Ownership.  * Skilled at handling multiple tasks simultaneously.  * Ability to work well under pressure.    Project Related Skills  * Requirement/Specification Analysis and Establishing coding standards and guidelines.  * Preparing Screen Layouts and Project Specifications Spec.  * Decisions using good judgment in line with strategy and understands how projects fit into overall development strategy and process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Analyst Tech Mahindra (America) Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC June 2019 to Present US. Tech Lead Tech Mahindra (America) Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to June 2019 Tech Lead Aditya Birla Minacs Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2010 to December 2011 System Analyst Hexaware Technologies Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2007 to September 2010 Database Administrator Mobile one infocom - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2006 to August 2007 Porduction support Engineer AdaniWilmar Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2004 to August 2006 Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Madurai Kamaraj University - Madurai, Tamil Nadu B.Com Dr B.R. Ambedkar Open University. Skills Data analysis, Data migration, Database administrator, Data model, Data modeling, Database, Foxpro, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Oracle forms, Pl/sql (10+ years), Replication, Sql, Sql queries, Stored procedure, Python (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Databases Oracle 9i & 11g (SQL, PL/SQL), Access, SQL SERVER 2005, FoxPro, MYSQL  Languages Pascal, C, C++, Python3.7  User Interface Visual Basic 6.0, Developer 2000  Reporting Tools D2k Reports, Data Reports and Seagate Crystal reports7.0, Hyperion Interactive Reports 8.5  Source control Visual Source Safe 6.0 and Star Team.  Operating Systems Windows 7 and Red Hat Ent AS4.0  Other Tools Data Modeling Tools (Dezign tool), TOAD, Putty  Script Languages VB script, Perl script and shell script    6. Tech Mahindra (America's) Inc.    Project MDM - Biz Operations  Client Cisco Systems Inc., Sanjose, CA  Environment Oracle R12 Apps Database, - Python, PL/SQL, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer Job and Unix Script  Role Computer System Analyst  Duration Apr '2014 - Jun '2019    Project Profile:    Cisco Data & Analytics org is responsible for providing data and platform services that enables business intelligence and data analytics services to internal users (Sales, Marketing, Supply Chain, etc) and to external partners. Customer Registry today manages the repository for all Company Names and Addresses along with their associated attributes. We maintain many views including the legal hierarchy, sales view, partner view and ERP views.  Contribution:  • Read the data trend, analyze and validate the data and apply the technics to clean up the data.  • Analyze the data trend and train the data to ML to avoid the duplicate data into system.  • Web scraping using Python script and comparing data using python.  • Read manuals, periodicals, and technical reports to improve/stabilize applications that meets user requirements.  • Deployment of Computer Applications, Production Support. • Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system.  5. Tech Mahindra Limited    Project MDM SAVM- Sales Account View  Client Cisco, USA  Environment Oracle R12 Apps Database, - SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, APP's Concurrent Job and Unix Script  Role Project Lead  Duration Apr '2014 - Jun '2019    Project Profile:    FDEV application is based on Sales Account View. The Application is widely used in Sales area of Cisco. The application supports the various sales processes such as Sales account creation and assignment of the accounts, creation of geo boundaries, geo rules, Conflict resolution, Case Management and Super Group Management, Bulk Actions etc. The application is based on Oracle's Trading Community Architecture (TCA, MDM), and Oracle Territory Manager (OTM).The application refers the TCA entities and uses the Customer Registry services to update them.  Sales Account View (SAV) Cisco to accurately exchange information with one another. BIDS is addressing this challenge by driving the adoption of Sales Account View by key organizations across Cisco. Sales Account View is the creation and systematic adoption of a new hierarchy, mapping Sales Account structure to Cisco's Corporate Customer structure. This new hierarchy will enable all of Cisco to align with the Sales view of the end customer. Currently, BIDS's Customer Registry (CR) represents a real worldview of Cisco's customers  Contribution:  • Requirement gathering and discussion with User requirement and FSD review.  • Analyze the data trend and train the data to ML to avoid the duplicate data into system.  • Environment setup and DB refresh copy to stage environment (Working with DBA).  • Designing a Logical Data Model. ( lookup tables design, interface model design, master table and transaction table design history table and archive and purging Model design).  • Parallel process and multithreading.  • Replication data setup to downstream.  • Working with QA team for component testing.  • Data migration from Oracle 11G to Oracle 12C using data pump.  • Oracle Apps Concurrent programs, Menu, request set, groups, values sets. Manager and user creation.  • Code Development using Advance PL/SQL( COLLECTIONS, OBJECTS AND NESTED OBJECTS)  • Writing Packages, procedure, functions and Trace file generation.  • Jobs creating using Oracle DBMS_JOBS and APP's Concurrent Job creation, APP's Profile creation.    Project MDM- Customer Registry(CR)  Client Cisco, USA  Environment Oracle R12 Apps Database, - SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, APP's Concurrent Job and Unix Script  Role Technical Lead  Duration June '2013 - Mar'2014    Project Profile:  Customer Registry (CR) is the enterprise-wide repository for Cisco customer data. It serves as the Single Source of Truth (SSOT) that centralizes, de-duplicates, and enriches the customer data, continuously synchronizing with all data sources, to give a single view of the customer and deals with Customers are defined in CR as any external legal entities that buy, sell, use or could potentially use, Cisco products and services. Customer data is collected by different systems in Cisco i.e., Marketing applications, Sales applications (SFDC, e Sales, FDEV), Channels, CPR (Contact registration), Distribution (Point of sale), ERP (bill to, ship to, end customer, install base), Legal (Contract management) etc.  Contribution:  • Oracle CRM and Third party applications implementation  • MDM Org Parties Management Party Cleansing, Enrichment and Validation  • MDM Party service integration with Trillium services  • MDM GRID Data management  • MDM DNB implementation and Territory Management.    Project MDM- Item Foundation  Client Cisco, USA  Environment Oracle R12 Apps Database, - SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, PL/SQL Developer, APP's Concurrent Job and Unix Script  Role Technical Lead  Duration Dec '11 - May'2013    Project Profile:    The vision of the Item Foundation initiative is to create an end-to-end solution that will provide a Single Source of Truth (SSOT) for all Cisco commerce items. This centralized information hub will integrate the current disparate systems for all current (hardware, software and services) and future business models. The initiative will focus on three key areas:  The Item Foundation vision focuses on business growth by providing the mechanism to assimilate acquisition data and the flexibility to support new business models (i.e. Software Subscription, Service as a Service (SaaS) etc). Item Foundation will enable product marketing groups to quickly introduce new products and services across acquisitions. Leveraging an integrated and centralized information repository will empower business units to develop and monetize new business models.  Contribution:  • Oracle E-Business Suite and OTM  • PIM new attributes implementation( Major Minor, Price list, base price and etc..)  • PIM Bulk upload implementation using PIM standard API cal.  • PIM categories setup and PID attribute setup and attribute replication to Downs steam and upstream. (QTC, C3 ).  • PIM Business key setup and lookup values setup  • Query re-writing, data analysis and moving data into DW.  • Transformation Logic written in PL/SQL, Bulk Updating and writing complex query.    4. Aditya Birla Minacs Ltd    Project SRT  Client Honda Motors, USA  Environment Oracle 11g, - SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, LYRIS, Unix Script and Appworx.  Role Database Developer  Duration Sep '10 -Dec '11.    Project Profile:  SRT stands for Service Reminder Templates. SRT is the process of sending service reminder emails to the customers of American Honda Motors and Honda Canada Acura. This process involves data setup in the database, synchronizing to Lyris, Modification of Templates, Generating/Verifying Test emails and finally sending out the production emails to the customers through Lyris. The frequency of mailers are Weekly, Monthly, Quarterly (Seasonal), Yearly and On Demand.    Contribution:  • Query re-writing, data analysis and moving data into DW.  • Transformation Logic written in PL/SQL, Bulk Updating and writing complex query.  • Monitoring Appworx jobs and force started jobs.  • Perl script  • XML and HTML template creating through SQL script.  • Unix Shell script.    3. Hexaware Technologies Ltd (India)    Project FADB Support  Client Legg Mason, USA  Environment Oracle 11g, Perl Script, Unix Script and Autosys.  Role Database Developer  Duration May '09 - Aug '10.    Project Profile:  FADB support global Funds and custodian relationship for Legg Mason. Has with custody for funds As a batch process that we get data from around the world. Each one has difference group funds and Majority of the data are loaded between 7:00 PM and mid night. 24/7 - the batches we execute are mostly Perl scripts which access oracle tables, AIX UNIX is the Server.  We have sort of template, that was procedures most of the them get the files and formats the data and stored it into database and SQL Procedures Migrated the various formatted file data and checks the data, it throws error message for example a feed imported with missing data, some of the rejection of data stops loading process where as some of the rejections throws warning messages and loads rest of the data in the feed.    Contribution:  • Data migration using SQL Loader  • Transformation Logic written in PL/SQL, Bulk Updating and writing complex query.  • Monitoring autosys jobs and force started jobs.  • Perl script  • Database Support and DBA Activities  • Unix Shell script.  • Interacting with Client and Offshore coordinator.    Project Verzoenen Reconciliation Tool  Client Northern Trust  Environment Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005, VB.NET and Star Team  Role Database Developer  Duration Feb '09 -May '09    Project Profile:  Verzoenen Reconciliation (ETL Tool)tool is a one of in-house product of Hexaware Technologies Limited. It performs reconciliation by comparing and matching data between two systems. This tool contains set of predefined parameters/matching rules which identifies discrepancies in the data compared. This tool is customized to include new functionalities like ETL Rule, special character removal, subtotalling of records, missing data calculation, multilevel matching, manual matching and report generation as per Northern Trust business needs.  Contribution:  • Data Migration using SQL Loader Utility,  • Reconciliation reports Developed using Hyperion brio reports.  • Database Designing, Oracle DB Administration and Monitoring  • Requirements and functional document Preparation.  • SQL Query writing, Query tuning, View Creation, PL/SQL Procedures and Function writing  • Test Cases, UTP prepared and Involved in QC Documents Preparation  • SIT and UAT issues fixing and Production Support    Project HRS-Reports  Client BBH  Environment Hyperion 8.5, Oracle 10g and Visual Source Safe  Role Team Member  Duration Dec '08 - Jan 09.    Project Profile:  The Hyperion Reporting Support involves development of reports for the Billing Department of the customer. The reports were developed in Hyperion Brio, which already existed in the legacy system. The output and the functionality of the legacy system are taken as an input for the development in Hyperion.  Contribution:  • Report Development and Testing  • Understanding the client requirements by studying functional document.  • SQL Query writing, Query tuning, View Creation and PL/SQL Packages writing  • Test Cases and UTP prepared  • Code Review & Code Review Check List Prepared  • Involved in QC Documents Preparation  • Involved in the peer testing & integrating Testing  • Reporting to the onsite coordinator about the status of the test activities on a daily basis.  • Attended weekly status meetings and provide detailed status report to the client.    Project OMR-Reports  Client BBH  Environment Hyperion 8.5, Oracle 10g and Visual Source Safe  Role Team Member  Duration Dec '07 - Nov '08.    Project Profile:  Brown Brothers Harriman is the oldest and largest partnership bank in America. The Operations Management Reporting initiative will use key reports as tools to benchmark volume of work, work performed against daily standards, identify units of work held over from the previous shift/processing cycle, and provide insight on individual and group performance throughout the corporate actions processing cycle for Domestic and International Corporate Actions Operations groups.  Contribution:  • Developed Hyperion Interactive reports.  • Test Cases and UTP prepared  • Code Review & Code Review Check List Prepared  • SQL Query writing.  • Involved in QC Documents Preparation  • Involved in the peer testing & integrating Testing    Project Portia - Asset Management Tool  Client Sofaz - Azerbaijan  Environment MS SQL Server 2005, VB6.0, Perl Script  Role Developer  Duration Sep' 07 - Nov'07    Project Profile:  PORTIA is the investment industry's most powerful and comprehensive Portfolio Management System, supporting transaction and positional record keeping, internal and external reporting performance measurement, trade processing and settlement and security master file management.  Contribution:  * Data Migration (Uploaders) and Integration to external applications via Exporters.  * Flat file Comparing using Perl Script.  * Interface designing using VB.  * Portia Importing Prices and varies Transaction and Batch Schedules.  * T-SQL, Function, Procedure, File stream Objects.  * Portia 9.0 installation, configuration and Data Trail Testing and eReports    2. Mobileone Infocom    Project goMobilesales  Client TCL  Environment Oracle 10g PLSQL, Linux Red Heat AS4  Role Database Administrator  Duration Sep' 06 - Aug' 07    Project Profile:  goMobilesales is a product running on Pocket PC, Flexible to connect any database and create orders from the Pocket PC, view stocks on Mobile, Create Service Call and View Service Reports. Which fulfills the complete needs and designed using the powerful design and development suite, helps in selling, marketing of goods, spare parts, service and transaction between outlets? The AUTOMAN is mainly divided into three sub systems, sales management, spare parts and service. All three modules are well integrated with each other. AUTOMAN functions as a complete integrated with stand-alone sub system.  Contribution:  * 10g Installation on Linux and Client Configuration.  * Database Creation, Designing Tables, Table Spaces, Storage Maintenance.  * Synchronization data from Mobile to Oracle Database.  * Reports Writing. Data Migration using SQL Loader and UTL_FILE, Package.  * Backup & Recovery. Database Maintenance.  * Migrated MYSQL Database to Oracle.  * SQL Server Administration  * SAP R/3 4.6C Installation and SAP 2004S Net Weaver Installation.  1. Adani Wilmar Ltd    Project Customized ERP  Client AdaniWilmar Ltd  Environment Oracle 9i PLSQL, Forms 5, Oracle Reports and SQL-Loader  Role Plant Process Implementation  Duration Mar' 05 - Aug' 06    Project Profile:  It is an Oil process & Manufacturing Company Developed Customized ERP, invalid in Plant Process Activities Linked with ERP, based on Commodity Process Recoding Process Requirements (i.e. Raw Material Requirement, pre req material, process time and cost of process) comparing process values with actual parameters. Finally, the report shows cost-effective process.  Contribution:  * Plant Process module implementation.  * D2K Reports Generation, i.e. Financial Reports Balance Sheet, Trail Balance, Trading Account and P/L A/c.  * SQL Queries, Stored Procedure, Functions and Packages.  * Reports Storing into Text format using UTL_FILE.  * Data migrating from FoxPro to 8i and Database installation and maintenance.  Project EAMS  Client AdaniWilmar Ltd  Environment Oracle 9i PLSQL, Oracle Forms 6i, Oracle Reports 6i and SQL-Loader  Role Developer  Duration May'04 -Feb'05    Project Profile:  This project deals with providing Maintenance support for Equipment and Material BOM, Equipment and Material Catalogue and Equipment Tag. It provides the unique identification of Equipment in Any plant in the Organization. It provides the details of unique Bill of Materials under particular Equipment. It acts as an interface, to upload catalogued data into the SAP Plant maintenance Module.  Contributions:  * Creating packages, procedures, Functions and Triggers.  * Front End Forms and Reports Module.  * Bulk Uploading of data through SQL-Loader.  * Table Creation & Payroll Process, Forms Designing.  * User Authorization, Stored Procedures and Report Generation.