SQL/ASP.net Developer/DBA SQL/ASP.net Developer/DBA Senior Software Engineer- HEALTH FIRST, INC Viera, FL To pursue a professional career leading and directing the development of Business Intelligence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL/ASP.net Developer/DBA HEALTH FIRST, INC - Melbourne, FL June 1999 to Present Developed, managed and maintained SQL Server relational and multidimensional  databases for the entire organization.  • Database manager; database backups, restores, security, ETL, batch loads, DTS, SSIS packages,  jobs, indexing, profiler, logins and other database maintenance.  • Developed, managed and maintained a SQL Server driven Executive Information System for the organization.  • Developed SQL Server databases, stored procedures, views utilized by the web applications.  • Responsible for over 70 relational and 15 OLAP cube databases which supply operation analysis to the Executive Staff.  • Installed and upgraded SQL Server 2000, 2008 R2, 2012.  • Developed, maintained and created ASP.NET(comprising of Pivots and drill downs),  web applications for the organization.  • Project manager of the various systems and the databases.  • Developed Web applications that displayed various graphs with drill down capabilities.  • Developed a security application that is role based, utilizing SQL server database .net, session and cookies.  • Developed OLAP multidimensional (cube) databases with SQL Server BI (BIDS and SSAS)  accessed via the ASP.NET web pages for the executives. MIS Database Developer SEMINOLE COUNTY GOVERNMENT - Sanford, FL August 1998 to June 1999 Developed a Visual Basic application for the Seminole County Government Budget to be  used throughout the county by all the employees to input their budget.  • Developed a Microsoft Access relational database to store the data from the Seminole  County Government Budget application.  • Created Visual Basic code, SQL statements, forms and reports in Access, Monarch and Crystal  Reports for the Seminole County Government Annual Budget, revenue and quarterly reports.  • Automated the quarterly reporting process through the use of macros and Monarch.  • Developed an Access database migrating from the current AS/400 budgeting system. MIS Administrator HARRIS CORPORATION - Melbourne, FL February 1997 to August 1998 Developed a Microsoft Access relational database which was used for activity based time  keeping.  • Created SQL's and wrote reports in Powerbuilder linking Financial Reports and time  keeping databases to automate the organizations cost accounting system.  • Presented monthly Telecommunication issues to upper management at Program Review.  • Handled the budgeting, writing and development of proposals.  • Developed and implemented the Activity Based Costing project.  • Supervised employees and gave performance evaluations.  • Determined and managed the rates, employees and other various tables in the Access  database.  • Directed process improvement efforts through with various departmental managers.  • Interfaced with Telecommunication carriers and supported contract negotiations. Analyst SUNTRUST BANKS, INC - Atlanta, GA May 1995 to February 1997 Education Master of Business Administration in Specialization UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA - Orlando, FL August 2000 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA - Orlando, FL August 1994 Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS Project management; ability to coordinate and organize simultaneous projects. Ability to coordinate  various projects utilizing employee skills at all levels efficiently.  Supervision, employee training, evaluation, & total quality management.  Developed databases, web applications and applications utilizing SQL Sever, stored procedures,  views, ASP.NET Web Matrix, ASP, ASP.NET, Visual Studio .NET, OLAP, Macromedia  Dreamweaver, ColdFusion, Access, Essbase, Visual Basic, Java Script, Applets, animated  GIF's, HTML.