Field Service Engineer Field Service Engineer Field Service Engineer Tampa, FL Work Experience Field Service Engineer Hill-Rom May 2016 to August 2019 Supported Mid-West Region with extensive travel.  • Ability to work under general supervision with a high degree of technical and organizational competence.  • Ability to function well under pressure and expend effort to meet schedules and deadlines.  • Biomedical Engineering background.  • Used systems that are primarily used in the operating room, so healthcare / surgical setting experience.  • Service robotic medical laboratory analyzers (hematology, chemistry, coagulation, etc. for this mfg. of medical lab instrumentation & reagents. experience servicing robotic based equipment.  • Experience with x-Ray systems particularly mobile fluoroscopy or CT systems.  • Familiarity with FDA product requirements and state regulations.  • Experience with robotics or motion controls.  • Skills in Microsoft Office products as well as ERP and CRM software packages including SAP  and Sales Force.com.  • Highly organized with the ability to be flexible, multi-task and prioritize multiple assignments.  • Strong attention to detail and accuracy. Familiarity with regulatory guidelines and radiation safety.  • Traveled to sites to work as a member of the local team to provide efficient repair / installation support to all accounts within assigned area.  • Perform planned maintenance and escalated break / fix on designated equipment.  • Perform appropriate testing to confirm system functionality according to manufacturer's specifications.  • Support future product integrations by performing upgrades and or configuration updates to existing and future imaging/navigation equipment.  • Assist in development and implementation of training materials as related to job function.  • Lead and participated in product technical repair and clinical using training with domestic, international and 3rd party staff members.  • Assisted building devices in manufacturing as required.    • Liaison between engineering staff and customer base to improve the functionality of the system.  • Provided testing and validation support to the manufacturer's organization, as applicable.  • Assisted in technical support for users of intra-operative imaging system. This will include phone support for users and technical staff.  • Coordinated with staff to develop appropriate test procedures to maintain quality of the devices.  • Utilize the escalation process to resolve customer service delivery issues and conduct root cause analysis that will lead to effective problem solving.  • Created and update process / procedure documentation.  • Ensure full documentation of all assigned complaints, follow-up actions, root cause analysis and final resolution within the complaint tracking system.  • Maintained tools and test equipment properly and ensuring they are calibrated.  • Participated in weekly teleconferences for escalations, post activity recaps, and required training.  • Provide appropriate follow-up communications with internal and external customers to ensure resolution leading to customer satisfaction.  • Have FDA and HIPPA Regulations and Certification Certified in Bio-Med/Healthcare. Network Systems Engineer BNSF May 2008 to 2015 • Network system engineer supporting the Net Sim team consisting of 300 end users locally, supporting 300 pieces of equipment, including servers, PCs, and a diversity of hardware/software and lap tops.  • Support CORYS, a propriety system, hardware and software, and Break-Fix hardware and software  • Maintain and support 5 Dell servers, Windows7 and Windows 10 Active Directory  • Remote desktop support using PC Anywhere and Windows Remote Connection Database Administrator/CSR January 2007 to May 2008 • Responsible for 24/7 support of assigned clients to include Hallmark, Bank of America, AT&T, BNSF, and Liberty Mutual, all within 1-hour response time  • Maintained and supported Unix, Veritas Security, and NetVault (SL500)  • Also provide phone support to end users as well for over the top customer service.  • Worked heavily with nodes and disk arrays (5400 and Legacy Systems)  • Supported Break-Fix hardware and software and performed software patches as needed.  • Windows 7 Administrator/Support. Computer Administrator / Project Manager CISCO SYSTEMS RTP/CA January 2005 to December 2006 for Athens International Airport install.  • Global support of average 30-40 calls per day for approx. 500 end users  • Help configure/resolve any configuration and provide support on an array of windows platforms  • Worked with Cisco 12000,7200,7500,7000,3600,2600 and 2800 series routers as well as Cisco 6500,5500,4500,4000 series modular switches, Cisco 4900,3500,2900 switches, Cisco PIX 515,520 firewalls, Cisco LDIR-430 local director, and Voice gateway/access servers AS5300 and AS5200\Experience troubleshooting Cisco router configurations between client and service provider  • Pre-sales consulting / Network analysis / Hardware upgrade path consultation  • Experience administering Cisco Secure ACS, VPN Devices, VPN software clients  • Monitor system capacity to determine its effect on performance and recommend enhancements to meet new or changing network demands  • Identify and remedy network issues and performance bottlenecks  • Ensure network and IP connectivity of all workstations, application servers, and back-end office infrastructure  • Interact and negotiate with vendors, outsourcers, and contractors to secure network products and services  • Assist in the establishment and monitoring of network performance metrics and ensure uptime service level agreements are met    • Support and contribute to the completion of department goals and objectives  • DNA (Data Base Administrator) with Active Directory Servers and Microsoft Exchange  • Active Directory Support Administrator IT Analyst/Consultant/ Administrator DUKE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL HOSPITAL January 2003 to December 2004 • End user support of Ophthalmology Department personnel, Tier 2, 3 & 4 levels.  • Duties included hardware/software support, troubleshooting and repair functions, including Compaq iPAQ Pocket PC (running Windows CE) and Blackberry Handhelds (using IntelliSync) support.  • Performed server backup functions also supporting Windows XP and 2003.Used Track IT/Heat Ticking Software.  • Performed varied duties, including PC repair, software and hardware upgrades, and accessed computers remotely and supported 700 users.  • Developed extensive knowledge of Microsoft Access database application while working on a project to create various informational reports.  • Gained working knowledge of HIPAA, medical terminology and software applications.  • Current CCNA, certification.  • HEAT/TRACK IT Administrator.  • Novell DNA End user Support, Active Directory Support Microsoft Exchange.  • Lotus Notes Administrator Computer Field Technician/Engineer TRITEK/EDWARD JONES INVESTMENTS February 2000 to January 2003 • Performed varied duties, including a wide range of troubleshooting and repair functions, for on-site computerized recording and measurement equipment.  • Participated as a member of a team of eight in the implementation and testing of the Compaq iPAQ Pocket PC for nationwide company release. Developed working knowledge of Compaq  IPAQ Pocket PC running on Windows CE. The team included members from Dell, Xerox, and Hewlett Packard. The project included the setup & support of a wireless connection to an Exchange server, for remote access and testing email parameters.  • Developed and implemented a batch file program that automated the process of calling and poling data from failed data recorders, saving hundreds of hours normally spent manually retrieving the data.  • Completed at least two more service orders daily than other staff technicians.  • Provided customer service support for 30 sites located in a 100-mile radius.  • Created a PowerPoint presentation to train new employees on the applications features, including animation and automation of a slide show presentation;  • Performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair services for NT systems, networks, fax machines, copiers, and Hughes Satellite Uplinks and Frame Relay Support, Track-IT Soft as well as Windows XP and 2003.HEAT Administrator/TRACK IT Administrator. Field Engineer BELL ATLANTIC March 1999 to February 2000 • Installed and repaired phone systems and channel banks.  • Trained new employees in telephone technology, including T-1, T-3, ADTRAN 6000, T-bird, and DSL. Field Systems Engineer LANIER WORLDWIDE June 1997 to March 1999 Provided training on office equipment usage and maintenance, as well as installation, programming, troubleshooting and repair services. Field Technician BELLSOUTH March 1994 to June 1997 • Installed, repaired, and maintained mainboard and switchboards, Frame Relay  • Installed and repaired phone systems and channel banks.  • Trained new employees in telephone technology, including T-1, T-3, ADTRAN 6000, T-bird, and DSL/ISDN. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science St. John's University - Queens, NY 1994 Skills Microsoft Word, Electrical, Word, Maintenance, Autocad Certifications/Licenses Driver's License