Database and Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> and Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database and Systems Administrator - Spinners and Spinners Ltd US To have a successful career by making positive contribution to the organization through my experience, knowledge, skills and personal commitment and to continuously strive for professional excellence and personal growth.  MY STRENGTH  - Outstanding leadership qualities with strong interpersonal skills.  - Proven ability to work under pressure and multicultural environment.  - Self-Motivated and able to work independently as well as in a team.  - Willingness to learn new skill and meet with new challenges. Work Experience Database and Systems Administrator Spinners and Spinners Ltd - Nairobi, KE February 2010 to Present Manufacturing Company)  JOB PROFILE  ? System Administration  • Configuration and administration of Windows Server 2019, Window2016 and Windows Server 2012.  • Configuration and administration of AD DC, DHCP and Hyper-V virtualization, Group Policies.  • Administration of Enterprise Antivirus (Symantec Endpoint Protection)  • Office 365 Administration including User Accounts and licensing, Exchange Server and SharePoint  • Management of centralized workstations including Cyberoam/Sophos firewall, Exclaimer Email Signature Manager Office 365 version, Help desk system, Synology Disk Station Management for real time backup and data sync.  • Implementation and administration of Business Systems including Hansa World ERP system, Ivend Retail POS system, digital scale management system.  • Design and development of in-house applications.  • Documentation of technical operations and user manuals as well as conducting end user trainings.    ? Database Administration  • Ensuring availability, integrity and security of the enterprise storage infrastructure. Project Management Network and Hardware Administration 2014 to 2016 • MSSQL Server 2014 and 2016 and MySQL database administration.  • Proper capacity planning for the server machines.  • Ensuring that storage, archiving, back-up and recovery procedures are functioning correctly and that disaster recovery plans are in place.  ? Network and Hardware Administration  • Install and configure WAP and LAN/WAN devices, laptops and desktops.  • Analyze and resolve technical problems for the established networks.  • Managing hardware firewall for internet access and other network activities.  • Managing the allocation of IP addresses to the network devices such as CCTV, WAP, printers and scanners.  • Ensuring integrity and network security.  ? End user support.  • Analyze and resolve technical problems for end users in person as well as through delegation and follow ups to other IT technicians working under my leadership.  • Establishing an efficient support system for emergency contingencies.  • Giving remote desktop user support on both LAN and WAN.  • Conducting user trainings though in-house training programs for both fundamental and advance users.  • Using Spiceworks Helpdesk System for support and inventory management of computers, peripherals and network devices.  • Planning and implementing preventive maintenance, license and warranties for the computers, peripherals and network devices.  • Delegating and managing services given for emergency system crash and data recovery in case of data lose.  • Using centrally managed Antivirus to control virus attacks and to apply device and application control policies.  ? Project Management.  • Project master of various projects include but not limited to ERP System, POS system implementation, CCTV and Motor vehicle tracking systems, e-commerce site and corporate website.  • Liaising with external partners to deliver to the expected standards.  • Using Scrum framework of project management I have been able to successfully delegate and managing a team of 5 IT personnel. Programmer, and Technical Support World Net ICT Centre - Nairobi, KE March 2009 to February 2010 ICT consultants)  JOB PROFILE  ? Technical support  Fully participated in the implementation of ICT policy for Numerical Machining Complex Ltd. Nairobi, providing a wide range of IT solutions that includes:  ? Software Development  • Website design and development.  • Developing customized softwares and modification of existing source codes.  • Documentation of technical and user manuals. Technical Support Saisun Group of Companies May 2008 to October 2008 India  JOB PROFILE  ? Computer Hardware maintenance and networking.  ? Software installation and end user support Education Post Graduate Diploma in Web Technology in Web Technology Institute of Info Technology 2008 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Rani Durgavati University - Rani, Rajasthan 2008 Certificate of Secondary Education in Secondary Education Kanga High School 2001 Skills MS ACCESS, MYSQL, NETWORKING, C#, HTML, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database, Oracle Dba, Oracle Database Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ufcpa-tw3piawruo Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7lguaus-r2dvq1hl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.