Vice President of Information Technology Vice President of Information Technology North Bethesda, MD Highly Accomplished Business Solutions and Information Technology Executive with 13+ years’ experience aligning technology strategy with business needs to drive growth across multiple industries. Diligent technology strategist with successful track record of leading multimillion-dollar projects in transformative environments. Detail oriented project manager with expertise in managing communications, cost, staff, change, scope, and risk associated with projects and programs. Skilled at identifying inefficiencies and orchestrating cost-effective solutions that create immediate and sustainable improvements. Experienced team-leader with ability to communicate business process with IT, Operations and Finance. Dynamic team leader who fosters collaborative workplace environments and inspires trust and confidence at all organizational levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Vice President of Information Technology AUI Fine Foods - Gaithersburg, MD June 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Lead the IT department in identifying and meeting the technology needs of the company by having a profound understanding of both what the business needs as well as the latest developments in technology. Implement IT projects in conformance to long-range plans. This included application development done both internally and through vendors, leveraging existing systems by configuring and rolling out new modules and acquiring technology when necessary. Perform operational and strategic IT planning while meeting budgeting and timeline considerations. Manage the selection, purchase, and installation of information technology hardware, software, and related services and negotiate purchase agreements. Develop and Manage IT Operating and capital budgets. Provide coaching and leadership to IT staff to ensure on-time and accurate completion of assigned responsibilities. Manage operations mainly but not exclusively associated with IT. Manage IT infrastructure processing over 150,000 sales transactions a year, multiple site to site VPN tunnels connecting disparate physical locations, over 150 employees, more than half of whom needed to connect through point to site VPN, application, identity, database and connectivity servers hosted in the cloud. Manage over 20 major vendors and over 70 active vendors to support the business 13 hours a day, 5 days a week, while managing the critical IT infrastructure during non-business hours with a lean IT team.     Accomplishments  Rolled out CRM mobile to salespeople in the field with a 99% adoption rate; updated e-commerce website with best in class order processing; developed and launched ChefWeb (www.auifinefoods.com/ChefWeb) – a one of a kind recipe solutions tool; automated complete order processing cycle through seamless integration between web platform, CRM, ERP and WMS systems; implemented business processes to reduce costs & improve efficiencies. Deployed iPads through Apple’s Mobility Management program. Implemented a VOIP phone system for the call center with redundancies across multiple sites. Implemented an annual cyber security audit process with multiple internal tests and yearly external audits. Implemented a 5-year cycle plan to address hardware and software upgrades.  -      Maintained System Uptime over 99.25%  -      Reduced freight out expenses by 30%  -      Reduced open AR by 35%  -      CRM Adoption Rate by Sales Reps over 95%  -      Achieved and maintained PCI compliance Senior Business Consultant Internet eBusiness Solutions - Weston, FL February 2004 to June 2013 Manage complex software implementation projects. Coordinate and monitor project teams as required for the planning, development, testing, and implementation phases to complete projects in a timely manner within budget controls and defined quality standards. Conduct business needs assessments and provide communications regarding project status to appropriate parties throughout the lifecycle of each project. Debug complex application problems and produce quality software documentation, requirements specifications, design documents, and unit test plans. Coordinate user training and develop financial and management reports. Implemented solutions for 65+ customers during tenure.   • Achieved $4.4M+ in revenues during eight year tenure through innovative consulting and project management.   • 99% success rate in ERP implementations.  Major Projects Include:   Hand Innovations   Managed development team of five to twelve skilled professionals in design and implementation of a Consignment Inventory System for integration with Microsoft Dynamics GP’s Sales Order Processing System. Gathered extensive business needs requirements and designed new system based on user input and business decisions. Tested and refined applications to simplify operations. Promoted incorporation of technology and sound business rules to improve efficiency and profitability. Solutions added significantly to company’s value at time of purchase by DePuy Orthopedics of the Johnson & Johnson Corporation.   • Solution suite successfully handled a $45M+ growth in business over the span of 18 months.   Columbus Networks  Developed billing system built on top of the Microsoft Dynamics GP Invoicing module that incorporated means to distribute revenue among various subsidiaries of the company operating in multiple countries based on investment levels. Created features to track individual contracts and invoice customers automatically, increasing efficiency and significantly reducing waste in billing procedures. Integrated billing system into multiple systems containing the telecom CDR’s. System automatically invoiced customers based on the CDR files and customer’s billing frequency. Coordinated all steps in solution lifecycle, from needs assessments and application design to project development and documentation.   • Reduced billing costs by 70% and billing errors by 45%  Prestige Cruise Holdings  Implemented Microsoft Dynamics GP for three major cruise companies operating under the Prestige Cruise Holdings Company and interfaced multiple marine and purchasing systems with the GP Financial system. Involved in entire solutions lifecycle, from project planning and customization design to data migration and end-user training/support. Customizations included advanced AP approvals and redesigned purchasing system that allowed GP to work with MXP, AMOS, and other marine purchasing systems. Database Administrator (DBA) Sonoma Pacific Company - Memphis, TN June 2002 to February 2004 Monitored and managed database backups, logs, and journals for leading pallet and Container Company. Installed and upgraded database software while restoring and recovering data as required to maintain smooth operations. Preserved database availability and integrity through multiple access schemes. Facilitated sharing of common data by overseeing proper key and index management and data dictionary maintenance. Regularly addressed a variety of database integration issues, including migration between disparate databases. Customized software for different client needs using Dexterity, VBA programming, and e-connect. Implemented different ERP modules including banking, inventory and accounts Receivable. Provided ERP training in all core modules for in-house users and outside clients. Education Master's in Business University of Florida - City of Sunrise, FL July 2011 to July 2013 Master of Science in Electrical Engineering University of Memphis - Memphis, TN August 1999 to February 2002 Skills Microsoft Dynamics CRM (10+ years), Microsoft Dynamics GP (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Strategic Planning (4 years), Information Security (5 years), Cloud Computing (6 years), IT Management (7 years), Process Improvement (10+ years), It Service Management (5 years), Strategic Planning (6 years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation Certified April 2017 to Present CISM June 2019 to June 2023 Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies June 2019 to Present