CTO CTO Des Plaines, IL Michael is a very senior IT professional, with over twenty years of combined relational database experience including Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase, DB2 and Informix. He is a motivated individual who strives for customer satisfaction. His experience encompasses project management, feasibility studies, system design, programming, system testing, technical support, education, training, standards development, database modeling, database tuning, database ETL, software evaluations, requirement analysis, team management, and user documentation.    Systems  Hardware: Apple, Amdahl 58XX, AT&T 3B, Data General, Compaq, DEC VAX, Fortune 32:16, HP, IBM, NCR, Motorola, SUN, Sequent, Xerox, AWS EC2 instances, and Zenith series machines  Databases in UNIX & Windows: Informix, Ingres,Vectorwise, Ingres, Unify, Rbase, Red Brick, Access, Oden, Oracle, Omnis7, CSCAPE, JAM, Smart, Sybase, Microsoft SQL server, RDS SQL Server, DB2,MySQL, IMS and Dbase  Case Tools: Oracle Case tool, ER-Win, Data Architect, Deft, Power Designer, Easy Case, Excelerator  Networks: TCP/IP, ISN, DATAKIT VCS, Ethernet, NPACK, NSC, RJE, DKHOST, REXEC, UUCP, STARLAN, RFS, NFS, DEC-NET, AND SNMP, all follow the OSI MODEL  Application Servers: IBM's WebSphere, BEA's Web Logic, and Macromedia's JRUN Work Experience CTO Brown Computer Consulting August 2012 to Present March 2013 - Shorr Packaging    • Created BI Roadmate  • Working with Progress Database, SQL Server Analysis services(SSAS), and Excel BI add-on.  Technologies used: Postgres database, SAP, Power BI Hands On Manager and CTO VHT September 2013 to July 2019 • Worked with stakeholders to build or buy applications for Customer Service, Accounting, Marketing, Sales, Talent, and Executive teams.  • Migrated two data centers to AWS  • Moved applications to cloud based computing for custom coding, Fivenines phone system, Adobe Suite, Office 365, Salesforce, Marketo, SQL server, and Web Applications,  • Scrum master - Worked with Stakeholders on project to increase efficiency, help with day to day processing. and major Epics (project) scheduling in Jira.  • Jira, Salesforce, Quick book, Amazon AWS, Tableau, Umbraco, and SQL Administration  • Worked with SSIS, SSRS, and SQL replication  • AWS changes to Route 53, Server Migration, S3, EBS volumes, Classic and VPC, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud front, Lambda, SQL servers API gateways, and EC2 instance  • Migrated mysql DBs to SQL Server  • DBAmp connection from SQL Server to Salesforce  • Creation of Tableau reports using Tableau On-Line, and Tableau Desktop  • Managed Merge replication between on-premise servers and AWS EC2 SQL Server  • Administer and developed a Large SQL Server database with over three thousand procedures, views, triggers, functions and Tables.  • Business Intelligence Analysis -- Requirement, Designed, and developed SQL reports and Tableau for growing business needs.  • Onboarded and distributed products for companies like @properties, Compass, Fannie Mae, and Douglas Elliman using standard like Rets.  • Integrated four mergers and acquisitions into VHTs existing systems or built interfaces to make the systems communicate with each other as one main system.  • Team managed over hundred and fifty servers at AWS.  Technologies used: Jira, Salesforce, Quick book, Amazon AWS, Tableau, Umbraco, C# .net Core, MS-Visual Studio, SQL reports, Bitbucket, Powershell, FTP, Mysql, Mongo , and SQL Server. VHT October 2012 to August 2013 • Synchronized all the tables, views, functions, and stored procedures between all SQL Servers.  • Worked performance and tuning of Merge Replication for SQL Server  • Created ERD of system using Visio Barnabas Foundation August 2012 to October 2012 • Converted data from Suger CRM in MySQL to a customized data warehouse in SQL Server.  • Worked on SSIS packaged that migrated MySQL via SOAP calls written in C# and SSIS  • Worked in Reporting Service (SSRS) to create custom reports  • Created automated jobs and many stored procedure in TSQL. Hands On Development Manager Thomson/Reuters February 2010 to July 2012 • Developing Stock Screening system that uses Web Cache to gain performance. Product picked as the stock screener for the Eikon System.  • Manage team of eight off-shore resources  • Performance and tuning of T-.SQL  • Formatted data from Data Stream, IBES, Reuters, Starmine, and Worldscope into consistent source of data.  • Created complex eventing system that checks the rolling exchange calendars and refreshes data for these exchanges.  • Create load balance for eventing using SQL Server Replication and stored procedures to disperse the load among multiple servers.  • Developed tool in .net C# to compare data in Scale Out Cache server to the data requested via stored procedures.  • Implement over 18,000 expression signatures in the cache. A typical expression signature would be give me last year's price close for a set of Symbols (e.g. IBM, MSFT) and display the result via an API interface. Our front ends could be Excel, Web Screens or even Cell Phones.  • Created multiple mechanisms to handle lock escalation, and locking within the database. One method created multiple databases allowing for data to be truncated instead of deleted this new method create a 20% to 30% increase in performance.    Technologies: SQL Server, Visual Studio (C# and ASP .Net), Scale Out software, Jira (Agile), VectorWise column store, Ingres and SVN/Team Track for source code control. Director Marketing Analytics November 2008 to February 2010 • Developed forecasting system and portfolio management. The forecasting system allowed marketing managers to see their budget at a high level and performance changes to allotments for the media campaigns, store placement of products, and expenses. Portfolio management allowed company such as Pepsi to see each product impact of each advertising campaign on all the product (e.g. Diet-Pepsi, Mountain Dew,) rolled up into a portfolio view of all media planning.  • Developed analytic data warehouse providing store level product feedback using AC Nelson and IRI data.  • Managed database team's daily activities  • Built data warehouse loading mechanism based on SQL Server's Partitioning and SSIS packages.  • We develop a web interface to allow the clients such as Frito, Pepsi, Four Eye, and Land of Lakes to see the impact of future media campaigns using regression analysis and quantitative analysis to plot expected returns.  • Developed and internal web site that allowed SAS developer to make request to load/re-load results from SAS Analytics into a SQL Server database.  • Scrum Manager for scorecard information. The scorecard tracks how well a marketing plan compared to the actual results.  Technologies: SQL Server, (C# and ASP .Net by other members of team), Fortress for bug tracking and source code control. Consultant Marketing Analytics June 2008 to November 2008 Role - Manager Database Team (Same as above but as a consultant)  • Developed ETL system using partitioned schemas  • Managed Database team's daily activities  Technologies: SQL Server Brown Computer Consulting February 1995 to November 2008 Database Admin, System Integrator and Development Equity Residential June 2007 to June 2008 06/07-06/08 Client: Equity Residential  Role: Provided database support, developed PL/SQL, Unix Shell scripts, and Windows batch programs.  Key Deliveries - DBA/Developer for Oracle, Developer for SQL server  • Performed two off site DR simulations at SunGard as part of the DR team  • DBA for Rainmaker/Archstone LRO pricing system  • Developed scripts for LRO Consolidation/De-Consolidations  • Developed scripts for Intuit MRI for Unit Consolidation/De-Consolidations  Technologies Used: LRO, MRI, Oracle, Toad, SQL Server, NSI Doubletake, RMAN, VERITAS NetBackup, VERITAS Volume Manager, OpenView Agent, EMC Key Deliveries - Sole DBA Grosvenor Capital October 2004 to June 2007 Role: Provided database support, DR implementation, integration work, and ETL work  Key Deliveries - Sole DBA for the over 20 database server.  • Sole database administrator to installing, supporting, and configuring databases. Also involved with database hardware purchases.  • Developed interfaces between SQL Server systems using DTS and SSIS as well stored procedures.  • Performed two off site DR simulations at SunGard are part of the DR team.  • Used Active Directory in a forest and tree architecture with multiple domains on multiple DNS servers to access the domains, use login and permissions.  • Developed a notification system providing funds rates of return for Outlook, Blackberry, and Treo Clients  • Installed the Microsoft Suite of products on servers including work with SharePoint, Mom, SQL Reporting Service, IIS, Com+, and Registry settings.  Technologies Used: Crystal Reports, VB, C++, SQL Reporting Services, Erwin, Protrak, JBOSS, Lombardi, Pertrack, Advent, Customized Hedge Fund modeling, Lamp Financial Accounting application, PeopleSoft HR & Finance, & SQL Server. Architect, Database Tuning, Database Admin, and Data Modeling United Airlines May 2004 to October 2004 Key Deliverables - Logical and Physical Models using ER/Win  • Modeling for a Sales Data Mart that is an extension of an existing 10 TB UDB database.  • Modeling of Incentive program called Perks and a Sales Organization to Territory alignment database for an Oracle target database.  • Project manager of Perks development effort.  Technologies Used: Erwin American Express Tax and Law March 2004 to May 2004 Key Deliverables - Port Oracle from Sun to Windows  • Ported Oracle from 8.1.7 on Sun Solaris to 9.2.0.1 on Windows  • Reviewed security, indexes, row counts, and totals for completeness.  • Tools to scale IIS server, clustering, and SAN drives.  • Reviewed existing SQL Server 2000 system  Technologies Used: Erwin, Toad, Enterprise Manager, Oracle's Import/Export Architect Healthation February 2004 to March 2004 Key Deliverables - Architecture review of scalability and manageability document and presentation  • Reviewed XML, ASP, and Java scripts  • Stored procedure, trigger, table, and views reviewed  • Tools to scale IIS server, clustering, and SAN drives.  Technologies Used: MS-SQL Server, Web research Oracle Tuning and Architecture Review CCC January 2004 to January 2004 Key Deliverables: Analysis of Errors and tuning issues  • Review of Oracle 600 errors and provided tuning suggestions  Technologies Used: Oracle, Oracle scripts, and UNIX tools DBA Federal Mogul March 2003 to December 2003 Architecture Review  Key Deliverables - Database Administration, Disk Configuration, Tuning, Architectures  • Return engagement back at Federal Mogul to provide database support  • Assist setting up redundant UNIX and NT servers.  • Duties included disk configuration, tuning, documenting architecture, and reviewing developer code as it moves through development, test, and production environments  • Installed and configured Oracle, JRUN, Apache, WebSphere, IIS environments for a manufacturing distribution system called Optum's Move.  • Implemented Disaster recovery by moving half the computers to South Field, Michigan and the other have to St. Louis. Work as a team member to find ways to handle network domains and backup/recovery procedures.  Technologies Used: Data Warehouse Redbrick, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Oracle Financials, Move system, CA-ERWIN, Toad, Microsoft's IIS Server, Jrun, Apache, & Websphere. Application Developer Hyatt Hotel March 2003 to March 2003 Key Deliverables - Dynamic Reports and Graphs  Analyzed and summarized customer survey information for Hyatt Spa division using Microsoft Analytics via the MS-Access 2002 product. Pivot tables and dynamic graphics provide the users the ability to drill down on any aspect of the questions asked in the surveys to provide an overview and detailed view of the data. This resulting data can then be transferred to any other Microsoft Office tool  Technologies Used: Microsoft Access Application Architect/Business Analysis Bankers Life December 2002 to March 2003 for Sale Force Automation Team  Key Deliverables - Architecture Team Mission, Technical Requirements, Data Mapping  • Created architecture teams mission and goals.  • Created Technical Requirement Document for 3rd part to develop Java application to feed back end processing  • Created Technical Requirement Document for back end processing.  • Created System data flow and enhanced the mapping documents for new functionality to the sale force automation electronic application form for Medicare Supplemental Insurance.  Technologies Reviewed (non-hands on work): SEEC, XML, Soup, JSP, Tomcat/Apache, Bizflow, Napersoft, Sybase ECGateway with HIPAA, Oracle, MS-SQL Server, Visual Basic, CA-ERWIN, XMLSPY, and NxLight Java Code. Program Manager/Infrastructure Architect Washington Mutual February 2002 to October 2002 Key Deliverables - Desktop Deployment Tracking, Application Analysis  • Tracked desktop deployments as part of a project management group  • Worked as part of an Accenture/Washington Mutual team to evaluate the application readiness for each business unit  • Created application blue prints of what software was required to grow Washington Mutual to nearly three times it current processing  • In an infrastructure architect role provided status to upper management on the readiness of the WAN, Servers, and application deployments  • Worked on team to provide asset management of current applications in multiple business units  Technologies Reviewed (non-hands on work): SeeBeyond, Siebel, Business Objects, CMS, CenterVu, FileNet, Alltel, Rekon 2000, OmniRim, RightFax, Kana, Nortel's Periphonics, Back In Black, Davox, Cisco's ICM Oracle Senior DBA/Architect for new business Equifax September 2001 to January 2002 Key Deliverables - Tools Analysis and Architecture Document, Database Support  • Created architecture document (RFP) on various tools to provide hardware, software and the security required to support CRM/Direct Mail business for Equifax's client Citibank  • Worked as an Oracle Senior DBA providing support on Citibank project  • Reviewed campaign management tools Unica, Protagana, and TopDog  • Reviewed ETL tools Torrent/Datastage and Informatica  Technologies Used: Oracle, Pro*C, C++, Data Stage, Visual Basic, Unica, Protagana, TopDog, SAS, CA-ERWIN DBA Federal Mogul April 2001 to September 2001 Architecture Review  Key Deliverables - Database Administration, Disk Configuration, Tuning, Architectures  • Database Administration role in Data Warehouse Redbrick, Microsoft SQL Server, and Oracle  • Packages include Kronos Time Keeper, Lawson HR, Oracle Financials, and Move system  • Duties included disk configuration, tuning, documenting architecture, and reviewing developer code as it moves through development, test, and production environments  Technologies Used: Data Warehouse Redbrick, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Kronos Time Keeper, Lawson HR, Oracle Financials, Move system, CA-ERWIN Database Manager, DB Designer and Architect, DB Administration, DB Development Universal Access April 2001 to June 2001 Key Deliverables - DBA Team and Database Integration Management  • Managed a team of database administrators to integrate four distinct systems into one database  • Designed, developed, and implemented a database to quote and provision high-speed networks  • Designed a database using CA-ERWIN tool to quote and provision high-speed networks  • Managed and lead conversion team to merge an Access Database, Spread Sheets, SQL Server and a linear hash database into a new MS-SQL based on the model designed in ERWIN  • Wrote Transact-SQL triggers and stored procedures  • Later ran Oracle Migration workbench to migrate the system to Oracle 8.1.7  • Continued to support MS-SQL in production until the Oracle conversion completed  • Helped fix PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, and Triggers created by the migration tool  • The front-end was written in Visual Basic, Crystal Reports, and Active Server Page code  • The new front-end for this Oracle Conversion used Java, JDBC, Web Logics, and PL/SQL  Technologies Used: CA-ERWIN, SQL Server, DTS scripts, MS Access, MS-SQL, Oracle Migration Workbench, Oracle 8.1.7, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Visual Basic, XML, Crystal Reports, ASP, Java, JDBC, BEA Weblogic Database Team Manager, Operating System Team Manager, Senior DBA McDermott, Will, and Emery December 1998 to June 2000 Key Deliverables - System Implementation/Interfaces, Citrix Environment Implementation  • Implemented CMS, an Accounting, Docketing, and Conflict System, using Sybase and distributed NT MS-SQL databases  • Built interfaces from CMS system to Imanage (Document management system)  • Implemented Legal Trax (a paper document tracking system)  • Implemented a Citrix environment on Windows Terminal Server  • Designed, developed and implemented an interface between the old Accounting System and new CMS system for distributed time entry  • Managed a team of DBA's and UNIX Administrators to support the production systems  • Architected and managed team to implement a distributed time billing system  • Managed team to create clustered servers with fail over between systems. The systems were clustered together with a heartbeat between systems to keep them synchronized.  Technologies Used: CMS/Open, CA-ERWIN, Imanage, CTLib/C++, Citrix, Windows Terminal Server, Windows NT, Sybase, MS-SQL, C, Shell Senior Informix DBA and Architecture Review American Limousine August 1998 to December 1998 Key Deliverables - System Analysis and Documentation, Database Installation/Tuning  • Provided a document with complete analysis of the firm's computer systems  • Installed Informix 7.3 and tuned Informix 6.x database engine  • Made enhancements to each set of application code  • The System used Visual basic, Fourgen's Informix 4-GL Accounting software, a Cogno's Impromptu query/report tool and Prolific Jam.  Technologies Used: CA-ERWIN, Informix 6.x/7.3, Visual Basic, Fourgen's Informix 4-GL Accounting Software, Cogno's Impromptu Query/Report Tool, Prolific Jam, C, Shell Senior Sybase DBA University of Chicago January 1998 to August 1998 Key Deliverables - Sybase Data Warehouse  • Developed a data warehouse in Sybase that holds the financial reporting and payroll information  • The implementation utilized Sybase stored procedures, Perl, SybPerl and the UNIX shell scripts on a Sun Platform  Technologies Used: Sybase, TSQL, Perl, SybPerl, UNIX Shell Scripts, Sun Platform, Business Objects, Cognos, DSS agent, Sybase Power Designer, C, Shell & Perl Scripts Database Team Manager, and Oracle/Sybase/Informix Senior Database Administrator American Medical Association November 1997 to January 1998 Role - Database Team Manager, and Oracle/Sybase/Informix Senior Database Administrator  Key Deliverables - Database Administration, Loading Scripts  • Performed Database Administration functions and DB modeling using ER/WIN for Informix  • Helped resolve Sybase and Oracle issues  • Developed loading scripts of an Informix database using the Informatics' PowerMart cleansing tool (ETL) on a Windows NT platform  • Supported campaign management tool called TopDog  Technologies Used: Windows NT, Sybase, TSQL, PL/SQL. I4GL, Informatica PowerMart, Oracle, Informix, ER/WIN, Harvest, TopDog Senior Oracle Database Administrator/Developer Walgreens November 1996 to November 1997 Key Deliverables - Decision Support System Performance Tuning, System Analysis, Stored Procedures Architecture  • Performed performance and tuning for decision support system. Development used Pro*C, C, Shell & Perl scripts for this Oracle system  • Increased the performance by a factor of four by parallel processing and tuning batch programs  • Ran UNIX performance monitoring tools and database statistics to evaluate the use of latches and disk input and output  • The system tracks compliance of brand to generic drug switching  • Architected and developed PL/SQL stored procedures and packages for a Data Warehouse project to perform loading into an Oracle database with prescription information  Technologies Used: Oracle, Pro*C, "C", Shell & Perl Scripts, Tuxedo, DB2, PL/SQL System Architect, Project Leader CNA Insurance September 1995 to November 1996 Key Deliverables - Database Interface and Support, Project Management  • Performed as a System Architect and Project Leader role. Designed an interface between Sybase and IMS using Sybase Replication  • Performed project management responsibilities for interface team, responsible for the project coordination of nine co-workers  • The interface utilized DB-LIB, CT-LIB, Sybase Open Server, Sybase Replication, MDI gateway, MDI Open Access, COBOL, "C", and Perl  • Managed a twelve-member team as System Architect and Project Leader on a distributed claims processing database interfacing into an IMS database and back to a data warehouse  • The system used IBM's Data Propagator Non-Relational to populate a DB2 database from an IMS database; the DB2 database was then replicated into a Sybase data warehouse  Technologies Used: Sybase, IMS, DB2, Sybase Replication, DB-LIB, CT-LIB, Sybase Open Server, Sybase Replication, MDI gateway, MDI Open Access, Cobol, "C", Perl DBA February 1995 to September 1995 Key Deliverables - Business Analysis and Database Design, Batch Interface Designs  • Performed business analysis and database design for a system that provides electronic checking account payment of taxes to the IRS  • Also, wrote all batch interface designs into and out of the system  • The project was written in ESQL/C on a UNIX HP T500 using an Informix database  • The system included use of shell scripts and FTP  Technologies Used: Informix, ESQL/C, UNIX HP T500, Shell Scripts, FTP Senior Vice President Med-E-Systems March 1994 to January 1995 Role - Senior Vice President  Key Deliverables - Database and Networking Department Management  • Designed, developed, and implemented a wireless prescription and billing application; the Application used Sybase as the DB engine and Open Server to connect to an Informix backend  • Designed proprietary code used as middleware to communicate with wireless devices connected to PDAs  Technologies Used: Sybase Open Server, Sybase, Informix, Pro*C, "C", Shell Motorola August 1991 to March 1994 Client: Motorola Corp. Finance  Role - DBA  Key Deliverables - Financial Forecasting and Budgeting System  • Designed and developed a financial forecasting and budgeting system using client/server technology; the front-end development tool Omnis7 provided access to a Sybase database for both the IBM PCs and Apple Macintoshes  • The projects were created using Sybase, Omnis7, AWK, and shell scripts; this project used object-oriented concepts and part of the project was a redesign of a C++ project  Technologies Used: Sybase, Omnis7, AWK, Shell Scripts, C++, IBM PCs, Apple Macintoshes    Client: Motorola Patent Department  Role - DBA, Apple Developer  Key Deliverables - Tool Evaluations, Oracle System Enhancements  • Reviewed front-end tools 4th dimension and Omnis7 by developing a time billing system in each  • Altered an existing Oracle system to use Oracle Reports for time billing  Technologies Used: Oracle, Oracle Reports, Omnis7    Client: Motorola Security  Role - Security review/analysis  Key Deliverables - UNIX Security  • Worked on centralized login control using Kerberose and DCE (Distributed Computing Environment)  Technologies Used: UNIX, Kerberose, DCE Brown Computer Consulting September 1990 to January 1994 Database Developer Sybase (Know SAP) September 1990 to August 1991 Key Deliverables - Decision Support System Design and Development  • The decision support system tracks prescriptions and drug trends displaying possible savings by substituting a drug or suggesting an alternative prescription to a doctor  • The project was created using Sybase, DCL, and C  Technologies Used: Sybase, DBLIB/C, TSQL Store Procedures, DCL, C    Motorola Cellular (Know Google) - Contract Consultant for Upp and Associates  Role - Senior Consultant  Key Deliverables - Purchase Order Tracking System Design and Development  • Designed and developed a purchase order tracking system; the system issued tasks and distributed the task to the desired division for scheduling; the project was created using JAM, Oracle, and C  Technologies Used: JAM, Oracle, C    Firestone - Contract Consultant - Contract with BridgeStone Consulting  Role - Senior Consultant  Key Deliverables - Relational Database Benchmarking  • Benchmarked UNIX versions of Sybase, Oracle, Ingres, Unify and Informix relational databases  • The final evaluation also included a review of the previously developed Oracle system that was plagued with errors  Technologies Used: UNIX, Sybase, Oracle, Ingres, Unify, Informix Senior Database Administrator Rich/Reuters October 1989 to September 1990 Key Deliverables - Network Management Product Development  • Involved in development of a Network Management Product that monitored the status of each box on the network; developed using the Sybase database, TCP/IP and SNMP  • Completed coding of a permission mechanism that would grant or revoke access to a Reuters Network; development was completed using Sybase, FTP, and TELNET  Technologies Used: Sybase, FTP, TELNET, TCP/IP, SNMP Northrop - Senior Consultant Key Deliverables - Quality Assurance Project in Manufacturing Production September 1988 to October 1989 Contract with Taylor Management)  Role - Database Developer  Key Deliverables - Quality Assurance Project in Manufacturing Production  • Designed, developed, and implemented a quality assurance project in manufacturing production for a defense contractor  Technologies Used: Oracle Database, Pro*C, C, TCP/IP, AutoLisp Technical Consultant CBIS Consulting February 1986 to November 1988 Key Deliverables - Relational Database Evaluations and Benchmarking  • Evaluated and benchmarked UNIX versions of Oracle, and Informix relational databases modeling a reservation system  • Wrote a document describing the advantages and disadvantages of each product  Technologies Used: UNIX, Oracle, Informix    Bell Labs (Now Lucent)  Role - Testbed Coordinator  Key Deliverables - Hardware Configurations, Schedule Management, Software Testing  • Managed administrators and assisted in the purchasing and implementation of hardware configurations, managed schedules of test machine usage, tested and implemented software productivity tools including Kernel modules, security features, and special window applications  • Acted as key analyst in determining the cause of computer failures and implementing immediate solutions for a large communications firm; responsibilities included quality assurance testing of new R&D UNIX releases  Technologies Used: UNIX, Kernel Modules Senior Consultant First Options June 1988 to September 1988 Contract with Author/Fredrick)  Role - Architecture Review  Key Deliverables - Network Evaluations, HW Solutions  • Evaluated Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks, and trading room applications for a large options trading firm  • Presented possible hardware solutions and established new hardware maintenance contracts  Technologies Used: LAN, WAN, Trading Room Applications Pre-Sales, Post-Sales, Database Development JFM Business Systems/Resource One Consulting - Bell, IL August 1985 to February 1986 Clients: Ill. Bell, Allrite Sheet Metal, Balkin & Duran, St. Annes Hospital, and 12 other clients  Role - Pre-Sales, Post-Sales, Database Development, Systems Analysis, Hardware Fixit  Key Deliverables - Feasibility Studies, System Analyses, Programming, Programmer Documentation, Extensive Client Consultation  Feasibility studies were made for hardware and software selection based on financial and time constraints. Responsibilities included user interviews in all areas and the preparation of a preliminary Survey Report that identified system objectives, problem areas, potential alternative solutions, a recommended cost effective system approach, and an implementation plan.  Implemented a variety of systems, including financial forecasting, trend analysis, mail list, billing, realty management, patient scheduling, commission system, contribution list, and inventory control systems. The majority of the systems were written using the Informix or Unify database packages under the Unix programming environment. The 'C' language was also used in these systems.  Responsible for clients' hardware and software needs. Duties included hardware checking and exchanging of boards (e.g. Mother board, controller memory) to solve hardware problems. Job functions consisted in participating of system generation and review of new releases in application software and operating system software. Also installed operating systems. Provided software support by telephone and on-site trouble shooting. Developed a variety of software systems for the client and staff. Training of customized package occurred at the client's site and follow-up calls were given on a regular basis.  Designed, developed, and implemented two personnel systems created for an executive search firm and a domestic cleaning service. The search firm application included a sales analysis module using Informix. Featured in the Unify database is an extensive load/unload system for the cleaning service. Both of these systems were written in 'C' and Shell languages.  Development and implemented two manufacturing systems. These systems included Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Packing Slips, Inventory Control, Sales Analysis and Order Entry. Programming was accomplished using the Informix database system with the on-line programs driven by 'Shell' menus.  Development and implemented a pension system and time billing system in RBASE. This was used by a local union to track the pension information of each member of the union.  Designed, developed, and implemented four different law office systems. The three systems handled all ticklers, and case information pertaining to personnel injury law. The fourth was a time billing package for patent law attorneys. Featured in the Informix database was a direct link into a word processing package.  Technologies Used: Informix, RBASE, Unify, C, Shell Education MBA in Marketing Keller Business School - Chicago, IL 1991 BS in Computer Science Marquette University - Milwaukee, WI 1983 Skills Database Management (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), XML, HTML, Linux, Jquery Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelnbrown http://@properties Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) June 2007 to Present Scrum Master May 2009 to Present