Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - American Diabetes Association (ADA) Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator American Diabetes Association (ADA) - Fairfax, VA August 2005 to Present Responsible for MS SQL Server configuration, tuning and providing 24x7 dedicated support to all Production, development and clustered servers.  • Administer enterprise production and development databases (SQL 2014, 2012, 2008, 2005 and 2000). Install, configure, patch, upgrade, maintain and migrate databases.  • Installed and manage proprietary CRM technologies for effective product marketing and enhance communications with customers  • Monitored and maintained appropriate disk storage requirements for the database.  • Monitored table, disk utilization, and database fragmentation on a periodic basis.  • Accountable for monitoring, troubleshooting, and fixing database issues 24x7x365.  • Supported application testing, ensuring proper database operation.  • Performed routine tasks such as purging old files and checking disk space.  • Created and maintained SQL queries and stored procedures as needed.  • Run diagnostics as required looking for poor performing queries, blocked processes or hung jobs.  • Implemented and maintained a backup and disaster recovery plan.  • Maintained an ongoing configuration, design, and documentation for the databases. Diversity and Inclusion Advisor Diversity and Inclusion Advisor July 2013 to 2015 Member of the senior management team leading the strategic vision, planning, and implementation of D&I initiatives for ADA led outreach with key stakeholders, partnering organizations, and communities across the U.S.  • Conducted an extensive diversity study and developed new strategy suggestions.  • Developed and implemented diversity strategies in accordance with guidelines.  • Prepared and distributed materials on diversity and cultural competency.  • Collected ideas on ways to improve diversity and fine-tuned the best ideas.  • Developed and implemented a system for tracking internal diversity trends.  • Worked with staff to develop innovative ways to promote inclusion.  • Responded to staff inquiries regarding diversity issues. Financial Analyst, Team member Bearing Point Inc - McLean, VA April 2005 to August 2005 • Manage reconciliation analysis of unbilled balances for over a billion-dollar Audit project.  • Compile and submit journal vouchers.  • Review contracts and modifications, ensuring contracts comply with Company policies, legal requirements and regulations as well as update raw data file for balance sheet review.  • Research short paid invoices to determine the reason for short payment and reconcile short paid balances of vendor contracts, determining whether cost was billable and if product was correctly documented.  • Participated in creating an Access Database in which all and any financial expenses related to the project will be stored. Requirements Analyst, Intern Pro Net Cyber Technologies - Arlington, VA February 2002 to May 2005 • Conduct requirements analysis in system development, quality assurance and documentation with limited support and professional staff, to keep systems current with changing technologies.  • Assisted in maintaining and understanding client's needs and how they could be addressed.  • Participated in a special project that transformed clients to a new database.  • Coordinate with Project Managers to clarify and resolve issues with business requirements. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Technology Strayer University - Alexandria, VA 2006 Skills MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, ORACLE