Senior SQL DBA Senior SQL DBA Senior SQL DBA - CO-OP Financial Services • Has overall 20+ years of rich and diverse experience in IT Industry and 10+ years in United States, worked in different databases, analysis, design, development, implementation, testing, and maintenance of application systems in the Internet/Intranet and Client Server environments.  • Extensive experience in installation, configuration and administration of SQL Server 7/2000/2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017  • Expertise in SQL upgrade and SQL migrations, upgraded & migration more than 100+ SQL Servers.  • Extensive experience in installing, configuration and administration of MS clustering.  • Experienced in T-SQL Programming and performance tuning, optimization  • Extensively involved in 24/7 Production support of the databases and round-the-clock database operations  • SQL DBA activities include but not limited to Installation, configuration, importing/exporting, patch installs, capacity planning, backup and recovery of mission critical databases  • Supported over 1500+ SQL 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 servers and 1000+ databases in clustering environment (A/A, A/P) and databases from 500+ Gig - 1 TB in size  • Technical Lead in charge of migrating over 180 databases from SQL Server 7.0 to SQL Server 2000 and SQL 2000 to SQL 2005  • Created complex DTS Packages for Data Migration and Transformation. Experience in data migration from Oracle/Access/Excel Sheets to SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000/7.0  • Implemented a recovery plan to a point in time failure  • Responsible for data security and Integrity with HIPAA requirements  • Implement and maintain database security, replication, SQL Clustering, Stand by server, DTS, SSIS, Log shipping, Database Mirroring, SQL Mail, database mail  • Strong experience in Always ON ( HA )  • A hands-on SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) and Web Administrator with a proven track record of team leadership and technical skills  • Knowledge in Amazon Redshift  • Sound knowledge and expertise in Redgate, TSM tools  • Responsible for establishing best practices, standards  • Responsible for establishing and enforcing security mechanism  • Very good experience in Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle/SQL Server.  • Worked with large Databases sizes ( 15TB+) in SQL server Environment  • Experience in Data Modeling (Logical and Physical Design of Databases), Normalization and building Referential Integrity Constraints.  • Excellent backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Very good T-SQL Programming skills. Experience in query optimization & performance tuning. Used SQL Profiler, Execution Plan, Performance Monitor and DBCC Commands  • Experience in Database backup and disaster recovery procedures.  • Experience in Replication - Snapshot, Merge and Transaction and peer-to-peer.  • Has very good experience in complete ETL cycle including data analysis, database design, data mapping and conversion and data load.  • Extensive experience with Oracle 9i Database, Replication, performance tuning, data warehousing, Materialized Views, backup and recovery, RMAN etc.  • Expertise in Oracle version from 7.x - 10g and MySQL (4.x - 5.1)  • Used AGILE methodology in Software Development process.  • Performed & Developed a best practices related to Security and Privacy  • Worked in OLTP & OLAP environment that includes Production (24x7), QA and development databases in SQL Server.  • Experience in SharePoint 2010 has an administrator  • Experience in Dimensional Modeling, ER Modeling, Star Schema / Snowflake Schema, FACT and Dimensional tables and Operational Data Store (ODS).  • Experience in Microsoft BI Tools  • Had a methodology and Experience in identify and debugging reports.  • Experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) process and has excellent analytical, programming and problem solving skills.  • Has the ability to work in a fast paced environment, Good team player and can work independently. Helped the database developers on technical issues.  • I have responsibilities in designing document database of architecture. I build data scheme, tables, and procedures. I am a hard worker with compatible attitude. Work Experience Senior SQL DBA CO-OP Financial Services - Des Moines, IA November 2018 to Present My Responsibility is to provide expert level guidance, planning and design, development and maintenance of databases and SQL Server infrastructure. Ensure databases are secure, scalable, and optimized for end-user performance. Responsible for mentoring other database administrators and acting as a Data Services liaison.  • Responsible for planning, designing, and putting in place strategies for the development, implementation and maintenance of moderate to complex database systems. Includes strategies for monitoring, optimization, clustering, and backups.  • Responsible for the planning and design of MS SQL Server implementation and configuration with emphasis on security and optimization of resources and performance.  • Responsible for the ensuring appropriate documentation is in place for database design and configuration.  • Evaluate various infrastructure requirements and options for cloud based IoT platforms  • Work within IoT segment of IoT and Security Solutions team to define integrated solutions (hardware and software) addressing IoT market connectivity, security, and reliability challenges  • Mentors and help guide the development of less senior database administrators. Helps teach new database administrators key processes that support the TMG database environment.  • Proficient in unit testing of moderate to complex database development and enhancements with the goal of providing a stable production environment while optimized for end-user performance.  • Builds and maintains database systems in such a way that exceeds regulatory requirements.  • Communicate consistently and effectively with internal business partners to understand appropriate business requirements.  • Assist project team members in developing scope documents.  • Provide and help document database and infrastructure strategies that lend to a secure and optimized environment.  • Assist project team members in the development of project scope and estimates.  • Proactively research and learn new database technologies, share that knowledge with other team members and apply those technologies to the TMG database environment.  • Identifies development opportunities and works with manager to establish learning focus and learning plan.  • Manages learning plan and reports on progress during one-on-ones with supervisor.  • Develop working relationships with internal business partners and project team members.  • Acts as a liaison for the Data Services department to other TMG departments.  • Develop knowledge of internal and external partner business.  • Build trust with our partners in our knowledge and delivery of technology.  • Communicate effectively to other project team members and internal business partners as required.  • Actively supports our CO-OP culture and embraces our core values of Work as Partners, Communicate Openly and Honestly, Demonstrate Excellence and Champion Change in all interactions. Senior SQL DBA Comast - Central Division - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to October 2018 My Primary role and responsibility is to guide, educate, support Junior DBA's and Application development Team, Also, to coordinate with multiple business owners for current and future requirement for SQL environment running in HA availability scenario.  • Manages physical databases on specific database technologies.  • Managing cluster of SQL servers  • Design and implement back-up, recovery, archiving, and conversion strategies.  • Cloning production data to development/test environments, and application optimization including query optimization.  • Managing and maintains data definitions in all production and non-production databases and replication servers.  • Managing database distribution, security, and access requirements.  • Designs and develops logical and physical layers of databases.  • Audit and document database environment.  • Handling testing, reporting, back-up, and restores.  • Experience in managing delivery of complex solutions involving IoT, M2M, cloud, security, professional services and SaaS  • Experience designing integration and cloud architecture, with a focus on IoT (Internet of Things)  • Providing technical assistance and mentoring to staff for developing conceptual and logical database design and the physical database.  • Recommends, installs, and maintains database software.  • Monitors performance and performs database training and assists application developers with train tuning efforts. Senior SQL DBA / Team Lead State of Iowa - Des Moines, IA February 2017 to June 2018 My primary role is to help and shape OCIO department's future SQL Server Visions, Implement database standards, best practices and policies, automate the manual the jobs, implement DR solution, upgrade, migrate and Patch SQL Servers.  My Responsibilities which inclues  • Manage day-to-day operations (includes monitoring and maintenance, problem investigation and resolution, backup creation and maintenance, database optimization and tuning, etc.).  • Effectively prioritize and manage concurrent projects, demonstrate initiative and work independently with minimal supervision.  • Drive results and leverage past experiences to improve the environment and related processes.  • Foster a spirit of teamwork, coach and mentor staff and empower employees to take responsibility.  • Stay current on technology and industry standards; work with leadership to develop strategic plans and roadmaps.  • Coordinate with other agency departments to update and integrate processes as necessary.  • Upgraded more than 35+ SQL Servers from SQL 2005, 2008 to SQL 2016  • Migrated successfully 5+ TB of database from SQL 2012 to SQL 2014 and configured Transaction replication as part of DR.  • Worked on Azure hosting for Department of Human Services, Department of Public Health  • Configured TDP and TSM backup solution for SQL and Oracle Databases  • Handled a team of 6 FTE's and 13 other state agency department DBA's  • Suggested latest upgrades and technologies for NoSQL databases  • Evaluated system performance and validated NoSQL solutions, Managed and administered all NoSQL database systems SQL Tower Manager / MSSQL Tower Head Comcast - West Chester, PA September 2015 to January 2017 Comcast is one of the nation's leading providers of communications, entertainment and cable products and services. Headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, Comcast employ over 100,000 employees nationwide whose goal is to deliver the highest level of service and improve the customer experience.  • My Primary role is to manage team of 13 offshore and 1 onsite DBA's, provide Techinical and Process level support to team members and Comcast application teams  • Supporting (L3 & L2 level) 1800+ SQL Servers which will have more than 1500+ SQL instances  • Current Comcast application level supports which includes 600+ applications  • Expertise in 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 versions of SQL  • Expertise in implementing DR like Alwasys on High Availability, Replication, Mirroring  • Sound knowledge and expertise in 20+ different common tools whcih is used to monitor the DB performance, OS performance in Comcast  • Review and analyze current client's technology infrastructure while identifying, proposing IoT strategies, and deploying and supporting critical IoT solutions  • Responsible for the acquisition and management of IoT services at the launch of new solutions  • Assist in the evaluation of new solutions for integration into the IoT Roadmap/Strategy  • Expertise in Remedy, JIRA, Tableau, SQLO3, OEM  • Sound Knowledge/expertise in Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management - Events, Problem Management - Incidents, Service Request and Capacity Management  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 , T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, MySQL 5.1 & 5.6, Windows 2008R2/2012, Remedy, JIRA, SQLO3, OEM, MonYog, iTRC, OIV, FIXEM, NSG, IPAM, IP Center, Senior SQL / MySQL DBA Broker's International - Panora, IA February 2007 to August 2015 Brokers International, Ltd. is the fastest growing Insurance Company in the region and hiring continues due to their successful new marketing programs. Brokers International, Ltd. offers its agents' value added' marketing services in addition to a portfolio of competitive products. These services include seminar systems, lead programs, on-line marketing systems, product and agent sales training, and much more.  • Installing and maintaining SQL Server database systems. Maintaining the database systems includes but is not limited to ensuring successful backups, resolving system issues, opening cases with technical support to resolve issues, monitoring success and failure of automated jobs, monitor system availability, updating system documentation, system and database recovery, etc.  • Design, document, and promote security "best practices", policies, standards and protocols.  • Migrating application code and objects from development/test environments to production.  • Working with development and systems teams to perform application and database tuning.  • In conjunction with development teams, define and maintain database and code standards and naming conventions for the organization to ensure consistency in database and code development  • Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  • Setup and maintenance of appropriate database and application monitoring.  • Setup, test and maintain business continuity/disaster recovery infrastructure database and applications.  • Experience in Logical / Physical Data modeling  • Development of a data strategy and associated polices  • Selection of capabilities and systems to meet business information needs  • Skilled in setting up metadata registry  • Vast experience in Data Dictionaries and Data Warehousing  • Providing highly available database and application infrastructure according to Business Continuity requirements using SQL clustering, load-balancing, etc.  • Evaluating data modeling, database administration, and database backup and recovery tools and make recommendations.  • Setting up and Monitored transnational replication, Database mirroring on Production and QA servers.  • Responsible to Monitor and troubleshooting Log Shipping. Responsible routine DBA jobs like Backups and Restores.  • Review of physical and logical database design; Promote the reliability of database design by ensuring appropriate referential data integrity is implemented and appropriate data types are used.  • Create processes and procedures for application code and database object migrations to support an efficient and reliable system development life cycle.  • Extract Transform Load (ETL) development using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used Sybase Power Designer/ MS Office Suite to articulate and design UML: Use Cases Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams adopting Agile/Scrum methodology  • Created new database objects like Tables, Procedures, Functions, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2005/2008/2012.  • Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics Io by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications.  • Created complex stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Tables and other SQL Joins and Statements for Applications by using T-SQL. Used Policy Based Administration feature (SQL Server 2008).  • Used Erwin for reverse engineering to connect to existing database and ODS to create graphical representation in the form of Entity Relationships and elicit more information  • Worked With 'upsert' commands to programmatically INSERT data if it does not exist or UPDATE the data if it does all in 1 set of logic (SQL Server 2008).  • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  • Worked on ESRI files , like import and manipulate geodata for marketing analysis  • Prepared Documentation for the Disaster Recovery plan  • Install, configure, update and troubleshoot a HUGE MongoDB environment  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances  • Study the database needs of our applications and optimize them using MongoDB and NoSQL  • Worked on GIS (Geographic Information System ) to provide map, model, query and analyze large quantities of data within a single DB  • Having knowledge / Expertise in IT Service Management like strategic approach to designing, managing - ITSM ( IT Service Management)  • Reverse engineered the reports and identified the Data Elements (in the source systems), Dimensions, Facts and Measures required for new enhancements of reports  • Extensive DB2 Connect, WebSphere Federation Server experience with activities involving configuration and maintenance of wrappers, server definitions, user mappings and nicknames  • Developed plenty of reports using SSRS and Crystal reports.  • Release manage the data model in all environment ( Dev/QA/UAT/Perf/Prod)  • Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Used Extensively FileMaker Pro to integrate a database engine with Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2013, also created custom applications based on organization requirement. Did Integration with active directory so that you can determine what rights a user has based on their Active Directory credentials used to login to FileMaker.  • Sound Knowledge and experience in SharePoint 2010. Administration functions including deploying code solutions (.wsp), PowerShell scripts, server optimization, server management, term store maintenance, taxonomy, content deployment, web and service applications in Central Administration  • Knowledgeable in Open systems platforms with DB2 Universal Database (UDB) for Linux, Unix, and Windows (DB2 for LUW)  • Integrated replicate data into existing system using DB2 Data Replication.  • Responsible for merging two different version of MySQL database.  • Did data migration from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 , T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, AGILE, Crystal Reports, SQL Profiler, Replication, Log shipping, Mirroring, Clustering, Windows XP/2000 and Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, SharePoint 2010, Hyper-V, MySQL (4.x, 5.1), SQLYog, Windows Terminal Services Client, VPN, Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2013, CozyRoc Oracle / SQL DBA Med Remote - Chicago, IL November 2006 to February 2007 Med Remote provides complete transcription processing solutions for healthcare. It is a leading innovator in healthcare transcription workflow solutions.  • Designed, implemented and documented oracle Data Guard physical and logical standby Database disaster recovery solution.  • Maintain high availability of databases for 24/7 global operation using Oracle RAC  Databases on Linux operating system. Involved in Implementation and configuration of OEM, Oracle Management Server for Maintenance and monitoring.  • Performing Partial, Complete and Metadata Exports & Imports.  • Generated and analyzed STATSPACK reports and monitored statistics for performance tuning of the database.  • Implemented PeopleSoft for Electronic Bill payment business process that includes view bills, Edit account information, Pay bills, View payment information, Create customer conversations, choose invoice delivery options.  • Used GIS system for capturing, storing, checking and displaying data related to positions on Earth's Surface.  • Tuned SQL queries using TKPROF and EXPLAIN Plan  • Created and customized UNIX shell scripts for automating regular maintenance and batch jobs.  • Prepared the weekly and monthly database health report for Med Remote oracle 9i database. Actively involved in monitoring the lock processes, releasing locks in case of resource Blockage and gathering statistics.  • Involved in understanding the scope of the application, present schema, data model and defining relationship within and between groups of data.  • Involved in developing the process for extracting, cleansing, transforming and loading the data into a staging area.  • Unit tested various scenarios to ensure that the job design and developments within the jobs meet the requirements. Taken good initiative in participating the requirement meeting with the Business and System Analysts and gathering information with an ETL and Business Perspective.  • Worked in par with the documentation procedures and ETL Standards within the company so that the jobs designed and developed are in pace with the future enhancements.  • Writing PL/SQL Procedures, functions and Data base triggers, done the DB2 partitioning (DPF). Used Quest TOAD to tune query performance. Did data migration from Oracle to DB2  • Involved in Data Migration from Legacy application to Product application by using SQL * Loader. Responsible for Creation of new oracle user, and do the import and export of the oracle Database dump.  Environment: Dell 6650, Red Hat Linux 2.0/ 3.0, Oracle 8.1.7.4/ 9.2.0.4/9.2.05/10g, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, Windows XP/2000, DB2, SQL * plus, Shell scripts, OEM, PL/SQL,  Vi- editor, ER Win Data Modeler, Ascential Data Stage 7.5, Business Objects XI, Oracle 10 g, Aqua Data Studio 4.7.2, PVCS Tracker 6.0. Database Administrator 3i InfoTech Pvt. Ltd - Dubai, AE September 2005 to November 2006 Client 1: DEWA (Dubai Electricity & Water Authority) - Dubai. U.A.E Database Administrator Information Dynamics - Dubai, AE July 1997 to August 2005 Dubai, U.A.E., July 1997 - August 2005  Role: Database Administrator  Client 1: MSC, Merchant, Oasis, Samsara, HFS  Client 2: Ignozia Messina, Italy  Client 3: Emarat Oil, Dubai, U.A.E Senior Developer Cutfast Abrasive Tools Ltd - Dubai, AE November 1996 to May 1997 India November 1996 - May 1997  Role: Senior Developer Developer Madras Fertilizers Limited September 1995 to August 1996 Developer Fact Engineering and Design Organization - IN February 1995 to August 1995 Education Bachelor of Science University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu