Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Concord, NC Work Experience Database Administrator Cardinal Logistics Management, Inc. - Kannapolis, NC 2013 to Present Database Administration responsibilities.  - Management of scheduled database back ups and restores.  - Insertion of updated code, stored procedures and trigger functions into company databases.  - Management of user permissions and access.    Skills Used  SQL.  Database administration. Freelance Television Director Concord, NC February 2002 to Present Television Director for multi-camera live events, remote and studio productions. Including the CrossFit Games, CrossFit Regionals, Formula E racing and NASCAR. Senior Coordinating Producer NASCAR Productions - Charlotte, NC January 2001 to December 2012 Coordinating Producer  ? Communicated and managed timelines for long-term video projects, working as liaison between outside clients and staff producers.  ? Worked with sales department and project managers to assign producers to video projects.  ? Increased production margins by 19% while working with corporate motorsports at NASCAR by implementing a system of “producing to the budget,” ensuring producers adhered to budget guidelines by increasing and improving lines of communication between sales staff and production team.    Producer  ? Produced variety of live and taped television programs for various networks and clients.  ? Project manager developing shows from concept to completion, working closely with various networks (Fox, Showtime, New England Sports Network, ESPN) to create, adjust and revise the project to meet client objectives, creative direction, timeline and budget  ? Leading and managing talent, producers and production personnel.  ? Daily and weekly pre-production planning and direction of shows and features.  ? Formatting and stacking of studio shows and productions.    Director  ? Directed live studio and remote multi-camera productions and shows.  ? Led studio crews and technical personnel, ensuring the creative vision of the production team was communicated and adhered to in an efficient manner.    Feature Producing, Editing, Field Production, Camera Operation  ? Produced and edited long-form shows and features using non-linear edit and graphic platforms, including Avid, Apple Final Cut, Adobe Photoshop and Premiere CS6.  ? Quick turn-around highlight segments and recap videos for racing shows.  ? Responsible for field productions, feature shoots and highlights, including ENG camera operation, lighting design, and audio recording. Video Director The Mills Corporation - Concord, NC July 1999 to December 2000 • Managed all video, audio and lighting elements for the Concord Mills shopping center.  • Interfaced daily with center management, operations department and marketing staff.  • Worked as sales representative to businesses both inside and outside the center to develop  television advertising opportunities on Mills Television network.  • Worked as liaison between advertisers and internal legal department to execute contracts. Education BA in English, Psychology UNC Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 1988 to 1993 Skills SQL Server Management (3 years), SAL Databases (3 years) Additional Information Professional Skills  • Microsoft Certified: Networking, Security and Database Fundamentals.  • Avid, Final Cut & Adobe Premiere CS 6 non-linear video editing systems.  • Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, Access, Powerpoint and Visio.  • SQL Database Management.  • Adobe Photoshop, Acrobat, Illustrator.  • Camera operation on various formats: DSLR, HD, DVC Pro.