Technical Support Manager \ Dell ProSupport Technical Support Manager \ Dell ProSupport Technical Support Manager \ Dell ProSupport - Convergys Riverview, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Manager \ Dell ProSupport Convergys - Tampa, FL 2016 to Present • Currently Manage Support Team with 96% overall Customer Satisfaction results for 2016 -2017  • Experience providing excellent troubleshooting, client relationship management, and technical support services for major businesses and government agencies on behalf of Dell, Inc.  • Proven ability training team on identifying the root cause of technical issues and initiating corrective actions.  • Proven success working in high-volume, 24x7 technical call centers. Demonstrated strengths in rapidly grooming team on diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues.  • Consistently praised for communicating effectively with both technical and nontechnical users. Known for excellent problem-solving skills and patience in dealing with frustrated customers.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve a range of software, hardware and connectivity issues. Excel in asking probing questions and researching, analyzing and rectifying problems. Realtor/Sales Associate Keller Williams Realty - Apollo Beach, FL Present Sales associates with experience calling clients, setting appointments and getting homes sold. Experience as a listing and buying agent. Realtor Keller Williams Realty - Apollo Beach, FL Present Real estate agent with Keller Williams Realty. Experienced in calling customers and qualifying their real estate needs. Skilled listing and buying agent. Sr. System Administrator\ Help Desk Manager USAF Spectrum Management Office - Fort Meade, MD 2010 to 2014 • Information Assurance (IA) Officer responsible for developing, implementing, overseeing and maintaining the IA program and managing junior IT personnel.  • Provide guidance on appropriate DoD security policies, operating procedures, information flow, and prevailing IT practices in government agencies and the private sector  • Report, coordinate, and initiate protective or corrective measures during an IA incident such as classified message incidents, discovered vulnerabilities, or noncompliance issues  • Coordinated and managed all Task Management Orders for IT management and moves of desktops, servers, and telecommunications to Ft Meade; NIPR and SIPR connections established on day one.  • Perform daily duties such as monitoring and maintenance of internal applications and servers to include backup operations, verifying integrity and availability on hardware and software servers, implementing patches and upgrades to ensure AF, and DoD compliance  • Provide administrative support on SharePoint, NIPRNET and SIPRNET including creating and modifying user accounts; plan, develop, and execute changes or modifications to hardware or software  • Manage the classified network and performed periodic assessments to ensure issues are quickly resolved  • Develop and review policies to ensure they effectively comply with the organization's mission and standards for desktop configuration and management.  • Make continuous improvement recommendations that efficiently and effectively meet all necessary requirements  • Optimize functionality and performance of hardware and software systems; ensure server availability, integrity, efficiency, and reliability; use Gold Disk, Retina Network Security Scanner and other software to maintain network security integrity  • Conduct risk and vulnerability assessments; implement programs to ensure systems, networks, and data users are aware of systems security policies and procedures  • Maintained 100% accountability while serving as the Software License Manager and ADPE custodian for the classified and unclassified network. System Administrator/ Help Desk Manager USAF 633d Mission Support Group - Langley AFB, VA 2008 to 2010 • Program Manager for classified, unclassified, and commercial networks; implemented and managed designated projects and supported over 1000 users.  • Worked closely with management officials to ensure the seamless implementation of systems and integration of system components to optimize system performance  • Presented briefings to AF, DoD, and federal government personnel on issues pertinent to the development and implementation of IT resources  • Developed and recommended operational plans that included IT hardware, system software, application software, and other IT requirements needed to satisfy the operational gaps  • Performed daily duties such as troubleshooting and resolving desktop, LAN/WAN and systems issues, hardware and software maintenance, upgrades, modifications and reconfigurations; responded to telephone, electronic mail, and/or walk-in service requests for support on all network systems and computer equipment; deployed new computer images, security updates, hot fixes and service packs remotely and manually. Provided SharePoint administration for organization's data sharing internally and across various geographic locations.  • Performed network back-ups and coordinated off-site data storage and recovery operations with the designated supplier  • Installed, configured & secured wireless networks, CISCO VPN/CITRIX software, Juniper, blackberry devices; provided technical training to new technicians, Military, Government and Contractors  • Coordinated the successful Joint Base efforts of Langley and Ft. Eustis Services squadrons' IT infrastructure and system procurement and deployment; Ensured all projects were aligned with TMO specifications Systems Analyst/ Database Developer/Systems Administrator Headquarters Air Combat Command - Langley AFB, VA 2005 to 2008 Langley AFB, VA 2005 - 2008  Systems Analyst/ Database Developer/Systems Administrator  • Served as Lead Information Technology Specialist at Air Combat Command (ACC) for the Commander ACC's Virtual Management Level Review (vMLR); responsible for assigning tasks and schedules to subordinates  • Ensured Certification and Accreditation compliance while administering website for vMLR system and SQL database  • Provided VIP support to 60 general officers, specialized program management and training to 16 command bases, and implemented 60 thin clients, 3 servers, and 4 printers on a secured private network  • Increased system support and encrypted communications that boosted Personal Identifiable Information security and process authentication  • Installed new software releases, system upgrades, evaluated and installed patches, resolved software problems  • Provided user desktop training and support for customers requiring assistance on software applications and/or IT equipment  • Installed hardware components and supported software installations and configurations; performed system backups and recovery for over 1200 users  • Managed the deployment and configuration of over 1000 desktops.  • Selected and recommended the selection of IT staff to the Squadron commander.  • Trained and evaluated personnel for training opportunities to meet the needs of the organization.  • Assisted with IT contract selection and oversite while maintaining an accurate budget. Program Manager Dellew Corporation 2002 to 2005 • Provided technical advice to senior management including process design, configuration management, and system security of the Military Personnel Data System (Oracle based) and Personnel Concept III (UNIX based)  • Evaluated incoming product requirements and modifications made to existing products; functioned as senior Systems Administrator for more than 100 military personnel; resolved hardware and software issues Education BSBA in Computer Information Systems Hawaii Pacific University 2009 Project Management U.S. Navy Electronic Warfare Technician School Certifications/Licenses Real Estate License