Tier 3 SQL server DBA Tier 3 SQL server DBA 3 Sr - Datavail Corporation Westminster, CO Looking for a challenging role in a reputable organization to utilize my technical, database, and  management skills for the growth of the organization as well as to enhance my knowledge about new  and emerging trends in the IT & Cloud technologies. Work Experience Tier 3 SQL server DBA Datavail Corporation February 2013 to Present SQL Server DBA.    Primary SQL Server DBA for multiple clients from different industries like Healthcare, Financial,  Insurance, Logistics, Education and manufacturing industries and leading a team of 20+ Database  Professionals to support their SQL Server environment between multiple on prim & cloud data  centers.  Also focusing to Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery  procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system checks. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.    Key responsibilities:  ? Important role in setting up new processes and smoothening the day-to-day tasks carried by DBAs.  ? Review and document involved challenges & solutions to upgrade & Migrate SQL Servers.  ? Installation of SQL server 20012/2014/2016/2017 with various editions in different environment.  ? Applying various patches/service packs on the SQL server instances.  ? Conducting periodic health check of instances & Recommend solutions to improve performance.  ? Review requirement and recommend various SQL server technologies like Log Shipping,  Mirroring, Replications and Always ON configurations.  ? Fine tune backup, maintenance & index tuning strategies.    ? Quickly learn the market tool supporting SQL servers for clients and mentoring the team with proper documentation.  ? Performance Tuning  o Taking care of problems faced by users related to slow execution of queries etc.  o Analyzing the problem first & then taking required measures to resolve the same.  o Using the performance monitor and DMVs to monitor the Resource utilization.  o Using SQL Profiler, Extended event and require traces to find out costly queries.  ? Managing Logins/users periodically and provide recommendation to improve Security of the server.  ? Planning Ideal DR strategy for client and schedule regular DR drill.  ? Quickly learning new technologies and Training to team based on client requirements.  ? Handling multiple client requests, assigning & prioritizing with defined communication channels.  ? Efficient Communication and interpersonal skills. Datavail Corporation - Broomfield, CO April 2007 to Present 80021.    GROWTH PATH Lead Database Administrator Datavail Corporation February 2011 to February 2013 Database Administrator Datavail Corporation August 2008 to February 2013 Jr. Database Administrator Datavail Corporation April 2007 to August 2008 Sr. Tech Executive Esaya Software Pvt.Ltd - New York, NY December 2005 to April 2007 on Customer Account Migration Solutions program which offer a comprehensive ISP switching product " TrueSwitch" as a part of QA team and provided report  solution through SQL Server.    Key Responsibilities:  ? Manually testing the TrueSwitch product to data transfer for SBC Yahoo, MSN, Comcast and many others ISPs in USA and prepare documents to submit QA Team.  ? Receiving/Making calls to customer to solve the data transfer issue and raising the tickets to Development Team.  ? Managed Technical Email Support for TrueSwitch Customers.  ? Managed CRM Reports through SQL Server and maintaining SQL Server 2005 Instance. Technical Executive Accenture (I) Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2004 to December 2005 for well Known Internet Service Provider customers and help for streamline services.    ? Receiving/Making calls to customers to resolve ISP line issues.  ? Providing E-Mail Support for guiadance to resolve issues.  ? taking escalation calls and working with Team lead quality check process for the team.  ? Performing maintenance activity of ticketing system database and handling backups and restore  activities on SQL Server 2000. Education Diploma in Information & Systems Management in Information & Systems Management Aptech June 1999 Diploma in Advance Computing in Advance Computing C-DAC (Center for Development of Advanced Computing B. Com in commerce Gujarat University