Database Administrator - IT Support Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - IT Support Specialist San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator - IT Support Specialist Accenture January 2017 to Present Administered MSSQL databases in cooperation with a diverse and distributed team of IT professionals.  Produced database reports, documented technical processes, and assisted with automation efforts.  Practiced Agile methodologies for project management and tracked work in the ServiceNow ticketing system. Recording Clerk - Civil Division Bexar County District Clerk's Office June 2013 to May 2016 Intricate knowledge of court record database system through daily hands-on interaction and system management. Taught  clerks, attorneys, and civilians to use the records database efficiently to facilitate successful research. Barista Starbucks Coffee Company February 2008 to June 2013 Delivered legendary customer service by consistently providing perfectly executed beverages to individual specifications.  Trained new employees in barista responsibilities to ensure a smooth transition to floor work. Member Service Representative United Services Automobile Association March 2011 to November 2012 Deepened member's relationship with USAA by providing exceptional customer service and relevant product solutions through trained expertise in the fields of auto, renters, home, and valuable personal property insurance. Operations Manager KUIW.ORG Internet Radio Station June 2008 to June 2009 As a senior at UIW, managed student staff and supervised daily operations of the University of the Incarnate Word internet  radio station.  Simultaneously interned with the Guadalupe Radio Network as a Production Assistant. Receptionist Law Offices of Carroll & Hinojosa, PLLC September 2005 to May 2007 Efficiently managed office calls, logs, databases, and mail while assisting attorneys & clients with pending court cases. Education Bachelor of Arts in Communication Arts in Communication Arts University of the Incarnate Word 2016 to 2019 Rackspace Open Cloud Academy Graduate June 2016 Castle Hills First Baptist School May 2009 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/meganculpepper http://KUIW.ORG Certifications/Licenses RHCSA July 2016 to July 2019