Customer Service Representative Customer Service Representative General/Operations Manager - Private Corp Anchorage, AK To obtain a dynamic position within a team utilizing my work experiences while learning new and challenging job skills that are a positive addition to the company. With my ability to be a multi-tasked individual, utilizing great organization skills, I am a self-starting asset.  Business/Data Management and Sales/Customer Service Experience:  Data Management  ? Product creation and maintenance with multi-level monitoring system, for approximately 32,000+ active products, both in the active database and an e-business site.  ? Pricing maintenance and monitoring with multi-level monitoring system, for approximately 160,000+ active records.  ? Factory collaboration for the creation and maintenance product offerings to the US Market.  ? Supplying database information to accommodate various customer specific database requests.  ? Reporting - Providing a wide range of reporting to agencies such as NEMA and US Department of Labor, internal teams in Executive Management, Product Management, multiple international/domestic suppliers, in addition to Inside/Outside Sales for market sales and revenue data.  Team Leader/Supervisor  ? Responsible for the training and supervision of 10+ employees.  ? Daily operations included many opportunities for coaching, solutions-oriented management and positive feedback, leading to team success in meeting (and exceeding) monthly and yearly sales goals.  ? Daily interaction with multiple departments. Modes of communication included reports, face-to-face meetings and on-site training for remote branches.  ? Demonstrated the ability to manage/supervisor dynamic and diverse personalities, from employees to customers.  Sales/Customer Service  ? Daily operations included providing price & availability, technical assistance and product selections to 500+ customers.  ? Completed 300+ transactions per month and fielded 65+ calls per day.  ? Responsible for collaborating with two outside Territory Account Managers to activate new accounts and maintain current accounts. Yearly sales totaled $6 million.  ? Daily interaction with multiple departments to provide customers with resolution of shipping, pricing and accounting issues.  Facilities/Office Management  ? Identified and Implemented several safety programs to bring the company into compliance with current OSHA regulations.  ? Responsible for Project and Contract Facility Maintenance, such as maintaining daily comforts to the office and its employees. As well as remodeling and expansion projects within current county guidelines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Representative Alaska Railroad - Anchorage, AK February 2019 to Present Coordinating with Customers and Rail Yards for all incoming and outgoing freight for Alaska with agreements with the Alaska Railroad. Passenger Service Agent Alaska Railroad - Anchorage, AK April 2018 to February 2019 Sell and Issue Passenger tickets, make travel reservations, provide passenger rail, tour information and coordinate boarding activities for the entire rail belt. General/Operations Manager Accurate Import Center Inc. - Anchorage, AK April 2013 to February 2018 Overseeing all day-to-day operations of a local Owned and Operated Auto Repair Facility. Implementing identified safety concerns and added areas of improvement. Re-establishing database standards for the business to meet and exceed estimated financial goals. Marketing to increase customer base and coordinating community out-reach programs, while maintaining high level of customer satisfaction. Database Supervisor WEG Electric Corp - Duluth, GA 2002 to 2012 US Headquarters for a leading global motor and solutions provider, ensuring that WEG Electric has a solid foundation of information within the business system database, thus providing a solid platform for the business to grow and achieve its goals as efficiently as possible. Sales/Executive Administrative Assistant/Contract Administrator InterCept Group - Norcross, GA 1999 to 2002 Industry Leader of Data Processing and ATM Services, targeting clientele of Community and Credit Union institutions within the United States and US Virgin Islands. Maintained daily operations of major subsidiary of the InterCept Group ATM processing division, including, but not limited to A/P, A/R, Sales, and Marketing. Administrative Assistant to upper/middle managers as well as 40+ remote sales/portfolio representatives; sales/service reporting, expense/commission/budget reporting, as well as travel/scheduling/industry research/and project coordination. Contractor GE Plastics - Norcross, GA 1998 to 1999 Regional Marketing Administrator  Provided extensive office support for four divisions of GE Plastics in North Atlanta regional location including; managing all facility needs, coordination of events (travel, accommodations, catering, etc.), new hire coordination with GE Corporate, managing, compiling and distribution of marketing divisions reporting/materials. Office Manager Private Answering Service - Anchorage, AK 1997 to 1998 Customer Service based, high volume call center that handled a diverse amount of customers. Included dispatching clients, monitoring security system (Business & Residential), as well as managing, A/R & A/P, collections, marketing for business growth, and shift scheduling for a dynamic office.    Programs/Business Systems:  MS Suites - Work, Excel, Outlook, OneNote, SharePoint and PowerPoint / SAP / Apprise v7.3.1501 (Business System and Database) / Crystal Reports / MS Dynamics CRM / QuickBooks / SAGE-MAS90 / Motor Shop Director / Varies Social Media Market Applications Education High School Diploma Gwinnett Technical College, Rockhurst University, Total Training Network Skills Inventory, training, Operations, Microsoft Word, Word, training, Scheduling, Operations, Microsoft Office (10+ years)