Database Administrator 3 <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 3 Suffolk, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator 3 Huntington Ingalls - Newport News Shipbuilding - Newport News, VA December 2013 to March 2014 Implemented and maintained operation and physical design of databases for work packages  ? Conducted performance tuning of indexes and databases  ? Reviewed database design and integration of systems with backup recovery  ? Maintained security and integrity controls including making recommendations regarding enhancements and improvements  ? Formulated policies, procedures, and standards relating to database management  ? Monitored transaction activity and utilization  ? Developed new databases to include stored procedures and triggers for reports and graphs for work packages  ? Extensive use of VBA, Cognos, SAP, and Primavera.  ? Developed financial databases using VBA creating stored procedures and reporting  ? Extensive knowledge with SQL Financial Analyst/Programmer CDI Corporation - Portsmouth, VA November 2008 to November 2013 Prepared and analyzed financial data using MS Access, Excel, Costpoint and Cognos  ? Created functional reporting methods for contracts, job orders, and deliverables  ? Restructured weekly processes of records analysis in Access database to accurately expended labor  ? Developed financial and administrative reports as required by government contracts for customers, vendors and project managers  ? Provided ad-hoc reports in Excel and Cognos to support management inquiries and data calls  ? Developed financial controls, procedures, systems and forecasting techniques to evaluate contract and program  status  ? Ensured compliances with internal procedures and government contract regulations including FARs and SCA  requirements  ? Administered weekly labor tasks and hours for several internal departments as well as corporate offices  ? Reviewed projects status and tracked variances to guarantee accuracy between subcontractor expenses and payment received from customers  ? Maintained accuracy between two databases (Access and Cost Point) by resolving weekly variances between labor  expenditures  ? Enter charge strings, notifications of funding and contract data into Costpoint and Deltek  ? Created notifications of funding with authorizations for government contracts and set up project structures for reporting and billing  ? Reviewed and prepared monthly invoices for payment  ? Handled database server tuning and security and developed documentation manuals for IT department and provided internal technical support  ? Enhanced MS Access databases by improving user interface, introducing multiple-user access, and increasing  security and stability  ? Met reporting requirements by utilizing COGNOS query studio  ? Developed financial databases using VBA creating stored procedures, labor reporting and contract record retention. Data Acquisition Specialist, SAI Global Logistics and Procurement - Paramus, NJ November 2007 to August 2008 Submitted requests to government for specific Logistics and Procurement data for the SAI Global Logicom Data  System.  ? Created new databases, involving importing and exporting, installing and configuring database software for MS  Access environment  ? Implemented backup and recovery procedures of databases  ? Managed internal databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support Director of Database Operations Proxity Electronic Commerce Systems, Inc - Virginia Beach, VA November 2005 to August 2007 Developed and maintained 25 databases consisting of government logistics data, department of defense data, and federal logistics information systems.  ? Supervised four individuals in maintaining and updating databases  ? Created stored procedures in SQL 2005 to maintain and update the company website  ? Designed and maintained Commercial Specifications, Military Standards, and Department of Defense databases and created update maintenance procedures for all databases.  ? Developed databases that included inventory tracking, financial tracking and contact management Senior Data Coordinator Information Handling Services - Virginia Beach, VA August 1997 to September 2005 Performed duties as point of contact and administrator for NASA Technical Standards Administration and NASA  Standards Update Notification Systems (SUNS) for all NASA Centers throughout the US.  ? Designed and maintained Commercial Specifications, Military Standards, and Department of Defense databases and created update maintenance procedures for all databases.  ? Supervised and trained information processing staff on use of new databases and indexing procedures.  ? Used scanning skills knowledge and converted documents for inclusion in weekly indexes for company website.  ? Integrated and updated weekly programs for website updates.  ? Fulfilled customer requests regarding ordering of standards and specifications. Education BS in Actuarial Mathematics Bryant College May 1995 Skills MS ACCESS (10+ years), VBA (10+ years), COGNOS (5 years), DELTEK (5 years), COSTPOINT (5 years), MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA Additional Information RELATED SKILLS    ? Deltek CostPoint, SAP Business, Primavera  ? MS Office / 365  ? MS Excel, MS Access, VBA, SQL Server, Visio  ? IBM Impromptu, Cognos 8, Cognos 10  ? Excellent communication skills