Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - IBM Tampa, FL IT specialist with vast experience interacting with clients and coworkers. Strong work ethic used while completing tasks in a very efficient manner. Incorporate client support values to improve IT user experience for clients, employees, and administration. Proven track record of communicating and being on time meeting deadlines by taking Leadership and collaborating with teammates. Known for flexibility and adaptability with problem solving. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator IBM 2018 to Present Maintained and implemented database support by deploying/upgrading systems. Assisted with systems migration from Oracle 11g to 12g or golden gate. Shadowed and assisted lead Oracle DBA with learning/teaching session.  • Monitored, alerted and listener logs, and addressed anomalies in a timely fashion  • Researched, planned, and installed Oracle Patchsets on a quarterly basis  • Managed schema objects for optimal performance and monitored and kept the SGAs tuned for all assigned databases  • Protected organization's value by keeping information confidential  • Served as Lead Canvasser on employee annual contribution and achieved 100% response rate within 1.5 week IBM - Tampa, FL 2015 to Present System Services Representative IBM 2015 to 2018 Advised clients and co-workers on preventative coordination of hardware maintenance. Accountable for driving a high level of technical support with professionalism. Provided on-site customer service support for commercial clients.  • Helped the organization meet daily, weekly, and monthly goal for overachieving customer success  • Resolved tickets within the customer SLA  • Supported systems such as IBM system X, Lenovo Desktops & laptops, Macbook & iMac    • Trained and assisted co-workers in driving customer success with 90% of service delivery  • Reduced workload by an average of 35% by arranging territory and service calls with team lead and teammates by providing 98.5% availability to priority service calls  • Focused on individual/team objectives and development of professional effectiveness Technical Support Representative COMPUTER GENERATED SOLUTIONS - Edison, NJ 2015 to 2015 Responded to customer requests for technical support services in a call center environment. Assisted customers remotely questions related to system features, fixes, and/or system reboot.  • Recognized research, isolated and resolved information system problems  • Demonstrated quality communication skills and exhibited a high level of professionalism  • Used courtesy, tact and discretion in all communications with customers  • Researched and resolved photo kiosks system problems  • Multi-tasked between systems applications consecutively Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in BSIT University of South Florida - Tampa, FL Present Associate of Science in (AS), Computer Information System & Technology Union County College - Elizabeth, NJ August 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Brodriguez27 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming: Python, C++, C#, Turbo C, Visual Basic 6.0  Networking: Cisco, Cybersecurity, WireShark  Hardware: iOS, iMac, Windows  Productivity: Microsoft Suite, Office 365, VMWare, MS RDS  Website: DreamWeaver, HTML, CSS  Database: MySQL Server, Oracle  Cloud: AWS, Google, Azure