Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - 20th Century Fox Los Angeles, CA • Four plus years of professional experience as Oracle Database Administrator having good experience in Database Installation, Database Administration, Up-Gradation, Migration, Installing Patches, Performance Tuning  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 11g and 12c with experience in very large scale database and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems  • Experience in a variety of hardware and software platforms including; UNIX/Linux, Windows, HP-UX & AIX and RHEL  • Registered Oracle 11gR1/11gR2/12c databases in Oracle Virtual Directory.  • Implemented and configured Centralized Database Authentication using Kerberos authentication.  • Consulted with and provided guidance to database users and client groups.  • Collaborated and provided input with other database analysts, where applicable, including troubleshooting and escalated issues.  • Working with Oracle Support Team, creation of Service Requests for ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY registration, Global role mapping, and database related issues.  • Documented the ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY procedure and implementation, issues, status and remediation of shared accounts.  • Have Hands on experience in Installation of 12C RDBMS S/W.  • Hands on experience in Installing Golden-gate Replication, tools in golden gate log dump, defgen for troubleshooting issues in environment.  • Installed Golden Gate for replication of database on 11gR2 environment.  • Involved in configuration of parameter files for extract process in primary and replica process in standby using Golden Gate  • Configured parameters for the Uni-directional replication using Golden-Gate  • Applied patches on standalone servers using Opatch utility  • Have good knowledge about Physical and Logical structure of a database  • Programming and development of SQL, PL/SQL and UNIX shell scripts.  • Played key role in implementation of Kerberos Authentication for database user accounts. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator 20th Century Fox - Los Angeles, CA October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2,12C on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g ,11g to 12C  • Migrated SYBASE to Oracle 11.2.0.4 using sql developer migration assistant.  • Worked on Mysql upgrade activities and other operational tickets  • Provided on-call operational support for Redshift clusters.  • Worked on PostgreSQL database setup and provided dba support for application deployments  • Upgraded people soft databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12C.  • Upgraded and Migrated 12C RAC databases.  • Worked with application teams for deployments on PostgreSQL Instances.  • Worked on migrating and upgrading the 2 node RAC database from 11.2.0.4 to 12.2.0.1.  • Migrated on premise db's to AWS RDS  • Created database links from RDS to on premise db's.  • Worked on installing drivers and configuring oracle heterogeneous services to pull data from mssql and postgres db's using the db links in oracle.  • Performed day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking for failed processors, verifying the query for particular issues and validating disk space.  • Created Wallets and added the hardcoded creds in monitoring , rman backup scripts to wallet and updated scripts to use the wallet for authentication.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g and 12cR2.  • Used to Perform Cold/Hot Backups.  • Implemented and Managed Oracle Data Guard on Oracle 11gR2.  • Configured the database statistics to improve the performance of the queries and response time.  • Gathered fix object and data dictionary statistics to for better performance of the db.  • Created composite indexes to help improve the slower queries to perform better.  • Configured stats preferences to gather stats with histograms on columns appropriate.  • Created users and granted them access as per the standards.  • Scheduled job to kill the inactive and stale sessions that have been on the system for more than an hour.  • Dropped certain unused indexes.  • Performed table reorg online by using shrink and gathered stats to provide optimizer the updated stats.  • Purged bad sql plans from Shared Pool and have gathered stats, thus improving the performance of the query.  • Deployed OEM agents and registered the db's in OEM. Oracle Database Administrator WELLS FARGO March 2015 to September 2016 • Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  • Configured sqlnet.ora on database servers to make use of Kerberos Authentication and ldap.ora to use Oracle Internet Directory.  • Registered the databases to Oracle Virtual Directory.  • Deployed the keytab files on database servers.  • Validated connections to databases that are registered to ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY using privileged account and also resolved the connection issues where needed.  • Guided the clients to make use of privileged account and also in Oracle Client setup on clients workstation.  • Worked on validating the access to db's registered to ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY through Oracle Enterprise Manager and other tools  • Guided clients to make use of Centralized Database Authentication, by helping them understand the architecture of ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY and configuring the db server to make use of Kerberos authentication and registering the database to ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY.  • Lead the clients and peers in setting up named credentials in Oracle Enterprise Manager for privileged account and hence leveraging privileged account in accessing the db's, rather than shared service accounts and preferred credentials.  • Resolved connection issues, when using centralized db authentication.  • Gathered details of how shared service accounts are used by clients , in performing their daily maintenance tasks , jobs that are scheduled using shared service accounts.  • Queried and Listed out the Objects, Procedures and Packages owned by the shared service accounts.  • Analyzed and Documented the impact of locking these shared service accounts.  • Gathered the set of privileges being used by shared service accounts and also the permissions needed on directories as well.  • Analyzed around 100 perl scripts that are making using of the shared service account, gathered the connection string, privileges needed and objects used and procedures or functions being called by these scripts and privileges needed for the procedures and functions.  • Categorized the these jobs based on functionality and privileges used, Thus played a key role in designing of alternative through Centralized Database authentication, privileged accounts to replace face less Shared Service Accounts that are in use currently.  • Created Access Request Tool Requests, To grant access to the team members for the database servers in various domains.  • Created Change Request to create service account and keytab file that are essential for the kerberos authentication.  • Created instance specific wallet directories to store the ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY credentials for the database and also created the soft links as needed, so that dbca could place wallet files in instance specific location.  • Performed the required node-level activities on db servers to make use of kerberos authentication and to meet pre-requisites for registering the database to ORACLE VIRTUAL DIRECTORY  • Created and Coordinated change requests, to create the directories and change the permissions on directories that are essential to store Wallet Files.  • Unlocked and also altered the TIM_ORA_SVC service account password, which is required for Global Role Mapping.  • Guided Primary dba's in setting up Oracle Client to use Oracle Internet Directory, by configuring the ldap.ora file and updated sqlnet.ora with essential parameters.  • Installed Golden Gate for replication of database on 11gR2 environment  • Configured parameters for the Uni-Directional replication using Golden-Gate.  • Installed and Configured Enterprise Manager Grid Control 11g and Cloud Control 12c.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using OEM  • Created Users with limited rights as per specific module under specific client. Granting roles and profiles as per system study to users.  • Replication of tables to cross platform and Creating Materialized Views.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks like space management, rectified locking problems, managed quotas etc., configured network components like TNSNAMES, Names Server, Connection Manager, etc. for easy and effective management of Oracle networking. Configured listener for external procedure calls.  • Database backup & Recovery with export and import and archive database with RMAN commands.  • Also configured database cloning using RMAN.  • Implemented Data Guard on production database.  • Administer all databases in the areas of maintenance, tuning, performance, and troubleshooting.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like OEM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, TKPROF, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Managing databases on multiple servers.    ENVIRONMENT: Oracle 10g, 11gR2, AIX-6.3, Linux , ASM, RMAN, RAC, Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, RDBMS, SQLPLUS, PL/SQL, Perl, Kerberos, Oracle Internet Directory, Oracle Virtual Directory. Education Information Science and Technology Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri Skills Oracle Dba, DBA, MYSQL, Postgresql Additional Information Technical Skills    RDBMS Oracle 11gR1, Oracle 11gR2, Oracle 12C,MySQL,PostgreSQL,Redshift  Oracle Products  Oracle Virtual Directory, Oracle Internet Directory, Real Application Cluster(RAC), Data guard, Import and Export, Data pumps, Automatic Storage Management(ASM), Recovery Manager(RMAN), Oracle10g/11g (Grid Control), Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM), Golden Gate    Operating System Oracle Linux (OEL) 6.3, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 4.x/5.x Sun Solaris 5.x, Windows XP/2003/2008,2012 IBM-AIX 6.1.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, PERL.  Tools & Utilities  Kerberos Authenticaion Services, SQL Trace and SQL tuning Advisory, SQL* plus, SQL * LOADER, ADDM, DBCA, VERITAS, Log Miner, TKPROF, Explain Plan, AWR, ASH, Toad.