Senior Video Producer Senior Video Producer Senior Video Producer - Princess Cruises jpernasphotography.com I am a photographer and video producer not only by trade, but by passion. I grew my love of photo and video with my love of astronomy and doing whatever it took to capture the sky on camera. That spread into landscape and wildlife, then eventually people. Ever since I found out I could make a living doing what I love and still being creative, I pursued it. When work feels less like work and more like challenges to overcome I know I chose the right field.    Jpernasphotography.com/cinematography/portfolioresume Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Video Producer Princess Cruises March 2017 to Present • Plan, film, edit, and produce unique video content each cruise.  • Generated $30,000 in additional revenue from weddings and renewal of vows in addition to expected cruise video sales.  • Chosen as the only video producer to open the sky princess in 2019 for it's inaugural  voyage in Italy.  • Host weekly theater screenings and seminar events to promote video product to onboard guests.  • Work with Sony, Canon, Nikon, and Dji cameras to produce the best possible product.  • Maintain highest standard of customer service in guests interactions and in sales of photo-video products.  • Selected to take part in a fleet wide 'think tank' to lead, develop, and advance the video department.  • Hold the safety duty of stair tower manager and first in charge of a lifeboat in case if  emergency. Owner - Photographer/videographer Jpernasphotography November 2014 to Present Personal media production company registered in the state of Florida; with focus on photo, video, and media production for commercial and private clients. Worked with a  variety of companies such as Ford, Cruise1st, Hyscent, Geico, Armchem, and Citizen's for a Better South Florida. Database Administrator Dr. Kendall Dermatology - Coral Gables, FL January 2015 to May 2015 • Convert archive of patient charts from paper to EzDerm. (digital patient medical history)  • Uphold utmost confidentiality following strict HIPAA laws when handling patient  information.  • Coordinate medical billing between insurance providers and patients based on covered medical codes.  • Handle phones, greet, and prep patients after daily tasks were completed or high  patient volume.  • Balancing checkbooks of real estate sister company via Quickbooks. Photographer Dr. Kendall Dermatology - Miami, FL January 2015 to March 2015 • Greet and encourage guests to take a fun family photo upon entry.  • Balance the needs of the hosts to seat guests with job requirements to photograph all  incoming guests.  • Use adaptive sales techniques to approach and sell photographs to guests before meals.  • Organize, edit, and print photos quickly and efficiently to minimize the time between when the photo was taken and delivered. Education AA in Electrical Engineering Miami Dade College - Miami, FL August 2010 to May 2012 Links http://jpernasphotography.com Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/baifcvnmpzbnkh3r Data Analysis — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qdx0ilmt2i0tdczq Marketing — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand your target audience and how to best communicate with them. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s0jmvdnlcqsxczfk Graphic Design — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yzm0ngkzyhpjf-vg Social Media — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dsternqhcpnsw5oj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    • Exceptional Customer Service • Efficient time management  • Confident Public speaking • Problem solving and critical  • Outstanding Written and verbal thinking  communication    • Proficiency in Adobe products including Premiere Pro, After Effects, Photoshop,  Lightroom, Encore, and Audition.  • Mac, PC, and Linux literate along with knowledge in Word, Excel, Powerpoint, and  aptitude in Google Adsense/Analytics.  • Working in fast paced environment with focus on quality with quick completion  turnaround times.