Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Washington, DC • Proficient in Oracle 10g and 11g Database Administration  • Proficient in Enterprise Manager  • Superior familiarity with LINUX Windows and Windows XP  • Strong proficiency in relational database management  • Proficient in RMAN, Backup and Recovery  • Proficient in Database Migration, Upgrade and Patch Application  • Performance Tuning  • Excellent knowledge of database installation and configuration principles  • Good communication and interpersonal skills  • A self-motivated, responsible and reliable team player with a set of strong technical skills.  • Strong in solving problems of diverse scope where technical analysis and evaluation is  Required  • Results-driven IT personnel with skills in team building and problem-solving with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse groups of people and adaptability to changing environments.  • Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator MedStar Georgetown University Hospital March 2013 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES  • Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other database objects.  • Creating Standby Database.  • Installing and managing Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g and 12c.  • Installing and configuring relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity  • Troubleshooting and resolving various Oracle connectivity problems.  • Providing network troubleshooting and administrative support for the development staff.  • Creating and managing documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases  • Performing bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  • Performing standard and fine grain database auditing.  • Documenting database structure changes, problems, & issues for future references  • Administering database user accounts. Creating, modifying and deactivating user accounts; Assigning and monitoring user access rights  • Providing database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  • Managing Schema Objects.  • Regular monitoring of Alert log Files and trace files on a Day to Day Basis.  • Identifying and removing Fragmentation, row migration/chaining of database objects.  • Analyzing the Tables and Indexes on performance base regularly  • Monitoring Tablespaces and Data files utilization.  • Managing Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs.  • Implementing multiplexing control files and redo log files  • Configuring various RMAN parameters as per the requirement.  • Performing physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Identifying and recovering the corrupted db blocks using Block recover option in RMAN utility.  • Performing Complete Media Recovery of Database depending on the nature of failure.  • Configuring and implementing the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup on the databases.  • Extensive use of DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  • Performing database cloning using RMAN.  • Monitoring the user sessions and taking appropriate actions to kill the inactive sessions.  • Creating and rebuilding indexes as necessary.  • Performing various performance goal oriented database tuning.  • Using explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  • Creating and tuning various materialized views.  • Tuning various slow running queries  • Performing instance tuning, memory tuning query tuning and complete database tuning.  • Creating and implementing various table partitions for large tables  • Resolving various complex issues with the database.  • Upgrading Oracle 10g database to 11g.  • Upgrading Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set.  * Responsible for applying quarterly Oracle critical patch updates (CPU)  * Performed database refreshes from production to test  * Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files  * Used Data pump to export data from production to test servers  * Created tables and views for developer and client needs.  * Managed and maintained the data dictionaries.  * Performed daily incremental backup and full weekly backup using Oracle backup utility RMAN.  * Managed table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments.  * Maintained data integrity & managed profiles, resources and password security.  * Managed Users, Privileges and Roles.  * Installed Oracle software and patches.  * Upgraded the Database from lower version to higher version.  * Tuned SQL statement against database and its objects.  * Worked closely with networking components such Listener and TNS for the Oracle Client. Education University of District of Columbia - Washington, DC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: LINUX, Windows Server 2012/2013  Databases: Oracle 11gR2, Oracle10g  Oracle Tools: OEM, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, RMAN, Data Pump,  NETCA, DBCA, NETMGR, Backup & Recovery, Performance Tuning, Enterprise Manager  (OEM  RDBMS Tech: Oracle 10g, 11g, Standby Database.