Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator New York, NY Oracle Certified Associate (OCA) with over 5+ years of experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environments, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c    ? 5+ years of experience with Oracle 10g and 11g r2  ? Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator  ? Optimized SQL using explain plan, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze the execution plan and tune  the statements.    Performance tuning of database and upgrading power/CPU using Utlstat scripts Statspack and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SG. Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as    excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems  ? Responsible for RMAN backups, and improvement to backup with incremental back by adding block change    Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts    in recovery catalog.  ? Extensive experience in providing database related services and support to development & QA environments  ? Good experience of Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Server) on different nodes with  ASM (automatic storage management)  ? Skills in SQL* PLUS, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, Import/Export Server Manager  ? Extensive experience in Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN,    TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE  Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters    ? Advanced knowledge and experience with Designing Database, tuning Database, Database Security    Expert Oracle DBA knowledge with a good understanding of application performance analysis and tuning expertise and Automatic Storage Management (Oracle ASM) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Binary Techs Inc - Minneapolis, MN December 2018 to June 2019 Provided Oracle database administration services for 31 branches and large volume of active users. Devised and formulated data management policy for the company; was responsible for the integrity of all maintained data. Enhanced database security, implemented recovery procedures, handled performance tuning and conducted regular system backups. Ensured that technical and functional designs meet business requirements. Key Responsibilities:    Ensured and tested ERP based software Insurance Business Management System (IBMS) storage strategies and large data security plan for company's operational Oracle 11g database, delivering solution    that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability  ? Responsible for performing production support activities for data warehouse and transactional  servers running Sybase database management software.  ? Performing replication using Sybase replication agent that captures transactions in oracle primary database  and then transfers the transactions to replication server.  ? Provide instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O  and Memory Usage.  ? Creating Database users and granting appropriate privilege, Privileges to Users, troubleshooting utilities,  stripping of the database, Database Sizing.  ? Managed customer issues in Oracle RDBMS installation, configuration, administration and troubleshooting  ? Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using exports from 10g database and imported in 11g  ? Utilized expertise of database switchovers to switch database many times during mission critical projects  to avoid downtime and during database patching to avoid database interruptions and outage.  ? Managing oracle wallet OWM to keep TDE master encryption keys and certificates and installing, configuring  and administrating oracle Audit Vault including audit vault server, audit vault collection agent and collector    Worked on Oracle security Mechanism to enterprises databases including Oracle VPD, advanced security TDE to encrypt critical customer data with column and Tablespace encryption.    ? Provided oversight, mentoring and leadership to less experienced staff  ? Day to day maintenance included patching, cloning, and administration of concurrent manage process,  Users, Forms, Reports and performance issues.  ? Set up configured and maintained Oracle Data guard (primary and standby database) to ensure disaster  recovery, high availability and data protection.  ? Contributed to company's 10% revenue growth in 2017 by standardizing content from disparate databases,    enabling sales and support staff to quickly respond to customer requests Oracle Database Administrator Crystal Insurance Company Limited - Dhaka, BD August 2016 to July 2018 Administered support procedures and strategies for database systems, networks, operating systems and applications development; provided technical expertise and direction in support of system infrastructure and process improvements; diagnosed and resolved complex system problem Key Responsibilities:  ? Assisted developers in defining application requirements, coding, and testing of different software ecosystems ? Installed and configured Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases for database developers  ? ?nvolved in gathering Report Development Specifications for creating reports.  ? Generated multiple Enterprise reports using SSRS from SQL Server Database (OLTP) and SQL Server Analysis  Services Database (OLAP) and included various reporting features such as Group by, Drilldowns, Drill  through, sub-reports etc.  ? Modified existing databases and database management systems or directed programmers and analyzed to make changes  ? Researched and applied best practices for the design and administration of MySQL databases  ? Created and maintained standard database policies, operating procedures, and overall documentation  ? Developed and implemented database backup and disaster recovery strategies  ? Eliminated outdated records by sending the records to be scanned  ? Identified the associated Store Procedures and parameters used for the reports.  ? Implementing Derived column, Condition split, Multicast, Merge transformations to clean the data and implementing the business logic.  ? Created custom database reporting tools by coding stored procedures, triggers, and queries with PL/SQL  ? Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)  ? Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  ? 24x7 remote support and on call rotation ICT Support Engineer Fareast Life Insurance Company Limited - Dhaka, BD June 2014 to July 2016 Collaborated with senior developers to fulfill various software requirements and develop software products for the organization. Assisted in the preparation of key reports and programs for solving problems through the use of various reporting processes and tools. Diagnosed and troubleshoot software and hardware problems and helped clients install applications and programs, configured operating systems and used remote desktop connections for immediate support  Key Responsibility:  ? Collaborated with a large team to develop IT infrastructure for over 300 branches all over Bangladesh to maintain an online database software  ? Working closely with Data Architects, Infrastructure Architect, developers to ensure database stability and  ? performance optimization  ? Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges  ? in development, test, training and production environments.  ? Daily monitoring and troubleshooting of streams issues  ? Assisted network group with part-time LAN administration duties which included configuring file servers, maintaining backups, and monitoring network for congestion and bad links  ? Configured Mikrotik router for VPN connection and Installed LAN system for managing an integrated software across multiple users in different locations    ADDITIONAL  ? Fluent in Bengali, Hindi  ? Do not require work authorization sponsorship Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? TOOLS & UTILITIES: Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  ? Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Data pump, Oracle Imp/Exp, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor.  Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader    ? LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, C++, Visual Basic  ? OPERATING SYSTEMS: Win XP/7/8/10/Server 2003/Server 2008/2012  ? INTERNET: FTP, Telnet, and E-mail, Maxton, Netscape & Net Conferencing  ? SOFTWARE: MS Office 2007/2010, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator.  ? Hardware & Networking: Computer assembling and troubleshooting, experienced in handling LAN, VPN and WAN, Mikrotik Router Configuration  ? DATABASE: Oracle 6i, 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c