SITE COORDINATOR SITE COORDINATOR COORDINATOR Portland, OR Highly organized detail oriented Coordinator highly experience and increasing responsibilities.Experience in supervising a clerical staff in working with various departments for a successful joint outcome of events and initiatives and in producing and analyzing reports for budget and regulatory compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SITE COORDINATOR ALLSTATE August 2018 to June 2019 Coordinated all aspects and planning for workshops, programs and/or events: organize equipment & room scheduling, facilitator scheduling, material production and shipping, on-site delivery support, training/event session logistics, classroom setup and management, roster management and travel, and hotel & catering logistics management. Assisted with I9 forms, NEO, prepare interview packets; scan and file recruitment documents. Updated, FM Systems floor plan- conduct floor audits, general technical support for meeting rooms, capture employee feedback, issues, and suggestions for improvement, always demonstrating sensitivity to internal employee needs/concerns, assist with moves per direction of facility manager, monitor use of spaces. Corresponding with site manager and facility manager on project statuses. Handling, additional projects also implementing and produced communications using a variety of formats and media, written and verbal communication and presentation. Always promoting and ensuring a culturally and diverse work environment. Established administrative duties such as preparing a variety of agency documents, reports and responses, program operations, budget and finance. Communicated, daily with internal HR, managers, supervisors directors and external vendors. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE STRATEGIES (ERS) COORDINATOR ALLSTATE May 2018 to August 2018 ON ASSIGNMENT  (LANCESOFT)  Coordinated, onboarding and ID badging, Updating weekly FM System up to date for tracking occupancy. Demonstrated daily high level of customer service skills and sensitivity to internal customer needs/concerns. Resolved and escalating work issues for customers. Managed reports, memos, and composed other information relevant to the team and facility manager. Captured employees' feedback, issues, and suggestions for improvement. Preformed project planning, project tracking, task scheduling, budget tracking, data gathering and analysis, analytical findings reporting, file management. Demonstrated experience with customer and vendor relationship management affecting positive stakeholder outcomes. DATA ANALYSIS AND ENTRY SPECIALIST CORNING OPTICAL COMMUNICATIONS January 2018 to April 2018 ON ASSIGNMENT- (MASTECH)  Accurately, entered data into the appropriate systems before, during and after the project process. Assisted, Project Managers with customer billing process this included, generation of Summary of Charges (SOC.) Assisted, BDAs and/or PMs with projects related data entry into SharePoint, Excel, Bid Master or other database programs. Compiled, review, and arrange project related information from PM. Also, reviewed database for accuracy and corrected as necessary. ITEM DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR BELK, INC September 2017 to January 2018 Managed Item Data In the organization's item master database. Worked with Replenishment & Merchants for new vendor set up and maintenance. Researched, emails, letters and other forms of communication from BSS merchants, vendors, store merchants and other Belk areas relative to item master data and set up. Investigated and performed all merchandising updates to product information for date synchronization and resolved day to day item issues in the areas of Merchandising, Logistics, Finance and other areas that consume item master data. SR, RECEPTIONIST & SWITCHBOARD.MS OPS-RICOH December 2016 to May 2017 Scheduled / reserved meeting rooms. Answered and transfers calls within the United States. Participated enthusiastically in company and community service events. Performed light administrative duties. Performed PC support and administrative duties as needed. Acts as a model for company Vision, Values, and Mission. Managed, timely updates of the following: company phone and speed dial lists, brag board and company calendar. Updated, the automated messaging center daily. Assisted administration or any other team when needed for various tasks (envelope labels, compiling manuals, etc.). OPERATIONS DESK ANALYST MARKET AMERICA August 2015 to July 2016 Ensured daily proper staffing based on anticipated call volume and adjusts accordingly to ensure proper coverage. Managed and approved employee schedules to forecast and ensure proper staffing coverage daily. Generating, daily and weekly productivity reports affecting call volume and distributes reports to leaders. Analyzed, daily and weekly reports data to recommend improvements in the call center. Monitor incoming call volume to track the proper placement of calls and representatives needed for phone coverage. Reported all technical problems to appropriate departments for resolution. Scheduled and assigning employees; following up on work results. Coordinated, lunches and breaks daily. Monitor daily sick, tardy, absence and PTO daily. Ran daily reports for leaders in various departments. Education BA in Business Management University of Phoenix 2010 to 2013 Associates in Business Guilford Tech Community College 2007 to 2009 Skills Microsoft Office3 (10+ years), SAP (5 years), Sharepoint (5 years), As400 (10+ years), 10-Key (10+ years), WPM 55 (10+ years), Management (5 years), Project Management (10+ years), Administrative Skills (10+ years), Team Building (10+ years), Budget Management (10+ years), Problem Solving (10+ years), Ability to thrive in a fast-paced environment. (10+ years), Strong analytical skills and ability to work independently (10+ years), Ability to prioritize, meet deadlines, and manage projects (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years)