Associate Professional Database Engineer - Operations Team, Boeing Associate Professional <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer - Operations Team, Boeing Guaynabo, PR Fully bilingual (Spanish and English) computer engineer with experience on C++ and Java programming, Oracle Database, Microsoft SharePoint, and ServiceNow; knowledge of SQL, Team Foundation Server, Veritas NetBackup, MATLAB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, shell scripting, C#, Python, and VBA. Experience working with Windows, Linux, AIX, and Mac OS X. Work Experience Associate Professional Database Engineer - Operations Team, Boeing DXC Technology - Isabela, PR, US May 2019 to Present Work with onsite and offshore teams to ensure access and data availability for customers on No Magic Cameo Enterprise Architecture installations running Teamwork Cloud repositories alongside Cassandra databases. Associate Professional Database Engineer - Latin America Tech Concierge, P&G DXC Technology - Isabela, PR October 2018 to April 2019 • Provide client support and technical issue resolution via email and the ServiceNow ticketing platform.  • Open access request tickets in the ServiceNow ticketing system when requests are made or trouble issues are  sent in by customers and provide any necessary follow up. Professional Systems Administrator - United Technologies Corporation DXC Technology - Isabela, PR January 2018 to October 2018 • Provide technical support to customers connecting to UNIX (RHEL and AIX) servers from various business units.  • Respond to alerts for servers, diagnosing and correcting the issues that create them.  • Perform tasks such as installs, patches, upgrades, and maintenance, as required by the situation. Associate Professional Database Engineer - United Technologies Aerospace Systems DXC Technology - Isabela, PR February 2017 to January 2018 • Supported and maintained databases for UTAS customers using Oracle Database 11c and 12c technologies.  • Prepared monthly performance metrics and backup reports with data compiled from the servers. Associate Professional Programmer Analyst - United Technologies Aerospace Systems DXC Technology - Isabela, PR May 2016 to February 2017 Tasked with providing support to UTAS customers with Microsoft SharePoint sites, correcting account permissions  and fixing issues within their sites. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in ABET Certified Universidad del Turabo - Gurabo, PR, US June 2017 Skills Netbackup, MYSQL, DBA, Linux, Sql Dba, Oracle Database