Quality Assurance Analyst Quality Assurance Analyst Quality Assurance Analyst Palo Alto, CA An Information Technology contractor with a Bachelor's degree in Computer Management and Information Systems. Professional experience working effectively in a team environment to deliver products as a Programmer Analyst. Experience working independently to manage several database servers and handle incident response as a Database Administrator. Proven knowledge in networking concepts and security practices as a Comp TIA Security+ certified professional. Recently completed a contract at Best Buy Corporate Headquarters as an Integration Strategist/Test Data Coordinator, gaining experience working in an Agile environment and exposure to test procedures. Looking to transition into a position involving software testing/analysis, or systems administration/analysis, so as to utilize my strongest skills. Ideal position would offer an opportunity to acquire new skills while honing those already possessed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Analyst Ditech Financial LLC - Saint Paul, MN September 2017 to Present • Developed and maintained a quality control system resulting in Ditech's highest FNMA 571 Claims reimbursement rate  • Daily, Weekly and Monthly reporting of staff and financial performance material to management  • Direct collaborative management of 100 person offshore FNMA 571 claims filing team  • Communicating priories relate to work  • Perform Quality Assurance audits at processor, supervisor group, and departmental level  • Analyzes staff and financial trends to determine process improvement measures  • Reports on and assigns workflow in line with departmental strategy  • Mitigates errors and associated risk through staff training and assist with complex accounts  • Employs significant knowledge of foreclosure events, timelines, law, and investor guidelines Environment Strategist/Test Data Coordinator Accenture/Best Buy Corp Headquarters - Minneapolis, MN July 2016 to August 2017 • Contracted in support of the IPT/UAT phases of a high priority project, which focused on the design and implementation of the online and in-store sales experience for the release of a new service (Total Tech Support) soon to be offered nationally.  • Hosted meetings between various project teams in order to establish configuration requirements for new web functionalities being implemented as part of the project.  • Also responsible for coordinating the set-up of test environments as well as using both Oracle and SQL Server to perform set-up and validation of test data, while maintaining documentation of each for future reference by all components of the project team.  • Expanded upon personal experience with MS Excel while utilizing its formulas for the purpose of data validation.  • As an integral member of the Integration team, worked closely with Web Designers, System Architects, and Business Analysts to analyze project requirements.  • Used JIRA as a project management tool to track all data related efforts as well as tasks assigned personally.  • Utilized Postman and SoapUI to test web services, gaining exposure to JSON. Work was performed in an Agile Scrum environment and personal scope of responsibility encompassed representation of the Test Data Management Team at Daily Stand-ups and Scrum of Scrums.  • Other duties included representing the projects first point of contact with the Test Data Management team, and coordinating the efforts of other teams external to the project in order to ensure that all required support was available during testing.  • Successfully mapped out and documented the entire testing environment utilized by the project. Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN May 2015 to June 2016 • Responsible for the management of nine enterprise level back-end production and test servers, over a total of four separate systems with a focus on ensuring data integrity, security, and recoverability.  • Primary duties focused on using SQL Server Management Studio to establish, monitor, and repair the transactional database replication process on each system, as well as the creation and management of all SQL Server Agent jobs and stored procedures.  • Managed database access and privileges using SSMS, and OS level user privileges and group policies using Windows Server.  • Served internal customers, in the form of front end developers and administrators, helping to resolve connection issues and other data transmission problems as they occurred.  • Other responsibilities included performing security checks on all assigned servers, while documenting all findings and correcting database and OS level configurations when such changes were both necessary and permitted (STIG Compliance checks).  • Handled incident response while using Remedy for issue tacking and management.  • Gained a deeper understanding of the concepts of network security while successfully preparing for the Comp TIA Security+ certification exam required for this position.  • Knowledge gained in pursuit of this certification includes, but is not limited to: vulnerability assessment techniques, incident response procedures, and system monitoring tools and methodologies. Programmer Analyst MeElectmetal - Duluth, MN September 2014 to April 2015 • Leverage analytical and programming abilities to maintain legacy iSeries B&L ERP system by resolving user problems, making minor system modifications and developing new utilities  • Work closely with business users to understand requirements and craft solutions to meet those requirements  • Lead the most complicated analysis and development projects  • Build and deliver training material pertaining to developed solutions  • Modify existing forms and develop new forms using Formtastic or other forms designer  • Maintain and enhance the programs on Motorola hand-held devices used in our foundries  • Lead development and standardization of QlikView BI reporting solution  • Develop business knowledge and technical skills to use in a future SAP implementation  • Work with the IT Development Manager to develop standards for development and programming  • Independently establish and execute on project plans and schedules per company standards  • Log and track support calls and change requests in the designated ME Global systems, prioritize and escalate tickets as required to ensure customer satisfaction  • Communicate in a clear, professional and courteous manner in person, during telephone calls and in written correspondence  • Provide extended and off-hours support as required in problem or crisis situations; may participate in an after-hours on-call rotation  • Perform miscellaneous technical support tasks and technical project tasks as assigned by management  • Manage concurrent planned tasks around daily priorities  • Maintain the confidentiality and security of privileged company information Education Bachelor's Skills MS SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), DATA VALIDATION (1 year), DOCUMENTATION (1 year), QA, Quality Assurance, SQA Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:  • Experience in environment integration coordination, including gathering and documenting system requirements.  • Experience working in an Agile Scrum environment.  • Experience testing web services using Postman and SoapUI.  • Experience conducting data insertion and validation using MS SQL Server and Oracle.  • Experience using Microsoft Excel for data validation and documentation.  • Experience in database design and administration using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, with an emphasis on establishing, maintaining and repairing database replication.  • Experience creating and editing stored procedures using MS SQL Server.  • Experience managing individual user privileges and group policies using Windows Server.  • Experience analyzing COBOL and JCL code on mainframe.  • Proficient in Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Currently expanding on a general knowledge of HTML, JS, and CSS.  • Proficient in C# and C++ programming languages.  • Growing familiarity with Java programming language.  • Inclination toward object oriented programming languages.