Lead Database Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Database Administrator - Pitney Bowes Danbury, CT • Over 9 Years of Information Technology Experience with Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c Databases  • 24/7 Production Support and performance tuning of production instances in Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c on  • AIX, Sun Solaris, Linux, UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Experienced in Oracle Disaster Recovery and High Availability Solutions (RAC & Data Guard) Golden gate and Exadata Machine  • Experience as Oracle Core DBA, specialized in 24/7 support on OLTP Production, Development and implementations on Oracle 9i / 10g / 11g and 12 c databases on various platforms.  • Performed rescue/recovery operation on Exadata compute node using IOLM.  • Upgraded OL5 to OL6 and compute node and upgrade Storage cell and leaf switches  • Implemented advance compression LOB objects with partitions  • Experienced with Data guard broker and observer.  • Experience in converting Non-RAC to RAC database  • Experience in refreshing SAP databases from production to non-prod databases.  • Experience in creating and managing databases with ASM.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating databases from non-ASM to ASM.  • Strong experience as an Oracle Applications DBA worked in multiple platforms like Linux, AIX, HP-UX and SUN Solaris and flavors of UNIX.  • Strong experience in supporting and managing PROD, DEV, TEST, SIT & UAT instances and Oracle Applications environments of varied complexity.  • OEM 11g & 12c Installation and configuration  • Backup/recovery methods using RMAN/user-managed.  • Export/Import and DataPump.  • Oracle Golden Gate installation and configuration.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance, Administration, Node addition and Troubleshooting Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC).  • Experience in Configuration, Maintenance, and Administration & Troubleshooting Oracle Data guard.  • Oracle Database migration from windows to Linux.  • Experience in Implementation, upgrades, Production support, Acquisition and De-commission databases.  • Complete knowledge of the oracle tables and database objects  • RAC, Data Guard setup and Configuration Expertise  • Installing, Configuration and Maintenance of OEM and Grid  • Experience in setting up and troubleshooting on Oracle Golden Gate Replication.  • Involved in troubleshooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Strong experience in preparing DBA related documentation.  • Experience in working with 12c Databases like installations, migrations and RAC 12c Installations  • Scheduling/Monitoring of jobs/processes/logs files and running processes on priority.  Experience in ITIL process Work Experience Lead Database Administrator Pitney Bowes - Danbury, CT April 2015 to Present Pitney Bowes Inc. is an American manufacturer of software and hardware and a provider of services  related to documents, packaging, mailing, and shipping. Based in Stamford, Connecticut, the company  has approximately 16,100 employees worldwide. It is one of 87 existing firms that have been members of the S&P 500 since its creation in 1957.    Technical Activities:  • Configured 65 database from initial setup for Impact 2017 project. It includes SAP, OLFM and Warehouse databases.  • Upgraded 83 database from 11.2.0.4 to 12.0.1.2 and applied latest patch.  • Supported for two major go live (Canada and US). It is 2 year project. Migrate all legacy application with databases to latest versions.  • Upgraded 9i, 10g databases to 12c.  • Maintaining latest database patches on all databases with multiple versions.  • Handled all DBAs related request on time without issues.  • Provided regular supported for 10G RAC and 11g RAC systems and applied patches.  • Maintaining X3-2 exadata databases server with 2 node RAC.  • Configured multiple primary and standby databases.  • Recovered multiple production databases based on database lost.  • Involved ERT and ORT call and provided extra ordinary support which reduced the outage durations.  • Working and Managing 5 different projects within Pitney Bowes team (COD, Exadata, Border Free, Impact, and BAU). Each project has multiple databases and applications.  • Carried all weekly, monthly Task on time.  • Completed worked for performance tuning activates alone for 6 months at time of CANADA to US go live.  • Involved all type of performance related issues and fixed on time.  • Implemented Resource Manager on Exadata server.  • Configured Active database guard and moved the backups from Primary database to standby database.  • Upgrade and Migrated 320 database targets from 10G OEM to 12c OEM.  • Performed capacity planning for new databases.  • Analyzed database growth and requested for storage requirement for future date.  • Prepared multiple technical document and shared with offshore team to implement the scheduled task  • Implemented DR drill and Enterprise recovery scenarios.  • Created scripts to monitor the databases status and tablespaces usage for all servers and send a single email.  • Involved for all technical discussion and provided the suggestion for future implementations.  • Prepared implemented document for all the changes in production database.  • Supporting for OLFM database. I have involved for Oracle leasing database setup from initial plan to end setup and support.  • Implemented advance compression for LOB segments on Exadata servers.  Management Role:  • Responsible overall Onsite/offshore deliverables.  • Work closely with Customer on managing day to day issues for Pitney Bowes Databases and Design.  • Co-ordinated handshake between onsite and offshore.  • Handled daily call and weekly with team.  • Handled weekly and monthly deliverable calls with Clients.  • Handle all escalations & provide timely solutions & documented the same.  • Administration aspects which include Proactive issue identification and troubleshooting, helping customer to arrive optimum design solutions for Database.  • Observe trends of utilization and Provide proactive performance improvement Suggestions and capacity management plan, sustain databases with latest product updates and security updates.  • Make sure agreed SLAs for all Tickets/Incidents & Problems.  • Ensure entire Database team adhere to Pitney Bowes Change Management Policies & Procedures to carry out any change in Production Environment.  • Ensure regular connect with Off-shore Team and help them deliver the stated services.  • Interviewed multiple DBAs based on required. Education MCA Bharathiar University Skills AIX (Less than 1 year), databases. (2 years), Import/export (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Oracle (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Servers: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3.0/4.0/5.0/6.0, Windows 2000/2003 server, IBM  AIX 6, 7 Sun Solaris 5.8/9/10, Linux.  Databases: Oracle 7i, 8i, Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7), Oracle 10g (10.2.0.4, 10.2.0.2). Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), 12c  (12.1.0.2)    Tools and Utilities    • Oracle Import/export utility  • SQL * Loader  • ADDM TKPROF  • Oracle Data Pump  • SQL Tuning Adviser  • EXPLAIN PLAN  • AUTOTRACE  • RMAN  • STATSPACK and AWR,  • Oracle Enterprise manager  • TOAD