Data Annotation Specialist Data Annotation Specialist Data Analyst Fremont, CA • Coded and tested SQL queries based off the persistent table using Dynamic Sql, Merge statements  • Created Stored procedure, Views and functions to support application  • Modified and maintained SQL Server stored procedures, views, ad-hoc queries, and SSIS packages used in the search engine optimization (SEO) process  • Performed analysis on data to identify data issues and maintaining data quality before moving it to new system  • Implemented SQL queries to fetch large volume of data from database Work Experience Data Annotation Specialist Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA January 2018 to January 2019 • Utilized software tools to record objects, activities, events, and miscellaneous items in images and videos.  • Prepared and developed excel spreadsheets for data analytics  • Derive insights from data and making sure data is in correct quality and is reliable in order to accomplish project requirements  • Review images (in large quantities) and identifying objects in the images, as well as providing descriptive information about the objects  • Provide feedback and basic bug write ups regarding software/tools used  • Elaborate, monitor, analyze and continuously improve the quality performance of the collected Datasets  • Took ownership of each annotation assignment, collaborated with Data Annotation Lead, and ensured that annotations/labeling meet the project requirements with high quality  • Provide day-to-day expert support for a large and growing team of data analysts  • Quality checks on Lidar, 2D/3D data on required basis  • Implemented SQL query to pull out data on the basis of project requirements Database Marketing Analyst (Contract) Microlease - Hayward, CA October 2015 to December 2015 • Successfully developed the reporting to target the different customer segments for each email campaign. Performed numerous ad hoc data analysis using SQL and automated few of them using stored procedures within SQL Server.  • Requirement gathering for customized Salesforce report and in-depth study of data for direct email marketing.  • Developed Salesforce and Pardot Email campaigns using various data sources within Salesforce and Microsoft SQL Server. Made automated process through stored procedures for monthly sales report from targeted email campaigns to track performance of each email campaigns.  • Provided the sanity checks on data being synced between Pardot and Salesforce for various fields and find solution to organize it.  • Managing sales territories list and its rules for Email campaigns.  • Technology: SQL Server 2008, Salesforce, Pardot, Ms Excel Data Analyst and Developer Aarin Technologies Pvt. Ltd February 2012 to August 2012 • Developed the database architecture for loan and microfinance platform which provides intermediate medium between lenders and borrowers to understand and satisfy their needs of the finance.  • Requirement Gathering for customized reports and in-depth study of the data for micro financing and lending. Developing data model on BI development studio and creating partitioned cube.  • Creating visually-compelling graphical reports for improved analysis by providing slicing and dicing of data over various meaningful dimensions using Strategy Companion.  • Using techniques like intelligent maps, dashboards and KPIs to generate reports for improved decision making.  • Worked with Crystal Reports to design reports such as Pay slip and Attendance registry.  • Technology: SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, HTML, Crystal Report 6.0, Ms Excel Website Developer and Web Administrator Beyondrelational.com August 2010 to January 2012 • Hands on experience on complete life cycle of web development including requirement gathering, system designs, database design and development and web/ UI design and development  • managed beyondrelational.com domain which had more than 100k daily visitors  • Developed and maintained various SEO and user engagement activities such as Newsletter, Puzzle and ASK modules of the website  • Designed and worked on web analytics report, sitemap report for maintenance and SEO.  • Technology: Microsoft Visual studio 2008, MS SQL Server 2008, XML, XSLT, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and SSIS, Microsoft Access Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA August 2014 to July 2016 Masters of Computer Application in Computer Application Charotar Institute - Gujarat, IN June 2008 to May 2010 Additional Information Technical Skills  Tools: Microsoft SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Business Intelligence Studio, Pardot, Salesforce, MS Office  Languages: SQL, C++, PL/SQL, CSS, HTML, Visual Basic, Python