Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - Apple One Hampton, VA Dynamic, energetic, dedicated, hardworking individual with years of experience, striving to build rapport and provide high quality customer service as an Information Technology Specialist (TCF Trainee). Experienced, and possess proven capability in translating complex processes and utilizing effective analysis to solve problems. Employ active listening and collaborative approach to build strong relationships and meet objectives.    Ability Summary  *Speaking, *Coordination, *Critical thinking, *Judgement * Decision making, *Social perceptiveness, *Management and Personnel Resource, *Monitoring, *Reading and Comprehension, *Negotiating, *Active Listening, *Virus removal software, *Web applications, *Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, *Windows XP, *Basic repair of PDA and smartphone devices, *SQL service knowledge, *Trouble shooting of computers and peripherals, *Networking Work Experience Team Lead Apple One - Hampton, VA 2017 to Present • Manage the day-to-day planning, operation and problem solving so team meets its required level of service or production. Monitor schedule adherence, assign and direct work, appraise and motivate performance. Effectively communicate corporate and business expectations to all team members.  • Resolve customer complaints or answer customers' questions regarding policies and procedures related to KanCare.  • In absence of supervisor; supervise the work of office, administrative, or customer service employees to ensure adherence to quality standards, deadlines, and proper procedures, correcting errors or problems.  • Provide employees with guidance in handling difficult or complex problems or in resolving escalated complaints or disputes.  • Implement corporate departmental policies, procedures, and service standards in conjunction with management.  • Discuss job performance problems with employees to identify causes and issues and to work on resolving problems.  • Train or instruct employees in job duties or company policies or arrange for training to be provided  • .Evaluate employees' job performance and conformance to regulations and recommend appropriate personnel action.  • Review records or reports pertaining to activities such as production, payroll, or shipping to verify details, monitor work activities, or evaluate performance.  • Recruit, interview, and select employees.  • Interpret and communicate work procedures and company policies to staff.    • Voluntarily assisted with the IT team with IT issue in the KanCare department. Help with PC setup, troubleshooting any minor PC issue in the department prior to submitting any helpdesk tickets. Any other minor IT concern in the KanCare department ES will ask me to assist prior to reaching out the IT team to process help desk ticket. Account Service Representative PRA - Hampton, VA 2016 to 2017 • Familiarize self with all current accounts    • Communicate with clients about campaign direction, deliverables and next steps    • Record all transactions relating to client payments    • Generate and distribute invoices for services rendered    • Audit all client files quarterly to ensure accurate record keeping    • Communicate with the creative, accounting and management departments of the business    • Monitor company email and other communication systems to ensure fast responses to clients    • Meet with clients to discuss future projects and campaigns    • Conducted debit resolutions by verbal and written contact with customer, utilizing high degree of resolution Executive Response / Escalation Representative II SPRINT - Hampton, VA 2009 to 2016 Researched and facilitated resolution of highest level escalated or sensitive customer complaints regarding products and services received through numerous avenues.    • Conducted resolutions by verbal or written contact with customer, utilizing high degree of discretion.  • Documented all contact, ensuring all relevant information was preserved and follow-up communications were prompt.  • Collaborated with other teams, utilizing other contact centers or customer service resources to assist in complaint resolution when necessary.  • Analyzed root causes of problems, identifying opportunities for process improvement.  • Served as a professional representative of the supervisor to executive clients  • Resolved customer complaints and concerns with strong verbal and negotiating skills  • Worked with upper management to ensure appropriate changes were made to improve customer satisfaction  • Built customer loyalty by placing follow-up calls for customers who reported product issues Jr. Database Administrator COLEMAN AND ASSOCIATES - Norfolk, VA 2006 to 2009 * Utilized specialized software to store and organize data. Assisted with configuration, database design, migration, and performance monitoring, security, troubleshooting, backup, and data recovery. Ran daily report to track calls coming from customer service rep.  * Worked mostly with the maintenance of a company but could also specialize in developing a database. Established the necessity of the users and monitor their security and access.  * Monitor the performance and manage the parameters to give fast responses to users. Mapped out in outline the conceptual design for a database, and the organization of data and the accessibility for users.  * Processing the logical design in a way that it can be converted to a specific data model. Refine the physical design for them to meet the requirements of system storage. Install and test the new version of database management system.  * Write documentation for the database; data standards, procedures and metadata.  * Control privilege and permission for access, also talking to technical staff to make sure of the integrity and security of the database.  Managed SQL database, ensuring data collected was accurate and did not overload database Customer Care / Tech Support Handle TELETECH - Hampton, VA 2004 to 2006 • Processed incoming customer calls regarding billing, coverage, or equipment issues, routing and escalating accordingly.  • Explained policy and procedure information, providing clarification and understanding to callers.  • Responsible for all customer inquiries and questions regarding their personal computer or portable device (smart cell phone, mp3 player, PDA).  • Diagnosed and provided path to resolving inquiries  • Provide excellent customer service and analyze problems effectively at all times  • Worked with confidential customer information  • Problem solve to help customers resolve issues on first call  • Accurately logged all customer interactions in data management system  • Achieved Call Center Metrics including call handle time and customer satisfaction scores  • Communicate positively with team members, customers and other partners  • Thrived as a team player in a fast-paced, high-energy, change-oriented environment  • Participated in additional training courses when needed  • Performed other related duties and assignments as required and as assigned by supervisor Education Keller Master of Information Management Systems in Concentration and Information Security Virginia State University - Petersburg, VA August 2017 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/latoya-mcherrin