Vice President Vice President Vice President - NCH SOFTWARE Castle Rock, CO Work Experience Vice President NCH SOFTWARE - Greenwood Village, CO March 2008 to Present Lead operations for an international software development company  • Product Management  ? Iterative product development tactics, including competitive and lifecycle analysis and usability, for Windows, Mac and mobile consumer software products using proprietary product release systems in a hybrid RAD Agile environment  ? Scrum lead  ? SaaS products and network management (AWS, Goggle Cloud, Azure)  • Sales and Business Development  ? App channels (PlayStore, iTunes, Mac Appstore, Amazon, Windows store, Steam)  ? Retail software channels (Office Max/Depot, BestBuy, Staples, Sams, Frys, Dixons, Canada/US/UK)  ? Branding, monetization and other collaborative partnerships (Wiley, Google, Intel, MicroSoft)  • Marketing  ? Evaluate and respond to SEO and PPC trends using Google Analytics, Adwords, Bing, SemRush  ? Negotiate terms for retail product placement, point-of-purchase advertising, and rebate programs  ? Lead creative process and manage production of all marketing processes and collateral through internal and external staff and vendors, including affiliate programs (Commission Junction, Digital River, download sites)  ? Determine and implement branding and market positioning  ? Reputation management  • Business and Technical Operations  ? Launched current US operations in Colorado in 2008  ? Revenue growth of 500% since 2008, from $5M to $23M.  ? Full P&L accountability, March 2019 $340K net profit on $1.8M in sales, $1.3M expense budget, $150K COGs  ? Created international inter-company invoicing system for cash flow management across international business entities  ? Responsible for all US/international technical support and QA programs  ? Remote contracting and management of staff and vendors internationally  ? Strong mentoring and leadership skills for excellent productivity and retention  ? Manage all HR and financial programs  ? Establish effective communications, training and documentation processes Owner SIR BOUNCEALOTS - Castle Rock, CO July 2005 to June 2008 Conceived, designed, and implemented unique business startup - a 6,000-sq.-ft. children's interactive recreation and entertainment center, featuring inflatable rides and arts and crafts.  • Formulated and drafted business plan, secured SBA financing, designed and managed tenant build out, and planned and implemented all operational details for successful startup in August 2005  • Utilized customer service, marketing, and management experience to build and grow customer base  • Designed and implemented business support systems integrating point-of-sale, email marketing, reservations, and accounting  • Established franchise sales and marketing program  • Worked 7x365 with spouse and remain married today Director of Information Technology HOLDEN MARKETING SUPPORT SERVICES - Denver, CO October 1999 to June 2005 Directed IT enterprise for inbound and outbound call centers, web hosting, order processing and fulfillment, and corporate communications. Responsibilities included planning, implementing, and supporting mission-critical B2B and B2C e-commerce and customer service solutions.  • Increased gross revenues through development and implementation of OOP and RDB technologies for customer applications  • Decreased operating costs by migrating off of a legacy mainframe order management system.  • Reduced payroll by consolidating and redefining job functions in coordination with technical infrastructure changes  • Designed and built out large scale datacenter including full redundancy and data recovery solutions  • Reduced telecom costs by converting point-to-point T1 trunks to VOIP MIS Director USA HOCKEY, INC - Colorado Springs, CO 1993 to October 1999 Directed all data processing, telecommunications, convergence, and technical staff. Accountable for short-term and long-term IS and communications strategies, systems implementation and support, vendor contract negotiations, capacity and disaster recovery planning, budgeting and approval of all technology expenditures and staff, and Y2K readiness plan. Manager, Systems Operations U.S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT - Washington, DC 1992 to 1993 Managed all aspects of national corporate computer operations with a departmental budget of over $2 million. Performed requirements analysis, systems design, and hardware and software implementations. Database Developer/System Administrator/Programmer CYSTIC FIBROSIS FOUNDATION - Bethesda, MD 1988 to 1992 Designed, implemented and managed Oracle RDBMS. Administered VEC and PC network systems. Programmed events and data tracking systems using Fortran, VB and Oracle Forms. Education Bachelor's Degree in Psychology McDaniel College - Westminster, MD Links http://www.facebook.com/djakober http://www.linkedin.com/in/djakober