Operations Program Manager Operations Program Manager Operations Program Manager Champaign, IL I am a professional program manager with 15 years of IT experience. My technical experience give me a high advantage deal complex IT programs, including leading resources, understanding their assigned tasks and translating any technical information to upper management.   My strengths include the ability to manage big teams, working with cross-functional teams, problem solving, and creating satisfied customers.     The skills I can bring immediately to the job are:    1. Preparing Program/Project Management procedures for a new IT organization, assuming control of existing programs/projects inherited from other divisions and managers and creating the project office environment for new staff.  2. Strong customer communication, building relationship, which helps to mitigate project risks.  3. Project management experiences that involved negotiating contract variations and substantial management with sub-contractors and customers.   4. Business financial management, controlling cost and securing the expected margin at the end of the project.  5. Management of critical cross-functional projects areas.  6. Hands on experience in different IT areas.  7. Teams management.  8. Developed and maintained performance reporting upper management for proper follow up.  9. Understand billing milestones and approved the invoicing of the project service.  10. Analyzed data to identify regional performance issues and develop options for corrective action to be taken.  11. Alignment and negotiation for project scope, deliveries, milestones, scheduling, with internal areas and customer.    I have been required to participate in, and manage, teams of up to twelve members.   My management style is participative with a focus on developing and empowering others to achieve business objectives. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Operations Program Manager Thales - Atlanta, GA April 2019 to Present Gemalto was acquired by Thales Program Manager Gemalto Inc. - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to Present ·        Work with different functional areas to deploy strategic programs.  ·        Negotiate partnership with other companies to bring innovation solutions.  ·        Manage strategic programs involving different functional groups.  ·        Identify Risks and Actions.  ·        Financial analysis and definition of process cost for controlling.  ·        Crisis management for Tier-1 customer, handling customers’ VP level.  ·        Define KPIs for management follow up.  ·        Reporting programs progress to upper executive management level.  ·        Problem management resolution on managers’ level using Lean process methodology.  ·        Deployment of Strategic organization changes to improve internal processes.  ·        RACI analysis and defining for re-assignment of responsibilities.  ·        Advising upper management on strategic decisions.  ·        Coaching junior managers.  ·        Conflict resolution between internal teams.  ·        Managing a team up to 8 people.  ·        Identify synergies between company different business lines. Technical Project Manager Gemalto - Austin, TX April 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Project management coaching, helping new PM to deal with important customer.   • Help Sales team with customer RFQ.  • Analyzing customer requirements  • Identifying what product can fit customer requirements.   • Quoting the project workload cost.  • Designing solution.  • Building and quoting hardware specification for the proposed solution.  • Understanding business needs and encompassing requirements definitions.  • Project management  • Manage many projects in the same time.  • Customer communication (internal and external).  • Conducting regular status meetings.  • Communicate project status to upper management.  • Responsible for alerts and escalations.  • Team management (developers and integrators).  • Time plan follow up.  • Crisis management.  • Budget management (Track budget and expenditures related to project).  • Track closely the time spent on the project and the Estimate to Completion (ETC)   • Anticipate clients needs and proposes alternative delivery solutions or business solution in cooperation with sale team  • Financial status report.  • Defining Statement of work (based on the customer contract).  • Risk Management.  • Monitoring project.  • Identify and implement best practices.   • Tracking project KPI.  • Apply the quality processes deployed in Services departments.  • Manage and achieve revenue goals set for project(s).  • Defining and managing the scope of projects.  • Leading and developing project plans.  • Understanding full life cycle and deliverables.  • Maintain satisfaction within assigned project team and workload balancing   • Trigger invoicing at respective milestones   • Ensure project profitability.  • Grow long-term relationships with clients by continually seeking to increase customer satisfaction and deepen client relationships.  • Ensure handover to the support team or specific internal/external interface.  • Project commitment ensuring its delivery (using my technical experience to help the integrators).  • Creating internal relationship with other areas.    Skills Used  • Project Coordination for systems implementation.  • Customer relationship skills.  • Customer Requirements analysis.  • Ability to assess a business’ technology needs and translate that into technology-based solutions related to areas such as operational.  • Negotiation skills.  • Budget management.  • Financial management.  • Team management skills: experience with multidisciplinary teams (Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Colombia).  • Time management.  • Pre-Sales skills  • Telecom business knowledge.  • Communication. Ability to work directly with customers to ensure successful implementation of custom IT solutions.  • Organizational skills  • Resource management skills. Ability to distribute resources across multiple projects based on priority and availability.  • Writing skills  • Ability to troubleshoot and work towards resolution of problems with IT systems.  • Ability to work directly with IT staff to explain concepts and requirements of projects when assigning work. Project Manager Gemalto April 2012 to March 2014 • Help Sales team with customer RFQ.  • Analyzing customer requirements  • Identifying what product can fit customer requirements.   • Quoting the project workload cost.  • Designing solution.  • Building and quoting hardware specification for the proposed solution.  • Understanding business needs and encompassing requirements definitions.  • Project management  • Manage many projects in the same time.  • Customer communication (internal and external).  • Conducting regular status meetings.  • Communicate project status to upper management.  • Responsible for alerts and escalations.  • Team management (developers and integrators).  • Time plan follow up.  • Crisis management.  • Budget management (Track budget and expenditures related to project).  • Track closely the time spent on the project and the Estimate to Completion (ETC)   • Anticipate clients needs and proposes alternative delivery solutions or business solution in cooperation with sale team  • Financial status report.  • Defining Statement of work (based on the customer contract).  • Risk Management.  • Monitoring project.  • Identify and implement best practices.   • Tracking project KPI.  • Apply the quality processes deployed in Services departments.  • Manage and achieve revenue goals set for project(s).  • Defining and managing the scope of projects.  • Leading and developing project plans.  • Understanding full life cycle and deliverables.  • Maintain satisfaction within assigned project team and workload balancing   • Trigger invoicing at respective milestones   • Ensure project profitability.  • Grow long-term relationships with clients by continually seeking to increase customer satisfaction and deepen client relationships.  • Ensure handover to the support team or specific internal/external interface.  • Project commitment ensuring its delivery (using my technical experience to help the integrators).  • Creating internal relationship with other areas. Integration Engineer Gemalto - Rio de Janeiro, RJ July 2008 to April 2012 • Prepare basic infrastructure to deploy Gemalto solutions.  • OS Installation and configuration.  • Security Best practice implementation.  • Oracle database installation and configuration.  • Network configuration (switch layer 2 and 3).  • Storage configuration (defining zoning – SAN - and creating volumes).  • Creating shell routines.  • Deployment Gemalto VAS solution, OTA, Device Manager, Phonebook Backup, etc.  • Integrating with other telecom components, e.g. SMSC.  • Testing, validation and doing acceptance with customer.  • Implementing and validating customer’s custom solutions.  • Migrating Solution (binaries, configuration files and database).  • Troubleshooting and leading with R&D for further assistances.  • Monitoring implementation (SNMP).  • Creating project documentation.  • Deploy Plan, Internal tests, Acceptance tests, Operation and Maintenance guide, etc.  • Giving training to customer.   • Working with Project Manager and Sales to identify customer requirements (RFQs)  • Helping Project Manager to create a workload for project quotation.  • Defining solution design.  • Defining best hardware for the solution designed.  • Helping other areas during crises.  • Actively mentor junior team members. Support Analyst Brasilcap Capitalizações May 2006 to July 2008 from May/2006 to Jul/2008)  A company from "Banco do Brasil", responsible for selling and administer "Titulos de Capitalização" product.    Position: Support Analyst  Main Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the administration of network components (firewall, switches, and routers), servers (Linux and Windows) and storages.  • Worked with internal and external audits.  • Negotiating support and acquisition contracts. Writing justification for choose some supplier and submitting it to the company directors. Database Administrator (DBA) Previ - Caixa 2003 to May 2006 de Previdência dos funcionários do Banco do Brasil - (from Augi/2003 to May/2006)  Brazilian pension fund for "Banco do Brasil" employees.    Position: Database Administrator (DBA)  Main Responsabilities:  • Responsible for administration of Oracle database. Managing the database instance, maintaining the backup operation, creating database objects, supporting developer issues (development and database) and creating application to help the activities. Education MBA in Business Management IBMEC - RJ - Rio de Janeiro, RJ 2012 to 2014 BA in MOT - Network Computer Management UFRJ - Rio de Janeiro, RJ 2007 to 2008 Bachelor in Computer science UNESA - Rio de Janeiro, RJ 2001 to 2005 Skills Program Management, PMI, Project Management, PMP, Project Management Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information • Management skills: experience with multidisciplinary teams (Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Colombia).  • System managements, like Windows and Linux based.  • Database management, Oracle and PostgreSQL  • Network administration  • Creation of management reports.  • Development knowledge, C, C++, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.