Senior Production/Data Analyst Senior Production/Data Analyst Senior Production/Data Analyst - MedAssurant Inc Owings Mills, MD Systems Analyst  Seeking a company that can leverage my experience of data analytics experience. Looking for an opportunity to assist a company grow by utilizing my technical and analytical background. Work Experience Senior Production/Data Analyst MedAssurant Inc July 2008 to Present Experience in analyzing, reporting and developing recommendations on data related to varied business metrics. Experience in Analytics with a focus on problem solving. Attention to detail and passion for accuracy. Able to use IT and Statistical Tools to identify and evaluate the relationships between data fields and outcomes. Experience in Extracting and Formatting data.  Responsible for the submission RAPS files and the data quality for the Medicare risk adjustment processing system.  Oversee and ensure the day-to-day production and on-time delivery of data products and operation of in-house custom software engines.  Ensure the quality and accuracy of measurements, documentation, reports, metrics and process improvements for data products.  Responsible running SSRS (Report per client, monthly PMPM).  Responsible for creating Economic Analysis based on client needs.  Participate in coding, unit testing, & defect prevention by conducting peer reviews.  Maintain and perform updates to software applications in order for optimum performance. Senior Production/Data Analyst Resolution Health Inc October 2006 to July 2008 Experience with Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and applied knowledge to support the maintenance of SQL databases and the daily Production Operations activities.  Responsible for the day-to-day production and on-time delivery of all products; operation of all software engines, data mapping, data loads and archiving.  Responsible for updating policies and procedures for the Resolution Health suite of products for the Operations team.  Built documentation on Data Mapping with client's file layout in accordance to in house Data Mapping Requirements and assisted developers in loading client data into appropriate SQL databases.  Built File Inventories documenting file retrieval from client's FTP sites. Downloaded corresponding SQL tables utilizing Import/Export utilities on Microsoft SQL Enterprise.  Created SQL scripts for data analysis on beneficiary/member eligibility files, medical and pharmacy claim files along with troubleshooting data loading issues.  Developed QA steps and documented process flows and standards.  Designed, developed, and implemented an application to provide tools for RHI customer service "Survey" calls regarding patient's Mammogram and Pap smear tests. IS Business Analyst Computer Sciences Corporation March 2006 to October 2006 Participated in all phases of the product development, including performing analyses of data, gathering, and definition, to perform cost-benefit analyses. Research and coordinate software solutions as assigned.  Analyzed the data integration requirements of the business operations.  Analyzed and prepare programming specifications. Understand data structures and how data is represented on different forms of media. IS Business Analyst II United Health Group June 2004 to March 2006 Creation/Extraction and Loading of test and production data to support application development tasks. Documentation of data mapping, business rules/business logic implemented Facets application. Worked closely with transactional application developers to understand and support their data needs - structure as well as content.  Assist with statistical quality assurance review and program validation for each project. Attend project team meetings as necessary. Experience in writing functional requirements, technical design, unit testing and deployment documentation. Provide statistical programming expertise for project teams. Interact with other departments, such as Clinical Operations and Project Management, to ensure a high level of client satisfaction through successful execution of projects.  Responsible for utilization of the EIEI (SCS Healthcare Technologies) Software.  Interacted with application developers and business users. Database Administrator HealthCare Strategies, Inc February 2000 to January 2004 Direct contact (face to face and/or by phone) with clients for determination and clarification of the eligibility, medical claims and pharmacy data.  Responsible for selecting methods of delivery of data to/from the clients (select the data layouts, transmission and security methods (FTP, CD, e-mail, PGP), periodicity of transmissions). TCS Healthcare Technologies 2000 to 2000 Software.  Organized the data processing using the MS SQL 2000 DTS packages. Education B.S. in Computer Science Automated Processing of Economical Information Institute of National Economy - Baltimore, MD Catonsville Community College - Owings Mills, MD Skills Database, Database systems, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Data profiling, Jira, Visio, Visual basic, Technical design, Use cases, Hipaa, Documentation, Technical documentation, Problem solving Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY:  Experienced in technical design, technical documentation, and providing in-depth data profiling and analysis.  Create and execute user stories/use cases and experienced in scrum/agile practices.  Strong interpersonal, training, analytical problem solving and leadership skills.  Working experience with Software Testing methodologies such as Wisdom, Facets.  Knowledge of the Health Care standards and protocols: HIPAA (834 & 278), X12, NCPDP (standard & V2 format).  Working knowledge of Care Management systems, Utilization Management systems, Case Management systems, Specialist Referral Management systems, Medicare, Medicaid.    COMPUTER SKILLS:  Knowledge of Windows 2K/XP Professional operating environments.  Experience with Database systems: Microsoft SQL Server 2008-2012, MS Access. Visual Basic (VB), ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, TOAD, Health Care System.  Experience with JIRA, VISIO.  Familiar with Agile development methodology.