Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant - SCM Group Athens, GA Two years of Database Management experience. I work efficiency and fluently and pay super close attention to detail.    I'm a fast learner, reliable, and consistent. I work well with clients, and I'm capable of typing 100+ WPM. I am well  organized and take pride in my work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Assistant SCM Group NA - Duluth, GA June 2019 to Present Administrative Assistant for the Parts Department. Responsible for invoicing, crediting, inventory management, assisting with shipping/receiving. Independent Driver Bulldawg Delivery - Athens, GA September 2018 to Present I was hired on as an independent delivery driver for Bulldawg Delivery in Athens, GA. We have contracts with over 100  local restaurants in the Athens area and deliver their food through a 3rd party system. Manager/trainer/driver/inshop Jimmy John's - Athens, GA August 2012 to August 2018 I began a job at Jimmy John's in Athens, GA after I was laid off from the IIAG as a delivery driver. I eventually was  promoted to a trainer, and later a manager. I was capable of running all positions, including opening manager/closing  manager. Our store was bought in August, 2018 and I was demoted as well as the rest of the managing staff to put  new management in. Database Administrator/lobbyist Assistant Independent Insurance Agents Of Georgia - Doraville, GA April 2012 to May 2013 The IIAG re-hired me the following summer to help maintain and update their database. As I was with the company for longer, they gave me more responsibilities. I eventually helped the Event Coordinator with planning and paperwork  surrounding conferences, as well as did data entry/emailing/donation entry for the lobbyist. My job was eventually  considered no longer a requirement and I was laid off about a year later. Intern Independent Insurance Agents Of Georgia - Doraville, GA April 2011 to August 2011 I was hired on as a temp intern for the IIAG to help them transition their database program an old format to a new  format. The job took about 4 months before I finished the project. Call Agent GE Money Bank - Athens, GA October 2008 to April 2010 I was a call Agent for GE Money Bank through Dial America. I took inbound calls and helped people activate their  credit cards and apply card protection and other services to their accounts. Assistant Southern Duplicating Systems - Covington, GA February 2008 to August 2008 I worked as an assistant for an independent copier salesman named Rhett Wheeler while I was still attending classes.  My daily tasks included maintaining his database, following up with clients, joining him on repair jobs, and taking care of the office mail. Eventually, Rhett decided to leave his independent sales project and rejoin the company he  previously worked for Line Cook Cracker Barrel Old Country Store - Madison, GA October 2006 to February 2008 My first job was a line cook at Cracker Barrel in Madison, GA. I eventually was promoted to Trainer and trained most  positions; including Server, Host, Prep Cook, Line Cook and Dishwashers. Education Anthropology University of North Georgia - Watkinsville, GA 2014 Business Administrations Georgia Perimeter College Newton County Campus - Covington, GA Additional Information SKILLS    Documentation and reporting Communications Organizatinal Skills    Project management Attention to detail Detail oriented