Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator / Database Developer Owatonna, MN Knowledgeable and results-oriented information technology professional with over 10 years' experience and expertise working with databases and programming technologies. Exceptionally skilled in database development, querying, design, and application programming with Microsoft products as well as some exposure to open-source development. Contributor to information technology teams through continual professional development, expert technical knowledge, and collaboration with IT staff, end users, vendors, and consultants. Extremely interested in data, data management, data security, and the storage of data. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Olmsted Medical Center - Rochester, MN August 2017 to Present Managed Microsoft SQL Server databases for a health care system. Performed regular backups and routine maintenance, including creating the backup plan and schedule. Routinely monitored servers for performance issues and addressed them as necessary. Designed and coded ETL processes using SSIS. Wrote SSRS reports, including the underlying stored procedures and T-SQL queries.  ? Initiated and performed database review and cleanup effort, freeing up terabytes of network storage.  ? Administered SQL Server versions 2008 R2 - 2017  ? Created and maintained database access privileges to users Programmer Analyst South Country Health Alliance - Owatonna, MN November 2014 to Present Worked as database developer and programmer for a county-based health plan. Created database objects such as tables, views, and stored procedures in order to support internal business processes. Developed and maintained reusable reports and ETL processes to incorporate state and third-party administrator data into internal database systems. Managed database users and security. Authored, updated, and maintained internal .NET applications.  ? Redesigned the provider database to allow for more accurate reporting for state and federal regulations and provider network representation.  ? Instituted a new backup and restore process in order to keep development and staging environments in closer alignment with production environment.  ? Performed query tuning and analysis resulting in more efficient performance of functions and stored procedures  Christopher S. Fair (507) 327-6788 ? cfermn@gmail.com Application Developer MTU Onsite Energy - Mankato, MN August 2013 to November 2014 Served as an all-purpose staff developer for a manufacturing company. Created and updated web applications as needed.  ? Improved sales order process by authoring an application used by multiple departments  ? Created ETL processes to extract data for an SAP integration  ? Wrote an internal application moving employee suggestions to the web instead of on notecards Network Administrator Sterling Long Term Care Pharmacy - Owatonna, MN October 2011 to August 2013 Managed databases, servers, PCs, and network for a long-term care pharmacy. Managed user accounts, performed server and PC upgrades, and diagnosed hardware and software problems. Worked with vendors on purchasing and fixing network and hardware issues. Served as the point of contact for technical issues. Performed database backups, restores, and maintenance. Provided technical guidance and advice for new technologies and processes.  ? Streamlined inventory ordering process by developing concrete workflow processes and accurate reporting data  ? Created customized Crystal Reports for management and day-to-day activities Application Developer Ridley, Inc - Mankato, MN October 2010 to October 2011 Application Developer Viracon - Owatonna, MN January 2007 to October 2010 Surgical Systems Intern Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN September 2005 to May 2006 Learning Outfitters - Excelsior, MN August 2000 - March 2001  Software Engineer Web Engineer Techies.com - Bloomington, MN January 1999 to June 2000 Education Bachelor of Science Minnesota State University - Mankato, MN Diploma Riverland Community College - Albert Lea, MN Skills SQL Server (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), Database Administration (6 years), T-Sql (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), SSIS (6 years), SSRS (6 years), .NET (10+ years), C# (5 years), HTML (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), DBA (6 years), Sql Dba (6 years), Sql Database, ETL (6 years) Additional Information Key Skills:  ? Microsoft SQL Server  ? Database Development  ? Database Design  ? Transact-SQL/TSQL  ? Database Administration  ? Application Development  ? SSIS/SSRS  ? Report Writing  ? .Net    TECHNICAL PORTFOLIO    Operating Systems: Windows 9x/XP/7/8/10/Server 2008 R2/Server 2012/Server 2016, DOS, Linux, Mac, OS X    Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017, Sybase, Oracle 10g, MySQL    Languages: .Net, ASP.NET, Web Forms, MVC, Transact-SQL/T-SQL, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, Java, JSP, VB Script    Applications: Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio, Access, OneNote), Microsoft Dynamics AX, Redgate SQL Toolbelt (SQL Compare, SQL Prompt, SQL Search, SQL Source Control, SQL Doc), Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat, GIMP, Crystal Reports    Other: SQL Server Information Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SharePoint, Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence