System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Hickory, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Turbotec Products - Hickory, NC May 2018 to August 2018 Administrator for all IT related areas of a 80 person warehouse facility. Sole manager of seven servers (Windows), Active directory (user management), Cisco ASDM firewall, user IT requests, equipment (80 windows pc's, printers, routers), cable management and design, inventory control, and was the contact for IT service providers. Database Developer Legrand - Hickory, NC September 2016 to June 2018 Develop and maintain Microsoft Access databases and Excel spreadsheets to contribute towards the successful launch of a new billing material web application. Data entry and analysis of fiber optic configurations, bill of materials, technical specifications, and part number setup. Reverse engineering of vendor part number systems to create large multi-vendor part number reference system. Analyze and manage the accuracy of data within SAP and Excel. Customer Service Representative Fiserv - Hickory, NC May 2015 to April 2016 Assist account holders with technical financial issues via computer and phone. Monitor cardholder transactions for fraudulent activity. Assist cardholders with account security, charge disputes, and processing refunds. Consistently exceeded customer satisfaction goals set in place by management. Web Developer CMS Designs - Hickory, NC 2007 to 2016 I started my own business designing and managing websites for local and global clients. In addition, I SEO/SEM services which increased their online marketability. Other responsibilities included data entry of ecommerce products and descriptions, content creation to boost organic search rank, and remote technical support. IT Manager Gold King - Hickory, NC September 2011 to February 2015 Setup and maintenance of all computer hardware, software, and security systems. Managed web development projects involving web design, advertising campaigns, social media, and SEO/SEM. Responsible for all online marketing including a monthly budget for PPC campaigns. Daily data entry of product specifications, shipping arrangements, and sales orders. Education Computer System Engineering OCW MIT Online Courseware 2016 Associates of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Catawba Valley Community College - Hickory, NC 2006 to 2008 Skills SEARCH ENGINE MARKETING (8 years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (8 years), Adobe Suite (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Graphic Design (5 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Database Management (2 years), Web Development (10+ years), Photography (10+ years), Networking (4 years), Graphic Design (5 years), Wordpress (8 years), IT Management (4 years), Data Entry (6 years), Database Development (2 years), Photography (4 years), MYSQL, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Additional Information SKILLS    Hardware: PC Troubleshooting and Repair, Windows OS and Server Management, LAN/WAN, Switches, Security Systems.  Software: Advanced MS Access and Excel, MS SQL, SAP, Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator, Newsletter (MailChimp).  Networking: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Router and Modem setup.  Languages: HTML, PHP, CSS, Visual Basic, SQL, Xojo development.  Web Development: Content Management Systems (Wordpress/Drupal), E-Commerce (Magento/Shopify), SEO/SEM, PPC Advertising (Google Adwords), Google Analytics, Online Marketing.  Data: Management of large datasets, supply chain warehouse analytics, database backup and recovery.