MySQL Database Administrator MySQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MySQL Database Administrator - Opus Fund Services Benicia, CA Certified Oracle MySQL Database Developer with over 10 years of experience querying and developing database objects for propritary application systems in the financial and automobile industry, and 4 years developing, administering, and optimizing MySQL databases. Strong performance in managing customer relationships, building collaborative partnerships with key business allies. Work Experience MySQL Database Administrator Opus Fund Services - Brentwood, CA February 2017 to Present • Tested and moved the database from GoDaddy cloud services to a Amazon server for better security using WHM and C Panel.  • Monitored the database server using IDERA SQL Diagnostic Manager which allowed a better view into the database performance and statistics. By using the Diagnostic Manager and implementing the performance and the sys schema, I was able to improve database performance, reduce downtime, and stop deadlocks.  • Converted the database from using the MyISAM storage engine to INNODB for better optimization and reducing table locks which was causing increased wait times for users and applications.  • Moved slow performing application code to the database using triggers, views, and stored procedures which improved application performance from their baselines by an average of 30 percent faster, as well as improving the time developers needed to code their applications.  • Implemented new database backup and restore processes for the cloud production database and proprietary applications databases using incremental restoration with the binary logs to get the database restored to the moment of failure.  • Updated the database objects and queries for peak performance by optimizing tables and indexes using the Slow query logs and the SQL Diagnostic Manager. Changed most views to store procedures, and adjusted system variables to keep the system running for max availability and performance.  • Created complex queries and views to connect to excel for dynamic reporting for internal and external clients. Systems Implementation Analyst Automobile Protection Corporation - Norcross, GA June 2015 to August 2016 • Created queries to collect data from the data warehouse to be analyzed for system projects and applications using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studios.  • As the system expert, I improved the time to implement new internal applications by 40% and improved time for pairing third party applications by 20% by analyzing multiple systems using MS SQL Server queries, coordinating system tests, and verifying all systems and applications are working as expected.  • Produced detail documents for requirement analysis, system analysis, system processes and procedures, as well as end user documentation to use the new applications. Quality Assurance Specialist Automobile Protection Corporation - Norcross, GA April 2014 to June 2015 • Designed, and executed test plans by creating test cases for each application deployed to the development and QA environments for each online system and database.  • Kept our deployments 100% error free for 6 months. The deployments stayed error free at 95% for my duration.  • Performed testing on the system applications by using different types of test, such as manual, automated, regression, and performance. Data Analyst Automobile Protection Corporation - Norcross, GA June 2008 to April 2014 • Used SQL Server Management Studios to create ad-hoc queries, views, and store procedures to implement and improve reporting.  • Designed, created, and managed detailed dynamic MS SSRS reports and dashboards to portray data in different graphical formats. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Decatur, GA October 2016 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, C#, Html, Linux, Java, Css, Windows 10, Windows 8, Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Database Certifications/Licenses Certified Oracle MySQL Database Developer December 2018 to Present An Oracle Certified Professional, MySQL 5.6 Developer (OCP) Certification has demonstrated the ability to write applications with the MySQL database server. They are capable of monitoring & diagnostics using PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA, replication enhancements including support for multi-threaded replications, and can use the new NoSQL interface and partitioning improvements to support scalability and security enhancements.