Database Analyst III <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst III Amboy, MN Work Experience Database Analyst III CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS February 2008 to Present Duties:  • Responsible for daily administration of Oracle databases including backups, automated  backup verification, upgrades, new implementations, migrations, disaster recovery plans, database replications, best practices, ensuring SOX compliance, security, and  performance monitoring.  • Administration of Windows Servers, AIX, SCO, and Linux platforms related to Oracle  Database servers and associated application servers.  • Support of SuiteSolution billing system including internal and external customer  application deployments, database development, trouble shooting, implementation of ancillary systems, and cross training.  • Administration of the Martens Suite for plant and provisioning management.  • Development of PL/SQL to fulfill operational requirements that are not directly  supported by Martens or SuiteSolution.  • PL/SQL guidance and performance tuning help for SuiteSolution application specialists  and developers.  • Automation of daily tasks using UNIX shell scripts, Perl, DOS batch scripts, power shell  and PL/SQL.  • Development and maintenance of 100+ daily file transfers using a resumable ftp, sftp, ftps, and scp process with a web based report summary.  • Developed and maintained a web based application to allow test system databases to be  efficiently refreshed with new data upon demand by end users.  • 24x7 Trouble shooting performance issues and application failures with the end users.  • Support of EMC Networker Backup System. Ensured successful backups and troubleshot  issues. Implemented custom backups and reports to meet company needs.  • OnBase document retrieval system support. Senior Unix Administrator CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS - Mankato, MN December 2006 to February 2008 Unix Administrator CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS October 2004 to December 2006 Service Technician Que Computers - Mankato, MN August 2000 to October 2004 Sales Duties:  • Helping customers with purchasing decisions.  • Sales floor maintenance.  • Opening and Closing of the store.  Technician Duties:  • Diagnosing and Repair of Hardware & Software Issues (Windows and Mac).  • Upgrading of existing Computers and Assembly of new Computer Systems.  • Onsite repairs or installations of Networks, Computers, and Printers.  • Phone support of Products and Technical Questions.  • Spyware/Adware/Virus Detection and Removal. Sales Associate QUE COMPUTERS - Mankato, MN March 1999 to August 2000 Education Computer Science MINNESOTA STATE UNIVERSITY 1990 to 1996 High school or equivalent MANKATO EAST HIGH SCHOOL 1986 to 1990 Skills DBA, PL SQL (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), Powershell (1 year), Perl (10+ years), C (2 years), Unix Administration (5 years), Computer Repair (5 years), MySQL (1 year), Oracle Database (10+ years)