Desktop Integration Engineer Desktop Integration Engineer Desktop Integration Engineer - Compaid Greenbelt, MD To secure an SCCM Systems Administrator or Desktop Engineer position with a company that utilizes a variety of cutting edge technologies. To be an assest to a team while applying technical and customer service skills, and enjoying a good life-work balance. Would also like to pursue CISSP and PMP Certification. Work Experience Desktop Integration Engineer NTT Data - Washington, DC July 2012 to Present Manage full life cycle of enterprise-level applications and packages. Create, advertise, monitor, test, deploy and report on SCCM packages for deployment to QA test systems, production images and helpdesk collections for headquarters and country offices for the 7000+ International Finance Company (IFC) community. Provide enterprise level management and support for various desktop management components within System Center. Serve as project team member for enterprise-wide initiatives and support activities. Responsible for developing and maintaining Technical documentation and Standard Operating Procedures for all enterprise level End User/workstation technologies. Perform post incident root cause analysis and write the associated RCA document. Create change management and release requests for package\image releases, attend weekly change management, release and post implementation review meetings. Perform large scale and targeted distribution of software/patches. Monitor distribution and execution status and create reports to show status of application/patch distribution. Maintain QA database for all software packages tested/deployed separated by category: compliance, mandatory, hardware or optional. Create test cases to document QA process for testing all software that will be deployed. Push licensed software requests to customer workstations from SCCM and record license and purchase order information in Express Metrics database. Test all production image core and optional applications and coordinate testing with application owners for in-house developed software or third party software specific to that department, work through any problems that arise, assist with application deployment coordination if applicable. Support package deployments issues related to previously installed software. Support configurations standards and process improvement and standardization within the IT organization Provide user support for all aspects of functional area, serves as an escalation point for Tier 2 support and respond to tier III remedy incident requests to meet customer SLA. Manage multiple computer test labs in different buildings, provide VM systems for testing and development purposes. Admin Studio, InstallShield Serco-North America November 2008 to July 2012 November 2008 - July 2012) Application Packager, Created zen objects and SCCM programs from COTS and in-house developed software to deploy to Census headquarters and Regional Offices. If necessary repackaged .msi files and created .mst files using Admin Studio, InstallShield or Orca if command line or distribution scripts will not automate the installation process. Tested created objects and programs on VMware Workstations, tested software packages on FDCC and production images created by team members for quality assurance, deploy/advertise approved packages to 5000+ workstations throughout Census community. Assign application objects or SCCM packages using Zenworks or SCCM users within specific containers or collections. Migrating and testing applications with SCCM 2007. Created programs, packages and advertisements to collections in test environment for SCCM migration. Provided Tier 3 support for end user issues with previously deployed applications and XP SP3 operating system or any unresolved application related issues received from helpdesk analysts. Add and delete user rights to Zenworks application objects. Record tickets in remedy ticketing system and follow documentation guidelines. Supporting regional laptop project, creating ghost images, deployed application and security updates using Patchlink, track laptops using Computrace, provided support for regional technicians and users, documented procedures for laptop imaging and general use processes, tested Verizon and Dell wireless software and laptop distribution, created custom GPO security template to allow users access to wireless broadband and site domain. LAN Administrator/SMS Engineer Computer Sciences Corporation - Lanham, MD August 2006 to November 2008 Monitored incremental and full backups for DLT and LTO tape drives, create/delete and monitor objects and group policy in Active Directory, configured test environment for SMS and WSUS installations, test and deploy Microsoft Security updates and necessary third-party application patches through WSUS or SMS, configured Norton Client Security to scan workstations for anti-virus vulnerabilities, monitor health of SMS and WSUS Systems, create/deploy software packages for workstations and servers using SMS, approve and schedule installation of updates through WSUS, troubleshoot network issues, install patch cables, monitor DNS servers, monitor NetIQ, develop vbscripts for SMS 2003. Create and maintain workstation ghost images, install and configure workstations and servers, swap phone lines for Nortel phone system, perform quarterly inventory for both software and hardware. Enter all incidents into Heat ticket tracking system. Independent Contractor, Windows Gaithersburg, MD January 2006 to August 2006 IT Administrator United States Senate - Washington, DC April 2003 to November 2005 Provided installation, technical support and maintenance for all DC and state offices equipment, software, peripheral devices and programs utilized on a daily basis including the correspondence management system, ensured data security/integrity, backed up file and intranet servers, updated public and intranet websites, installed and configured workstations, laptops, printers, scanners, blackberries and other peripheral devices, granted staff remote access to Senate resources with laptops, secureid, outlook web access and passfaces, ordered/introduced new software and hardware to stay current, prepared computer fund budget for end-of-year spending. Worked with all staff to improve the information systems within the office environment. Provided training and support for all staff questions and concerns in a timely fashion. IT Consultant Affiliated Computer Services - Merrifield, VA December 1999 to April 2003 Provided technical support for vendor based mail tracking system (Intranet Quorum)for various US House and Senate members. Installed and configured DC and state workstations with CMS product, troubleshooting, printing and workstation issues relative to Intranet Quorum. Worked closely with Administrative and Legislative staff to escalate any issues that would automate the system and create a more productive working environment. Allen, Hamilton, Database Administrator Booz - Tysons Corner, VA September 1999 to December 1999 Contract) - Built and maintained employee database for benefits enrollment. Tier I Helpdesk Support Department of Health and Human Services, Tier I Helpdesk Support - Rockville, MD June 1999 to September 1999 for 250+ users on general operating system (Windows 98), Corel WordPerfect, Lotus Notes, Netscape Navigator, printers and other workstation issues. Backup Operator Kaiser Permanente - Silver Spring, MD June 1998 to June 1999 Executed, monitored and provided updates for Northeast region backups. Compiled and printed office visit, pharmaceutical reports and payroll checks. Implemented documentation on procedures for running backups and sending data offsite. Education Business Systems Computer Learning Center - Laurel, MD May 1997 to March 1998 Psychology and Human Development Howard Community College - Columbia, MD November 1995 to May 1996 Skills MAC, Help Desk, Desktop Support, SCCM