IT Support Officer IT Support Officer SQL SME/General IT Knoxville, TN I have 20 years of experience in IT. One of my last positions was as a remote telecommuting employee serving as a SQL database administrator, architect, and subject matter expert (SME). As a telecommuter, it requires a great deal of discipline, a strong work ethic, and ability to coordinate communications and activities with fellow team members and other teams spread across the United States and Europe. I was also required obtain and keep a Department of Defense clearance level and obtain ITIL Foundations certification. In that position, I managed over 700 SQL database servers. I was also responsible for engineering and architecting new SQL server solutions and making sure the systems followed best practices. As the SME, clients came to me with various SQL questions and scenarios that I must construct the best solution.  As an independent contractor, I’ve been working with small to medium businesses here in Knoxville. I have assisted the businesses in a variety of IT needs from infrastructure to stand ups and to maintenance. This has allowed me to expand my knowledge of other various Windows systems and functionality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Officer Nyrstar via Robert Half April 2019 to Present As a contractor with Robert Half I currently am placed as the East Tennessee IT Support Officer for Nyrstar Mines. My responsibility at Nyrstar is to provide end to end support for users, desktops, laptops, servers, network infrastructure, VOIP telephone, camera surveillance, and architecture for all four of the Nyrstar locations in East Tennessee. These locations span three countries and must be operational 24/7. Best way to describe the position is if it has an IP address, it’s my responsibility. Independent Contractor July 2017 to April 2019 Responsibilities: As an independent contractor I worked with local small and medium sized businesses setting up their full IT infrastructure and implementing a maintenance program to keep the infrastructure running. These programs could be scripts, coding, or training of employees.  As a contractor I have stood up infrastructure from design to cabling to server set up. My main skill set is in Microsoft SQL Server but I have experience with Active Directory, hyper-v, VMware, some Exchange and Skype for business. Lead SQL Database Administrator and Architect BAE Systems Information Technology - Herndon, VA August 2007 to July 2015 Responsibilities: Designing, implementing, and maintaining enterprise level architectures for SQL Server(2000 and up), SharePoint (2010 and up), K2, BizTalk, Project Server, various "in house" developed applications. These systems are located in a variety of environments from the isolated inner business network, to the more public facing network to the DMZ network. All systems must be designed with appropriate levels of security and interoperability with existing systems. Appropriately scaling the systems at design time and re-scaling systems already in production in order to maintain a positive user experience. This process includes monitoring current usage levels, projecting future usage levels, and load balancing systems. High availability and disaster recovery are also considered at design time. Depending on the version of SQL, high availability is accomplished with either clustering or SQL Availability Groups. Disaster recovery is accomplished through either replication, log shipping, or also SQL Availability Groups. Database Administrator BAE Systems Information Technology - Herndon, VA November 2006 to August 2007 Responsibilities: Maintaining operational status, scale, and recommend updates and upgrades of enterprise level SQL Server farms including a SQL 2000 cluster, multiple SQL 2005 Clusters, and a variety SQL 2000 and SQL 2005 standalone systems. Typical tasks include: performing regular backups, archiving older backups, applying patches and service packs, scheduling and performing regular maintenance on the databases, creation of new databases applications, customizing or expanding existing systems in order to accommodate new data. Implementing and maintaining Microsoft Identity Integration Server 2003. Developing MIIS centered applications for security group and distribution list memberships, updating Active Directory with data from PeopleSoft, supplying applications with secure MIIS data, enabling MIIS to create and disable user accounts based of the employee's status in PeopleSoft. Database Administrator BAE Systems, Ordnance Systems - Kingsport, TN 2004 to 2006 Responsibilities: Maintaining operational status of onsite SQL Servers by performing regular backups, archiving older backups, patching and service pack application, scheduling and performing regular maintenance. Creating methods of extracting data to be used in report creation, creating reports, and setting up security for the reports. Creation of new Database Systems. Administrating SharePoint 2003 Intranet Systems. Creating new SharePoint enabled web portals and applications. Including the configuration of both Microsoft Internet Information Services, Domain Name Services for providing access to the web portals, and customizing the underlying SQL Database tables to create/enable custom features. Developing a custom Help Desk system for tracking user help tickets and tracking performance metrics against the ticket details. Independent Contractor BAE Systems, Ordinance Systems - Kingsport, TN 2002 to 2004 Responsibilities: Upgrading, managing and maintaining three separate SQL database servers. Aiding in system wide network hardware upgrade, transition from Windows NT 4.0 Domain to Windows 2000 Domain with Active Directory. Overseeing technical role out of Kronos Time and Attendance Software, integration with MRP system as well as Stores system, designing a company Intranet, and providing user support. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in studio arts/graphic design and a secondary East Tennessee State University December 1997 Elizabethton High School 1993 Skills Active Directory, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Service Desk, Tech Support Certifications/Licenses ITIL Present