Senior Database Administrator (IV), Database Architect Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (IV), <span class="hl">Database</span> Architect Senior Database Administrator (IV), Database Architect Middleborough, MA • Over 19 years industry experience with more than 18 years in database design, development, optimization, and administration.  • Solutions-oriented Senior Database Administrator with a proven track record of effective systems operations demonstrated through hands-on experience in design, development, administration and optimization of quality, performance-based databases.  • Excellent troubleshooting and diagnostic skills: proficiency in performance measuring- and diagnostic tools that allow for the identification of challenges during all stages of development as well as production.  • Very effective in implementing solutions to ensure maximum uptime to meet - and often exceed -business continuity objectives.  • Strong background in both working as a team leader and collaborating with other teams and the business; outstanding communication and interpersonal abilities that lead to organized, well-defined technical processes and overall quality.  • Core Competencies: Performance tuning/optimization; troubleshooting and problem resolution; database architecture, design, development and deployment; procedure development; systems implementation; continuous process improvement; functionality testing; monitoring; application support; and defect analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator (IV), Database Architect Zovio - San Diego, CA October 2012 to Present • Started as the Principal DBA for Agile development R&D teams working on the latest technologies in education support. Projects included:  • Assisting to build a 3+TB virtualized, clustered, SQL 2012 datawarehouse OLAP environment, including SSAS and cross-domain SSRS.  • Working with automated deployments using Octopus, TeamCity, and TFS.  • Building and maintaining 4 levels of new non-prod areas for the different parts of the release cycle - DEV, QA, Staging, and PLT (Performance Load Testing).  • N.B. This department was dissolved, and all employees let go, in 2013  • Senior member of a 9-person DBA team responsible for managing over 100 servers in production as well as more than 500 servers in non-production. This infrastructure includes servers for in-house products and processes as well as a number of 3rd party products, including the two primary Tier 1 vendor-provided applications used to support the business. Other responsibilities include:  • Maintaining uptime, including working with developers and vendors to troubleshoot performance and errors  • Participating in weekly on-call rotation, which includes performing dozens of releases throughout the week as well as acting as first responder for alerts and issues  • Architecting and designing planned server infrastructure to ensure consistency and maintainability  • Mentoring non-senior members of the team to help their personal development and growth, as well as for the betterment of the team.  • N.B. Over the years this team has been reduced to 2 DBAs, plus the manager  • Projects include  • Worked with SCM team to design and develop a standardized process to build SQL servers using process automation, including virtual server configuration (i.e. at the OS level), SQL Server installation, and all post-installation actions (SQL Agent jobs, alerts, SQL configurations, etc.), as well as integrating with a CMDB to maintain accurate server inventory. This allows us to spin up virtualized SQL Servers with no manual effort.  • Using NetApp snapshot technologies to clone databases to different servers, principally for reporting purposes (especially with the datawarehouse)  • SQL 2012 AlwaysOn Availability Groups  ? When they were first released, I performed extensive research and testing on exactly how all of the components with AGs work with Windows 2012 clusters, including  * Dynamic quorum management (i.e. Last Man Standing)  * Node/role draining and recovery for Windows patching/maintenance  * Powershell and SQLCMD scripting of all cluster and AG configurations  ? Architected and built a multi-site, multi-subnet, geo-dispersed Microsoft Windows 2012 Cluster supporting SQL 2012 AlwaysOn Availability Groups to support a new SOA infrastructure.  ? Built multiple other AG clusters with processes for:  * Rebalancing nodes after failover  * Managing security across nodes  * Managing jobs across nodes  • Successfully initiated, led, and completed a project to virtualize Tier 2 and 3 production database servers, with the completed architecture resulting in a fully consolidated set of dedicated hosts in their own VMWare cluster. The goals of this project were to reduce physical server sprawl and reduce our SQL Enterprise licensing costs by over 60% (saving almost $8 million).  ? After proving out how we could virtualize all other servers, I led the effort to finish virtualizing our Tier 1 servers.  • Built an audit process using SQL Audits.  • Automation examples:  ? Compliance required that we not only segregate our non-production environments via firewalls, but that we used separate non-production domain accounts for all services.  * Built a "mapping" stored procedure which, when restoring a database to non-production, took all domain production service accounts which had permissions in that database, matched the account to the corresponding non-prod account, and duplicated the permissions.  ? Similarly, I built a Powershell process to assign developers and QA groups permissions to folders and reports in restored SSRS databases, since this cannot be done in T-SQL.  ? We use the Ola Hallengren process for index maintenance, which doesn't handle statistics updating well. I built a procedure which updates statistics based on passed parameters (e.g. more than 20% drift, or less than 70% sampling ratio on last update). This works with Ola's CommandLog table to retain the history, for single pane of view for maintenance activity.  • Recent BI projects  ? Working with development and reporting teams to holistically analyze not only their workload but the workload of the primary datawarehouse server and provide suggestions for improvement. Methods for this include using DTA for advanced workload-level suggestions (composite statistics, filtered indexes, etc.), using query store, and manually analyzing top queries consuming CPU/memory resources.  ? Working with development team for building up machine learning systems (SQL 2017 with R and Python integrated)  ? Working with development team to prototype and build Azure Data Factory and Data Lake (v2) infrastructure, and to integrate this with our non-cloud datawarehouse.  ? Worked with Self-Service reporting team to build infrastructure for Power BI using SSAS 2017 Tabular models, including process for scaling out SSAS servers and making the models portable.  • Working with solutions architects and platform engineers to design plans to reduce our datacenter footprint by converting applications (and potentially databases) to Microsoft Azure.  • Cleaning out the fridge: Leading a project to migrate/upgrade several dozen end-of-life SQL Server 2008 ecosystems to run on SQL 2017 - or to decommission if no longer being used.  ? Next phase is to extend to our pre-SQL 2016 servers Senior Database Administrator (contract) Jenny Craig - Carlsbad, CA May 2011 to September 2012 • Principal Senior DBA maintaining legacy systems across 3 data centers, consisting of 20 SQL 7, SQL 2000, SQL 2005, and SQL 2008 database servers.  • Performed optimizations on database server environments to increase overall performance.  • Created automation of common maintenance tasks such as backups, reindexing, and statistics maintenance.  • Created plan to restrict access to databases and servers for PCI compliance. Senior Database Administrator, Lead Database Developer Grand Pacific Resorts - Carlsbad, CA December 2009 to September 2012 • Member of small development team working primarily with two 3rd party software solutions for loan servicing and resort management.  • Worked with application developers to enhance the quality and performance of T-SQL code being produced and modified for in-house applications surrounding the 3rd party databases.  • Utilized my analytical skills to rapidly and effectively troubleshoot issues with legacy code and 3rd party app "black box" behavior to be able to devise solutions for auditable processes experiencing issues with data anomalies.  • Primary developer for billing process (mass billing for over 15 resorts) to create a new series of T-SQL procedures to allow Accounting department to process the billing with no MIS involvement.  • Solidified backup strategies, security (preventing direct developer changes) on production servers, and created a robust reindexing process.  • Streamlined process for shared QA and development databases to be periodically refreshed from production databases by developers, including adding database snapshots to be able to revert changes without needing to re-restore from production databases.  • Working with team to utilize Agile methodologies in daily work.  • On the side researched how SQL Server Analysis Services cubes could help with replacing ad-hoc requests for analytical queries, including building a prototype cube with KPIs and linking it to Excel. Senior Database Administrator (contract) Entriq - Carlsbad, CA November 2009 to December 2009 • Senior DBA covering for client's sole DBA while on vacation.  • Migrated databases remotely between data centers in Europe.  • Also handled some smaller routine projects and tasks. Senior Database Administrator, Database Architect The Active Network, Inc - San Diego, CA July 2007 to July 2009 • Principal member of a five-person team responsible for Tier 3 support, maintenance, performance and administration of over 70 MSSQL production database servers - clustered and standalone housing over 7,500 databases - in a 24/7 international enterprise utilizing geographically dispersed data centers.  • Designed and developed a one-step installation routine used to create stand-alone SQL Servers for a hosted client environment. The installation included installation of the SQL engine and certain other required components, latest service pack and hotfix, and 3rd party tools (such as RedGate SQLBackup), as well as configuring server settings, replication, and security. The process also restored central application databases, created standard maintenance and monitoring jobs, and created remote backup locations for Disaster Recovery purposes.  • Architected and built a multi-instance (36+) 12TB controlled server environment for integration, QA, and staging testing which matched the various production environments in almost every way, including direct server interdependencies (e.g. linked servers), various replication configurations (merge, transactional uni- and bi-directional), and full backup support, with the intention that no environmental changes would be required to promote code from one environment to the next. The installation program for these instances was derived from the one used in the hosted solution (above).  • Provided Tier III project and design support for various development teams working in environments ranging from isolated databases to databases which are significantly shared by numerous applications.  • Assisted development teams and their associated products with fine tuning database architecture and SQL code to balance the needs of performance, flexibility, and scalability.  • Worked with various development and internal IT teams to help define, design, implement, and mature new processes for development and production releases.  • Mentored non-senior members of the team to help their personal development and for the betterment of the team. Database Developer/Architect, Senior Database Administrator Audit Integrity - La Jolla, CA February 2007 to July 2007 • Integral part of a two-person team responsible for development, support and administration of a database utilized to generate forensic ratings of corporate governance and accounting practices.  • Integrated continuous process improvement, including conversion of manual integration processes to fully systematic processes.  • Provided administration of a centralized job scheduling system (Active Batch).  • Re-architected a key process to reduce weekly processing and administration time by approximately 80%.  • Created a data cleansing and QA process to identify and reduce errors in weekly processing.  • Created a full installation of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and converted over 20 manual reports into automated reports. Senior Database Administrator SMS.ac - San Diego, CA August 2006 to January 2007 • Senior member of small team responsible for Enterprise Administration of 5 SQL Servers (2005 edition, x64) supporting a worldwide 24/7 website with 7TB of data.  • Administered several legacy production SQL Servers on SQL 2000.  • Responsible for the administration of transactional replication for 30+ publishers/subscribers using remote distributors.  • Developed and provided administration for job and replication error notification alerts. Senior Database Administrator Plymouth Rock Assurance Corp - Boston, MA February 2006 to August 2006 • Senior member of small team responsible for Enterprise Administration of over 70 SQL Servers (7.0/2000) throughout Test, QA, and Production transactional environments, supporting internal and external applications. Database failover planning and testing using Legato Clustering solution (EMC).  • Provided administration of transactional replication for 12 publishers/subscribers using remote distributors.  • Developed and administered job and replication error notification alerts.  • Utilized high-quality change control methods while working with development teams to achieve consistent quality code rollouts.  • Developed and provided administration of centralized database metadata.  • Provided continuous process improvement, including conversion of manual integration processes to fully systematic processes. Datawarehouse Database Administrator Monster.com - Maynard, MA January 2005 to February 2006 • Member of a three-person team responsible for the administration of 10 VLDB Enterprise servers (Development, QA, and Production), running on Windows 2003 Server, containing approximately 10TB of data in datawarehouse environments (2-3 databases per server).  • Provided in-depth performance analysis and tuning of indexes, data statistics, and server performance statistics.  • Capacity planning, including mapping of data and index hotspots to data files and filegroups, and data- and log files to SAN and array space.  • Managed over 1,200 DTS packages for daily, weekly, and monthly data loads, aggregations, and exports, including data sources from internal applications and third party external applications.  • Participated in 24/7 on-call rotation, reviewed/implemented robust database backup and recovery strategies as well as security policies.  • Led project for database failover planning and testing for new clustered environment.  • Assisted analysts and developers with SQL queries, including stored procedures and triggers.  • Provided continuous process improvement, including the conversion of manual integration processes to fully systematic processes. DBA / Production Support Specialist Harte-Hanks, Inc August 2002 to January 2005 • Implemented logical and physical data models based on application development.  • Managed, supported and troubleshot exiting SQL Server environment through capacity planning, tuning, and establishing backup and disaster recovery process/procedures.  • Administered multiple SQL Server database management systems on Windows NT/2000 platform supporting business and web applications.  • Worked with software developers to architect data models for efficient data access, reporting, and data validation during application design and construction phases.  • Assisted analysts and developers with SQL Queries, including stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed and managed data import/export processes and procedures using DTS and similar technologies as needed.  • Wrote SQL Server 2000 queries using techniques such as correlated sub queries, multi-table joins and conditional logic.  • Reviewed/implemented database backup and recovery strategies as well as security policies.  • Performed regular database consistency analysis, diagnosis and repairs of problems.  • Provided performance monitoring and tuning of database and database server environment.  • Developed and administered error notification alerts (e-mail, pager).  • Provided continuous process improvement, including conversion of manual integration processes to fully systematic processes.  • Organized support of all integrated systems at the site. Harte-Hanks, Inc - E Bridgewater, MA November 1996 to January 2005 Application Developer Harte-Hanks, Inc July 1999 to August 2002 • Application development and production support in MS Visual Basic 5.0/6.0, MS Access 2.0/95, and MS T-SQL (SQL 6.5, 7.0, and 2000) for a centralized mail merge program.  • Interacted with Data Processing and Client Administration departments for program support.  • Application development and production support of core, internally developed, fulfillment system written in Informix 4GL. Program Administrator Harte-Hanks, Inc October 1997 to July 1999 • Lead Management software configuration for Teleservices actions.  • Analyzed, designed, released, and configured support of two major order entry systems  • Member of the team recognized for the highest revenue/highest revenue growth client account  • Led and assisted in the implementations for several new divisions of the client Inbound Teleservices Lead Harte-Hanks, Inc April 1997 to October 1997 Inbound Teleservices Agent Harte-Hanks, Inc November 1996 to April 1997 Education High school or equivalent Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sql Database Additional Information • RDBMS: SQL Server 2019, SQL Server 2016, SQL Server 2014, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 7.0  • TOOLS: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Idera SQLdm, Idera SQLSafe, SQLSentry, Embarcadero E/R Studio (data modeling), Windows PerfMon, IP Monitor, RedGate Toolbelt (including SQL Compare, SQL Data Compare, SQL Backup, SQL Prompt, SQL Multi Script), MS Dos Scripting, core Microsoft Office Products  • SQL SKILLS: Database Design, T-SQL, Code (stored procedures, triggers, functions), Indexing, Performance Tuning and Optimization, SQL Server Replication, ETL with DTS and SSIS, Backup Strategies, High Availability, Disaster Recovery, Clustering, Mirroring, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Log Shipping, Performance Statistics Gathering and Reporting  • LANGUAGES: T-SQL, Windows PowerShell  • PLATFORMS: Windows 10, 7, XP; Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012R2, 2016; Azure database infrastructure (Azure DB, Azure SQL Managed Instance)  • HARDWARE: Dell and HP servers, 32-bit and 64-bit, standalone and clustered, physical and virtual (VMWare)