Director of Management Engineering Director of Management Engineering Director of Management Engineering - St. Luke's University Health Network Hellertown, PA Work Experience Director of Management Engineering St. Luke's University Health Network - Allentown, PA 2014 to Present Provide guidance on labor management, cost reduction strategies, scheduling approaches, and operational workflow for 10 hospitals and 250+ physician practices. Directly supervise 2-3 employees.  • Implemented and managed the daily productivity system which monitored $1B in labor expenses, leading to having the lowest cost per adjusted occupied bed in the region and being named IBM Watson Top 100 hospital the last 3 years in a row (7 total).  • Directed a team of systems engineers which has collectively identified over $35M in expense reduction through projects leveraging systems engineering and Lean approaches in 5 years.  • Detailed the labor adjustments in two acquired failing hospitals systems joining the network to get them to break-even status within 1 year of acquisition.  • Built an initiative focused on a unified patient experience through the use of self-service technology in partnership with the Chief Information Officer.  • Streamlined the processes for 5 of the most concerning and highest-risk areas in the hospital during the Epic EMR implementation project.  • Strengthened relationships among Operations, Finance, and Information Technology by promoting standardization, common vision, and operational efficiency throughout the healthcare network.  • Overhauled the FTE approval process to enforce data-driven decision making to control expenses.  • Trained and coached hundreds of managers in basic Lean concepts. Senior Management Engineer Lehigh Valley Health Network - Allentown, PA 2012 to 2014 Developed operational solutions to problems using traditional industrial systems engineering techniques in the healthcare setting.  • Developed discrete-event simulations for the Post Anesthesia Care Unit, an outpatient Internal Medicine clinic, and an outpatient Pediatric clinic to identify optimal staffing ratios and bottleneck locations in all 3 cases.  • Designed optimization algorithms to automate the schedule planning for the Epic EMR training regimen and plan for the scheduling changes required to open a new orthopedic facility.  • Re-engineered bed capacity models to predict the future needs of the hospital.  • Built a foundation for predictive analytics capability including short-term census prediction for staffing management to minimize the amount of daily staffing needed and optimize the size of the nursing float pool.  • Designed the prototype for the first executive dashboard.  • Consulted with the Epic implementation team on process improvement. Information Services Applications Supervisor Greater Lawrence Family Health Center - Lawrence, MA 2010 to 2012 Database Administrator Greater Lawrence Family Health Center - Lawrence, MA 2002 to 2010 Responsible for all reporting, database management, software deployments, and EMR content development and training for the organization. Responsible for 4 direct reports.    • Facilitated the sessions for developing executive leadership's organizational strategic plan and mapping it to a balanced scorecard.  • Managed the entire project from selection to deployment of GE Centricity Practice Solution EMR/Practice Management product in a 600 employee ambulatory care organization. Executive leadership described the project as one of the greatest successes and one of the most difficult undertakings in the organization's 30-year history. Final cost of the project was less than the total amount for Meaningful Use AIU funding.  • Prepared the organization for Meaningful Use Stage 1 attestation in 2012 through educating leadership of the requirements and coordinating all technical implementations required to meet the measures.  • Implemented additions to the core EMR product including Patient Portal, e-Prescribing, document scanning software, and a bidirectional interface between the clinic and the partnering hospital laboratory.  • Directed the production of all information necessary for achieving PCMH Level 3 recognition by NCQA.  • Designed and implemented the Enterprise Data Warehouse that became the foundation for the generation of data for grant applications and renewals, government reporting requirements, balanced scorecards, and standard operating processes.  • Developed first on-demand dynamic reporting solution.  • Managed IT infrastructure migrations for Windows, Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Citrix and VMWare. Education Master's in Healthcare Systems Engineering Lehigh University - Bethlehem, PA 2013 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Philosophy Lafayette College - Easton, PA 2002 Links http://linkedin.com/in/mkimball Certifications/Licenses Certificate of Project Management from Boston University Lean Six Sigma Green Belt from Institute of Indutrial Engineers