Operating Systems Engineer V Operating Systems Engineer V Operating Systems Engineer - Wells Fargo Greensboro, NC To utilize my experience of managing IT projects, information architecture, administration,  programming, and utilizing ITIL standards within your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operating Systems Engineer V Wells Fargo November 2013 to Present 5 (Infrastructure as a Service)  ? Act as a senior team lead in open source technologies and infrastructure  ? Assigned management/supervision of several contracted resources  ? Architected centralized cloud database backends MySQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ infrastructures with Business  Continuity for IaaS Cloud engineering custom provisioning software  ? Lead discussions between several teams for technical resolutions  ? Lead OpenStack Infrastructure discussions regarding team's design and internal technical partners  ? Integrate several technologies to ensure private internal cloud has high availability to our customers and interact with legacy systems  ? Interview talent for contract/full time roles when applicable  ? Design and support HA/BCP MySQL, NoSQL(MongoDB), RabbitMQ Messaging backends for cloud  support initiatives and applications.  ? Integrate custom applications for customization of the Wells Fargo IaaS cloud  ? Lead developers into packaging and programming methods for continuous delivery and integration  ? Coordinate policy and procedures models between Engineering and Operations staff for continuous  delivery and integration  ? Automate processes and deployment for continuous integration of custom provisioning software    Accomplishments:  Received Wells Fargo Top Performer award (2014)  Assisted with the delivery of 12 Icehouse Openstack sustainable clouds to end customers within a 6 month period (2015)  Assisted with delivery of 14 Mirantis HP Openstack clouds (2017) Senior MySQL Database Administrator T. Rowe Price September 2013 to November 2013 Design a backup strategy for Production level servers  ? Perform the backup strategy on High Available database  ? Provide Design and Architectural guidelines or best practices for future MySQL upgrades  ? Review slow queries running on server and perform DDL upgrades if needed  ? Review running configuration variables on server.  ? Create and perform optimization best practices to data types and indexes. Senior MySQL Database Administrator Inmar June 2013 to August 2013 Worked with HortonWorks Hadoop running on CentOS, managed with Ambari  ? Provided applications and data management team with data type optimization, and storage engine  performance tuning  ? Benchmark project servers, storage resources and MySQL storage engine types  ? Support Production, UAT and Development servers for ongoing MySQL applications  ? Created/Migrated existing Ubuntu Linux to 12.04 Linux VM Image for future AWS deployments  ? Create backup script procedure for Percona MySQL using XtraBackup  ? Work with DevOps on production errors to pinpoint slow queries that are having a performance impact on production servers  ? Installed MySQL plugin for New-Relic MySQL Monitoring  ? Run DDL/DML queries against production/integration/development datastores for application changes  ? Support MySQL to MSSQL data warehousing using MSSQL stored procedures  ? Explored direct MySQL to Sqoop processing for data warehousing  ? Scheduled Powershell scripts into UC4 automated system for ongoing ETL processes Senior MySQL Database Administrator Lincoln Financial September 2012 to May 2013 Provide Tiered Enterprise Solutions surrounding the MySQL database architecture  ? Install and test out MySQL Cluster 7.2 technology for EODS POC  ? Install and test Cloudera Hadoop for EODS POC  ? Assist Data Architect with MySQL data structure, including but not limited to, optimization, data type  optimization, storage engine performance tuning  ? Benchmark project servers, storage resources and MySQL storage engine types  ? Create Enterprise MySQL standardization documentation for the Linux platform  ? Create the Linux Server and VM MySQL Database architecture roadmap for tiered service model  ? Create/Drive fast provisioning process to deploy out MySQL VM's to adhere to Enterprise MySQL  standards  ? Work with Infrastructure, Storage, and Midrange Teams on ongoing efforts Implementation Engineer Bank of America May 2011 to September 2012 Facilitate the creation of virtual and physical server builds for specific needs  ? Worked with Technical Project Manager (TPM) and Design Team Lead (DTL) to facilitate server  deployment, provisioning and hardening  ? Coordinate Design through Provisioning; Conception to Reality server environments according to design  ? Facilitate production, testing, and development servers at several North America data centers  ? Procured servers with specific functions including but not limited to: Oracle RAC, MySQL, MS SQL,  WebSphere, Red Hat Clustering servers Senior Systems Administrator Gilbarco Veeder-Root September 2008 to March 2011 Designed/Architected Unix/Linux Infrastructure for Future Scalable Migration Paths  ? Developed Plans for Linux and Open Source Utilization Services/Servers  ? Coordinated Global Software Teams for software revision control  ? Designed/Architected and Administered MySql Database Cluster Master-Master  ? Negotiated Pricing with Vendors for Software Licenses when needed  ? Consolidated existing Linux services on Linux servers when possible  ? Troubleshooted Oracle Processes on P-Series running AIX  ? Ran Oracle RMAN backup script for Production to Development backup  ? Upgraded Oracle from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.5  ? Patched Oracle with necessary patches for 10.2.0.5 to resolve bugs.  ? Created Oracle VM server platform for Intel based solution vs power based  ? Setup Oracle 10g using Oracle's Unbreakable Linux 5  ? Migrated HP Unix services away to Linux  ? Secured HP Environment using NIS/Netgroups authentication  ? Designed/Architected and Administered Apache Reverse Caching Proxy Web Cluster to provide  99.999+% uptime for Extranet websites and Intranet websites  ? Setup DansGuardian/Squid Proxy Server for WebSense Replacement  ? Setup Administer Nagios/Groundwork Administration for Asset Management  ? Utilized ITIL Data Center Management for best practices  ? Provided DNS solutions for existing network issues  ? Secured/Created Unix/Linux Infrastructure for network through NIS/Netgroups  ? Authenticated Apache to Active Directory via LDAP or MySQL lookups where needed Project Manager / System Administrator / Lead Programmer WebbGroup Network Systems August 1999 to August 2008 Oversaw 6 employees for Web Development  ? Managed and Coordinated Company Projects  ? Administered 5 clustered Linux Servers supporting 220,000 users  ? Architected/Designed and maintained a custom ERP system to keep up with customers, channel  partners, and employees  ? Architected natural language property searching engine for client  ? Architected natural language processing backend database.  ? Programed with OO PHP/PERL/SHELL code  ? Used CSS to customize website with minimal coding  ? Used AJAX techniques to enhance graphical user interface  ? Architected/Designed a proactive firewall for DOS attacks against the website  ? Automated daily tasks with shell scripting  ? Administered Apache Web Server  ? Administered Sendmail email server  ? Administered MySQL cluster  ? Administered DNS, NFS, NIS  ? Enabled and Monitored Security Logs daily  ? Installed and administered SMB (Samba) for Windows clients    FOUR PROJECTS CONTRACTED OUT THROUGH WEBBGROUP NETWORK SYSTEMS:    1. ECCNET.COM - Glen Burnie, MD Network Security Project Linux Network Designer and Administrator WebbGroup Network Systems June 2001 to March 2002 Designed T-1 Network using IPTABLES firewall, Intrusion Detection Software, and network monitoring  tools  ? Constructed Main Firewall server with for use with Oracle from the internal network  ? Fixed Sendmail relaying problems  ? Fixed reverse and caching DNS issues using BIND 8  ? Constructed a Security Audit for client using NESSUS security software  ? Currently maintain and monitor Server logs for intrusion detection and other server errors Billing Script Administrator WebbGroup Network Systems - Research Triangle Park, NC October 2000 to April 2001 Wrote and modified Cisco Router and Switch Billing Scripts using SNMP, FTP, PERL, Expect, Bourne +  Korn shells on a HP-Unix Server  ? Developed Scripts on Solaris 7 Server before porting scripts over to main HP-Unix Box  ? Proposed a Linux Development box to further utilize Open Source Technologies for AT&T Solutions  ? Led management of all current scripts to menu driving system for ease of end users  ? Helped come up with proposal of management of all scripting needs and menu driven program for real  time network statistics Linux System Administrator WebbGroup Network Systems - Chapel Hill, NC September 2000 to October 2000 Responsible for leading administration of development server  ? Administer updates and fixes to server for security  ? Use Shell Scripts to automate daily tasks Linux Administrator IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC March 2000 to June 2000 Responsible for leading integration Manufacturing modularity into the RedHat 6.2 (Kernel 2.2.16-3) and  Turbo Linux Netfinity Server Images  ? Recompile and Update Kernel on the base image to IBM specifications  ? Constructed Shell Scripts to automate daily tasks    THREE PROJECTS CONTRACTED OUT  PVA (Professional Value Added) Burlington, NC  August 1998-August 1999 Technical Lead System Engineer NCR March 1999 to August 1999 Supervised Installation of main In-Store Processors 1+2 (IBM RS6000's) running AIX UNIX  ? Ran and configured AIX scripts to move old server data to the new ones  ? Installations included upgrading copper to Fiber Optic runs, upgraded Dell's and IBM PC's, Main Store  Processors, Hughes VSAT equipment, and IBM registers  ? Constructed proposal for real-time data recording with Microsoft Access for monitoring installations  ? Coordinated installations with Maxnet Tech Leads throughout conversions  2. PVA Livelink Integration Project Lead System Engineer Livelink Internet CGI Database January 1999 to March 1999 Lead the installation of the Livelink Internet CGI Database which ran off of MSSQL on NTSBS (Windows  NT Small Business Server)  ? Lead the System Administration duties  ? Implemented and Installed Small Business Server, Exchange Server 5.0, IIS 4.0 and SQL Server 6.5 for  Livelink  ? Documented Network with Cisco Configmaker 2.2  ? Created splash page for website  ? http://www.pvaglobal.com  ? Restructured Domain Controller with Network backups and Netshield virus detection  ? Lead the network update from Win 95 to Win98  3. Lucent Technologies Team Lead System Engineer Domain Name Server Project August 1998 to December 1998 Lead installation of Domain Name Servers for confidential Army Bases  ? Coordinated deployment schedules and installations for team at select Army and Government centers  ? Installations were comprised of staging Sun Ultra 10's running Solaris 2.6 OS  ? Edited installation scripts  ? Copied hard drives with Ghosting software  ? Managed PDF Document construction for client  ? Project was tier 2 of the Intrusion Detection System Project  ? Intrusion Detection System Project  ? Network consisted of NT Servers, Consoles that were deployed to confidential Army Bases  ? System was designed to integrate the monitoring and record any and all activity on the network but be  invisible to outside intruders System Administrator North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University October 1997 to August 1998 Maintained user accounts for Financial Aid Office on HP Unix Backbone  Proposed and installed the 30 user LAN Windows98 upgrade  The Upgrade included updating the 486 computers to Pentium class computers, adding more RAM to existing  computers, changing out CAT3 Coax Cable to Cat5 TP, Installation of 3Com NIC's,  Installation of select software on all computers  Lead the Design of an intranet that would be able to be updated by the Director of the Financial Aid Office  Lead creation of the NCA&T Financial Aid Website System Administrator The American Standard 1987 to August 1997 Administered Lan consisting of five clients and one NT server  ? Administrated all users and user accounts  ? Installed and configured all upgrades from Win 3.1 to Win 95  ? Installed Network Cards and any hardware upgrades Education Certification in MCSE Exam Cram Preparations Montgomery College 1996 to Present High school or equivalent in Technical Writing Watkin's Mill High School March 1996 Skills MYSQL (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), APACHE (10+ years), MongoDB (6 years), RabbitMQ (6 years), Git (6 years), Puppet (7 years), Linux, XML, HTML, Sql Server, SQL Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator August 2009 to August 2013 Additional Information Management Skills:  Coordination between key teams/partners/colleagues for efficient tactical resolutions  Lead meetings to accomplish main team based charter objectives  Drive charter strategy to obtain short, mid-term, and long range driven organization goals  Six years as Property Manager 1997-2003. Request for Proposals, Negotiations, Statements of Work.    Non Profit Leadership Experience:  Board of Director - President, Vantage Point Condominiums Association 2013-Present  Board of Director - Vice President, Vantage Point Condominiums Association 1997-2013  Director of Technology - Summerfield Recreation Association 2012-2014    Hardware Experience: HP DL3650 G7, IBM Series 5500/5600/5800, Dell PowerEdge R900 Series, NetApp  N5200 Data ONTap 7.3-8, Cisco Routers and Switches  Operating System Experience: CentOS 5-7 , RHEL 3-7 Fedora Core 1-12, Oracle 5,6, Ubuntu Fiesty-Xenial,  SuSE 7.2-OpenSuSE 11.2, Windows Server 2003, Windows 2008, Windows XP, HP UX 10-11, AIX, SCO  Unix, Solaris  Software Application Experience: VMWare/Vsphere, KVM/Qemu/Libvirt, Apache, Sendmail, Samba, DNS  (BIND) Administration, Active Directory, SharePoint  Database Experience: MySQL 5.0-5.7, Galera Clustering, MongoDB 3.2, MongoDB 3.4, MySQL Cluster 7.2,  Postgresql 9, NoSQL technologies; (Hadoop, MongoDB), Oracle 10.2.0.1-12, MSSQL  Protocols Experience: TCP/IP, UDP, NFS, NIS, LDAP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, LDAP, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, FTP,  DHCP, Kerberos  Programming Language Experience: BASH for automation, Python for Applications, PHP for Reporting / Web  Based Interaction, Perl for reporting, Puppet Scripting for Server Automation