CEO, Head of Community Engagement, Growth and Sustainability CEO, Head of Community Engagement, Growth and Sustainability CEO, Head of Community Engagement, Growth and Sustainability - FEED Worldwide, Inc Atlanta, GA I have an entrepreneur’s drive, a scholar’s thirst for knowledge and exploration, and a creative thought process that affords me the freedom to be innovative when resolving complex problems. I am a global leader with international experience in South America, Europe and Africa. An Innovative and strategic leader with superb process, project, and administrative management abilities Versatile and seasoned professional who builds and cultivates relationships. Work Experience CEO, Head of Community Engagement, Growth and Sustainability FEED Worldwide, Inc - Atlanta, GA October 2015 to Present Established vision, mission, strategic plan and organizational objectives for the organization.  Conducted needs assessment and feasibility studies in regions to identify best practices for training and identify policies that would elevate local Creative and Cultural industries  Engineered curriculum for workshop sessions that include personal development, business acumen, globalization, marketing and distribution.  Cultivated relationships with organizations, schools, government agencies and individuals around the world to form partnerships and sponsorships to secure funding for FEED Worldwide.  Navigated Creative Industry Mapping with strategic partners to assist local Creative & Cultural Industries.  Collaborate with municipal governments to ensure our workshops and summits align with their planning goals.  Examined and identified regions around the world that could benefit from our strategic workshops.  Secured 8 global strategic partnerships in Rwanda, Argentina/Bolivia and Barbados Graduate Research Assistant (Master's Program) Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to December 2015 Identified, wrote and managed internal and external grants for the Office of Opportunity Development.  Delivered needs analysis to determine go forward strategy on technology for the department.  Screened, analyzed and tested technology to meet departmental needs. Director, Global Database Administrator Datalex, Inc - Atlanta, GA July 2006 to June 2012 Directed, mentored, and trained a global team of Database Administrators in US, Philippines, Ireland, and England.  Delivered executive level reports identifying and measuring team performance.  Accelerated a global strategy for managing internal and external customers.  Increased team profit potential by 20% by growing our portfolio of offerings, and assessing additional needs of the client.  Engineered migration and implementation projects for internal and external clients.  Transformed and strengthened training programs and facilitated lunch and learn sessions. Principal Consultant DLH Consulting Services January 2001 to July 2006 Improved project life cycles with value-added process and procedures.  Organized teams and strategically managed project tasks to successful completion.  Reconciled technical solutions to reduce project budgets.  Performed on-going monitoring of the project status and systems.  Engineered client database systems and/or infrastructure.  Clients: Georgia Technology Authority  CompuCredit  UCB, Inc.  BellSouth  EMTEC  Georgia State Department of Education IMS/DB2 Database Administrator/Programmer Total System Services - Atlanta, GA September 1997 to December 2001 Created, monitored and tuned over 20 IMS and DB2 database systems.  Developed monitoring reports for external clients and senior level management.  Engineered migration strategy from development to test environments.  Wrote and modified IMS and SQL programming code to improve database performance. Education PhD. in Global Leadership and Change Program Pepperdine University, Graduate School of Education and Psychology - Malibu, CA December 2023 Education & Psychology Provost Research Grant Pepperdine University Graduate School of Education September 2019 Master of Science in Marketing Georgia State University, J. Mack Robinson College of Business - Atlanta, GA Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Georgia State University, J. Mack Robinson College of Business - Atlanta, GA Skills Strategic Planning, Public Speaking, Fundraising, budget Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hii9zeoxbvwoy4vs Organizational Skills — Highly Proficient July 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hub2dfz5-ynzuaci Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.