Sr. Database Analyst/IT (Technician/Support) Sr.<span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst/IT (Technician/Support) Sr. Database Analyst/IT (Technician/Support) - Hain Refrigerated Foods Sector (Hain Celestial)/Jason's Cosmetics Laguna Niguel, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Database Analyst/IT (Technician/Support) Hain Refrigerated Foods Sector (Hain Celestial)/Jason's Cosmetics December 2009 to Present • Create, plan, implement and assist the sector's IT services.  • Provide IT support for Office (Server, Software, Computer issues, Systems, Network, Security, Migrations, Emails)  • Setup workstations, connect devices, update computer hardware, ensure security, install and configure software, troubleshoot issues and provide maintenance needs.  • Maintain and create Information Systems for team (MS CRM, Box Cloud, Salesforce, AFS Trade Pro, Office 365 Admin, Carbonite Backup Server, Coupon Barcode Generation-Inmar, Qples...  • Manage database flow (price-lists, parent accounts, campaigns, clientele, distribution, relationships, Trade, Deductions )  • Manage Remote User support  • CRM Administrator/Developer (Build, Manage users, Security Levels, Create Workflows, Customization, Create Lists, Coding, Install Processes/Solutions and implement) Office Administrator & Special Projects Coordinator Los Angeles Children's Chorus - Pasadena, CA October 2007 to September 2009 • Supervised concerts with an audience of 1000 plus in promotions, recruiting volunteers, accompany duties, ticket purchases, seating charts and more.  • Managed and coordinated the Los Angeles Chorus Audition process.  • Administered and coordinated paid parking, receptions, ushers, and sales at festivals and concerts.  • Input checks and charges into the LACC system for budget management  • Filed, organized and ordered office materials periodically throughout the department.  • Constructed mass marketing by using ground-spring software, large mailing jobs through mail merge and outsource mailing houses. Western Medical Center - Anaheim, CA March 2007 to May 2007 • Updated and constructed job evaluations and performances.  • Continuously communicated with the Director's of each department to analyze/update job evaluations and job performances.  • Constructed and organized interviews with new candidates.  • Posted and rejected positions online using Job Science.  • Assisted HR Generalist in auditing employee files.  • Communicated with job applicants with denials, refusals and extended job offers. Health Care Administration Assistant Kaiser Permanente - Anaheim, CA September 2006 to April 2007 • Collected and analyzed blood gas data to cut costs and increase quality of care.  • Edited patient satisfaction surveys and improved time chart.  • Analyzed patient satisfaction ratios by graphing the data.  • Calculated annual percentage growth for the Respiratory Care Services (2002-2006).  • Developed a cost analysis for years 2003 and 2004 on the Sleep Apnea procedure costs. Education Bachelor of Science in Health Care Administration in Health Care Administration CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY LONG BEACH June 2007 Associate in Arts & Associate in Science in Applied and Liberal Arts Studies PASADENA CITY COLLEGE July 2004 Skills CRM (8 years), DNS, SHAREPOINT, EXCHANGE, CLOUD STORAGE, Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, MAC, Tech Support Additional Information Skills: MAC and PC proficient    • Proficient in Microsoft Office 365  • Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook  • Mac Numbers and Pages  • Sharepoint and Onedrive  • Customer Service Relationship: Microsoft Dynamics CRM, Salesforce  • Cloud Storage System: Box Cloud and One Drive  • Remote IT Systems: Gotoassist, join.me, Goverlan.  • Web site domain to Office exchange DNS setup