Region Coordinator Region Coordinator Region Coordinator Gretna, LA To obtain a position with a leading company that provides the opportunity in which my  skills, experience and commitment to professional excellence will be of value. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Region Coordinator Kentwood Springs Water/ DS Services of America - New Orleans, LA July 2016 to Present Process project expense and revenue invoices along with finance, accounting, legal and external  partners.  • Handle regional office work requests and supervise Branch Coordinators at 15 branch locations.  • Prepare expense, capital budgets, CEA's, purchase orders, expense reports, etc. via Oracle.  • Assist with the creation of marketing projects, schedule and managing contract processes.  • Audit and file all CS'S (Client Service Accountability) for all RSR's in region.  • Achieve internal progress targets and enhance company product and customer service quality  with engineering, supply chain and regional management.  • Reconcile and forecast operational and capital expenses with Region Manager.  • Track and justify overtime of Route Service Representatives and Branch Coordinators to ensure  costs fall within budget.  • Interface with regional customers to assure project logistics, readiness, quality and delivery.  • Determine key regional resources to aid operation and enhancements.  • Coordinate meetings with facility directors, corporate personnel and administrators.  • Accounts payable and receivable.  • Distribute and cretic all invoices prior to distributing to clients and verifying  remittances thereafter.  • Follow all QHSE guidelines, insuring all safety guidelines are followed and updated accurately.  • Preparation of proposals and contracts.  • Utilize and maintain company's paper and electronic filling/documentation system.   • Collections liaison.  • Responsible for ordering and keeping up data on locations inventory of all and running collective reporting of the totals via Oracle.  • Schedule and participate in monthly operational meetings by offering work  experiences, thoughts, input and advice with a goal for company growth. Prospect Database Coordinator Peoples Health Network - Metairie, LA July 2014 to January 2016 • Process prospect information into CRM, MARx and Amysis.  • Process all business reply accounts for upcoming prospects.  • Update and train on CRM to create a more detailed database.  • Worked in call center enrolling prospective members and assisted current members.  • Fax, file, and input all pertinent information into computer systems.  • Verify prospect and member Medicare and Medicaid eligibility.  • Assist Director of Sales and Marketing with any related tasks.  • Fluent with IPA's to process claims correctly.  • Proficient in rules and regulations of CMS, RRA, SSA, OGB, Medicare and Medicaid. Distribution Center Administrator Coca Cola Refreshments - Harahan, LA July 2011 to May 2014 • Accounts Payable.  • Direct assistant to the Regional Business Manager.  • Coordinated travel itinerary for Regional Business Manager and processed  required documentation for reimbursements utilizing SAP software.  • Process, track and audit client Equipment Place Agreements.  • Reviewed contracts with sales managers to ensure accuracy of Equipment  Placement Agreements for tracking purposes.  • Fax, file, and input all pertinent information into computer systems.  • Back-up to front desk.  • Assisted drivers with the collection of monies after daily routes; thereafter, generated  collection report.  • Logged driver variances into general ledger account to monitor shortages and to insure the accuracy of incoming and outgoing product.  • Reconciled invoices against Accounts Receivable/Payable ledgers to ensure accuracy. Sales Lead Coordinator (Promotion) Omni Royal Orleans / Omni Royal Crescent - New Orleans, LA July 2002 to June 2011 • Supervised administrative staff.  • Preparation of contracts and proposals.  • Give group histories to other hotels, and obtain them from hotels as needed.  • Research, distribute, log, and respond to all leads from National Offices, telephone and other sources.  • Assess time for assistants through Kronos.  • Distributed weekly time sheets and end of month time reports.  • Assign leads and accounts fairly to Sales Managers.  • Route definite files on a daily/weekly basis.  • Monitors all future files.  • Presented Presentations and meeting minutes in sales meetings.  • Accounts Receivable/Payable  Sales Assistant  • Provide administrative support for the department such as answering multiple lines, assisting visitors, and resolving and referring a range of administrative problems and  inquiries.  • Schedules work load to meet deadlines of all managers.  • Responsible for daily filing, faxing, and data entry.  • Constructed time sensitive contracts and proposals.  • Reviewed all group changes with DORM.  • Take reservation calls from guests and reservation agents requesting on property  assistance of any calls pertaining to group/individual room reservations.  • Set up corporate accounts and assist in completing all VIP and internal reservations  for corporate accounts.  • Constructed time sensitive group résumés, BEO's, and group billing information.  • Created and constructed group room blocks in system for all incoming groups.  • Assisted as back-up for Group Rooms Coordinator. Education University of Phoenix Certification Pharmacy Technician/Bryman College Diploma Belle Chasse High School - Belle Chasse, LA Skills EXCELLENT COMPUTER SKILLS, QUICKBOOKS, KRONOS, 55 WPM, DESKTOP PUBLISHER, TIME MANAGEMENT, BASIS, CRM, SAP, ORACLE, DELPHI, OPERA, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, WORDPERFECT, PUBLISHER, CPR