Software Tester Software Tester Software Tester - TekSystems Blairstown, IA Scott is a Software and QA Tester with over 10 years of experience in software project management including but not limited to his time as a lead QA analyst and software delivery project manager at AT&T. He has experience with SDLC, User Acceptance Testing (UAE), Test Automation, as well as Negative and Regression Testing. Additionally, Scott is proficient with SQL, IoT, and working with Agile and Waterfall Methodologies. Scott is working towards his Masters degree in Business Administration and is Lean Six Sigma Orange Belt Certified. Scott is local to Iowa and is available for an interview upon request. Work Experience Software Tester TekSystems January 2019 to Present • Maintain schedules, consistently meeting dealings and requirements for project testing and production releases  • Worked in Agile and Waterfall Environments on SCRUM Projects  • Created and executed manual software test plans  • Documented test cases in qTest  • Documented test results in Jira Car Salesman Van Horn Auto Group November 2018 to January 2019 Work with customers to facilitate their automobile purchases Software Tester VGM Group, Inc October 2017 to August 2018 • Maintain schedules, consistently meeting dealings and requirements for project testing and production releases  • Worked in Agile Environment on SCRUM Projects  • Created and executed manual software test plans  • Developed Use Cases and scripts  • Participated in online JAVA Training  • Identify and document issues within software Senior Software Delivery Project Manager AT&T April 2008 to December 2016 • Served as key member of mobile software development team.  • Operated development projects for business and government agencies as lead QA tester.  • Developed and implemented quality-assurance and quality-control methodologies to ensure compliance with QA standards, federal regulations and customer specifications.  • Coordinated with systems partners, both internal and external, to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing mobile applications.  • Conducted formal and informal product design reviews throughout the software development lifecycle to provide input on functional requirements, product designs, schedules, and potential issues.  • Created and executed automated and manual software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all testing and production releases.  • Documented application changes for each release to share with customer.  • Effectively communicated with customers and internal development staff on all application change requests and application bugs.  • Transitioned software development efforts to a test-driven development (TDD) process, which brought QA testing in on the front-end of the development cycle for gains in code quality, software functionality and programmer productivity  • Managed projects of small scale  • Effective member of large scale projects  • Lead and facilitated User Acceptance Testing  • Effectively maintained all release management as part of the software delivery life cycle. Product Data Administrator Van Meter Industrial February 2007 to March 2008 • Maintained pricing database for company retail items and inventory count  • Maintained data integrity by removing invalid and duplicate items.  • Entered numerical data into databases in a timely and accurate manner. Marketing Database Manager Riverdeep September 2006 to January 2007 • Directed and coordinated marketing activities and policies to promote products and services.  • Preserved brand integrity by monitoring the consistency and quality of marketing content.  • Cultivated effective partnerships with engineering, marketing, sales and customer support staff.  • Created and maintained marketing campaigns for direct and online sales with Oracle. Education MBA Patten University - Oakland, CA Bachelor of Science in (BS), Business Administration and Management Mount Mercy College - Cedar Rapids, IA Associates of Science in Business Administration and Management Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA Associates of Marketing in Marketing Management Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA Skills User acceptance, Acceptance testing, Application testing, Software testing, Quality assurance, Jira, Uat, Software development, Sdlc, Sql, Android, Ios, Regression testing, User acceptance testing, Microsoft office Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • Quality Assurance • Project Management  • Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) • Advanced Critical Thinking  • Gathering Requirements • Regression Testing  • Negative Testing • Defect Testing  • Mobile Application Testing (iOS and Android platforms) • User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  • Test Automation (limited) • Software Testing  • Application under testing    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    • SQL • IoT  • Agile Methodology • Waterfall Methodoly  • Microsoft Office • Jira  • qTest