Administrator and Family Coordinator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Family Coordinator Experienced Direct Marketer, Administrator and Event Coordinator Irvine, CA Marketing, administrative and database professional with experience in non-profits and for profit organizations. Extensive experience with event planning. Work Experience Administrator and Family Coordinator The Chabad Center for Jewish Life and Friendship Circle - Newport Beach, CA November 2015 to Present I perform a wide variety of duties for two sister organizations, The Chabad Center for Jewish Life and Friendship Circle:     As an administrator, manage all administrative functions of the office, including maintaining database, payment processing, thank you letters and year-end donation requests. Promote community programs using social media, media contacts and individual outreach. Responsible for selling ads in the community calendar. Undertake outreach to community members in need. Control of event attendance and follow up.    As the Family Coordinator, work with families of special needs individuals to develop and provide programming, establish one-on-one relationships between individuals with special needs and teen volunteers, recruit special needs participants and teen volunteers. Network with organizations that serve the special needs community to generate awareness and referrals. Rely on interpersonal skills to resolve interpersonal challenges. Prepare grant proposals and follow-up grant impact reports. Plan annual gala dinner. Write quarterly newsletters. Administrator Olam Jewish Montessori of Beth Jacob - Irvine, CA October 2012 to June 2013 Served as the preschool's business manager. Managed the non-education-related aspects of the school, including running the software for tuition payments, assisting with financial aid requests, managing all parent communications, updating the website and liaising with synagogue lay and rabbinical staff. Gala Dinner Chair (volunteer position) Beth Jacob Congregation of Irvine - Irvine, CA September 2009 to January 2013 Chaired four successful gala fundraising dinners that generated much-needed operating funds. Oversaw team of volunteers and paid office staff, sold advertising and dinner tickets, created "themed" marketing materials, developed alternative fundraising strategies (auction, market), coordinated catering, organized venue décor and recruited entertainment. Logistics and Project Manager Onsite Network, Inc - Irvine, CA September 2006 to October 2008 Controlled all purchasing for high-tech start-up. Managed fixed assets. Maintained accurate inventory counts and forecasted supply needs. Reviewed complex vendor invoices for accuracy and approved for payment. Ensured timely delivery of all materials for installations in locations across the country. Negotiated vendor terms and pricing, including establishing credit terms. Financial Planning Assistant Paul W. Vann, Inc - Irvine, CA September 2006 to June 2007 Assisted experienced financial planner with client relations. Temporary position Marketing Assistant Jewish Community Center - Irvine, CA June 2006 to September 2006 Developed new website for non-profit organization. Wrote all verbiage for website and program guide. Published weekly e-mail blast to 2,000 members. Required writing skills and pre-publication proofing skills. Temporary position. Marketing Manager Idysys, Inc - Orange, CA May 2000 to November 2005 Managed all marketing activities for software reseller and consulting firm. Compiled and managed 40,000 record prospect database and annual marketing budget of $250,000. Implemented sales seminars that converted prospects to clients within months. Created quarterly newsletter that was distributed to 6,000 prospects & clients. Developed content and layout for company's first website. Supervised two marketing assistants. Organized industry trade show booths. Recruiter BGA Associates, Inc - Santa Monica, CA May 1999 to March 2000 Recruited and screened candidates for positions in the financial services industry ranging from administrative to upper management. Developed all candidate leads (cold-calling). Prepared candidates for interviews. Assisted applicants with resume preparation. Verified candidate references. Database Marketing Manager Brenton Bank (currently Wells Fargo & Co) - Des Moines, IA August 1995 to July 1998 Managed all direct mail and database marketing activities for $6 billion bank. Managed direct mail campaigns to cross-sell bank products to existing customers, including pre-approved loans that generated $20 million dollars in new loans for the bank over two years. Maintained relationship with direct mail agency with annual direct mail budget of over $500,000 and more than 20 mailings per year to clients and prospects. Developed information packets to assist local branches in effectively marketing to clients & prospects using the bank's client database and geo-demographic and mapping software. Served as the database-marketing representative for internal bank committees. Provided analyses and reports for senior management to support marketing initiatives Database Analyst Norwest Bank (currently Wells Fargo & Co) - Des Moines, IA February 1992 to September 1994 Managed the marketing database for regional banking division of Norwest Bank. Created targeted direct mail lists for 12 mailings per quarter to clients and prospects. Direct mail campaigns generated millions of dollars of new loans and deposits. Analyzed results of all direct mail programs & made recommendations for ongoing campaigns. Produced reports to support annual strategic planning. Coordinated primary and secondary research projects with outside marketing research company. Supported CRA documentation activities. Education MBA in Marketing Emory University - Atlanta, GA BA in Political Science UC Berkeley - Berkeley, CA