Job Seeker Irving, TX Work Experience SANTANDER/COMTEK January 2014 to Present Leading Vehicle Finance Company and International Bank  Asset Management Audit    • Moved into the Software Asset Management side of Asset Management to Build and manage the Software team in November 2016.  • Current Responsibilities -  ? Ensure SC is compliant in its software entitlements.  ? Create and implement Project plan to account for all contracts and EULA's.  ? Create and implement Software Approval Process.  ? Identify Software and generate full software listing to implement into Service Now Catalog for users to choose the software they need from an approved software list.  ? Created a Break/Fix process to ensure that unapproved software was not transferred to new computers.  ? Approve software installs via Service Now Task process ensuring the availability of license.  First three year responsibilities: Perform Quarterly Audits, Monitor Floor Location label conditions, ServiceNow Database Asset Record clean up, Uphold Santander Asset security Policies, Performed monthly Asset Audits, Manage the IMAC process and produce monthly reports. Helped with Dispositions when needed. Self Employed UNIQUE MESQUITE September 2008 to Present Owner  * Responsible for the design, creation and marketing of mesquite art creations at special events throughout the South Central US. Database Administrator VERIZON TELECOMMUNICATIONS March 2013 to November 2013 Performed duties as PICS database administrator ensuring that data integrity for Verizon products were up to date and accurate..    Professional Experience  RETIRED - Took time away to care for my ill mother and build my house. Senior Project Manager FRONTIER TELECOMMUNICATIONS June 2010 to July 2011 This was the same position and responsibilities as previous with Verizon. Frontier bought part of the Verizon territory. I transitioned over to the new company to manage their business. Senior Project Manager VERIZON TELECOMMUNICATIONS September 2009 to June 2010 * Manage Legacy and Frontier 13 External Partner Operations and Assets  ? Ensure All External Assets are inventoried and operational.  * Ensure Auto discovery tools are installed and reporting back to Marimba tool.  * Manage the purchase, deployment and disposition of all notebooks.  ? Ensure pricing and product information and terms and conditions are documented approved and distributed to External Legacy Partners for all product changes.  * Creates Contents Matrix in the form of an excel spreadsheet comprising of product codes Terms and conditions, product ID's and delivers to external partners to ensure order flow to production order entry systems.  ? Conduct Operational calls.  ? Conduct Post release follow up with external partners.  * Serve as Business Owner and the Application Admin for STOPS (1500+ users)  ? Design and develop partner reporting:  * SNAP Report - contains order data. (status, product descriptions, order number, dates, order comments)  ? Facilitate weekly external partner work for success sessions using the SNAP Report (Snapshot of STOPS Data) to create Trends Analysis to document the monthly/weekly results of order fall out. Communicate this information to the partners and suggest change in processes or systems to decrease order fall out and increase order completion percentage.  * Ensure order status files are being returned to the External Partners  * Serve as the Application Admin for SPOT.  ? Manage user access for SPOT with a user base of 1000+  ? Troubleshoot user access issues to include simple resets, access rebuilds and large number of churns  * Understands external partners system integration requirements and be able to act as the liaison between Frontier and External Partner IT.  * Perform various analytical functions, including analyzing proposed introduction of new products and/or processes, and provide actionable insights to enhance system integration or decrease order fall out.  * Ensure understanding of initiatives as it relates to various order entry.  * Ensure processes for both internal and external order flow are documented, complete, current and stored appropriately for Alternate Channels.  * Assist in preparing Business Operations Management reporting packages, including analytical review.  * Attend and or facilitate key meetings and report findings from the meetings to team and executives.  * Performs detailed business analysis including business modeling, monitoring business issues and impact to bottom line.  * Conduct audit testing of specified area and identify reportable issues and dimension of risk.  * Ensure external vendor compliance with policies, procedures and pricing.    Professional Experience  * Verbally communicate findings to management and drafts comprehensive report of audited area.  * Determine scope of periodic/ongoing audits in conjunction with the Director, Vendor Management.  * Process lead for Mover/Aggregator Channel Senior Consultant PEPPERWEED CONSULTING LLP January 2008 to September 2008 * Responsible for the design and documentation of Asset Management processes and reports for PepsiCo - Plano Texas, Battelle - Columbus Ohio, Catholic Healthcare West - Phoenix Arizona.  * Responsible software compliance and monitoring using Remedy, Tivoli and other discovery tools.  * Responsible for ensuring that training occurs on all IIMAC and disposal procedures.  * Designed inventory and audit policies and procedures to ensure steady state accuracy.  * Responsible for facilitating and documenting current state process sessions for Pepsico, Battelle and CHW. IT Software/Hardware Asset Management Implementation Manager AFFILIATED COMPUTER SYSTEMS - Dallas, TX March 2006 to January 2008 Dallas Texas March 2006 - January 2008  Leading International BP and IT Outsourcer  IT Software/Hardware Asset Management Implementation Manager  * Responsible for implementing Asset Center and Service Center supported CMDB for Large Global Pharmaceutical Company and for Chubb, a large Federal Insurance provider.  * Responsible for the design and documentation and implementation of all Asset Management processes and reports for large, international pharmaceutical company with 34 locations in the USA, Europe, South America, Australia and Canada. These reports were generated from the newly created CMDB in Asset Center and integrated with Service Center Data..  * Responsible for ensuring that training for Asset Center and Service Center occurred by either technical resources or me on all IMAC and disposal procedures.  * Negotiated and documented Disposal procedures to meet the requirements for each country and state  * Took a project from 548 CI's to capturing all 18.460 CI's globally achieving a 98% accurate CMDB.  * Designed inventory and audit policies and procedures to ensure steady state accuracy.  * Worked well in an extremely difficult client situation creating a cooperative client relationship that enabled contracted deliverables to be provided.  * Managed a global effort to inventory all of a client's international sites. Managed the migration of equipment in all roll out sites and countries.  * Established excellent working relationship with other towers to ensure all policies and procedures were adopted and followed.    Professional Experience  * Implemented the first complete end-to-end Software Compliance project for ACS for a large, international insurer. Managed the reimplementation of an interim metering process for software compliance, until the automated solution using the ECM tool can be designed and deployed.  Key Accomplishments:  * Turn Around failing, problem client IT AM Pharmaceutical implementation by identifying problems and obstacles and establishing a positive client relationship.  * Results: Quickly put transition on a solid footing gaining renewed client confidence resulting in the creation of a 98% accurate verified CMDB having 18,000+ HW CIs in four months, compared to the prior PM effort that yielded only 548 CI's in six months.  * Reorganized the Asset Management implementation approach on a problem, money losing account that caused PM turnover every two months where the client demanded unreasonable services due to a loosely defined SOW.  * Results: Built a solid, trusting and cooperative relationship with the client during the 14 month transition that enabled AM services to be closely aligned with the intent of the SOW saving money while satisfying the client.  * Negotiated disposal policies and procedures with local entities around the globe, many having different government requirements, at each of the client's international sites.  * Results: Established clear easy to follow and auditable procedures for all sites globally. Education Ex Letterman Tarleton State University January 2000 Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration TARLETON STATE UNIVERSITY - Stephenville, TX Skills SLA, Asset Management, Negotiation Groups Knights Templar January 2000 to Present York Right Mason January 2000 to Present Scottish Rite Mason January 2000 to Present International Shrine Clown Association January 2000 to Present Past president Moslah Shrine Clowns