Sr. Director, Data Analytics Sr. Director, Data Analytics Senior Director - Data Solutions Round Rock, TX Strategic IT leader with over 16 years of proven management and performance in HealthCare industry. Experienced leader specializing in Data Management including Big Data, Data warehousing, Business Intelligence, Business & Technical architecture, and data integration. Demonstrated track record of building relationships, developing strategies, creating roadmaps, and data solutions. Created and led high performing teams while delivering improvements in productivity and profitability. Experienced in working with executives to translate the vision into actionable strategies resulting in multiple enterprise data management solutions. Work Experience Sr. Director, Data Analytics Optum - Minnetonka, MN 2014 to Present Led United Health Care HEDIS Measurement Reporting capability which enabled the health plan attains 5 STAR rating that resulted in improved reimbursement rates for Medicare insured population.    Achievements:    • Re-Organized the team to implement Agile methodology delivery quality products in short time frame (speed to market).  • Created Product Management Council, to manage changing priorities, establish partnerships with key stakeholders.  • Improved availability of the key applications to 99 percent.  • Built and directed on-shore and off-shore teams delivering product supporting HEDIS Season.  • Engaged with Sr. Business leadership in developing product vision, features gathering, and business architecture.  • Partnered / collaborated with various LOBs sr. leadership in Implementing data governance structure, infrasturce strategy and architecture, delivery SLAs.  • Optimized Database / ETLs to increase the stability and performance of the system.  • Led the delivery for development of a new HRA rules engine. Despite of aggressive timelines and challenges, successfully released MVP product as planned Director, Data Analytics Optum - Minnetonka, MN 2011 to 2014 Responsible to establish a complete solution and delivery organization to manage the development and delivery of enterprise data warehouse and BI Center of Excellence to support Consumer Solutions Group. Created and led a team of  Solution / Data Architects, Data warehousing and Big Data projects (HouseCalls, Behavioral EDW, CRP, CRM) within Data Solutions team of Optum Data Management. The objective of the team was to provide business self-service reporting portal.     Achievements:    • Planned and implemented overall analytics and BI strategy.  • Developed data management policies, procedures and standards for project management, data integration and data architecture.  • Developed an enterprise data warehouse strategy and ETL architecture that allowed seamless data integration from legacy and reference system to eODS and into data warehouse and then into data mart(s) including historical data, addressing data quality and data integrity issues. Sr. Manager / Lead Data Architect OptumInsight - Plymouth, MN 2009 to 2011 Led team of architects, analysts and developers to provide strategic guidance and oversight of technology operations for the development and support of the data warehouse and business intelligence solutions. Ensured delivery of information from the data warehouse to business intelligence environments aligned with the company’s ongoing business and strategic vision.    Achievements:  • Conducted requirement analysis, design, development and maintenance of logical and physical data model.   • Led the architecture, modeling, development and deployment efforts of the enterprise data warehouse.  • Formulated ETL architecture, allowing higher data integrity resulting in more reusable and efficient development.  • Mentored and managed developers, advising other groups in organization on SSIS development, data warehouse development, and ETL development best practices.  •  Optimized database performance by eliminating redundant processes Lead DBA / Data Architect Horizontal Integration - Minneapolis, MN 2007 to 2009 Was responsible for providing technical assistance and administration of Oracle and SQL databases for various clients of Horizontal Integration. Managed, mentored, and trained junior application developers and DBAs, directed activities and reviewed code of offshore and onshore developers, and served as senior data warehousing advisor to upper management and executives. Database Administrator Capella University 2005 to 2007 DBA Mayo Clinic Rochester 2004 to 2005 DBA Computer Science Department, Minnesota State University 2001 to 2004 Education Master of Science in Computer Science Minnesota State University Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering N.E.D. University of Engineering and Technology Skills Excellent written and verbal communications, Strong leadership and people management, Data strategy, planning and governance, Product development and management, Leading, mentoring and cross-functional team development, Leading, mentoring and cross-functional team development, Program / Project management leadership, Resource allocation in matrix organization, Resource allocation in matrix organization, Hands on & architecture experience in Multiple RDBMS / Big data Additional Information Core Competencies & General Management Strengths:    ·        Data strategy, planning and governance  ·        Excellent written and verbal communications  ·        Strong leadership and people management  ·        Hands on & architecture experience in Multiple RDBMS / Big data / Master Data Management  ·        Excellent client management skills  ·        Product development and management  ·        Program / Project management leadership  ·        Leading, mentoring and cross-functional team development  ·        Operations and process improvement    Technical Platforms:    ·        Oracle   ·        SQL Server  ·        Teradata  ·        SAS  ·        PDW  ·        GreenPlum  ·        SSIS  ·        Data Stage  ·        MS Reporting Services  ·        Hadoop   ·        Informatica  ·        Talend  ·        SSRS