Database & Application Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> &amp; Application <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database, Application, Reporting, IT Analyst San Jose, CA A Business Administration/MIS Graduate with over 10 years of diversified experience in supporting all areas of an organizations data needs. Background includes the conversions and implementations of both Manufacturing and Enterprise Resource Planning Systems along with the development and support of interfacing applications to meet various departments' data and reporting requirements including Finance, Operations, Human Resources, Engineering, Sales, and Security. Works extremely well as an individual contributor and in team environments, often in the role of Lead or Project Manager making sure desired outcome is met on-time within budget with a solid track record of being recognized and respected by all levels of within the organization. Strong interpersonal skills and customer service oriented in supporting ongoing user needs while always being flexible and looking for possible ways to streamline, simplify, and automate processes to better meet the current business needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database & Application Administrator Harbor Electronics - Santa Clara, CA 2012 to 2018 Maintain and oversee all aspects of MS SQL Database Servers (2000-2014) in multiple locations. This included developing, monitoring, tuning, indexing, data replication, warehousing, integration services, and reporting services. Other responsibilities of this role include being data analyst, programmer analyst, report developer, generation of automated email notifications, and web page programmer using various Microsoft Tools:     • Query design • Stored Procedures • Triggers  • SQL Jobs • Integrations • SharePoint Development  • MS Reports • Crystal Reports • MS IIS  • Visual Studios • VB Scripts • ASP.Net & VB.Net Programming  • ProCIM MFG Admin. • MS Dynamics GP Admin. • SharePoint 2010 Admin.    MS Dynamics GP Implementation  Performed 30-day implantation of MS Dynamics GP for Finance (GL, AP, AR). Development initial data extractions and transformations to initialize MS Dynamics. And, created the day-today for transforming and integrating financial data from MFG system.  • Creation of base tables to collect, summarize, and track data transferred between systems.  • Design and implementation of various automated alerts and reports and subscriptions on new platform.    Senior Management KPI & BI Reports  Created various automated monthly reporting packages for management and corporate officers. Design and developed MS SQL tables, queries, stored procedures, triggers, integration services, and reporting services to providing various month end KPI reports.  • Created summary reporting tables and automated processes to normalize, populate, and archive combined data from both MFG and Financial systems to produce various Month-Over-Month Reports.  • Redesigned existing detail reports, queries, and stored procedures to eliminate duplication of code and assure both detail reports and KPI data would tie.  • Created graphical summary KPI reporting package in MS SSRS providing Manufacturing and Quality to see data visually in various graphs and charts while allowing them to drill down into details with links to the appropriate existing detail reports.    Denied Party Screening Application  Developed an application to pull in customer and vendor data from multiple enterprise systems using various SQL Scripts, MS SSIS, MS Visual Basic, SSRS for screening by outside vendor.  • Consolidated and normalized data in custom tables removing duplications while allowing for traceability back to originating database systems (MS SQL, Oracle, SAP, MAPIX, Glovia, and AS/400).  • Managed the transfer of data to vendors FTP site using SSIS, FTP, SQL Queries, and Stored Procedures.  • Pulled vendors output data from vendors FTP site, archived original files, and then processed and updated appropriate records with vendors screening output.  • Provided appropriate end users with reports highlighting vendors results and flagging records with issues.    Ongoing Process Improvement  Worked closely with various department managers in redesigning reports, web pages, and related desktop procedures.  • Complete redesign of Material Resource Planning (MRP) and Returned Merchandise Authorization (RMA) applications using a combination of: MS IIS web server, MS ASP.Net and VB.Net web pages for the front end. MS SQL Tables, triggers, stored procedures, and SSRS Reports.  • Modifications to Crystal Report used inside the ProCIM MFG system as requested.  • Modified Department SharePoint sites used by the organization as central point of accessing various reports, custom web pages, and departmental KPI's.  • Creation of clear concise step-by-step desk procedures with visuals.  • Creation of custom data extracts and email notifications to feed external systems. Consultant - ITT Radar, Reconnaissance & Acoustic Systems Morgan Hill MK Technical Services - San Jose, CA 2010 to 2011 CA  Maintained and oversaw all aspects of SQL Database Applications and Servers. Assisted finance with month-end and the final year-end closing of books and reporting for the Morgan Hill facility. Extracted, converted, and validated all ERP Data for loading into various other ITT Corporate database systems across the country. Locked down Deltek Costpoint ERP system and related SQL database to become historical archives. Application and SQL Database Administrator ITT Radar, Reconnaissance & Acoustic Systems - Morgan Hill, CA 2001 to 2010 Monitored, maintained, and documented all aspects of SQL database applications. Provided technical and application support for the Morgan Hill Facility and acted as Cross-functional project lead on special projects. Performed program modifications and trouble-shooting of application and data integrity issues. Generated various reports and matrixes used by management, end users, and auditors.  • Reduced staffing costs by 20% while improving overall efficiency approximately 80% in both accounting and program control through database automation.    Senior Data/Programmer Analyst  Collaborated with end users to develop complex database interfaces, data import/export scripts, and reports. Developed and implemented centralized reporting database and data warehouse combining data from multiple sources. Established data sweeps and exception reporting to proactively identify and flag data issues. Standardized reports and extracts of financial data used in both month-end and year-end closings. Provided staff with training and technical support as needed.  • Implemented data collection and reporting as an audit control on key financial and employee data.  • Saved 65% of user time by implementing reporting database system.    Financial Cost Analyst  Established, revised, and tracked program budgets. Monitored program for various charges, material commitments, and assisted in project planning and costing activities. Developed standardized and customized MS Access databases to automate data collection from multiple data sources and provide up-to-date financial and cost reports. Technical Consultant / Software Engineer JAS Systems - San Jose, CA 1996 to 2001 Preformed FORTRAN Program for ASK MANMAN ERP modifications and Y2K fixes, Visual Basic and MS Access programing for customs. Supported all customer needs in conversions from ASK MANMAN to various ERP Applications including: Data extractions, cleansing, normalization, formatting, validating, documenting, and archiving. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration / MIS San Jose State University - San Jose, CA Skills Database (10+ years), Database Administration (10+ years), integration (10+ years), INTEGRATOR (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/don-klopfer/1a/400/366 Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oql-uuxbvtbwjts2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  MS SQL Server Database Administration 2000-2014 • MS SQL Integration Services (2008-2014) • MS SQL Reporting Services (2005-2014) • Process Re-engineering & Automation • Technology Integration • Report Development • Data Conversions • Time and Organization Management • Project Management • System Implementations • Application Interfaces