Fulfillment Associate Fulfillment Associate Sewaren, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fulfillment Associate Amazon Fulfillment Associates - Carteret, NJ September 2018 to Present Verify inventory counts. Sales Account Executive Monroe Aerospace - Palm Coast, FL May 2016 to December 2017 • Effectively manage all aspects of customer accounts  • Negotiate pricing based on quantity and delivery  • Provided quotes based on customer requirements  • Parts brokering/Sourced hard to find parts  • Processed orders, expedited material  • Increased sales on top account by 150,000.00 Purchasing Manager CTI Aviation - Pompano Beach, FL August 2013 to May 2016 • Contract review.  • Negotiating pricing with vendor; based on quantity and delivery.  • Placing purchase orders, order follow-up.  • Expediting delivery.  • Interacting with vendor on problem orders, quality issues, and billing issues. IT Analyst July 2011 to May 2016 • Maintain, repair and update all computer systems.  • Data migration from old CRM to new CRM.  • Evaluate software to help simplify business processes.  • Set up new accounts and users.  • Virus removal. Quality Manager September 2012 to August 2013 • Lead internal process auditor for AS9120/ISO9001 certification.  • Ensure quality processes were being followed in every aspect of the business.  • Participated in the Management review process.  • Updated business processes and assisted in keeping the quality manual current.  • Shipping, receiving and inspection of parts.  • Verify shipments were received with proper documentation and certifications if required.  . Process auditor. Computer Consultant Self Employed - Pompano Beach, FL February 2006 to July 2011 • Maintain customer computer systems  • Data migration  • Work with vendors on new software implementation  • Upgrading and repairing workstations and servers  • Virus detection and removal Database Administrator GTECH CORP - Boca Raton, FL January 2001 to January 2006 • Monitored databases for performance degradation  • Developed database back end for software systems that were being programmed for use in the call center  • Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure.  • Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations.  • Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database.  • Responsible for the upgrade of production, development, training and the QA databases.  • Develop methods for integrating different products so they work properly together such as customizing commercial databases to fit specific needs.  • Develop data model describing data elements and how they are used.  • Revise company definition of data as defined in data dictionary. Helpdesk Manager GTECH CORP March 2000 to September 2003 • Instituted a help desk for the call center and remote sites using our applications  • Trained 7 support technicians in first and second tier support and proper troubleshooting procedures.This enabled the software engineers to become more efficient and productive upgrading applications and exploring new technologies.  • Scheduled staffing  • Training of personnel to monitor the system for equipment failure or performance degradation  • Created proper escalation procedures Information Systems Analyst GTECH CORP June 2000 to January 2001 • Test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems, including coordinating the installation of computer programs and systems.  • Provide staff and users with assistance solving computer related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems.  • Coordinate and link the computer systems within an organization to increase compatibility and so information can be shared.  • Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system.  • Train staff and users to work with computer systems and programs.  • Recommend new equipment or software packages.  • Interview or survey workers, observe job performance or perform the job to determine what information is processed and how it is processed.  • Implemented Microsoft Terminal server; saved time and manpower when updating applications. Network Administrator GTECH CORP December 1999 to June 2000 • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Evaluate local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes.  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install or repair network cables.  • Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment.  • Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups.  • Back up network data.  • Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues. PC/LAN Technician GTECH CORP December 1998 to December 1999 • Repair workstations  • Update workstations with latest operating system software  • Deploy new applications Education Earned credits towards a degree in Accounting Middlesex County College - Edison, NJ March 1985 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Quantum (1 year), Microsoft SQL (6 years), AdeptSQL diff (6 years), Quotewerks (5 years), Account Management, MS Office, Data Entry, Sales, Warehouse Associate, Shipping Certifications/Licenses ITIL Present driver's license