Freelance Management Freelance Management Data Management Support Specialist Washington, DC System Administrator/Data Reports Analyst, with over 5 years combined training and experience in application management. Possess unique experience in IT technical support, business analyst, database management, banking/finance operations, web content management and software configuration. Certificate training in PeopleSoft 9.1 Financials, and project management. Outstanding organization and communication skills, personally and professionally. Work well with an array of groups, and a valuable team player. Aspire to attain program supportive role career as a savvy Management Analyst Specialist. Interested in meaningful workforce reemployment opportunity that leads to long-term career employment growth. I am available for work and open to matching job offers relative to my work experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Management Supportive Services Management - New York, NY December 2015 to December 2018 Program Management: Self-directed efforts to uncover policies and resources to mitigate homeless prevention and health management care. Active engagement in harm reduction, health management supportive services programs. Initiate and secure resources for homeless prevention housing services. Collaborate with community based organizations and procure supportive services for behavioral health management, and other government agencies services in New York 2015-2018. Ariba e-commerce System Administrator Howard Hughes Medical Institute - Cheverly, MD June 2011 to December 2011 Managed for about 6 months Ariba portlets and software configuration. Setup user groups and assign roles in Ariba and PeopleSoft applications. Provided (P2P) user's technical support, and troubleshoot system issues. Maintained Ariba On-Demand Procure-to-Pay system documentation. Managed Ariba On-Demand incident tickets and resolved issues in-house or through Ariba technical support. Participated in system changes and update releases to Ariba software. Coordinate and develop test plan, and user test case scenarios for new releases of Ariba software. Validate new changes in Ariba test system, and data migration in PeopleSoft test system before production implementation. PeopleSoft Consultant Smithsonian Institution - Crystal City, VA June 2008 to May 2011 for PeopleSoft Asset Management and Purchase module group for 4 years. Provided steady support for multiple user's, Accounting and IT technical team. Create and manage query reports tool in PeopleSoft. Setup and administer PeopleSoft user groups, and assign user roles. Performed PeopleSoft data extractions and upload functions to adhoc database tables for various group reporting. Assist technical team in PeopleSoft upgrades and test functions. Perform schematic system review, validate changes and update user guides. Create technical writing procedures and system process documentation. At Smithsonian June 2008-May 2011. Systems Administrator ManTech International Corporation - Crystal City, VA June 2008 to May 2011 Over 4 years skills developing and managing database programs Microsoft Access, Blue Ridge contracts software. Good understanding of software customization, creating data tables, queries and reports design. Business Intelligence Analyst CPK Management, Inc - Los Angeles, CA 2005 to 2006 PeopleSoft Database Analyst Rain Bird Corporation 2003 to 2005 Instrumental in managing a high level (DSS) Decision Support System for Rain Bird Corporation. Ability to design and interface, reports, forms, macros and queries in MS Access application. Create user procedure guide and system documentation and training tools. PeopleSoft Consultant, Data Analyst Thor Group, LLC - Azusa, CA 2002 to 2003 Instrumental in managing a high level (DSS) Decision Support System for Rain Bird Corporation. Ability to design and interface, reports, forms, macros and queries in MS Access application. Create user procedure guide and system documentation and training tools. At Rainbird Corporation. eCommerce Banking, Team Lead CIBC Amicus Financial 2000 to 2001 Supervised, coached, and provided client and group support services. Successfully executed organization business salesforce module in team environment. Achieved sales quotas and was top team leader on several occasions. Conducted team monitoring and performance review. Participated in call center customer service escalated issues, and found solutions to mitigate problems. Banking Securities Specialist Mellon Securities/First Chicago Trust New Jersey, and at CIBC Amicus Bank - New York, NY 1991 to 2001 Finance/Banking: Valuable background knowledge obtained over 7 years in banking/finance at companies in New York and abroad, from 1991-2001. Understand accounts payable, receivables, and journal to general ledger postings. Savvy in international banking and shareholder/institution accounts research and reconciliation process in 1993-1999. Effective team lead at Mellon Securities/First Chicago Trust New Jersey, and at CIBC Amicus Bank Maitland, Florida. Managed and trained eCommerce banking team, and resolved customer service account disputes from 2000-2001. Also, Offshore banking at Credit Suisse in Nassau, Bahamas and Liberty Bank & Trust Tulsa, Oklahoma for 2years, in 1991-1993.    ? Oracle PeopleSoft General Ledger Rel. 9.1 CPE ? Project Management Education Certificate in PeopleSoft Financials General Ledger Release Oracle University - Reston, VA February 2011 to February 2011 Certificate in Managing Projects (ESI) George Washington University - Arlington, VA May 2009 to May 2009 Associates in Management City University New York Bachelor of Science Information Systems California State University - Dominguez, CA Skills Ariba (Less than 1 year), Asset Management (2 years), Financials (4 years), PeopleSoft (6 years), training (2 years), Operations, Team Building, Microsoft Word, Word Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zfcj8ar-6zheooue Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d5hd59q38yhx6fp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Key Skills  Efficiently manage multiple Applications, synthesize data, execute data analysis, and develop reports.  Know PeopleSoft Asset Management, Purchasing, Commit & Control, and Product modules. Understand Ariba e-commerce (P2P) Procure-to-Pay. Know Epicor Financials. And Federal Procurement Data System.  Ability to prepare SOW, requirements document, write policies & procedures, and find solutions to highly complex issues.  Facilitate systems training and create user guide document. Knowledge of client and system user data design concepts.  Excellent group leader, team collaboration and decision making.    Computer Skill  SQL Server Enterprise Management, Visible Analyst, Visio, VB, MS Office and Access.