Sr SQL Server DBA Sr SQL Server DBA Sr SQL Server DBA - McKesson Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr SQL Server DBA McKesson - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016 Servers in production, and non-production environments.  • Documented the upgrade path to SQL Server 2014 and 2016 and handled the upgrades from 2008/2008R2 to SQL 2014/SQL 2016 for enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in setting up SQL 2014 Always-On in multi subnet environment and both synchronous and asynchronous configurations.  • Experience in design, providing requirements and configuring 12 node cluster.  • Experience in analyzing and capacity planning for CPU,Memory and storage IOPS using Perfmon, SQLIO ,RELOG utilities and SQL queries  • Experience in working and migrating the applications with Tera bytes of Databases with Max size is of 7 TB and average database size is 3 TB  • Experience in analyzing ,testing and Implementing Industry best configuration standards for Huge(Data in TB's) and Heavy usage SQL server applications  • Experience in working with around 150 TB of SSD storage and analyze performance improvement  • Experience in effectively using A record,C Name and P2V technologies wherever needed x during SQL Server migrations  • Experience in overcome the roadblocks and provide solutions and implement migrations for hard coded old applications with SQL Server Instance name and IP addresses  • Experience in analyze application dependencies, provide solution and migrating SQL Server's from Stand alone to stand alone, Cluster to Stand alone and Cluster to Cluster with maintaining same SQL Server Instance name and IP address  • Experience in migrating all SQL server application databases of all versions during data center and Storage block migrations  • Extensively worked with Data virtualization and Data masking tool, Delphix  • Experience in using Data virtualization tool Delphix and Idera to save storage and to save resource effective hours  • Extensively worked on ETL tool Attunity to migrate data from SQL Server to SQL server and SQL Server to Netezza data warehouse  • Experience in configuring and Implement Encryption for SQL Server using, Vormetric Tool  • Experience in using SQL performance tools Solar winds DPA and Idera  • Experience in using Microsoft SQL Server Distributed Replay feature to assess the impact of future SQL Server upgrades and to analyze impact of hardware and operating system upgrades, and SQL Server tuning  • Configured mail alert to notify new connections, communicate and requesting to redirect application users to new reporting servers  • Configured SQL Server Resource Governor for shared application environments and in limiting users using SSMS  • Analyze and redesign optimization query to improve performance as per application specific requirement  • Experience in Design, Architecture and providing solutions  • Involved in design, consolidation SSIS and SSRS server using Autosys ,Fname and Load balancer technologies  • Involved in design and migration of SSIS and SSRS servers from one storage block to other storage block and change in VLAN for servers and adding servers in Load balancer  • Experience in SQL Server decommission planning and strategies for Cluster and standalone servers.  • Experience in planning and implementation of migrations and decommissioning servers with minimum application down time and failover strategies both in cluster and Always on.  • Exposure to SQL server 2014 Polybase, Azure, AWS and Hadoop.  • Exposure and experience in Iaas,Paas and SaaS category service models  • Experience Migration of On Premise databases to SQL Azure environment  • Experience in providing security permissions and enabling fire walls on SQL Azure databases  • Experience in understanding and choosing single and elastic databases as per billing and performance parameters Sr SQL Server DBA Engle Martin & Associates - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012 Servers in production, and non-production environments.  • Documented the upgrade path to SQL Server 2012 and handled the upgrades from 2008/2008R2 to SQL 2012 for enterprise applications.  • Worked closely with the Compliance Team and ensured that HIPAA, PCI and SOX Compliance is maintained for Database environment.  • Implemented SQL Server 2012 Always-On high availability for application databases and have configured synchronous and asynchronous replicas as per the requirements.  • Configured and monitored mirroring and log shipping for the databases as a high data availability solution and for reporting purposes.  • Worked with Microsoft Team to Standardize SQL Environment hardening to align with Server, Security and Performance best practices. Participated in SQL RAP Analysis.  • Performed Database Objects development - Tables, Views, Triggers, Stored procedures, Functions, Cursors, and T-SQL batches.  • Installed, Configured and administered OLAP environments and responsible for building MS BI Data warehouse environment  • Implemented custom solutions for Access and Activity monitoring in SQL Server Databases to meet various Audit requirements and implemented Change data capture (CDC) to track data changes based on Audit requirements.  • Worked with Multi-node, Multi-Instanced, Failover clusters hosting huge databases. Added/ removed nodes to/from a cluster.  • Experience in migrating from SQL 2000 to SQL 2008 and SQL 2005 to SQL 2008.  • Designed and enhanced SSIS Packages for Data imports and Developed SSRS Reports and configured multiple SSRS Servers in Scaled out mode.  • Experience in (24x7) production environment carried a Pager on a regular basis.  • Extensively used SQL server profiler as an auditing tool for security proposes to capture traces, and troubleshoot performance issues.  • Experience with using the Performance Monitor utility to understand a workload and its effect on resource usage to identify bottle necks.  • Contribute to both strategic and tactical planning in consideration of corporate goals and objectives  • Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, log shipping, mirroring, and fatal database errors.  • Develop, establish, and maintain overall database standards, processes, and related documentation  • Able to work in a team-oriented environment and as a member of the production support team. Sr SQL Server DBA MS SQL Server's 2014 to 2016 • Over 12 years of experience in SQL Server Database Administration and development that includes providing end to end administrative support and designing and developing database applications using MS SQL Server's 2016,2014,2012, 2008 R2, 2008, 2005, 2000.  • Experience with configuring high availability solutions like Mirroring, Log shipping, and Replication.  • Extensive experience design and build in setting up SQL 2014 Always-On in multi subnet environment both synchronous and asynchronous configurations and worked upto 12 node cluster.  • Experience in design and build of clusters includes Active/Active and Active/Passive Configurations. Also, worked with multi node clusters up to 6 Nodes.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Migrations and upgrades from SQL 2008 R2 to SQL 2014, SQL 2008 to SQL 2008 R2, and SQL 2000 to SQL 2005.  • Experienced at designing and implementing high availability/ DR solutions such as Replication, Log shipping, and Database Mirroring.  • Experience in Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures and implementing a perfect backup strategy for the organization.  • Extensive experience in solving performance issues to alleviate the CPU, Memory and Disk IO Pressure and resolving slow running query issues.  • Strong Database Objects development - Tables, Views, Triggers, Stored procedures, Functions, Cursors, and T-SQL batches.  • Possess excellent knowledge in SSIS, SSRS and SSAS. Developed SSRS Reports, SSIS packages and deployed SSRS in scaled out deployment mode.  • Involved in design and migration of SSIS and SSRS servers from one storage block to other storage block and change in VLAN for servers and adding servers in Load balancer  • Involved in design and consolidation of SSIS and SSRS server using Autosys ,Fname and Load balancer techniques  • Extensively worked in OLTP & OLAP environment that includes Production (24x7), QA and development databases in SQL Server.  • Experience in analyzing ,testing and Implementing Industry best configuration standards for huge(Databases in TB's) and heavy usage SQL server applications  • Experience in working and migrating Tera bytes application Databases with Max size is 7 TB and average database sizes is 3 TB  • Experience in analyzing and capacity planning for CPU,Memory and storage IOPS using PERFMON, SQLIO,RELOG utilities and SQL Queries  • Experience in working with around 150 TB of SSD storage and analyze performance improvement  • Extensively worked with Data virtualization and Data masking tool, Delphix  • Extensively worked on ETL tools like SSIS and Attunity to migrate data from SQL Server to SQL server and SQL Server to Netezza data warehouse  • Experience in analyze application dependencies, provide solution and migrating SQL Server's from Stand alone to stand alone, Cluster to Stand alone and Cluster to Cluster with maintaining same SQL Server Instance name and IP address  • Experience in coordinating and effectively using A record, Name(A Canonical Name record),Vmotion and P2V technologies wherever needed during SQL Server migrations  • Experience in coordinating and effectively using SRM\SRDF for DR plans.  • Experience in overcome the roadblocks and provide solutions and implement migrations for hard coded old applications with SQL Server Instance name and IP addresses  • Experience in migrating all SQL server application databases of all versions during data center and Storage block migrations  • Experience in configuring and Implement Encryption for SQL Server using Vormetric Tool  • Experience in using Data virtualization tools like Delphix and Idera to save storage and to save resource effective hours  • Experience in using SQL performance tools like Solar winds DPA and Idera  • Experience in using Microsoft SQL Server Distributed Replay feature to assess the impact of future SQL Server upgrades and to analyze impact of hardware and operating system upgrades, and SQL Server tuning  • Configured mail alert to notify new connections, communicate and requesting to redirect application users to new reporting servers  • Configured SQL Server Resource Governor for shared application environments and in limiting users using SSMS  • Analyze and redesign optimization query to improve performance as per application specific requirement  • Experience in Design, architecture and providing solutions  • Experience with Table Partitioning and implemented Sliding window partitioning for Application Tables.  • Experience in SQL Server migration/decommission planning and strategies with minimum application down time and failover strategies both in cluster and Always on.  • Exposure to SQL server 2014 Polybase, Hadoop, Azure, AWS.  • Exposure and experience in Iaas,Paas and SaaS category service models  • Exposure to multiple database platforms like Oracle, MySQL and Mongo DB.  • Experience Migration of On Premise databases to SQL Azure environment  • Experience in providing security permissions and enabling fire walls on SQL Azure databases  • Experience in understanding and choosing single and elastic databases as per billing and performance parameters  • Experience in working with Windows 2000/2003/2008/2008 R2/2012 Enterprise, Advance Server and Windows NT Server.  • Possess excellent expertise in Windows 2003/2008R2/2012 Clustering.  • Experience in working with Huge SQL Server Databases on EMC, NetApp and Left-hand SAN Environment.  • Extensive experience working with VMWare environments ESXi 4.0 and ESXi 5.0  • Worked with the Compliance Team to document the requirements and executed the tasks to meet the requirements for SOX and HIPAA compliance.  • Good experience in adhering to ITIL Framework in the Database Operations.  • Good interpersonal, Analytical and Communication skills and a team player    Professional Experience: Sr SQL Server DBA Security Patches - Austin, TX March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2005/ 2008/2008 R2/2012 Clustered and Multi-Instance Servers and applied Security Patches.  • Implemented Sliding window Table partitioning for Huge Application Tables to enhance performance.  • Implemented various documented procedures, Access and Audit controls for the database environment  • Extensively worked on Automating data collection and implementation of controls to meet SOX and PCI-DSS compliance.  • Extensively involved in configuring and troubleshooting different types of Replication Models like Snapshot, and Transactional.  • Implemented and troubleshooted Database Mirroring and log shipping for DR and reporting requirements.  • Extensively worked on maintaining and troubleshooting and issues with the SQL Clusters in the environment ensuring maximum availability of the databases.  • Deployed database objects from development/testing environment to production environment in Enterprise SQL Server environments.  • Managed Security using SQL Logins, Roles and Security Modes for various users and also handled Security management.  • Performed Installations, Backups, Deployments and day to day DB management tasks.  • Monitored Scheduled database backup and recovery operations.  • Worked towards resolving Blocking and Deadlock Issues and provided recommendations to the customers towards the resolutions.    Work Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008R2/2012, Windows NT/2000/2003/2008/2012 SQL Server DBA PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA February 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities: SQL Database Administrator Whole Foods Market - Austin, TX July 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and administered SQL Server 2005/2008 on standalone and clustered windows environments.  • Managed logins, roles, assigning rights and permissions to users.  • Worked with running DBCC consistency checks and monitoring daily backups.  • Monitored the use of disk space usage, memory and connections for the databases.  • Implemented Log Shipping Technique to maintain a standby server backup for Disaster Recovery.  • Data refresh from production to various environments through backup/restore procedures.  • Created DTS Packages to get the data into excel sheets, required by the management for analysis.  • Prepared the deployment scripts and rollback scripts to migrate the Database environment objects into Production database.  • Monitored the databases to ensure high availability of Production Servers.  • Worked to establish connectivity between VB Applications and MS SQL Server by Using ODBC  • Maintained version control of database releases and Object Changes.  • Documentation for best practices, policies, procedures and standards.  • Provided 24x7 Production Support.    Work Environment: SQL 2008/2005 Enterprise Edition, Windows 2003/2008 Server, Import-Export (DTS), SSRS, SSAS, SSIS. SQL Database Analyst NTT DATA Services - Washington, DC May 2007 to July 2009 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and administered SQL Server 2005/2008 on standalone and clustered windows environments.  • Managed logins, roles, assigning rights and permissions to users.  • Worked with running DBCC consistency checks and monitoring daily backups.  • Monitored the use of disk space usage, memory and connections for the databases.  • Implemented Log Shipping Technique to maintain a standby server backup for Disaster Recovery.  • Data refresh from production to various environments through backup/restore procedures.  • Created DTS Packages to get the data into excel sheets, required by the management for analysis.  • Prepared the deployment scripts and rollback scripts to migrate the Database environment objects into Production database.  • Monitored the databases to ensure high availability of Production Servers.  • Worked to establish connectivity between VB Applications and MS SQL Server by Using ODBC  • Maintained version control of database releases and Object Changes.  • Documentation for best practices, policies, procedures and standards.  • Provided 24x7 Production Support.    Work Environment: SQL 2008/2005 Enterprise Edition, Windows 2003/2008 Server, Import-Export (DTS), SSRS, SSAS, SSIS.    Technical Certifications  Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist - SQL Server 2008 Implementation and Maintenance  Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist - SQL Server 2005  MCITP - Server Administrator - Windows 2008 Server Quest Spotlight 2008 to 2008 2008 R2/2012, SSIS, Quest Spotlight, Quest Litespeed, Windows 2003/2008/2008 R2 Servers, VMWare ESXi 4.0/ESXi 5.0. Expert Response Times 2005 to 2008 • Installed, configured and administered SQL Server 2000/2005 and 2008.  • Performance tuning at various layers including Data Model, Query Tuning, Index creation and maintenance, Hardware and network layer.  • Creating database objects as per business requirements and Resolved CPU, Memory, and Tempdb related issues.  • Performance tuning and rewriting Stored Procedures, Functions and Report Queries providing CPU savings and quicker Response Times.  • Responsible for hardening the server to meet PCI, SOX controls and ensure that the database environment is according to health care compliance standards.  • Reviewed changes using Red Gates SQL Compare and on validation and approval pushed objects into higher environments.  • Created users and provided necessary privileges, Implemented Mirroring using witness server.  • Expert experience in Replication and Troubleshooting issues due to Open Transactions, Locks, Deadlocks and query timeouts.  • Created DML/DDL triggers and constraints and Audited Server and provided documentation on server configurations and recommendations.  • Created Data models to implement new application functionality as per business requirements.  • Involved in Knowledge transfer and mentoring developers on best practices, better programming techniques and code reusability, aiding team in providing deliverables on time.  • Coordinated with System Administrators in proactively resolving performance issues and reducing downtime.  • Moved constraints from a logical to physical layer and explained POC to management and project leads.  • Worked with SME's to better understand application and business requirements.  • Validated Backups and created maintenance plans and Provided 24x7 Production Support.    Work Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Windows NT/2000/2003 Education Bachelor's