IT Sr. QA Support /Sr. Application Specialist IT Sr. QA Support /Sr. Application Specialist IT Sr. QA Support /Sr. Application Specialist - NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Raleigh, NC Work Experience IT Sr. QA Support /Sr. Application Specialist NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - Raleigh, NC 2010 to Present 2010-Present SQL Server 2000, 2003, 2008, DB2, Successfully implements highly complex business issues that have significant Fortran, UFT and HP Quality Center. MS  impact to the enterprise and across enterprise processes and functions. Office Project, Visio, Word and Excel  Manages integration of packaged solutions into enterprise technical Testcomplete, Loadcomplete, QA  architecture and business environment. Oversees implementation, support complete. Oracle's Siebel CRM  and inventory control of applications and evaluates system specifications for Technology, WebSphere Application  business requirements. Additional aspects of the responsibilities include:  Server, LT windows and Unix base  •Driving strategic business value and innovation. systems, Unix Shell scripting, SAP (ERP  •Building and maintaining strong relationships with the K-C Business system ) HTTP web services, FTP, Filenet, leadership partners at a strategic level with business stakeholders to Quick Test Professional Software, Agile  communicate successes, demonstrating IT value and appropriate Assets Analytics Application, Project  governance of IT activities. Management course training. Business  •Providing boundless leadership. Analytics Linux, Tomcat, GroovyScript,  •Leveraging common solutions and innovative technologies. ADDITIONAL RELEVANT  •Developing, sharing, and leveraging best practices across IT region and shares with other regions. Application Administrator/Systems Analyst Team Lead BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF NORTH CAROLINA - Chapel Hill, NC 2003 to 2010 Developed and supervised integration plans for various technology sets ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS  including: Strategies and Technology Roadmaps, Enterprise Application Morrisville, NC  Component Architectures, and Data Architectural Standards. Performed Oracle Database Administrator  final review and sign-off on all assigned design specification for local, regional and global implementations, and all proposed data structures WAKE COUNTY INFORMATION  and adherence to Blue Cross Architecture Standards and supportability. SERVICES Raleigh, NC  Install and configured application servers and maintained systems  documentation. Additional aspects of the responsibilities included: Oracle Database Administrator Lead 8i, 9i  • Managing services provided to business through existing and new technology.  • Gathering business needs and gaining alignment between business needs and technical capabilities, engaging with Business  Analysts and Enterprise Architects.  • Capturing demand via the agreed process, providing recommendations for prioritization, and overseeing program and project initiatives.  • Managing business expectations with business stakeholders based on ITS resource availability.  • Promoting s business projects and their value to the IT leaders and community.  • Provided advanced technical engineering and support services as it relates to the hosted Oracle / Siebel CRM applications  installation, setup, configuration, utilization and support across the technology stack for non production and production  environments:  • software installation, database creation, configurations, migrations and upgrades.  • Provided monitoring standards;  • Provided maintenance standards;  • Performance tuning across technology stack;  • Capacity planning;  • Patching;  • Technology and software lifecycle guidance;  • Research advanced questions/issues and provide recommendations;  • Oracle product clustering and Real Application Clusters ("RAC") advice and guidance;  • Database and system partitioning;  • Technical advice and guidance for complex system issues/outages. Application Analyst Project Lead CISCO SYSTEMS, GLOBAL PRODUCT SERVICES, INC - Research Triangle Park, NC 2001 to 2003 Supported and maintained e-commerce production databases for company internet applications and third party  vendors. Performed performance tuning and supported developers in database design, configuration, capacity  planning, and architecture. Generated one-time programs required to test and implement assigned systems.  Performed required system/program modifications as required. Additional aspects of the responsibilities included:  • Producing monthly Project Management reports.  • Reviewing and recommending software tools and applications.  • Ensuring professional growth and objectives of team members.  • Implementing steps to ensure that all assigned projects are completed on a timely basis and reported to the Information System Application Manager. ERP System Analyst 2001 to 2001 Diagnosed, isolated, and implemented remedies for system failures caused by errors in software code and conducted unit tests, component integration tests, systems and acceptance testing. Converted requirements to  functional requirements to develop written software code and constructed applications. Additional aspects of the responsibilities included:  • Preparing written documentation for technical methods, procedures, functions, or processes to support  the installation, operations, training, and maintenance of information technology systems or applications.  • Specified and maintaining required deployment and tested ERP environments.  • Creating and managing the ERP application deployment project plan. Oracle Database Administrator IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC 1999 to 2001 Provided technical expertise to department managers and development groups on building E-Commerce websites  using an Application Server. Additional aspects of the responsibilities included:    • Installing and configuring installation of Websphere to run on Linux, UNIX, Windows 98, 2000, AIX, OS390  and AS400 mainframe servers.  • Customer support for Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's)  • Working with developers to write business logic necessary to support transactions and updates to the database. Oracle DBA / Application Programmer Lead SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS - Cary, NC 1997 to 1999 Designed and maintained web pages using HTML, Java on UNIX, Windows NT operating systems and enterprise  application. Provide 3rd line support with a focus on Oracle Database Technologies Education technology North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC 1992 to 1995