Picture Framer / Associate Picture Framer / Associate Project Coordinator Roswell, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Picture Framer / Associate JoAnn 2014 to Present Framing- assist customer using best-in- frame practices to design, create invoice for all components, assemble, and complete framing orders.  *Executed a range of duties supporting business operations aimed at increasing sales and repeat customers. Merchandising, stock new inventory using planograms create signage, resolving issues/queries, POS, returns, and special orders. Quality Coordinator AFL Telecommunications January 2017 to October 2017 Division acquired by Bluestream effective 10/31/2017)   * Improved AT&T Quality metrics from 68% to 92% and exceeded the client contracted service level of 85%.  * Documented process and policy for asset assignments, tool calibration, mandatory class requirements, and quality defect assign/input/resolution.  * Analyzed data, and prepared reports for executive management to show progression of improvement, * Brought up-to-date tool calibration status and sent monthly notifications to ensure continuous certification status. Followed through, maintained and updated records.  * Back-up for Division Administrative Assistant - process and procedure for time keeping, purchase orders, expense vouchers, car rentals, and reconciliation for Canada and US OSP installation because regular person went on a month long European vacation * Assisted Estimating and Finance groups with new order creation in order management system, inputting billing rates, purchase orders, and creating new Job Folders in EJF application. Personal Assistant Self-Employed 2006 to 2016 Provided on-site-presence and assisted with details for functions and projects. Project Administrator - Global Deployment Platform Team Lucent Technologies 2004 to 2005 * Coordinated deployment teams' projects and SDLC activities for implementation of software patches and equipment upgrades for Global end users.  * Achieved 90% on time delivery to Business end users.  * Event management and logistics - scheduled and planned Business Unit meetings (agenda, travel, conference rooms, equipment, and conference calls, meeting material, minutes). Created presentations, compiled and published activities to Management team and business unit.  *Single Point of Contact for engineering issues, tier 1 help desk support for applications and general issues. Deployment Coordinator Lucent Technologies 2003 to 2004 * Coordinated and managed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and deployment for over 180 new features that resulted in a $31.9M net decrease in costs for Global Engineering.  * Created, maintained, and tracked project schedules.  * Achieved 85% on time delivery. Created -at-a-glance- time management check list and project deliverable for each SDLC development and deployment phase * Cross-functionally supported engineering, executive management and Information Technology to implement change, build relationships, and streamline processes. Functional Business Analyst Lucent Technologies 2002 to 2004 * Engineering Subject Matter Expert for decommissioning of Order Management System that realized $1.1M in savings.  * Managed and wrote business requirements for decommissioning of engineering software application in Poland saving $400K for organization.  * Saved $600K as collaborator with European engineering consultants to create business requirements for decommissioning engineering software application.  * Designed and created the new customer, installation and user documentation. Services Architect Lucent Technologies 1995 to 2001 *Improved business operations and processes resulting in faster turn-around time and eliminated manual effort of engineers by the development and deployment of new application that expedited resolution of non-supported factory items.  * Documented Business Requirements for Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) through concept, scheduling, deployment and maintenance stages of development.  * Trained employees on new system utilizing demos, conference calls, video conferencing and visual snapshots.  * Documented job descriptions/functions/processes and verified readiness for ISO certification Database Administrator Lucent Technologies 1992 to 1995 Maintained engineering application database for new and existing information.  * Data entry of technical equipment specifications.  * Tier 1 help desk -Provided end user assistance and one on one training. Optical Equipment Engineer AT&T Network System 1986 to 1991 Analyzed/ engineered detailed job specifications with complete component listing and provided order instructions to support the installation of new office telecom equipment.  * Surveyed telephony equipment offices and corrected records. Education Civil Engineering Clemson University Skills Business Analysis (Less than 1 year), Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), Data entry (3 years), Detail Oriented (Less than 1 year), time management (1 year), Excel, Project Management, Customer Service Additional Information SKILLS    Project Administration/Coordination Time Management/Organization  Process Improvement Document Preparation/Control/Presentations  Business Analysis/Strategy Strong Customer Facing skills  Written and Oral Communications Reports/Data Entry/Data Analysis  Work independently/Teamwork Fast-paced Environments/Work under pressure  Multitasking (Ability to prioritize) Detail Oriented    Microsoft Office Software (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Outlook, VISIO