Database Migration Specialist/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> Migration Specialist/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Migration Specialist/Systems Administrator Madisonville, LA To obtain a Systems Administration or Tier 2 or 3 support position for a local corporation in the New Orleans metro area. Work Experience Database Migration Specialist/Systems Administrator Clearbridge Technologies/Oracle Micros 2014 to 2019 * Responsible for building new servers for large chain and independent hotels, upgrading to server 2008 R2 and installing the Oracle/Micros software Opera to the latest version or any approved version from the client.  * Server builds include application single servers or application/ database split servers, as well as Opera exchange interface, Data-guard (fail-over server).  * Building Linux appliances to interact with the Windows based database server for the Opera 9 mobile platform which allows Ipads and other mobile devices to connect to the Opera application.  * Migrating databases from the old servers on Windows Server 2003 with an Oracle 10g database to Windows 2008 R2 and an 11g Oracle database. Systems Administrator/Data Center Manager Results Technologies - Atlanta, GA 2009 to 2014 * Responsible for maintaining, repairing, and replacing equipment such as storage enclosures, backup carousels, Avaya telephony gateways, call classifiers, and Cisco switches in the data center of a multinational call center corporation.  * Working with various IT teams to build out new co-locations.  * Responsible for building and maintaining 100+ VMware servers for various teams and VMware workstations for developers.  * Monitoring VM performance and upgrading or downgrading allocated resources as needed.  * Patching for servers and various other network assets to meet PCI compliance using Qualys and Nessus for identification purposes.  * Software and script deployment as well as patching and inventory for 6000+ network assets via Altiris and PDQ deployment consoles.  * Server CPU load monitoring via Solarwinds.  * Sharepoint administration via Active Directory.  * Large scale OS migrations Win XP to 7 and Server 2003 to 2008.  * Office 365 administration and issue/request escalation via admin console.  * Maintaining and patching Citrix Xenapp servers and their back end components.  * Worked with vendors and other 3rd parties to configure and plan new projects with various applications and hardware, focusing on ease of use for the end user.  * Hands on support for executive's business and personal equipment including laptops, mobile devices, printer's and home office setup planning.  * Other positions include Sr. IT Engineer, co-managed 25-30 local site IT personnel while auditing their data closets, floor maps, securing network assets for PCI compliance and offering tier 3 support.  * Managed all asset inventory via OCS and Altiris.  * Help Desk Manager, documented all processes and procedures in order to move operations to the Manila site.  * Network Monitoring via Solarwinds and OpenNMS. Help Desk Manager/Project Manager Hilton Corporate Acct - Memphis, TN 2005 to 2009 * Managing and training seven first and second level help desk analysts in troubleshooting hardware for Dell laptops and desktops and their imaged software, listed below in my previous position, in Hilton's two main corporate offices located in Memphis, TN and Beverly Hills, CA as well as national sales offices located in New York, NY; Greenwich, CT; Atlanta, GA; Miami, FL; Chicago, IL; Dallas, TX; Vancouver, WA; San Francisco, CA; and Los Angeles, CA.  * Traveling to the sales offices listed above and transferring data from their workstations and office servers to their upgraded, newly leased machines. Configuring preloaded and third party software to provide a seamless transition into their new equipment.  * Adding new users and workstations and assigning them to their correct group policy via Active Directory to the domain for all accounts added by the help desk.  * Monitoring 1st and 2nd level technicians queues via Remedy and Avaya CMS Supervisor software as well as generating weekly and monthly reports for individual techs and the entire help desk.  * Working closely with CompOps and NetOps for escalation issues involving server and network issues affecting any of the aforementioned offices that were experiencing network latency or outages.  * Responsible for provisioning, configuration, and maintenance of all equipment used by the help desk such as IBM desktops, Dell and HP laptops, Cisco switches, and Plantronics CS50-USB wireless headsets.  * Assisting users with setting up their home offices including the layout and configuration of their laptops, docking stations, routers, external backup drives, and various printers.  * Documenting and updating the Hilton corporate help desk knowledge base as well as the Blackberry Enterprise Server and end user knowledge base.  * Weekly monitoring of three servers owned by Right Focus Management in Collierville, TN in a Windows Server 2003 environment as a side project in addition to my duties with Hilton. Documenting drive space usage, monitoring the event viewers of all servers for errors being thrown by the system, and verifying that all backups were successful and fully synchronized via Symantec Backup 10d and Vice Versa Pro applications. Purchasing licenses and configuring new accounts as well as troubleshooting and reloading existing accounts that were experiencing issues via Blackberry Enterprise Server 4.1 software. Adding new users and workstations to the domain via Active Directory.  * Three day side project of upgrading from serial port to IP time clocks across the campus of Steel Fabricators Incorporated of TN located in southeast Memphis. Assembled new hardware and worked closely with ADP to configure both the time clocks and the workstations gathering information from them without disrupting the employee's ability to clock in and out throughout the 24 hour workday.  1st Level Support Analyst  * Provided 1st level support for Dell and IBM laptops and desktops of their hardware and image software such as Windows 2000/XP, Office 2003 & 2007, Citrix 8, Avaya IP Agent, Avaya Message Manager, Essbase, Hyperion, Iomega Automatic Backup, Visio, Sophos, E-Trust Anti-Virus, LRN Ethics and Compliance, Ipass, OnQ Property Information Manager, Peoplesoft, Peoplenet, WorldDox, Cisco Systems VPN Client, SupportSoft, and WinVNC.  * Administrated user accounts in Blackberry Manager 4.1. Troubleshooting of devices and accounts including reloading accounts on the server, resending service books, and reloading the Blackberry OS remotely for corporate and hotel users across North and South America.  * Provided all levels of support for various HP and Brother Printers and scanners including collaborating with manufacturers and distributors for drivers, firmware, and replacement parts. Clerk/Data Entry NBC - Memphis, TN 2003 to 2005 * Processing payments for bankruptcy trustees and various small companies such as Memphis Medical Air Ambulance, MIFA, and the Memphis Women's Center.  * Worked closely with Opex Technicians to help set up a new automated processing system via Opex model 51 and model AS3600/Integrated, as well as identifying software bugs with VSoft customized format for the Opex/NBC systems. Customer Interaction Agent Stream International - Memphis, TN 1999 to 2003 * Supported software and hardware provided by large cable ISP such as Outlook Express, Internet Explorer, many varied cable modems, network interface cards and their drivers.  * Configured LAN connections.  * Supported POP and HTML e-mail servers for company's national help desk. Pyramid Courier Memphis, TN 1995 to 1999 Courier  * Delivered packages local and long distance for various companies. Education Associate in Communications Northwest Mississippi Community College - Senatobia, MS August 1997 to May 1999 High School Diploma Bartlett High School - Bartlett, TN 1991 to 1995 Additional Information • Active Directory  • Altiris Deployment Console  • Avaya Hardware/Software  • Blackberry Enterprise Server  • Cisco Systems VPN Client  • Computer Maintenance/Repair  • Data/Voice Communications  • Hardware/Software Installation  • Internet/Email Server Security  • Java  • Microsoft Office 2007, 2010, 2013  • Microsoft Server 2003 & 2008  • Network Security  • PDQ Deployment Console  • Remedy  • Sage MAS90  • Orion Solar Winds  • Symantec Backup Exec  • Systems Analysis  • Vice Versa Pro  • VMware  • VOIP