Senior Marketing and Insights Analyst Senior Marketing and Insights Analyst Senior Marketing and Insights Analyst - NSA Media Chicago, IL Senior Business Intelligence Analyst, Insights Analyst and Database Administrator with over 12 years  experience developing solutions and methods for data analysis, reporting and data collection and storage. Work Experience Senior Marketing and Insights Analyst NSA Media - Downers Grove, IL March 2018 to Present Develop customized insights and solutions for clients by using a deep understanding of clients' data and objectives as well as ZIP Code scoring, traffic patterns, competition, local market insight, advanced  demographic profiling and weather patterns    • Collaborate on New Business prospecting & Digital media strategy. Database Administrator NSA Media - Downers Grove, IL June 2015 to March 2018 Install, configure, troubleshoot and maintain multiple database systems to support numerous client server  and we applications  • Implement, configure and troubleshoot database instances, replication, backup, partitions, store and access.  • Monitor and optimize system performance using index tuning, disk optimization and other methods.  • Set user privileges within the database environment Senior Business Intelligence Analyst NSA Media - Downers Grove, IL January 2010 to June 2015 Create and maintain SSIS packages, SSRS reports, Alteryx Modules, Tableau Dashboards, Stored  Procedures and SQL jobs.  • Worked extensively with Client and other Analysis teams to develop solutions to customer needs.  • Wrote complex SQL queries for data extraction and report creation, either repeatable and automated or ad  hoc.  • Trained fellow analysts in the BI tools used by our company.  • Extract, transform, and load data from various sources to our databases or reporting server. Senior Marketing and Media Analyst NSA Media September 2007 to January 2010 Downers Grove  • Provided agency wide-data analytic support and recommendations for existing clients and new business  pitches, by analyzing sales, scoring, traffic patterns, competition, local market insights and demographic  profiling.    • Utilized data extraction tools to manipulate and interpret sales and demographic data. Project Manager Solo Cup Company - Lake Forest, IL January 2007 to September 2007 Helped oversee the implementation of the SAP ERP software in order to achieve efficient business  processes, inventory reductions and higher probability.  • Manned the help desk after the integration of the SAP software to track down problems and help  troubleshoot.  • Developed and deployed analytical reports daily to chart the efficiencies and savings that the SAP ERP  software was creating. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology University of Iowa 2004 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, SQL, DATA MINING, SHAREPOINT, SSRS Additional Information Skills    SQL SSIS SSRS    Alteryx Tableau SSAS    Sharepoint Microsoft Office Suite Adobe Creative Suite    VBA Data Mining Data Analysis