Programmer Analyst II Programmer Analyst II Programmer Analyst II - BAE Systems, California, MD Great Mills, MD Work Experience Programmer Analyst II BAE Systems, California, MD 2017 to Present • Applies knowledge of computer science concepts and techniques to write, modify, and adapt routine computer programs for U.S. Navy databases in Oracle and UNIX operating systems.  • Prepares operating instructions, compiles documentation of program development, and analyzes system capabilities to resolve questions of program intent, output requirements, input data acquisition, programming techniques, and controls.  • Builds add-on modules using application program languages. Create complex database triggers, functions and procedures using Oracle development tools, including TOAD, SQL and PL/SQL, in Oracle 11g and 12c environments. E-Commerce Sales Specialist Pawnit - Lexington Park, MD 2017 to 2017 • Conduct web based sales including developing product descriptions, creating listings, photographing items for sale, researching and comparing like items, packing and shipping, and responding to customer inquiries. Recovery Residence House Manager Stepping Stone Recovery Houses - Lexington Park, MD 2016 to 2017 • Responsible for managing and coordinating the recovery house for women, including client intakes, drug and alcohol screening, weekly rent collections, planning and running house meetings, maintenance and upkeep in the house.  • Includes duties related to administration, housekeeping, and daily living, working directly with women in early recovery, and providing structure and support to women seeking to establish stable long-term recovery from a substance use disorder Database Administrator Farfield Systems - Catonsville, MD 2013 to 2014 • Oracle/SQL Server Database Administrator/Developer for the Naval Surface Warfare Center Indian Head Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology Division (NSWC IHEODTD). Perform database administration tasks, including performance tuning, system enhancements, system monitoring and troubleshooting Oracle 11g and SQL Server 2005 environments.  • Extensive work on Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guidelines (STIG) checklists to maintain Authority To Operate (ATO) by using a standard methodology for secure installation and maintenance of Oracle database systems. Created or revised required supporting documentation, including System Security Plan (SSP). Worked closely with Information Assurance (IA) personnel reviewing the checklists to ensure accuracy and compliance. Database Administrator ManTech International - Lexington Park, MD 2011 to 2011 • Designs, develops, enhances and maintains database systems in an Oracle 11g environment.  • Perform database administration tasks, including performance tuning, system enhancements, system monitoring and troubleshooting. Senior Database Developer Sierra Management and Technologies, California, MD 2008 to 2011 • Oracle Developer for the Navy Logistics 6.8 Competency Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS), a tracking system developed to automate the initiation, processing, and tracking of deficiency reports through the investigation process across the Aeronautical Enterprise.  • Lead database developer for new Critical Item Management (CIM) module to identify and track critical safety items. Designed table structures, developed software programs, and implemented system changes.  • Developed strategies to convert data from an obsolete system to populate new module. Created programs to perform the conversion, tested and verified results, and worked closely with clients to ensure data validity and integrity.  • Created complex database triggers, functions and procedures using Oracle development tools, including TOAD, SQL and PL/SQL, in an Oracle 11g environment. Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - Lexington Park, MD 2006 to 2008 • Software developer for several projects, including MarineNet, a distance learning courseware system for United States Marine Corps, for the Special Communications Requirements (SCR) Division of the Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division (NAWCAD).  • Developed complex forms, database triggers, packages and procedures using Oracle development tools, including SQL and PL/SQL, in an Oracle 10g environment.  • Database analyst using SQL Server 2005 performing database administration tasks, including performance tuning, system enhancements, and troubleshooting. Test Automation Specialist Developer Navy Sigma Test Automation Team 2004 to 2006 7.2 Competency. Worked with module project groups to create and document test scenarios and results; developed, recommended and documented testing strategies for SAP Modules (HR, FI, CO, SD, PS, and MM) to provide SAP module quality assurance throughout the project lifecycle.  • Created test scripts using automated testing tools, including Mercury Quality Center and TestDirector employing customized Visual Basic scripting. Senior Systems Analyst Eagan, McAllister Associates, Inc - Lexington Park, MD 2000 to 2006 Senior Software Developer Public Works Shore Station Division 2000 to 2004 10.0 Competency Shore Station Integrated Information System (SSIIS) work order management system and its interface with Johnson Controls Maximo work order management system.  • Designed, developed, enhanced and maintained database systems. Developed complex database triggers, packages and procedures using Oracle development tools, including SQL and PL/SQL. Develop ad-hoc reports in SQL for end users. Developed interface using Java tools.  • Analyzed impact of system changes and developed strategies to implement new systems and upgrades to existing systems. Provided end-user support and resolved problems in day-to-day operations. Tested front-end application changes and new versions of software.  • Created SQL scripts to modify databases, create tables, views and indexes and provided grants to tables and views to needed roles.  • Developed systems documentation, tests plans and other support documentation. Maintained tracking documentation and provided structured classroom instruction to end-users. Senior Software Engineer ManTech Systems Engineering Corp - Lexington Park, MD 2000 to 2000 • Developed software for the Equipment Condition Analysis (ECA) system for the Navy Logistics 3.6 Competency to calculate current equipment condition and forecast the risk of failure in conjunction with the planned equipment operating specifications.  • Designed, programmed and documented data warehouse reporting capabilities for a Web based system, including screens, programs and reports using an Oracle 8 RDBMS, Structured Programming, Structured Query Language (SQL), Oracle Developer & Reports, SQL*Forms, SQL*Plus and PL/SQL..  • Analyzed impact of system change requests and developed strategies to implement modifications. Computer Specialist Calvert County Government - Prince Frederick, MD 1999 to 2000 • Developed, managed, implemented and maintained systems for a municipal government, including water and sewer billing, tax assessment billing and collection, personnel, payroll and financial accounting systems.  • Performed system administration of UNIX platforms, including Hewlett-Packard 9000 running HP-UX 11X.  • Provided support for the analysis, programming, testing and implementation of enhancements and new development and implementation of systems.  • Implemented a new software system to centralize cash receipts management and provided technical support. The system was hosted on a Windows NT Server, utilizing a Microsoft SQL Server database and integrated with systems on UNIX platforms using ODBC drivers.  • SQL Server administration, Crystal Reports development, performed systems and process documentation and user training. Senior Computer Specialist Planned Systems International, Inc - Lexington Park, MD 1994 to 1999 • Development of software for the Contracts Management Automated System (CMAS) and Procurement Contracts Management Automated System (ProCMAS) for the Information Management Department (IMD) Competency 7.2.  • Developed systems using Oracle RDBMS, UNIX, Structured Query Language (SQL), Oracle Developer & Reports, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL and Structured Query Reportwriter (SQR). Analyzed impact of system change requests and developed strategies to implement.  • Provided support to the end user community and developed ad-hoc reports as needed. Taught classroom and individual instruction to end users on use of the systems. Programmer/Analyst Charles County Government - La Plata, MD 1988 to 1994 • Developed, managed, implemented and maintained systems for a municipal government, including water and sewer billing, tax assessment billing and collection, payroll and accounting.  • Analyzed, programmed, and tested enhancements and new development of systems using COBOL, RPG/400, OS/400, CL, SEU, Query/400, DML and DDL.  • Lead developer for project migrating existing data to a new platform. Devised implementation strategies, mapped and programmed data conversion, implemented new systems and provided extensive end user support.  • Performed system administration, created systems documentation and trained end users. Education M.S. in E-business Florida Institute of Technology B.S. in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College Skills Oracle, SQL