Accounting Specialist Accounting Specialist Accounting Specialist - Aldridge Pite LLP Wellington, FL Self-driven professional with over 5 years of experience in accounts receivable and operations/administration support. Work Experience Accounting Specialist Aldridge Pite LLP - Delray Beach, FL April 2017 to Present • Provide first point communication with clients regarding attorney fees to be billed by firm.  • Assist invoicing and submission teams to rebut client denials and other invoice related issues.  • Assist attorney and paralegal teams by providing notifications to firm clients when new  contested issues arise.  • Ensure contested issues are documented and firm database is updated to reflect same.  • Review department reports and advise on same in order to help maximize firm overhead billing.  • Meet with department management to discuss any issues with work flow and advise on solutions. Assist department supervisors by resolving any issues regarding overhead billing and  processes.  • Review hourly attorney time and ensure approval is received by firm for billing. Database Administrator Ward, Damon, Posner June 2013 to January 2017 Met with legal teams and attorneys to update and automate case sequence along with several  other database operations.  • Reviewed and revised pleading templates to help boost efficiency.  • Generated and reviewed bi-monthly budget reports with CFO and department leads to find  areas of improvement.  • Performed regular updates to database to reflect accurate file status and all other case related  information.  • Provided insight in regards to invoicing processes and work flow and advised on improvements.  • Advised management and attorneys on all changes or adjustments to client fee schedules.  • Managed employee profiles and access security for in-house database.  • Managed and updated employee profiles for client systems and provided technical support for issues on same.  • Reviewed all fees and costs for billing, processed invoices for payment to firm.  • Reviewed invoices from vendors and updated database to reflect costs incurred, remit payment  from clients if applicable. Calibration Technician Atlantic Drilling Supply June 2012 to June 2013 • Assisted store management by providing and updating records for all goods to be sold in store.  • Ensured all lab testing equipment was calibrated to industry standards and provided  consultation for any issues regarding same.  • Packaged and labeled large shipping freight for outbound delivery.  • Processed inbound equipment for inventory.  • Processed and recorded all equipment and calibration service sales.  • Processed invoices for goods and services sold and recorded same in store database. Electronics Sales Associate HHGregg June 2011 to March 2012 • Assisted team members in store facing according to corporate outlines.  • Provided point of contact communication for customers regarding computer or software related  issues and solutions on same.  • Managed inventory of electronic merchandise and provided reports to store management.  • Provided individual service to customers in order to better suggest products they may need.  • Optimized products and software sold to better suit customer needs.  • Processed invoices for all goods and services sold for store database and customers. Waiter Riggins Crabhouse Inc October 2004 to March 2011 Provided menu suggestions for special dishes served by restaurant. Helped ensure all areas were  kept clean in regards to industry health standards.  • Provided front of house service to all guests for food and beverage orders. Advised customers on market pricing for seasonal food items.  • Provided feedback to back of house staff regarding any food related complaints.  • Met with management to suggest menu offerings or possible additions and advised on better  staffing policies and procedures. Education Associate in Arts Palm Beach State College - Lake Worth, FL May 2009 Diploma Wellington High School - Wellington, FL May 2004