Database Administrator I, Consumer Lending Department <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I, Consumer Lending Department Database Administrator I, Consumer Lending Department - Regions Bank Northport, AL To secure a challenging career fully utilizing experience and education in Scientific Software Engineer, Job Number 16-00255. Work Experience Database Administrator I, Consumer Lending Department Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL March 2012 to Present Regions Financial Corporation has more than $137 billion in assets and operates some 2,000 branches in 16 states in South, Mid-West and Texas. I deliver first rate analysis utilizing all data sources to the full and where necessary locating, obtaining, manipulating and analyzing data in Consumer Lending Department using SAS 9.3 and Transact-SQL, proc SQL, proc tabulate, proc report, proc template SAS macros for common statistical analysis. The Consumer Lending department consists of Home Equity Loan of Credit (HELOC), Credit Cards, Home, Auto, Real Estate, and Boat Loans. Furthermore, I run daily, weekly, and monthly reports for Regions upper level management operations and planning in the most effective ways. I also prepare charts and diagrams to assist in problem analysis and submit recommendations for solution. My assignments are broad in nature, usually requiring originality and ingenuity. Has appreciable latitude for independent action or decision. Produce Associate, Produce Department Publix Super Markets, Inc - Northport, AL November 2010 to February 2012 Responsible for assisting customers, unload trucks, hang shelf tags, process price, and display products. Programmer/Analyst, Office of Institutional Research and Assessment The University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2006 to October 2010 The primary mission is to collect, organize, maintain, and report relevant student enrollment data to support the University's management, operations, decision-making, and planning functions in the most efficient and effective ways. I also prepare various tabulations, spread-sheets, charts and figures on the University's students, faculty, facilities, and finances. These data are published in an annual fact book, periodical fyi's, ad hoc reports, state and federal required reports, data exchange reports, surveys for various national media. The reports are in Micro focus Net Express 5.1 COBOL, PL/SQL and Transact-SQL using Toad v8, and SAS 9.2 using University's General and Student Banner version 8.2 and Oracle Database. In addition, I am converting all COBOL programs over to SAS programs. Also, I am building and maintaining PL/SQL scripts, indexes, and queries ensure the information are correct when converting programs over to SAS and other reports. In addition, I received and send files to Alabama Commission on Higher Education by File Transfer Protocol (FTP). Education Division of Continuing Education University of Alabama - Huntsville, AL Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Athens State College - Athens, AL Additional Information *Experience in development, maintenance, updating, and troubleshooting with COBOL II programs.  *Possess excellent knowledge of statistical software like SAS 9.3, SPSS and STAT  *In-depth knowledge of SAS programming, data processing, data collection, quantitative and qualitative data analysis  *Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  *Identified data issues and provided recommendations for resolutions to ensure optimal performance.  *Trained users and wrote comprehensive documentation for developed and updated programs.    AREA OF EXPERTISE  SAS 9.3, PL/SQL, Transact-SQL, Oracle9i/10i, Oracle Database, FTP, Sungard General and Student Banner v8.2, COBOL, MICROFOCUS COBOL, Crystal Report 9.0/10.0/11.0, ADA, Advance ADA, CHANGEMAN, MVS/JCL, DB2, RDBMS,  NATURAL/ADABASE, DEBUG, Endevor, CA-7, JAVA, Advance JAVA, C/C++, SYNON, Visual Basic 6.0, Advance Visual Basic 6.0, Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010, IBM AS/400, IBM Mainframe, HP-3000