AMS Administrator AMS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Accokeek, MD Several years of experience in Engineering, Information Technology and Database Administration. Skilled in  hardware and software testing, network management and MS SQL Server administration. Work Experience AMS Administrator Mortgage Bankers Association - Washington, DC September 2018 to April 2019 • Ensured effective operations and maintenance of MBA's Association Management System Aptify.  • Managed all Agile sprint activity and testing during the migration of iMIS to Aptify.  • Participated in daily Scrum planning sessions to layout the next phase of sprint testing.  • Maintained SSRS reporting, SQL queries and stored procedures for meetings, marketing, education and research departments Database Administrator and Information Technology Manager National Pest Management Association - Fairfax, VA May 2016 to February 2018 Served as the primary IT liaison for technical assistance and support for staff, outside vendors and service  providers.  * Maintained the overall administration of NPMA's Aptify association management system (AMS).  * Collaborated with third-party companies (Hire Logic, Informz, Per Byte, Inc.) on code and certificate updates to Aptify E-business websites and micro community sites.  * Developed database solutions involving database restructuring, SQL programming report writing to solve  NPMA's information-related challenges.  * Held weekly training sessions with staff to maintain Aptify skillset.  * Administered systems, servers and email accounts in the Office 365 and Azure cloud.  * Monitored network operations and software applications to ensure efficient operations. Campaign BI Manager Decision Software, Inc - Landover, MD May 2015 to May 2016 * Developed custom vendor and client reports and analytic charts using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  * Maintained client reports and control report access through the SSRS Reports Manager website  * Performed quality checks on client reports and exports to ensure data integrity  * Built client report tables and datasets using SQL in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)  * Managed updates to Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) data cubes through weekly cube refreshes in.  Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  * Verified updates to OLAP cube data through Multi-Dimensional Expressions (MDX) queries.  * Created and maintained all business intelligence documentation. Data Analyst National PACE Association - Alexandria, VA November 2014 to February 2015 * Performed quality checks to ensure that data is clean before loading into tables.  * Worked with NPA data team to perform an internal quality check on data.  * Checked the results to ensure that data are within range.  * Assisted with compiling data in Microsoft Excel. Special Projects Engineer II ITT Exelis - Annapolis Junction, MD October 2008 to October 2013 Columbia, MD    * Worked with senior engineers on the design of quick turn-around projects.  * Communicated with engineers to identify, log and track problems to ensure that deliverables are within schedule.  * Communicated with vendors to document and resolve product failures.  * Developed test plans and procedures used to quickly isolate and correct problems in designs.  * Assisted with the Alternative Database project to develop a single, shared resource repository of all engineering workgroup  documentation. RF Engineer I ITT Exelis - Bowie, MD July 2007 to October 2008 * Conducted a survey of the US Radio Spectrum used to develop a new federation of toolsets for our client.  * Worked with a team of engineers to develop modeling and simulation scenarios in the Satellite Toolkit (STK) software package used to demonstrate the accuracy and effectiveness of our toolsets.  * Worked with a team of engineers to develop a new database system used to maintain a central repository of data for the STK scenarios.  * Developed test procedures of STK scenarios used to and train new engineers entering the project on our toolset and future toolset  development. Electronics Engineer Office of Naval Intelligence - Washington, DC March 2006 to July 2007 * Conducted daily analysis of radar signals for Office of Naval intelligence (ONI).  * Performed detailed measurements on signals to determine their modulation characteristics.  * Supported multiple intelligence organizations with detailed signals analysis results.  * Completed the Accelerated Engineer Program in 6 months. Procurement Systems Analyst Brace Management Group - Largo, MD January 2004 to March 2006 Administered the closeout of 25+ Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and Health Resources and System Administration  (HRSA) contracts per month, saving the government thousands in funding.  * Assisted with the management of the file room/inventory process to quickly log and track contacts and accelerate the contract closeout  process.  * Created a Microsoft Excel VBA program for contract inventory and Defense Finance Accounting Service (DFAS) reporting to correct  anomalies in contract closeout data. Helpdesk Intern Anadac, Inc - Crystal City, VA December 1997 to August 1999 * Assisted with the daily LAN administration for the company's 200-user network.  * Oversaw the daily operation of the company's Helpdesk Hotline to resolve user technical issues.  * Participated in the migration of the company's email system from Lotus Notes to Microsoft Exchange Server  2000. * Established email accounts and administrative privileges through Active Directory.  * Upgraded 50+ workstations on network with latest barebones peripherals and software. Education B.S. in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Maryland May 2003 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2008 r2, Sql server 2012, Sql, Sql server reporting services, Mongodb, Power bi, Visual studio, Amazon web services, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Mongoose, Node.js, Json, Python, Vb.net, Sql Dba, DBA, DBA, Sql Dba Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Cloud Tech. Microsoft Office 365, Azure, Azure DevOps, Amazon Web Services    OS Windows 10 Professional, Mac OS X, Ubuntu Linux 18.0.4, Windows Server 2008, Windows  Server 2012    Software QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise, Sage 50 Accounting, ESET Remote Administrator Console 6.x,  Dropbox, Dundas BI, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, Visual Studio 2012, GitHub, Git, JIRA  Confluence, Asana, Power BI    Databases SQL Server 2008 R2 Standard, SQL Server 2012 R2, SQL Server 2014 Standard, Aptify 6.0.0,  MongoDB 4.0.0, Mongoose 5.2.4, SQL Server Reporting Services    Programming HTML, CSS, JavaScript (Basic ES6), jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap 4, Express.js, Node.js,  Skills C#, VB.NET, SQL, C, PowerShell, Python 2.7+    Protocols TCP/IP, DNS, Active Directory