Oracle Application EBS Database Administrator Oracle Application EBS <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Highlands Ranch, CO Since 2004, I worked as a contractor, in the Oracle Application Management Branch at the National Business Center (NBC), in Denver, CO.  As a Federal Employee, I worked in the Oracle Application Management Branch since 2007 for the Interior Business Center (IBC), in Denver, CO, as a Federal Oracle Application Database Administrator. I am very familiar with the EBS stand alone as well as shared multi-node environment and have hands on experience with daily operational support, maintenance, administration and availability of the R12.2 OFF environment.  I can work independently with minimal supervision or within a team environment.  I am well-versed and very knowledgeable with the setup, implementation and maintenance of Oracle E-Business Suite and have prior experience with migrating several agencies onto the Shared environment.  I have over 20 years of Technical experience in Relational Database Management Systems, Client/Server Application management, Oracle Applications Technology Foundation for ERP Applications.  Additionally, I have technical experience in Core Oracle Applications and have supported large landscapes with up to 16 instances. My expertise also includes managing Oracle application databases and administration with strong knowledge on migration and conversion of new agencies into the shared environment.  I have excellent customer relationship management skills. I communicate and work closely with the interior and exterior agencies/clients and share my knowledge as needed with my peers.    Technical Oracle Applications version 12.1.3 & 12.2, Database version 7.3.4 upto 12C on Unix/Linux/Solaris/HP platforms, java 1.6.0.29, SSL (Secure Socket Layer), WebLogic.  Oracle E-Business Suite: PA, AP, AR, GL, PO, FA, GRC, IProcurement, HR, Self Service Web Apps, webLogic, Workflow and Discoverer.  Other: Oracle Alerts, RMAN, Oracle Application Manager, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, aoljtest, TOAD, SQl, Pl/SQL, Oracle Forms and Reports, SVN, My Oracle Support (MOS) and other Oracle Diagnostic tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Application EBS Database Administrator 6e Technologies January 2018 to Present Managing internal EBS instances, working with the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure for Lifting and Shifting of containerized EBS applications. Supporting the 6e development team to work with other cloud vendors. Keeping track of patching needs and providing fresh EBS environment for API testing. Team Lead and Oracle Applications Database Administrator Interior Business Center - Applications Management Branch March 2004 to November 2017 03/2004 - 11/2017  10+ years of Federal experience as a Team Lead and Oracle Applications Database Administrator for Oracle Federal Financials.    Awards received: 4 -Award of Excellence, 2-awards of Appreciation for R12 upgrade.  Oracle Federal Financial Application Production DBA - Oracle Database version 12c and Oracle Financials 12.2, Platform LINUX x86 and Solaris on Unix environment.  • Technical lead/manager for the DBA group, on an ongoing implementation of Oracle  Financials 11i and Release 12 Upgrades. Required to direct team in the performance system  installation, ongoing system maintenance, legacy system interfacing and full life cycle  implementation of client requested modifications.  • Duties include recognition and mitigation of technical project risks, review technical design  and development of customizations, day-to-day tracking and maintenance of technical and functional team technical assistance requests.  • 24x7 - Primary and secondary support for all environments (production and non-production)  Oracle Financial instances such as production, development, Q/A, test, and training, on a rotational basis.    Responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Implementation and software upgrades of Oracle Financials instances ( Database and Application tiers).  • Clone/refresh instances on an on-going basis.  • Apply patches and bug fixes as needed to the Oracle Application environment, including  security patches.  • Perform periodic audit to ensure FISMA (Federal Information Security Management Act)  compliance and apply necessary patches / updates to mitigate vulnerabilities resulting from scans.  • Daily maintenance tasks, troubleshoot/resolve issues to ensure system availability and performance.  • Maintain stored procedures and application code.  • Manage application security and confidentially.  • Set up concurrent managers (including custom managers), fix concurrent manager issues  and monitor automated/scheduled concurrent requests/jobs.  • Manage Apache, java, programs, forms and reports  • Manage database objects, system resources, printers and folders.  • Provide and maintain a technically secure operating environment for confidentiality, integrity  and availability under the provisions of FIPS 199 (Federal Information Processing Standards).  • Install and maintain/administer application software, as Discoverer, Workflow, Oracle  Application Manager, Apache/http, SSL - https (Secure Sockets Layer), OEM (Oracle  Enterprise Manager, Oracle Forms and Reports, etc.  • Implement Oracle Alerts and respond to outages within the time frame as agreed upon with clients.  • Develop and implement system monitoring procedures.  • Disaster Recovery - Monitor, ensure DR sync and maintain instances on sites in addition to The instances on the primary sites.  • Communicating complex technical concepts and design implications to non-technical  professionals.  • Responsible for code review of custom code, bug fixes and deployment into production via  SVN (Apache Subversion). Also, responsible for defining and monitoring custom concurrent  Request sets for custom concurrent programs and incorporate them under the appropriate  responsibilities.  • Use AD utilities to perform Oracle Financial application tasks.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD, OS Shell Scripting,  • Manage Oracle Federal Financial Applications and provide support, expertise and technical  knowledge to the Oracle E-Business modules.  • Document policies and procedures, processes/configurations, technical documentation as well as best practices documentation.    General Work Competencies / Abilities:  • Ability to master new technologies quickly.  • Tenacity to dealing with difficult problems and ability to multi-task.  • Work well both independently and in a group environment.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills with customer and team members.  • Self-motivated, setting a high personal achievement.  • Detail oriented, excellent troubleshooting with proactive problem-solving skills, comparative  Analytical approaches, innovative resolution and consistent records of on time project  delivery.  • Skilled in communicating complex technical concepts and design implications to non-technical professionals. Oracle DBA Expanets/Avaya October 2002 to March 2004 - Database version 8i and Oracle Financials version 11i  • 24x7 - provided timely and quality database services for Oracle E-Business Suite 11i on 8i  databases, to internal and external customers on production, test, training, QA and development Oracle databases on UNIX/Solaris environment.  Supported databases for WebMethods, Oracle Financials, Siebel and Kintana.  • Performed several new installations, implementations, upgrades, file organizations on 8i,  9iAS and 11i. Backed up and cloned databases on an ongoing basis. Managed Oracle  Financial Applications and provided support, expertise and technical knowledge to all Oracle  modules.  • Managed database and server related issues, managed all backup and recovery for Finance/Oracle servers.  Database design, basic unix shell scripting, upgrades and updates of system software and tools. Managed file organization, file-system disk space issues and database sizing and  fragmentation issues.  • Administered Oracle databases, including implementation, maintenance, configuration,  replication, audit database capacity and performance, statistics, design/architecture, tuning and backup/recovery. Managed all module patches from Oracle, including the Tech Stack  and maintained corporate policy by updating each module with the latest patch set, and also  applied problem-specific patches where necessary.  • Troubleshoot and resolved application connectivity and sql problems. Developed and maintained database and Application security.  • Responsible for code review of custom code, bug fixes, data fixes and ensured all changes  were logged and signed off prior to deployment into production using Kintana.  • OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and Cron jobs to monitor and maintain databases.    Environment and software used:  Oracle Client/Server Application, Apache server, Unix, vi text editor, Oracle Discoverer,  Oracle Developer and Oracle Designer, Oracle Forms and Reports, SQL, PLSQL, TOAD,  Kintana and (OEM) Oracle Enterprise Manager. Oracle DBA/Financial Application System Administrator/Developer Evolving Systems, Inc January 2001 to August 2002 Oracle Financials version 10.7 GUI/NCA - 11i, Database version 7.3.4 - 8i, on unix platform.  Oracle DBA responsibilities and duties:  • Managed production, test and development Oracle databases in a UNIX environment.  • Rebuilt the development database. Refreshed the databases on an ongoing basis.  • Managed database and server related issues, managed all backup and recovery for Finance/Oracle servers.  • Tested backup and recovery procedures on quarterly basis.  • Database design, basic Unix shell scripting, upgrades and updates of system software and tools.  • Managed file-system disk space issues and database sizing and fragmentation issues.  • Administered Oracle databases, including implementation, maintenance, configuration,  replication, design/architecture, tuning and backup/recovery.  • Managed all module patches from Oracle and maintained corporate policy on updating each  module with the latest patch set, and also applied problem-specific patches when necessary.    Oracle Financials Application System Administrator/Developer Responsibilities and duties:  • Managed Oracle Financial Applications and provided support, expertise and technical  knowledge to all Oracle module Functional Analysts. Modules: Project Accounting,  Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, General Ledger, Purchasing, Fixed Assets, Human  Resources, PTE (to test Oracle Services Gate keeper), webdB, Oracle Desktop Integrator,  alerts and system admin.  • Provided company-wide support for all users of the System, including the external clients.  Managed all user logins, access and security issues through Sys-Admin module.  Customized menus and responsibilities based on company access requirements.  • Resolved all Applications-related SR (Service Requests) using MOS,(My Oracle Support)  website or with Oracle Support.  • Maintained internal finance/oracle web site. This includes posting updated information on all  pages, writing help/instruction pages where/when necessary, and maintained the general  organization of the site and data.  • Installed all Oracle Apps related software and customizations on client machines where Necessary/as needed.  • Served as functional lead on all Oracle Apps upgrade projects.  • Coded, tested and implemented Oracle Alerts to monitor system usage, data integrity, and other monitoring thresholds required by management.  • Made custom modifications to the system as requested by Management.  • Developed, modified and implemented custom reports and made modifications to existing  standard reports. Optimized reports developed by other analysts.  • Provided day to day system support for problems encountered and User support. Oracle Developer/Programmer Anthem - Blue Cross Blue Shield July 2000 to December 2000 Transition of Oracle Financials for New Mexico - Responsibilities include analyzing and developing project plans in MS Projects. Meeting with users to determine their data requirements, feasibility and scheduling delivery. Developing scripts to transition Oracle database tables using SQL/Plus, PL/SQL, SQL Navigator, Oracle Discoverer/2000, Oracle Developer 2000 and Oracle Designer 2000 - Oracle Forms and Reports. Technical Analyst Oracle Corporation, CO February 1996 to June 2000 Received achievement awards for outstanding job performance and customer satisfaction.  Analyzing, researching, trouble shooting and supporting software applications.  Working with customers in diagnosing and problem solving. Researched, developed, published and delivered training material and assisted less experienced analysts in isolating problems, workarounds and solutions.  Prepared and presented brown bag seminars to technical analysts regarding technical/functional issues.  Technical support analyst experience at Oracle with in-depth knowledge of application systems (character, Web and GUI):  Oracle Financials:  Project Accounting, Personal Time and Expense, Activity Management Gateway, EDI Gateway, Cash Management and Accounts Payable on multiple platforms and general understanding of other application systems:  General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Purchasing, Receiving, Order-Entry, Inventory, WorkFlow, Web Expenses and other application interfaces.    Environment and software used:  Oracle, Unix, Windows NT, Windows 95+, Vi, Designer2000, C, Oracle Data Browser,  SQL/SQL*Plus, PL/SQL & MS Office (Word, project, PowerPoint, Excel and Access) and MS-DOS. Database administration skills include Installation of Oracle Financials. PRINCIPAL PROGRAMMER/ANALYST Digital Equipment Corporation 1981 to 1995 11½ years computer applications development experience on systems: Purchasing, Accounts Payable, Inventory, Accounts Receivable, Security, Conference room scheduling, Finance and batch processing with automatic submission of jobs.  Environment and software used:  DEC-10/20, VAX/VMS, OS/2, Unix, COBOL, C, Basic, Powerhouse, FMS-Forms Management System, dBase-11, RDB, Datatrieve, DECReporter, 20/20, Focus, DBMS, 1022, 1032, Vax  Document, DCL- Digital Command Language, Word Perfect, MS Office(Word, Excel, Access), MS-DOS, Lotus 1-2-3. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems National American University February 2002 Skills Oracle Dba