Director of Staff, Customer Support Director of Staff, Customer Support Director of Staff, Customer Support - US Air Force Charlotte, NC Senior Program Manager with thirteen years of progressive experience in analyzing, improving and administering multi-million dollar information technology and human resource programs. Work Experience Director of Staff, Customer Support US Air Force - Fort Meade, MD October 2018 to Present WORK SCHEDULE - MONDAY - FRIDAY, 7AM-5PM  • Oversaw human resources and customer support operations by proactively managing and optimizing organizational training, employee evaluations, travel documentation, and company's 105K budget for an organization with over 400 Air Force and NSA employees.  • Developed leadership training program to promote new managers from within, building and maintaining cohesive leadership structure.  • Designed and implemented new employee transition/orientation program optimizing training for new employees, eased work center transitions and reducing performance downtime by 50%.  • Directed team of 15 customer support professionals with 35 organization programs supporting Air Force and NSA missions.  • Guided monthly operations to assess compliance with budgets and determine necessary adjustments for future plans.  • Oversaw completion of employee payroll, certified time cards and ensured Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS)/Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) payouts.  • Generated annual budget forecasting information for executive and corporate reports. Human Resource Specialist and Client Systems Administrator Joint Base Elmendorf - Richardson, AK September 2014 to October 2018 WORK SCHEDULE - MONDAY-FRIDAY, 7:30AM-5:30PM  • Responsible for Air Force Office of Special Investigation's overall human resource and technology administration serving a population of 33K personnel within 300K miles.  • Led product market transition by setting up 5 new divisions and training 25 employees on new procedures and processes.  • Organized/structured leadership meetings to allow for organizational oversight among 15 work centers.  • Oversaw the management of $1.8M Information Technology equipment and software accounts.  • Reviewed and processed operation plans, reports and correspondence in support of 25 military organizations.  • Led 12 person team through telephone encryption key updates securing telecommunications for critical organization operations.  • Created suspense and employee tracking database that organized the management of over 658 taskers and 87 personnel records.  • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  • Created and built firmware to test associate hardware.  • Designed, collected, and analyzed multiple levels of employee feedback.  • Updated employee records for all changes as related to hiring, terminations, transfers and promotions.  • Coordinated work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations and employee relations. Information Technologist/Records Manager Communications Division, United States Air Force - Grand Forks AFB, ND February 2011 to October 2014 WORK SCHEDULE - MONDAY-FRIDAY, 7:30AM-4:30PM  • Provided Information Technology support to 2 major companies including the Defense Information Systems Administration (DISA), Global Systems Administration (GSA), and 3 local organizations with over 15K employees.  • Created organizational SharePoint system which enabled the update of 2K files and permission across two networks and 32 geographical sites.  • Setup video teleconference infrastructure for 12 geographical sites allowing 65 command and control meetings and saving organization $6.5K in travel funds.  • Oversaw account remedy tickets for Information Technology errors, and employee complaints ensuring that each ticket was effectively and efficiently addressed.  • Inspected 173 organizational Information Technology accounts worth $111K and resolved 120 non-compliant accounting issues. Database and Task Manager 2nd Air Force - Keesler AFB, MS September 2008 to January 2011 WORK SCHEDULE - MONDAY-FRIDAY, 7:30AM-4:30PM  • Trained 458 employees on Federal laws and regulations regarding official records keeping and secured local network for 1.3K personnel.  • Executed over 3K tasks and maintained organization's continuity for 120 personnel and supported 110 organizational divisions.  • Developed online training archive for 371 courses and 16 Air Force Specialty codes allowing the organization to provide distance learning capabilities. Education MBA Park University - Parkville, MO 2018 Bachelor of Management Studies in Human Resources Management Park University - Parkville, MO 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell AFB, AL 2014 Skills DATABASE, SECURITY, MS OFFICE (10+ years), PROGRAM MANAGEMENT (10+ years), QUALITY CONTROL, PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (10+ years), APPRAISAL (10+ years), MAINTENANCE, Customer Service, Customer Support, Customer Care, Call Center, Customer Care, Call Center Links https://www.linkedin.com/nhome Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E7 Additional Information Skills  • Security Plus Certified  • Information Technology program management  • Information Technology repair  • Software libraries maintenance  • Database creation and maintenance  • Leadership experience    • Personnel management  • Project management  • Reports and appraisal management  • Quality control  • MS Office proficient