Analyst, Business Intelligence Analyst, Business Intelligence Analyst, Business Intelligence Lauderdale Lakes, FL, 33309, US To utilize my excellent Technology, analyst, and customer service skills to benefit the company's growth. Work Experience Analyst, Business Intelligence Carnival Cruise Lines - Doral, FL 2014 to 2018 • Knowledge of Tableau, Ms Excel VBA, SQL and workforce management contact center key performance indicators.  • Responsible for designing and developing Business Intelligence solutions for cross functional reporting, analytics, targeted offers and automation. Assist CCL business units monitor and improve business performance with data driven and timely decision making using reporting, analytics and automation.  • Design and develop reports, dashboards, data models, data visualizations, automated scripts and programs.  • Guide and assist analysts in using BI team supported tools and solutions. Collaborate with IT to design data sources that meet reporting and analytical needs of business teams. Database Administrator/Report Specialist Bethesda Alliance Church - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2010 to 2013 • writing database documentation, including data standards, procedures and definitions for the data dictionary (metadata).  • controlling access permissions and privileges.  • developing, managing and testing back-up and recovery plans.  • Responsible for gathering, reviewing, and reporting analysis on data.  • Research and troubleshoot problems independently. Technical Business Systems Analyst Precision Response Corporation - Sunrise, FL 2008 to 2010 • Collaborate with internal and external clients to gather business requirements for reporting needs.  • Performs necessary investigation, analysis and evaluation to determine task feasibility.  • Provides problem analysis and resolution support for existing applications.  • Understood and follow the SDLC and IT business process.  • Pull information from the data warehouse to prepare routine project status reports.  • Works closely with technical development team, business users and data stewards to clearly document metadata requirements, business rules/processes and data needs that will be consumed by internal departments.  • Identify, analyze and help resolve data discrepancies and data quality issues.  • Translate customer requests into technical specifications and coordinate execution of same by development team. call flow allocation and schedule deviation data entry Precision Response Corporation - Sunrise, FL 2004 to 2008 PRC) Sunrise, Fl  PM Force Desk  • Coordinate real time staffing, call flow allocation and schedule deviation data entry.  • Monitor real time staffing to ensure that the call center floor is running efficiently and effectively.  • Data Entry of schedule deviations and create reports that will help and enhance floor performance.  • Communicate with management as needed regarding the status of the call center floor and anything  that may negatively impact performance.  • Complete daily, weekly, and monthly reports as necessary. Education Certified (computer technician) Florida Metropolitan University - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2002 to 2004 High School Diploma Dillard High School - Fort Lauderdale, FL 1995 to 1999