Purchasing Assistant Purchasing Assistant Purchasing, Admin Support, Data Entry, Customer Service, Membership, Office Management Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Purchasing Assistant Eastridge Workforce Solutions - Las Vegas, NV June 2019 to Present Assisted purchasing dept. at William Lyon Homes with collecting and organizing data in Excel. Verified updates to design studio/product webpage. Tracked distribution of construction trade contracts for new and ongoing projects. Customer Service, Meeting Registration, Events Robert Half Staff/Office Team - Las Vegas, NV November 2017 to Present Customer Service, Data Entry, Administrative Support S Corp Temporary Staffing - Rockville, MD September 2015 to December 2016 Purchasing, Membership, Event Planning Purchasing Specialist/Lead Administrative Assistant Westat - Rockville, MD June 2009 to June 2015 Office Supply Management - responsible for purchasing supplies for 2,000+ employees at Westat, an employee owned research company; establish and maintain good working relationships with vendors and end users; research pricing; troubleshoot issues; attend meetings; prepare reports, invoicing, allocation of cost centers, etc.  Software Coordination - fulfill orders for special-use software requests - including research of pricing, purchasing downloadable software, upgrades, reinstallations; maintenance and distribution of software assignment memos; track changes & updates to software assignment spreadsheet.  Purchasing Coordination - office name plates, license plate brackets, Lynda.com training accounts.  Meeting Planning - team leader responsible for spear-heading the annual TEJ Group holiday party, including securing space, choosing the menu and activities, negotiations, organization, planning, coordination of details and onsite logistics.  Supply Orders - submit various orders for supplies from Westat employees via the established vendors; also keep the Graphics, Printing, Purchasing departments supplies up to date.  Purchase Orders, Invoices & A/P - copy and scan (Adobe) purchase orders and invoices, taking originals to A/P for payment. Work closely with A/P manager on any outstanding issues or reconciliations when necessary.  Fax machines - Set up, program, test & install new fax machines, as well as, troubleshoot various fax machine issues, including sending broken machines to PC Tech for recycling and storing unused machines for new projects, etc. Maintain spreadsheet with fax machine locations, including make, model and serial no. of machine.  Credit Card bills - keep receipts to be matched up when cc bills come in for payment, and allocate transactions to certain accounts and projects, via monthly Excel spreadsheet/pivot table.  TeleCom - work closely with TeleCom to troubleshoot fax machine issues, such as whether a problem is the phone line or the machine itself. Coordinate our efforts with fax machine moves to keep locations up to date.  Reports - Various reports when necessary, such as time sheet status, NBA & First Call monthly invoices, project and account allocations, etc. Health & Life Insurance Agent/Consultant Bankers Life & Casualty Company - Rockville, MD June 2008 to September 2009 Certified producer in Health & Life in Maryland and DC.  Received extensive training on senior needs including Medicare supplements, life insurance, long-term care, home health care and fixed annuities.  Education and coursework in senior needs insurance products. Database Administrator Membership April 2006 to June 2008 Everything from below position (Membership & Communications Coordinator), which carried over to my promotion to DBA in 2006, including collaborating with the Membership Director on membership development, research, retention, promotion & marketing.  Project Management:  managed integration of database & website;  managed implementation of ongoing new features to the AAO website;  incorporated online registration on the website via database;  website maintenance/html editing;  managed online dues renewal and member profile updates; oversee dues renewal process;  committee liaison; database & website vendor liaison;  Database Support:  data entry & oversee integrity of database;  train staff on using database and other database duties related to membership  Database Administration:  managed data conversion from old database (GoMembers/Pinnacle) to new (ISSI/IMPak) to ensure data quality and user ability;  ongoing quality assurance measures.  Communications, Publications & Reports:  kept staff up to date with database training to meet their job needs;  kept up with changing and evolving technologies;  designed and implemented various membership reports to ensure database functionality was accurate;  created and distributed online newsletters/publications;  facilitated email blasts to members; posted news items to website  Meeting Planning:  managed online registration for annual meeting;  managed membership booth from pre-meeting logistics to onsite set up & show time;  recruitment & coordination of volunteers for the membership booth;  worked closely with registration & meeting planning vendors to ensure high quality of service to members during pre-reg and onsite.  Customer Service:  Answered membership questions from A-Z;  encouraged new members to apply;  assisted staff with learning how to serve the membership, resolved member issues Database Administrator/Membership & Communications Coordinator American Academy of Optometry - Rockville, MD May 2000 to June 2008 Communications Coordinator American Academy of Optometry May 2000 to April 2006 Membership application processing; student membership & candidates for Fellowship - data entry, mailing & maintaining member materials  Managed & administrated Admittance process (new Fellow induction)  Staff Liaison to Admittance Committee and Editorial Board  Membership dues processing - organized annual renewals and accurate data entry  Journal & Publication subscription management  Administrative Support to Membership Director  Liaison to mailing list vendor; handled outside requests for member lists  Member Customer Service - telephone & email inquiries; research and resolution of problems  Monthly Membership & Dues reports  Updates & maintenance of member database, including contact info, committee history, dues payments Education certification Quantum Success Coaching Academy September 2012 to September 2013 Business Administration & Accounting Mercer County Community College - West Windsor, NJ September 2005 Skills Customer Service, CSR, Customer Care