Owner/ Consultant Owner/ Consultant Owner/ Consultant - Trinity Sports Partners New York, NY Work Experience Owner/ Consultant Trinity Sports Partners November 2003 to Present Cause Marketing, Strategy, Business Development, Public Affairs, Events, Initiative Creation, PR for; ESPN (ESPYS, ESPN the Block Party), the NHL (9 Month Project Corporate Outreach),  National Basketball Retired Players Association (pro bono- Events/ Partnerships), Morgan  Stanley (3 Month Project Employee Engagement), Ice Hockey In Harlem, Empire  Events Group, United Athletes Foundation, NYPD Football Team, Pros vs. Heroes, JR Inman  (Westchester Knicks/ NBA Free Agent), LaMar Campbell (Player Engagement Chicago Bears/  NFLPA Delegate), Chandler Fenner (CB, BC Lions CFL), The KenKou Group, SHOCKSTRIP, Colin Salmon's Cage Cricket USA and Laureus USA. Laureus USA Foundation November 2017 to March 2018 Events and Research Fundraising. Using;  Salesforce, Higherlogic, Concur, Microsoft Office Suite.  Continue to serve as a volunteer with Disney Worldwide Outreach VoluntEARS initiatives. Manager, Corporate Outreach ESPN, Corporate Communications February 2001 to October 2003 Responsible for the management of Corporate Giving and ESPN's community initiatives.  This included the creation of outreach programs and cause marketing pieces involving ESPN's  priority programming ("X Games", "Great Outdoor Games", "Super Bowl" etc.), partners, community groups and ESPN divisions. These programs offered value and benefits to the  company's league rights holders, affiliates, advertisers, community organizations and fans.  Managed the departments three budgets, and was responsible for the creation and implementation of the departments guidelines. Received, vetted and determined which  organizations to receive corporate contributions. Processed all corporate contributions for tables, ads and philanthropic giving. Ensured that corporate giving paperwork and spreadsheets were  updated and accurate for tax purposes. Coordinated the attendance of ESPN executives to corporate and black-tie functions. Handled special philanthropic projects for George  Bodenheimer, chairman of the network. Managed footage requests, equipment donations and ticket donations to organizations. Also managed donation of auction items to community groups through ESPN Auctions.com and solicitor organizations. Helped to create ESPN's childhood  obesity initiative Play Your Way and PYW's website. Worked on and developed shared projects and initiatives with the Walt Disney Company such as Disney's EnvironMentality (Green  Intiatives) Employee Volunteerism etc. Also handled Systems Support for ESPN's Research  Department. Made sure Research databases were functioning accurately. ESPN representative to Disney Worldwide Outreach Steering Committee.  Left ESPN to take care of sick parent-- work from home base. Manager, Media Database Porter Novelli, National Media Relations/ Research September 1999 to February 2001 Responsible for the development and maintenance of the companies global contact  database PR2. Responsible for the rollout of the database to all Porter Novelli offices  worldwide, train users and trouble shoot problems. Served as the liaison between a global  base of users, Corporate IT, Senior Management and the Developer. Also responsible for the development, content and accuracy of areas on the company's various Intranet  sites. As Nielsen Ratings Manager handled all company wide requests for demographic  breakouts, performed the mathematics and managed billing for the account. Created and maintained the company's Nielsen Ratings site on the Intranet. Also responsible for  generating Simmons and @Plan research reports.  Strong project management and organizational skills. Administrator, Public Affairs NBC, Corporate Communications April 1994 to September 1999 Promoted. Responsible for corporate giving database. Processed all corporate contributions for memberships, tables, ads and contributions. Ensured that database was current and accurate for accounting purposes. Generated quarterly reports. Handled all requests for the Network  for show tickets, tours and talent attendance from philanthropic organizations and community  groups. Helped organize all community based initiatives for the network such as; Take our  Daughters to Work Day, NBC's United Way Campaign, Everybody Wins Power Lunch reading  program and NBC Talent/Children-at-risk interaction days to name a few.  Coordinated and accompanied the attendance of NBC executives to corporate and black-tie  functions. Handled proposals for philanthropic giving and responsible for feedback to solicitor  groups. Also served as Awards Administrator for; NBC News, Entertainment, Network A&P, Owned & Operated Stations, and Sports divisions. Duties included securing "call to entries" and applications for awards, notifying all divisions of award deadlines and distributing  awards package to divisions on a monthly basis. Responsible for notifying producers when  program won an award. Also managed Network A&P awards budget.  Continue to serve as Editorial Webmaster for "INside NBC" and Information Manager. Information Manager/Editorial Webmaster INside NBC March 1996 to September 1998 Promoted. Handled feedback for the Network. Responsible for the department's "Issues"  database. Generated status reports for programming executives and handled Executive  feedback. Provided programming information for our Affiliates. Responsible for recruitment  and supervision of interns and Pages from the NBC Page Program. Editorial Webmaster for NBC's corporate Intranet site "INside NBC". Created pages on the site for NBC divisions and  affiliates; responsible for development of the website, identified areas on the site that received  low traffic and rectified, ensured all information posted was accurate and up-to-date and all  links operational. Also wrote programming articles/talent interviews for the site. Writing  samples available upon request. Manager, Viewer Services CNBC, Viewer Services, Marketing April 1994 to March 1996 Handled heavy phones and mail. Conducted research for viewers and stockbrokers regarding information broadcast. Strong knowledge of Wall Street and financial issues. Created  department's bi-monthly report which provided marketing information to senior management and programming executives. Helped create the departments database. Education MA in Media Studies/Production New School for Public Engagement/ New School for Social Research BA in Communication Arts Council College of Mount St. Vincent Links https://app.plum.io/profile/CindyMercer http://www.linkedin.com/in/cindymercer http://@TrinitySportsNY http://@TrinitySportsNY