Senior Business Intelligence Analyst and Database Developer (Team Lead) Senior Business Intelligence Analyst and <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer (Team Lead) Senior Business Intelligence Analyst and Database Developer Orlando, FL Work Experience Senior Business Intelligence Analyst and Database Developer (Team Lead) Therigy July 2015 to Present * Work in an agile environment with biweekly sprint cycles.  * Designed, Implemented, and Manage an Operational Data Storage Database as well as a Reporting Data Warehouse in MSSQL. Migrated Data Warehouse from MSSQL to MySQL platform within AWS.  * Responsible for Database Security, Integrity, and Performance.  * Manage nightly data transfers between data warehouses, venders, and customers.  * Design, develop, create and maintain detailed dashboards both internal and external customers.  * Compare multiple data points for trends, correlations, and statistical significance while considering defect triage, outliers, margin of error, and governance processes. Support production environment (defects and trends) and execute workflow and defect management.  * Consult and coordinate with internal and external customers to define information needs and specific research objectives.  * Present information through multi-media communication channels including, email, conference calls, live-stream, and face to face on-site meetings.  * Train team members on how to develop, design, and use new reporting tools. Work with our training department to create training materials for external customers.  * Manage multiple projects with various departments and deadlines, across multiple communication channels.  * Design data capture and reporting for Pharma lead research projects in a HIPPA compliant manner.  * Provided detailed analysis and reporting for published outcomes retrospectives and peer review journals.  * Publicly recognized for my development/analytical work as well as my assistance in solving high profile issues. Senior Analytical Consultant AAA April 2014 to July 2015 * Manage the relationship between the national office and the largest club as their sole contact. Mediate interactions between Customer Service, Marketing, Legal, Leadership, and Outside Venders.  * Provide detailed analytics to the Marketing department to assist in marketing campaigns. Such as correlation analysis and modeling key responders to determine current standards and forecast future trends.  * Responsible for managing the upload of all information into their marketing database, Direct Focus, from multiple sources, both internal and external, using a variety of platforms including SQL, SmartFocus, RedPoint (previously DataLever), and Alteryx. Establish the research methodology and designs for gathering data.  * Design, develop, create and maintain Smart Reports that users can run, on their own, at any time.  * Consult, negotiate, coordinate and supervise vendors to define information needs and specific research objectives.  * Manage multiple projects with various departments, deadlines, and communication methods.  * Publicly recognized for my work on continuous improvement.  * Promoted to our largest club after showing the depth of my skillset and how quickly I learn new things. Reporting Analyst ( Database Designer) W.W.Grainger February 2008 to November 2013 * Helped create and maintain a working database for all the customer service reporting needs. Allowing us to link with all our systems, reducing manual work by 60% and increasing output by 38%. Saving an estimated 2 million in the first year alone. Recognized by leadership for my contribution.  * Responsible for creating and managing our company wide team feedback form for to track suggestions, questions, issues, and comments. The project streamlined corrections and improvements, reducing manual work by 15%.  * Design, develop, create and maintain databases to provide easy access to business information including table design, data connections, macro updates, query design, and formatting. Design test plans (unit, integration, regression, and acceptance) and incorporate recommended updates into test plans.  * Gather, analyze, manage, and maintain data using a variety of platforms including Business Objects, SQL Servers, Access Databases, SAS, and Excel. Manage the development of all geographical maps for internal use.  * Using Analytical Insight, create monthly reporting to assist managers in managing their business and their people more effectively. Including Ad hoc and Ongoing Requests, specialized reporting and analysis for projects and strategic initiatives (KPI's). Support multiple channels and maintain networking relationships.  * Coach and train team members on technical tools required to: configure, test, debug, monitor, and report on system specifications.  * Compare multiple data points for trends, correlations, and statistical significance while taking into account defect triage, outliers, margin of error, and governance processes. Support production environment (defects and trends) and execute workflow and defect management.  * Manage all internal training, which includes creation, publication, and follow-up of documents, stored procedures, webinars, and recorded trainings on reporting for the customer service network.  * Plan and coordinate all team outings to encourage team engagement by creating a positive work environment. Sourcing Administrator and Project Manager W.W.Grainger April 2006 to February 2008 Manage relationships between our vendors and our internal contacts with several of our largest customers and account managers. Nominated team lead. Monitoring and analyzing workflow, and providing feedback and training when necessary. Customer Service Associate and Project Manager W.W.Grainger April 2004 to April 2006 Team Lead. Handled phone calls from customers. Provide online service and support to Grainger customers and our Grainger Account Managers. Managed relationships between our vendors and our internal contacts. Education Associates Degree in Business Management Valencia College August 2014 to December 2015 Skills Sql (10+ years), Visio, Sharepoint (2 years), Ssrs (10+ years), Pentaho (2 years), Tableau (6 years), Jira (2 years), Looker (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate February 2016 to Present Microsoft Certification# F587-9158 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  * SQL 2012 MCSA Certified  * MSSQL 2005, 2008, 2012, 2016 (including SSIS & SSRS)  * Tableau  * Microsoft Suite - including Access, SharePoint, Visio & Teams  * Alteryx  * Looker    * Visual Studios  * Crystal Reports  * Business Objects  * Dashboard Design  * Telerik Reporting Solutions  * Pentaho  * Jira