Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Web.com McLean, VA • Over 18+ years IT experience in developing and administering databases, implement data  models and database designs, data access and table maintenance codes, creating and  maintaining stored procedures, triggers, functions, views, data integrity and other processes  that greatly speed operation and enhance performance in SQL Server/Oracle Database.  • Senior software engineer with strong abilities in .NET, C#, SharePoint, ASP.Net, Object-Oriented  design and development. Extensive experience in using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Excellent communication skills with strong background working directly with coworkers and client  personnel to identify business objectives, establish requirements, and turn those into system  improvements and features that enrich the user experience. Proficient in Agile methodologies.  • Developing and working on multiple Government and DoD projects, Extensive experience  working in, and protecting data in secure environments for Government customers, including an  on-site .mil network and secure AWS cloud.  • Performed multiple STIGs to ensure compliance with IA requirements as mandated by DISA to  mitigate vulnerabilities and prevent malicious attacks on our networks. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Herndon, VA January 2018 to Present Supports the Company finance system  • Work with data warehouse team to design, build, implement, support data  integration and data warehouse solutions for daily transactions and revenue/cost data.  • Work with the business stakeholders to understand the way businesses and people operate from the different sources and blend data into one data warehouse.  Environments: Oracle & SQL Server & Teradata databases, Informatica & SSIS ETL Tools, Tableau, SSAS & SSRS BI Reporting tools, SQL Server Integration Services Senior Database Developer/ Administrator ASM Research - Fairfax, VA June 2017 to January 2018 Medical Operational Data System (MODS)  • Supported DoD Health management tracking system, administer, maintain, and utilize policies  and procedures for ensuring the integrity of the databases.  • Resolve database performance issues, database capacity issues, replication, and other  distributed data like linked server issues.  • Implemented stored procedures, views, functions to support the user interface.  • Developed, troubleshot and implemented new and/or updates to application on .NET  applications to ensure optimal development environment. Senior Web/ Database Developer CALIBRE January 2001 to June 2017 SSN-LIN Automated Management & Integrating System (SLAMIS)  Supports Army asset management tracking system.  • Lead Database administrator/developer, Implementing stored procedures, triggers, functions, views, user profiles, data integrity.  • Implemented Database Change Controls & Service Requests.  • supported the data loads into the databases and database refresh/copy.  • Worked on SQL Server Integration Services and SQL Server Reporting Services.  Environments: Windows, IIS, processMax, SQL Server 2014, ColdFusion    XVIII Airborne Corp Agile Development  Supports financial and supply chain reconciliation for the XVIII Airborne Corp by providing Business  Intelligence (BI) tools and dashboards by joining multiple disparate databases and presenting the front  end using SharePoint and for a seamless user experience.  • Designed, supported, maintained the availability of a SharePoint business intelligence system.  Program system to allow users to retrieve static and dynamic reports, query against the database, and update the program from their desktop location.  • Performed administration duties, partitioning tables/indexes, data loading and Entity- Relationship modeling. Creating and maintaining stored procedures, triggers, functions, schema  design, and ad hoc querying/reporting. Optimized SQL queries, stored procedures and functions.  • Developed and implemented database performance monitoring process and analyze monitoring  data for performance optimization  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services and SQL Server Reporting Services.  Development of reports and processes.  Environments: Windows, IIS, SharePoint 2013, TFS, JavaScript, CSS, SQL Server 2014    DoD Suicide Prevention Office ePPBES Web Application (DSPO ePPBES)  Designed, developed and successfully produced the web based planning, programming, budgeting and execution tracking system for the office of DoD Suicide Prevention Office.  • Lead Web Developer for DSPO Web-based application using object-oriented programming and current Microsoft technologies including ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2012,  Team Foundation Server, JQuery.  • Responsible for design and execution of both frontend and backend solutions.  • Developed online reports and MS SQL reporting by working closely with the customer to ensure  their needs for quick reporting access were met.  • Developed multiple ETL processes using SSIS for import and export data.  Environments: Windows, IIS, Visual Studio 2010, C#, TFS, JavaScript, CSS, SQL Server 2012    Wounded, Ill and Injured PBES Web Application (WII-PBES)  Web based programming, budgeting and execution tracking system to provide the office of Transition  Policy and Care Coordination (TPCC) with analysis, design and development.  • Developed web-based application using object-oriented programming and current Microsoft  technologies including ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, WCF services, Team Foundation Server.  • Developed SQL Server stored procedures for complex data retrieval and updates.  Environments: Windows, IIS, Visual Studio 2010, C#, TFS, JavaScript, CSS, SQL Server 2008  DoD Commercial Activities Management Information Systems (DCAMIS):  • Decision making tool to centralize tracking of over 100 aspects (who, what, where, how, costs, savings) of each of the hundreds of individual DoD Competitive Sourcing Program initiatives.  • Led all phases of the development life cycle, from gathering requirements to implementation.  • Responsible for making major modifications to reflect changes using the latest Microsoft .Net  technology, including VB.Net, ADO.Net, JavaScript.  • Successfully addressed the technical challenges of integrating classic ASP with .Net technology  to ensure the legacy application written in classic ASP continued working within the same  software module.  • Integrated the legacy database with the new database and made the system work seamlessly.  Successfully performed data modeling, database design, and stored procedure development  using SQL Server database and T-SQL.  • Designed and developed reports in both MS SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services and Crystal  Reports.  Environments: Windows, IIS, Visual Studio 2003, VB, SourceSafe, IIS, SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, JavaScript Web Developer/Designer George Mason University Library - Fairfax, VA December 1999 to December 2000 • Responsible for the design, development and maintenance of George Mason University website.  • Developed different CGI/HTML and JavaScript programs for the Apache web server on Unix  environment.  • Debugged existing JavaScript and CGI/HTML codes for maintenance.  • Ran daily analysis and report for website traffic volumes. Knowledge Intern International Finance Corporation - Washington, DC March 2000 to July 2000 • Analyzed different industry sectors for key issues and success factors in international investment  • Established value chain with investment specialists for the education industry.  • Worked on a networked industry investment information database system for the investment  officers using HTML, JavaScript, Lotus and other tools. Supervisor, Data Information Analysis Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, Ltd - Qingdao, CN September 1992 to September 1995 China  • Participated in the establishment of the Qingdao Branch, the first foreign funded bank in Qingdao.  • Established Data Information Analysis division and responsible for its daily operation.  • Responsible for the financial data analysis and report processing. Education Master of Science in Information Systems George Mason University Bachelor of Science in Economic Management Shandong University