financial analyst financial analyst IT / financial /data analyst Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience financial analyst gilbane / nasa - Houston, TX February 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities  Was responsible for budget allocations of all funding for numerous organization. Was over IT budget and responsible for meeting and documenting request per organization for fiscal year. Created and maintained numerous spreadsheet and access database to track and allocate all funding. Created and maintained obligation and costing graphs and spreadsheet tracking high level as well as individual jobs per organization. Worked on yearly plans and PPBE submitals for nasa headquarters. Created and maintained metrics for organizations as well as yearly metric for headquarters    Accomplishments  Created daily reports for inspectors in field. Created and maintained numerous spreadsheet and logs to track hours for each job    Skills Used  Ms office application  Access  SAP  Maxlmo  Primavera  Cost point  SQL Financial and IT analyst 4W solutions / nasa - Houston, TX July 2009 to February 2013 Responsibilities  Was responsible for budget allocations of all funding for numerous organization. Was over IT budget and responsible for meeting and documenting request per organization for fiscal year. Created and maintained numerous spreadsheet and access database to track and allocate all funding. Created and maintained obligation and costing graphs and spreadsheet tracking high level as well as individual jobs per organization. Worked on yearly plans and PPBE submitals for nasa headquarters. Created and maintained metrics for organizations as well as yearly metric for headquarters    Skills Used  Ms office  Access  Maximo  SAP  Primavera IT business analyst CSC / nasa - Houston, TX June 2008 to July 2009 Responsibilities  Responsible for creating accounts and training users in Maximo. Maintained accounts as well as all equipment being used. Implementation of new process for consignment store in maximo     Accomplishments  Created many new work flows and helped assist with implementation of them    Skills Used  Maximo   MS Office  Access Database Administrator bastion technologies - Houston, TX January 2002 to June 2008 Education High school or equivalent in General Clear Creek High School - League City, TX August 1991 to May 1995 Skills Excel, Financial Planning, Forecasting, CPA (10+ years), Reconciliation, Financial Analysis, Financial Reporting, Budgeting, Accounts Payable, Microsoft Excel, Financial Modeling, access, Microsoft Word, Pivot Tables, SAP, Word, Accounting, Oracle