COO/Business Development COO/Business Development Tenafly, NJ Successful experience as a business owner and in business development/operations, sales, business management, recruiting, real estate investment/management, and corporate IT training.    • Proven ability to build and maintain strong professional relationships with business and professional clients. Skilled in contract negotiations, presentations, and closing.  • Very strong analytical, problem solving, interpersonal communication, and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience COO/Business Development Launch Snowboards - Closter, NJ April 2015 to Present • Identifying, qualifying, and securing business opportunities  · Maintaining fruitful relationships with existing customers  • Building business relationships with current and potential clients  • Collaborating with sales and leadership to secure, retain, and grow accounts  • Developing customized targeted sales strategies  • Presenting and delivering information to potential clients at client meetings, industry exhibits, trade shows, and conferences  • Coordinating business generation activities  • Responding to client requests for proposals (RFPs)  • Answering potential client questions and follow-up call questions  • Maintaining short- and long-term business development plans  • Cold calling; making multiple outbound calls to potential clients  • Understanding client needs and offering solutions and support  • Qualifying leads from digital campaigns, conferences, references, trade shows, etc.  • Closing partnerships and working with client through closing process  • Meeting or exceeding annual growth goals Real Estate Investor Owner operater - Texas 1991 to Present • Identified properties ripe for acquisition and refurbishment as rental or resale.     • Managed construction crews during renovations of properties.  • Managed rentals of multiple properties, showing and negotiating leases and sales Owner / Operator Command Performance Dog Training - Corpus Christi, TX 1993 to 2017 • Created and built to profitability a company that offered training of dogs as well as training to users of service dogs.  • Built to a team talented dog trainers and rapidly increasing annual revenues.  • Developed a very strong referral base and successfully sold services to individuals and families.  • Partnered with Service and Hearing Dog Training companies to provide follow up training after service dog/recipient placement. Surgical Assistant Hackensack University Medical Center - Westwood, NJ May 2012 to May 2014 • Supporting physicians in multiple disciplines including Orthopedic, Obstetrics/Gynecology, Gastroenterology and Cosmetics to assure rooms are properly equipped for each patient, and maintain a sterile field in the OR. Database Administrator MME - Atlanta, GA 2003 to 2004 • In a contract position, worked with a developer to define business requirements and develop and conduct user testing of a custom database for managing large events nationwide. Corporate Training Manager Computers America / TRMG - Austin, TX 2001 to 2003 • Coordinated multiple training programs with a firm that provided off-site computer training to end users at such major corporate clients as Dell, IBM, HP, and others. Arranged schedules and oversaw the work of technicians in system setup and maintenance to assure delivery of services on schedule. Worked closely with client HR, IT, and procurement staff to assure customer satisfaction.  • Earned a reputation for accurate and timely communication with clients, thereby contributing significantly to revenue growth and client retention. HR Director FreeMe.Com - Austin, TX 2001 to 2001 • Recruited by a former client at CLAM/Availant Tech Training (below) to manage recruiting at a startup dot-com with significant venture-capital funding.  • Successfully coordinated recruitment for a rapid ramp-up of stellar development team. Coordinator of Training CLAM/Availant - Austin, TX 1999 to 2000 Coordination of high level IBM technical certification training and hardware development. Education Bachelor's in B.S. Texas Skills Account Management, Sales, Business Development Certifications/Licenses Certified Surgical Technologist (NBSTSA) # 139071 Certified Registered Medical Sales Representative (NAMSR) # 93842013