Lead Database Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Database Administrator - Duval County Public Schools Jacksonville, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator Duval County Public Schools August 2016 to Present Senior Database Administrator August 2016 to date August 2001 to July 2016    August 2016 - to date    Employer Duval County Public Schools, Jacksonville, FL  Department Information Management  Platform Windows (all versions)  Software SQL Server (all versions), PostgreSQL 9.4.4  Role Lead Database Administrator    Responsibilities  • Assigned work tasks to DBA team members and supervised completion of SQL-related projects.  • Provided functional guidance to DBAs, programmers and integration analysts.  • Continued to provide DBA support with SQL Servers, including but not limited to SQL installation, administration, security enforcement etc.  • Wrote and implemented database standards in coordination with applications architect.  • Wrote PostgreSQL processes to present and transfer data within PHP and PostgreSQL-based 3rd party student information system (available as SaaS to the school district).  • Wrote BI solutions using SSIS Packages and PowerShell scripts to transfer data between local SQL Servers and 3rd party systems.  • Continued to monitor and perform enhancements for optimum database performance for local applications and 3rd party SaaS systems. Information Management / Application Development / Student Information Management Duval County Public Schools - Jacksonville, FL August 2001 to July 2016 Jacksonville, FL Synergy Software Solutions, Inc.  Department  Information Management / Application Development / Student Information Management  (Student Information System, and other projects)    Platform Windows (all versions), IIS (all versions)  Software  SQL Server (all versions), PostgreSQL 9.4.4, Quest LiteSpeed, RedGate SQL Toolbelt, Visual Studio 6.0 / .NET, ERWin 5.0, MS Visio, MS Office (all versions, and including MS Access), Crystal Reports (all versions), Seagate Info 2.0, Crystal Enterprise 8.0 / 8.5.    Role Senior Database Administrator    Responsibilities  • Provided SQL Server related support and application deployment and troubleshooting related support for pilot testing of a web-based student information system application called PowerSchool.  • Worked with BearingPoint, Inc. (formerly KPMG Consulting) to implement their project management processes.  • Worked on migrating data from Mainframe application database (DB2 to SQL Server 7.0 via Attachmate) to new client-server student information system (called Genesis) database (on SQL Server 7.0) by writing Transact-SQL scripts.  • Designed, developed and maintained real-time and batch processes using SQL DTS Packages, Visual Basic 6.0 programs, SQL Stored Procedures, SQL Triggers etc. to bridge OLTP data between Mainframe application and new student information system's (Genesis') databases.  • Provided technical support for student information system application pertaining to application deployment and troubleshooting throughout the district during pilot testing and during various phases of the production rollout.  • Installed, configured and administered Seagate Info and Crystal Enterprise reporting environments. Assisted developers with migrating older Crystal Reports based reports to enterprise-level Seagate Info and Crystal Enterprise environments.  • Migrated SQL databases from lower to higher versions (7.0 through 2008R2) of SQL Server. Configured database settings for optimum performance.  • Worked on migration of student information system's and ancillary applications' databases, and SQL-based processes from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2008R2.  • Worked with vendors and in-house developers in performance-tuning SQL queries (embedded SQL, SQL Stored Procedures, SQL Views etc.) based on SQL Profiler traces, Query Execution Plans and Database Statistics.  • Designed, developed and maintained real-time and batch processes using SQL DTS Packages (on SQL Server 7.0) or SSIS Packages (on SQL Server 2008R2), Visual Basic 6.0/.NET programs, SQL Stored Procedures, SQL Triggers etc. to bridge OLTP data between student information system's database and other departments' (for instance, Food Services) application database.  • Implemented and maintained SQL Replication (Transactional) on SQL Server 2000/2008R2 in order to provide alternate read-only, load-balanced environment for student information system's production database.  • Configured and administered SQL Log Shipping for student information system's and other production applications' databases under SQL Server 2000, as part of the Technology Division's disaster recovery plan.  • Developed database schemas using data modeling software: ERWin and MS Visio.  • Monitored SQL Server 7.0/2000 servers using Quest SQL Spotlight and Idera SQL Diagnostic Manager.  • Configured and administered SQL Agent Mail and SQL Database Mail under various versions of production-level SQL Servers.  • Wrote and scheduled database maintenance plans using LiteSpeed and RedGate SQL Toolbelt software for SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005.  • Developed ETL processes to export and import data to and from external vendors and/or other departments, using SQL Data Transformation Services (on SQL Server 7.0/2000) or SQL Server Integration Services (on SQL Server 2005/2008R2). In some SSIS Packages, utilized Windows PowerShell scripts to perform XML-based tasks.  • Wrote Windows DLL using Visual Basic .NET to invoke WinSCP for performing SFTP operations. This DLL was consumed within SSIS Packages to download/upload data extracts for external vendors.  • Based on end-users' (via System Analyst) requirements, designed and developed web-based reports using SQL Server Reporting Services 2005/2008R2. Executed and/or scheduled these reports with/without subscriptions from SQL Server Agent Jobs and/or from within SSIS Packages.  • Created and scheduled maintenance jobs for database backups, transaction log backups, updating database statistics, defragmenting table indexes, database integrity check etc. on all production and some of the non-production SQL Servers. Created and scheduled SQL Server Agent jobs for performing database restores from production backups on certain staging and/or non-production environments.  • On a regular basis, enforced database and SQL Server level security, and perform performance monitoring on production SQL Servers 2005/2008R2.  • Configured and administered SQL Server (7.0 through 2008R2) under Windows (NT 4 through 2008) on both non-clustered and clustered (using MSCS) environments for various applications/projects.  • Documented DBA tasks/activities (in the form of SOPs) for critical production related processes.  • Performed deployment of web sites/applications to IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0. Worked with developers to troubleshoot and/or debug failures.  • Worked on migration and scrubbing of data for migrating from old (SQL Server-based database) to new (PostgreSQL-based database) student information systems.  • Wrote PostgreSQL scripts to ETL data from/to other third-party systems (such as WebSMARTT, SEAS etc.). Database Administrator GTS America, Inc. eBusiness Design, Inc. Aptech Internet Ltd January 2001 to June 2001 Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer January 2001 to June 2001 August 2000 to January 2001 January 2000 to July 2000    January 2001 - June 2001  Employer GTS America, Inc.  Project Automation of IT Staffing  Platform Windows NT, Apache Web Server, Tomcat JSP Runner.  Software SQL Server 7.0, Dreamweaver 3.0, JavaScript, Java, JSP, JDBC.  Role Database Administrator    Responsibilities  • As Team Lead, gathered requirements, performed system analysis and design of the web-based application.  • Installed, configured and administered MS SQL Server 7.0. Designed and developed the application database schema.  • Deployed SQL Server maintenance plans for optimum performance.  • Wrote database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in MS SQL Server 7.0 for business logic implementation, authentication, special conditions check etc.  • Designed web pages using Dreamweaver 3.0, and wrote client-side scripts using JavaScript.  • Coordinated testing, deployment and documentation of entire system.  • Coordinated maintenance of the application. Senior Software Engineer GTS America, Inc. eBusiness Design, Inc. Aptech Internet Ltd August 2000 to January 2001 Project Sales Logistics System  Platform IIS 4.0, Windows NT.  Software ASP 2.0, ADO 2.0, CDONTS, VBScript 4.0, JavaScript, Visual Interdev 6.0, Visual Basic 6.0, MS SQL Server 7.0.  Role Senior Software Engineer    Responsibilities  • Analyzed, designed and developed all the processes and phases of the web-based application.  • Designed and developed data models using ERWin Data Modeler 4.0.  • Developed, configured and administered the application database under MS SQL Server 7.0.  • Deployed and scheduled maintenance plans for database and transaction log backup, updating database statistics, defragmenting indexes etc.  • Wrote SQL database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in MS SQL Server 7.0 for business logic implementation, authentication, special conditions check etc.  • Designed and developed web pages utilizing ASP 2.0, ADO 2.0, CDONTS, VBScript 4.0, JavaScript, FrontPage 98, and Visual InterDev 6.0.  • Developed COM components for database connectivity utilizing Visual Basic 6.0 and deployed the same under MS Transaction Server.  • Assisted with testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system. Help Desk System GTS America, Inc. eBusiness Design, Inc. Aptech Internet Ltd January 2000 to July 2000 India)  Project #1 Answer Engine Portal (url: www.TringTring.com)  Project #2 Platform Help Desk System (for Aptech's national ISP) IIS 4.0, Windows NT.  Software ASP 2.0, ADO 2.0, CDONTS, VBScript 4.0, JavaScript, Visual Interdev 6.0, Visual Basic 6.0, MS SQL Server 7.0.  Role Software Engineer    Responsibilities (on both projects)  • As Team Lead, analyzed, designed and developed all modules of the project. Held interactive sessions with end-users, field representatives, media staff, marketing staff, and senior management for requirements gathering.  • Designed and developed data models using ERWin Data Modeler 3.0.  • Installed, configured and administered MS SQL Server 7.0 for OLTP. Developed and configured the application database.  • Deployed and scheduled maintenance plans for database and transaction log backup, updating database statistics, defragmenting indexes etc.  • Wrote database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in MS SQL Server 7.0. Performed performance tuning on database objects developed by team members.  • Designed and assisted with development of web pages utilizing ASP 2.0, ADO 2.0, CDONTS, VBScript 4.0, JavaScript, FrontPage 98, and Visual InterDev 6.0.  • Developed multiple COM components for middle-tier utilizing Visual Basic 6.0 and deployed the same under MS Transaction Server.  • Coordinated testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system. Software Engineer Rolta India Ltd February 1997 to January 2000 February 1997 - January 2000  Employer Rolta India Ltd. (India)  Project #1 Corporate HR Information Network  Environment Software Windows NT / 95. Visual Basic 5.0, ADO, CDONTS, Oracle 7.1, Crystal Reports 4.6.  Role Software Engineer    Responsibilities  • As Team Lead, performed requirements analysis and application design based upon interactive sessions with the stakeholders, namely HR and Finance departments.  • Designed and developed database schema under Oracle 7.1.  • Wrote database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using PL/SQL in Oracle 7.1 for business logic implementation etc. Performed performance tuning on database objects developed by team members.  • Designed and assisted with development of the client-server application using Visual Basic 5.0, and reports using Crystal Reports 4.6.  • Coordinated testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system.  • Coordinated maintenance of the system.    Project #2 CRM Applications Package for ISP Call-Center  Environment Software Windows NT / 95. Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, CDONTS, SQL Server 7.0, Office 97.  Role Software Engineer    Responsibilities  • As team member, performed requirements analysis of the entire operation of the ISP's call-center including but not limited to hardware and communications setup. Identified following integration and programming modules of the project: Interactive-Voice Response (IVR) Server module, Integration of IVR Server with EPABX System and Definity Server, Help Desk and Knowledge-Base Client-Server Applications, Outbound Calls Client Application, and Reporting Module.  • Performed systems analysis and design for the client-server modules.  • Installed, configured and administered SQL Server 7.0 on Windows NT Server. Designed and developed database schema under SQL Server 7.0.  • Wrote database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in SQL Server 7.0 for business logic implementation etc. Performed performance tuning and optimization on database objects.  • Assisted with development of the client-server application modules using Visual Basic 6.0, and report templates using Office 97 (Excel 8.0).  • Assisted with unit testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system.  • Assisted with maintenance of the system.    Project #3 ISP Sales Network System  Environment Software IIS 4.0, Windows NT / 95. Visual Interdev 6.0, Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, CDONTS, SQL Server 7.0, FrontPage 98, JavaScript, VBScript.  Role Software Engineer    Responsibilities  • As Team Lead, performed requirements analysis and web application design based upon interactive sessions with the stakeholders, namely ISP dealers and sales support representatives.  • Designed and developed database schema under SQL Server 7.0.  • Developed and scheduled maintenance plans for production database and transaction log backups etc.  • Assisted with writing database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in SQL Server 7.0 for business logic implementation etc. Performed performance tuning on database objects developed by team members.  • Performed DTS tasks for migrating and converting data from legacy systems.  • Assisted with design of web pages using FrontPage 98, and also with server-side (ASP, VBScript) and client-side (JavaScript) coding of the web application.  • Coordinated testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system.  • Coordinated maintenance of the system.    Project #4  Environment  Software    ISP Member Self-Help Application  IIS 4.0, MTS 2.0, Windows NT / 95.  Visual Interdev 6.0, Visual Basic 6.0, ADO, CDONTS, SQL Server 7.0, FrontPage 98, JavaScript, VBScript.    Role Software Engineer    Responsibilities  • As Team Lead, performed requirements analysis and web application design based upon interactive sessions with the stakeholders, namely customer support and marketing representatives.  • Designed and developed database schema under SQL Server 7.0.  • Developed and scheduled maintenance plans for production database and transaction log backups etc.  • Assisted with writing database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using Transact-SQL in SQL Server 7.0 for business logic implementation etc. Performed performance tuning on database objects developed by team members.  • Designed and assisted with development of COM components using Visual Basic 6.0 to access and update LDAP (Membership) and Portal Infranet's (Billing) databases.  • Assisted with design of web pages using FrontPage 98, and also with server-side (ASP, VBScript) and client-side (JavaScript) coding of the web application.  • Coordinated testing, deployment and documentation of all modules of the system.  • Coordinated maintenance of the system. Software Engineer Shanti Software Systems November 1995 to January 1997 Technologies and Tools:  Platforms  RDBMS  Data Modeler Tool  BI Tools    Reporting Tools    Office Suite  Development Tools    MS Windows (all versions).  MS SQL Server (all versions), PostgreSQL 9.4.4, Oracle 7.1 / 7.0.  ERWin 5.0/4.0, MS Visio (all versions)  MS SQL Server Analysis Services (all versions), MS SQL Server Integration Services (all versions), MS SQL Server Data Transformation services (all versions).  MS SQL Server Reporting Services (all versions), Crystal Enterprise, Active Reports, Crystal Reports .Net/6.0/4.6, Seagate Info, Oracle Developer 2000 Reports 2.5  MS Office (all versions, and including MS Access).  Visual Studio .Net/6.0/5.0, Visual Interdev 6.0/5.0, Visual Basic (all versions), Oracle Developer 2000 Forms 4.5.    Client Side Scripting VBScript, JavaScript.  Markup Languages HTML, XML.  Server Side Scripting ASP .NET / 4.0 / 3.5 / 3.0 / 2.0.  Application & Web Servers IIS 7.0 / 6.0 / 5.0 / 4.0, MS Site-Server 3.0, MTS 2.0.  Data Access Tech. ADO.  Mid-Tier Technologies COM / DCOM.  Source Control Other MS Visual SourceSafe. Windows PowerShell, WinSCP Software Analyst-Programmer Shanti Software Systems (India) Inventory Control System November 1995 to January 1997 Project #2 Payroll Management System  Environment Software Windows NT / 95. Oracle Developer 2000 (Forms 4.5, Reports 2.5), Oracle 7.1.  Role Software Analyst-Programmer    Responsibilities (for both projects)  • As single-member team, performed requirements gathering, systems analysis and design of the client-server application based upon SDLC principles.  • Designed and developed database schema under Oracle 7.1.  • Wrote database objects (stored procedures, triggers etc.) using PL/SQL in Oracle 7.1 for business logic implementation etc.  • Developed the application using Oracle Developer 2000 Forms 4.5, and report templates using Oracle Developer 2000 Reports 2.5.  • Independently completed testing, deployment and documentation of the system.  • Independently maintained the entire system. Education Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Technology) in Engineering University of Bombay - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills DBA (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), Sql Server (10+ years), Business Intelligence (10+ years)