Office Manager Office Manager Office Manager Tomball, TX Work Experience Office Manager Texas Family Medicine Center July 2014 to August 2019 • Manage day-to-day operations and clinic staff.  • Plan and develop policies and procedures, as well as patient specific procedures and programs.  • Evaluate employee performance and set goals as outlined in policy and procedures.  • Monitor payroll system and employee benefits.  • Ensure and maintain environment to comply with regulatory, licensure, compliance and accreditation requirements.  • Serve as the first point of contact for patient and external complaints. Reconcile and investigate  all complaints relating to practice operations.  • Athena EMR Superuser in charge of programming electronic medical record system to practice  needs. Quality Assurance Administrator HMT Tank, Inc / Express Employment Professionals March 2013 to June 2014 Ensure QA/QC processes and procedures comply with appropriate specifications and report  findings to shop supervisory personnel and the General Manager of Quality Programs in accordance with quality procedures.  • Review quality control documentation, which includes but is not limited to; various inspection  reports, nondestructive test reports, welder qualification records, material test certifications, NCRs, and CAR/PAR documents.  • Assist with the completion of job documentation packages.  • Establish KPI reporting system and report monthly KPI information to shop supervisory  personnel and the General Manager, Quality Programs.  • Assist HMT entities on special projects associated with quality, efficiency and best practices.  Lori.Ball@outlook.com (281) 687-1653 Community Relations Director Harvest Home/Inwood Crossing - Tomball, TX June 2011 to December 2012 Educate families considering assisted living, independent living or memory care services for their  loved one.  • Explain differences in the community services and assist clients in placing loved ones in the appropriate community.  • Coordinate and sponsor community events such as the monthly Alzheimer's Support Group and Walk to End Alzheimer's fundraising events.  • Develop and maintain strong and dedicated relationships with physicians and other referral  sources in the Tomball, Cypress, The Woodlands, and Houston areas.  • Conduct networking and marketing activities at the facility and in the local community.  • Resolve family and resident issues, focusing on our hospitality services the resident's care level  needs.  • Interact with residents and family members through each day.  • Oversee day-to-day operations of Harvest Home Assisted Living according to state regulations.  • Round community through the day to ensure proper level of service and standards are met.  • Develop internal documents to improving service to employees and residents. Emeritus Cy-Fair January 2011 to June 2011 Educate family members on the services Emeritus offers, including tours, home visits, hospital  visits, and spending quality time with potential residents to learn about their needs.  • Develop and maintain strong and dedicated relationships with physicians and other referral  sources in the Cypress and Houston areas.  • Conduct networking and marketing activities at the facility and in the local community. Director of Marketing & Admissions Lawrence Street Health Care Center - Tomball, TX April 2009 to January 2011 Previous positions as HR Director, Medical Records Coordinator)  • Lead the admission process including tours of the facility and signing contracts, while explaining  policies and procedures to patients and their family members to ensure a smooth transition to the community is achieved.  • Develop and maintain strong and dedicated relationships with referral sources.  • Conduct networking and marketing activities at the facility and the community.  • Conduct weekly marketing meetings with sales support team.  • Interact with residents and staff daily to ensure proper leadership is on the floor regularly.  • Track all referrals to compile month end conversion reports.  • Round facility to maintain proper facility tour readiness. Conduct tours of facility.  • Update census to Administrator, department heads and corporate offices.  • Create new dress code, employee handbook and employee evaluation forms.  • Conduct interview and hire new employees. Conduct employee orientation within 30 days of employee start date.  • Track attendance, evaluation and disciplinary actions for all employees.  Lori.Ball@outlook.com (281) 687-1653  • Order inventory for all administrative staff.  • Maintain all patient charts according to TXDADS standards. Database Administrator Stewart Title Houston June 2006 to April 2009 • Maintain Aim for Windows and SureClose databases for employee use.  • Resolve issues and concerns from associates and other customers insuring that support issues  are properly addressed in a timely manner.  • Format, create, and update forms for associate use in Aim for Windows. Maintain backup  documents for all formatted documents.  • Audit SureClose files for accuracy. Strip and shred files as they are electronically loaded into the SureClose system.  • Communicate the status of any IT issues, updates, etc. to management and when appropriate to employees. Order Entry/Escrow Assistant Southern Abstract October 2005 to May 2006 Contact customers to gather personal information needed for closing real estate transactions.  Enter this information in the AFW system.  • Serve as a liaison between associates and customers when customers are experiencing problems  using SureClose.  • Audit SureClose files for accuracy. Strip and shred files as they are electronically loaded into the SureClose system.  • Use customer service skills to resolve funding issues with buyers, sellers, and lenders. Customer Service Supervisor/Sales Agent Team Lead Trase Miller Technologies/American Airlines Vacations November 1998 to December 2003 Work with various computer programs to book travel packages for Travel Agents and direct  passengers.  • Monitor phone calls to maintain a high level of customer service.  • Work with team members to set and reach monthly sales and statistical goals.  • Learn extensive information on every destination offered by American Airlines Vacations to educate staff and clients on hotels and activities offered.  • Track attendance, promotions, coaching sessions of each team member ensuring quality services  offered.  • Vice President of Trase Miller Employee Club (TMEC) planning employee events to build morale  for all staff. Education Associates of Applied Science in Business Management Lone Star College October 2011 Skills Payroll, Ceridian, Database, Database systems, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Publisher, Microsoft publisher, Sabre, Scheduling, Accounts Payable, Receptionist Assessments Office Manager — Expert August 2019 Ability to manage scheduling & budgeting Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9alxuyg58lyb2y7p Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Organized, with exceptional follow-through abilities.  • Able to effectively identify goals and priorities and resolve issues in initial stages.  • Highly adaptable, thrive on challenges and excel in new environments.    Computer Skills  • Microsoft expert in Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook  • Proficient in Microsoft Publisher  • Ceridian & Intuit Payroll Systems  • Expert in Athena, Sabre, SureClose, Aim for Windows database systems  Lori Ball  Lori.Ball@outlook.com (281) 687-1653