Mortgage Loan Processor Mortgage Loan Processor Mortgage Loan Processor Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Mortgage Loan Processor JP Morgan Chase - Jacksonville, FL August 2016 to June 2019 • Efficiently processed over 1000 mortgage loans and home equity lines from origination to closing.    • Ensured bank collateral was secured by verifying insurance, flood, inspection and other items required within compliance of bank and federal policy.    • Ordered loan verification documents and conducted subsequent follow up with customers and internal contacts as needed.    • Surpassed monthly goals of closed loans and received occasional recognition for great customer service.    • Developed pipeline management tools to aid in organization and effectiveness. IT Support Technician CACI International Inc - Jacksonville, FL March 2014 to July 2016 • Managed Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system and performed functional testing.    • Reviewed operations to resolve production or processing problems in the Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System (NALCOMIS) and OOMA.    • Assist end users with desktop, laptop and printer usage.    • Transported equipment using a vehicle between multiple facilities within the assigned work service area as directed by Site and Technical Leads    • Administered data backups and ensured data recoverability. Database Administrator United States Navy - Jacksonville, FL December 2007 to January 2013 • Performed Ad-hoc Queries, Database Installations, Upgrades and Configurations on Nalcomis(OOMA) System.    • Enhanced users' understanding of database systems by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering group and individual training sessions.    • Managed internal databases, from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.    • In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.    • Created, reviewed and implemented maintenance plans on production servers. Medical Claims Processor Cigna Healthcare Insurance - Nashville, TN August 2005 to November 2007 • Managed Inpatient and Outpatient claim submission correctly, verified data and entered into system for adjudication.    • Prepared accurate, informative, objective and professional medical correspondences to Cigna Healthcare Leadership, and vendors.    • Reviewed payment history and worked directly with beneficiaries to resolve any regarding eligibility status.    • Processed claim forms, adjudicates for the provision of deductibles, co-pays, co-insurance maximums and provider settlements.    • Provided timely customer service to members, billing departments and other insurance providers. Education Master of Arts in IT Management in IT Management Webster University - Jacksonville, FL June 2020 Bachelor of Science in Psychology in Psychology Tennessee State University - Nashville, TN August 2001 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL, WINDOWS 10, MICROSOFT OFFICE Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5