Sr. IT Project Manager Sr. IT Project Manager Sr. IT Project Manager - VERIFONE, INC Alpharetta, GA Accomplished client facing Project Management Professional (PMP) with a strong background in supplier management, and  hardware and software Data Center implementation. Highly effective project team leader with the ability to instill pride of ownership  in project teams while bringing projects in on schedule. Certifications include; PMP, Six Sigma Green Belt, and Change  Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. IT Project Manager VERIFONE, INC - Atlanta, GA 2015 to Present Leading cross functional teams in the deployment of Verifone's Cloud Services infrastructure hardware, networking, and payment  card industry (PCI) software and solutions.  • Managing and building customer relationships with internal Verifone organizations throughout projects and ongoing  operations  • Managing implementation of multiple projects for Data Center infrastructure for Payment gateways and Verifone  Applications. These projects ranging from $500K to over $1M.  • Managing Project teams by engaging the proper subject matter experts throughout the various phases of each project.  • Leading major Process Improvement initiative  o Developing Change Management Processes and procedures to communicate Verifone's improved methodology for build out of Cloud Services infrastructure  o Creating Stage Gate Project Management processes  o Building project documentation templates including the Statement of Work (SOW): Project Task Schedule (MS  Project & Planview), Risk Plan, Resource Matrix, and Issue & Action Log Project Manager RICOH AMERICAS CORPORATION - Atlanta, GA 2006 to 2015 Led nationwide independent teams charged with the deployment of Ricoh Document Management & third party  tools/devices for Ricoh's corporate clients. These projects include  o Project Managing the implementation of Ricoh devices and solutions  * Network design and implementation for Ricoh Devices and Solution  * Document Management Solution configuration  • Wireless device configuration  • Ricoh device configuration  • Solution configuration  o Upgrading of Voice Over IP phone systems  * Network Configuration and Implementation  • Development of Process and procedures for new project  o New project level of effort  * Estimated Pricing  * Estimated Project hours  o New project Statement of Work Documentation development  • Coordination of Supply Chain, Managed Services, Technical Service Teams, Third Party Dealers, and Client Teams required  to install and configure Ricoh's Solutions.  • Mentored less experienced project managers on planning and management of software solution based projects Project/Team Lead HEWLETT-PACKARD - Atlanta, GA 1999 to 2006 • Managed the Atlanta Data Center Upgrade Project, this project entailed upgrading the facility, and networking and computing equipment. The successful completion of the upgrades led to retention of several customers.  • Led the development and implementation of the internal technical helpdesk program, this program included vendor  management, development of contract requirements, and overall project management.  • Atlanta team lead for the planning and execution for Y2K readiness, and the conversion from the Open Mail Platform to the Microsoft Exchange platform. Systems Support Engineer CLARUS CORPORATION - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1999 • Planned Year 2000 issues within the company  • Coordinated Help Desk team in resolving service requests and projects  • Trouble shooting company PC's with hardware, network connectivity and system problems  • Basic LAN Administration duties including maintaining user network and mail accounts  • Managing purchases of all computer related items Network/ Database Administrator SUNTRUST BANKS - Atlanta, GA 1991 to 1996 • Managed conversion of operations from MS-DOS environment to Microsoft Windows  • Developed Credit Department Network system through the use of Novell 3.12  • Provided Technical Support for the Credit Department Network system through the use of Novell 3.12  • Created Credit Tracking and Loan Commitment Databases through the use of FoxPro programs  • Decreased data entry and data update time and increased productivity with FoxPro programs  • Maintained Databases and Report Generation through the use of FoxPro programs Education MBA DeVry University - Keller Graduate School of Management 2010 Bachelor of Science in Management of Information Sciences University of Maryland - College Park - College Park, MD 1985 Skills Database (5 years), database management (Less than 1 year), deployment (10+ years), networking (9 years), Supply Chain (9 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ggereben Additional Information Skills  • Building and managing teams from cross functional organizations such as Supply Chain, Technical, Professional  Services, and leading these teams to accomplish project criteria and goals  • Managing a diverse project portfolio that includes multiple hardware and software implementations  • Collaborating, guiding, and communicating with all levels of stakeholders.  • Diverse technical understanding of networking, database management & administration, and programming.  • Demonstrated ability to communicate with both technical and non-technical teams  • Developing processes and procedures to control deployment of software and hardware implementations