Solutions Engineer Solutions Engineer Pflugerville, TX Work Experience Solutions Engineer Austin, TX August 2016 to Present Responsible for the assessment, creation, revision, review, and management of electronic data deliverables (EDDs) as required to meet client specifications. Duties include supporting clinical applications and databases and developing data integrations using SQL, SAS, and other software between systems as needed to assist Worldwide staff in more efficiently gathering, processing, or reporting of data. Works under minimal supervision, and performs non-routine tasks requiring independent judgment and technical expertise. Anticipates or diagnoses problems, poses and implements solutions, and can perform both routine and complex tasks accurately and efficiently. Reviews test reports for accuracy of subject information and test information and issue the reports using the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Creates reports and KPIs using Comprehend and Power BI using independent judgment and technical expertise. Investigative Data Analyst Texas Health and Human Services Commission Office of Inspector General - Austin, TX May 2014 to July 2016 Performs highly advanced technical research and data analysis of Medicaid claims and encounter data to identify, deter and prevent potential fraud, waste and abuse. Serves as the unit data analysis specialist providing oversight and technical assistance utilizing a variety of tools including Excel, data mining applications and MS office project, to assist in monitoring the progress of assigned tasks for the research unit. Develops and maintains policies and procedures for data analysis activities. Develops, designs, plans, conducts and coordinates the unit's trend analysis and theoretical studies to validate and test provider compliance with published Medicaid policies, rules and regulations. Utilizes data mining expertise and conducts computer based analytical research designed to isolate trends and patterns of potential aberrant provider billing activity or schemes. Uses a variety of advanced statistical methodologies to evaluate outcomes. Participates in and leads teams designed to analyze, establish, recommend, and update procedures for data analysis to improve existing computer-generated reports used in the identification of inappropriately paid claims/encounters and/or policy violations. Develops, monitors, and produces administrative studies and management reports designed to assist in evaluating the performance and productivity of the unit. Produces clear and concise data based reports and presentations. Performs project management work and assists in the evaluation of objectives. Develops criteria for evaluating programs, proposals, and other pertinent information related to project assignments. Monitors and manages project cost to ensure project completion within prescribed timelines. Compiles and distributes project information, status reports, and escalates risks and/or project issues to management. Serves as a program policy expert and research consultant to vendors, Office of Attorney General Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, OIG, and other state agency and Federal staff. Consults with nurse analyst and other staff regarding projects, planning, design, data collection, and subject selection for review. Serves as a back-up to the manager regarding research and analysis activities. Reviews and responds to legislation, state and Federal regulations, and policies and procedures impacting Medicaid. Knowledge of: -research methodologies, statistical techniques, and their application to research analysis. -healthcare claims and encounter data sets. Skill/experience: -managing multiple tasks with competing timeframes and apply attention to detail. -using SPSS, or other statistical software. -using SQL, or other database management software. -using EXCEL or other spreadsheet software and ability to create documents, formulas, macros, etc. -using graphical and tabular presentation of data. -using data mining tools and applications. -using verbal and written communications including the use of MS office suite applications such as PowerPoint and MS office Project. Ability to: -manage, manipulate, and analyze complex data. -develop and interpret statistical data charts and tables. -interpret and present data analysis and research findings in a clear and concise manner. -plan, organize, and conduct research projects. -work in teams that may cross departments and/or agencies, and to communicate effectively with team members and all level of stakeholders. -communicate effectively and to train and mentor others. -develop policies and procedures to support data analysis and business processes. -create and organize business process flows that reflect efficient operations. -exercise independent judgment and show initiative. ICD-9/ICD-10, CPT/HCPCS, Business Objects, Vision21, Phoenix, MFADS (FICO-IFM), Metavision (BOXI), OnBase, TxMed, SIR, CAPPS, TIERS Incident Management Data Analyst Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services - Austin, TX July 2009 to April 2014 Performs business and technical work that involves planning, developing, and implementing initiatives for process improvement, organizational improvement, performance measurement and quality initiatives. Performs data analysis and incident management reports of abuse/neglect/exploitation data. Performs complex consultative services and technical assistance work that include the development, preparation and presentation of activity and status reports - verbally and in writing. Work involves planning, developing, and implementing a major agency program related to review findings and the facilities' Plan of Improvement and providing consultative services and technical assistance to program staff (governmental agencies, community organizations, or the general public.) Responsible for the development of reliable validation processes and appropriate tools, to ensure consistency in program monitoring and various instruments for tracking, analyzing and trending data, entering and maintaining survey data. Assists in development, scheduling and coordination of reviews and preparation of needed materials. Develops and implements effective techniques for evaluating agency programs, and to ensure that established direction and operational objectives for state mental retardation facilities are adhered to and consistent to certification requirement laws, regulations, policies and procedures. Assists in the development of programs and tools that improve consumer care and treatment and protection of consumer health and safety. Analyzes operations and reviews reports, recommendations, and justifications to improve or initiate programs and ensure efficient and effective operations and service delivery. Assists in the development of monitoring tools to evaluate facilities and identify potential improvement areas and ensure compliance with policies and procedures. Responsible for designing and developing databases for use in gathering data and trending analysis. Provides guidance in data required for advancing the organization's performance improvement efforts and service monitoring. Provides specific SSLC reports to staff and recommends variables for data collection. Develops organizational charts and provides reports regarding vacancies, FTEs, and positions. Contract Manager Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services - Austin, TX December 2008 to June 2009 Performs highly complex consultative and technical work in planning, developing, and implementing agency programs  work includes providing consultative and technical services to agency program staff, other governmental agencies, community organizations, and the general public. Trains or supervise the work of others. Performs certification reviews and audits of CLASS and DBMD providers to ensure program standards are met and implements corrective action based on findings  reviews provider standards, procedures, and financial records to determine if policy and procedure changes are needed, and coordinates changes. Investigates complaints and inquiries in accordance with federal and state regulations and program policies and procedures  manages assigned projects. Communicates on a complex level with others (internally and externally) to provide, exchange, or verify information, answer inquiries, address issues, or resolve problems or complaints. Trains or coordinates training programs for staff and providers. Analyzes current/potential effective of current/proposed legislation, regulations, or court rulings on agency policies, procedures, rules, regulations, or standards to others (e.g., staff, applicants, clients, providers, vendors, the public, public officials). Negotiates and approves corrective action to bring contractors into compliance with federal/ state regulations and policy  performs other duties as assigned. Conducts survey/certification/monitoring/audit reviews of program providers to ensure standards are met, and implements corrective action based on findings. Negotiates and approves corrective action to bring contractors into compliance with state and federal regulations and policy. Professional Relations Officer Texas Department of Assistive and Rehabilitative Services - Austin, TX June 2008 to November 2008 The Professional Relations Officer (PRO) performs highly advanced consultative services, oversight and technical assistance work, managing a panel of medical providers performing clinical evaluation and diagnostic services for claimants applying for Disability Determination Services (DDS). Develops, manages and evaluates a broad range of contracts  manages and maintains a panel of approximately 250 to 350 clinical providers  assess service gaps and program needs, identifies appropriate clinical resources  recruits providers to furnish consultative examinations (CEs). Works with and provides presentations to community and professional groups to improve, promote interest in, and obtain support for the DDS program. Conducts surveys, inspections, audits, and reviews of CE providers to monitor compliance with rules, regulations, policies, and procedures  monitors and evaluates compliance with program standards for delivery of high risk/high dollar services  identifies and monitors trends within assigned area and takes appropriate corrective action. Identifies needed improvements, develops and implements policies and procedures. Collects and analyzes data, determines trends, and resolves operational problems. Provides consultative services and technical assistance to plan, implement, and monitor effective programs and services. The PRO works under limited direction with extensive latitude for the use of initiative and independent judgment. The PRO plans, assigns and/or supervises the work of others. Gather, correlate and analyze statistical and financial data to identify and evaluate service gaps and needs. Recruit, educate and maintain a panel of medical providers sufficient to obtain necessary services for DDS claimants in an assigned geographical area. Maintain physical and electronic provider files to reflect up-to-date information regarding available medical services and contact information. Monitor and document referral requests for trends and recruitment efforts. Recruitment visits are reported on trip, monthly and quarterly reports. Develops and manages contracts for purchased services - Provide oversight of the Consultative Examination (CE) process, including administering and monitoring corrective action plans to ensure federal and state compliance with governing laws, program policies and agency standards. Review medical CE reports and educate provider's compliance with program protocols and quality standards. Conduct onsite inspections, desk reviews and surveys to evaluate, monitor and enforce compliance with rules, regulations, procedures and program standards. Complete key provider inspections and complete findings reports within the required timeframes. - Analyze data to determine volume and quality of electronic medical evidence submissions  monitor and report findings. Track participation rates, analyze volume and report quality  research and resolve problems in a timely manner. Consults and interfaces with public and private agencies involved in the medical service program to resolve problems, complaints, identify training needs and discuss program effectiveness Provides oral presentations to community and professional groups to generate interest and promote support for the DDS program. -Serve as project manager or team participant for assigned workgroups. Establish timelines, track milestones, coordinate and document activities  produce management reports for special projects. Establish timelines, subgroups, and coordinate all activities to ensure objectives and deadlines are met. Document activities and produce updates for workgroup members and management. Develop training materials, including brochures, newsletters and correspondence to educate providers in program requirements. Develop letters, brochures, newsletters and presentations to educate internal and external stakeholders regarding program changes, initiatives and to generate interest in the program. Participate in conventions, conferences and conduct presentations for professional groups, as assigned. Produce executive summaries, compliance review and ad hoc reports as needed. Ensure provider files are in compliance with current licensure and updated agreements according to unit standards. Contract Data Specialist Texas Department of State Health Services - Austin, TX February 2003 to May 2008 Maintains knowledge of Department of State Health Services (DSHS) Family and Community Health Services Performance Management/Contract and Project Management program and contracting policy and regulations for the state administered Family Planning Program. Consults with regional, central office, and provider agency staff to facilitate and ensure contract compliance and client eligibility. Monitors changes at state and federal levels, such as HIPAA, NPI, NDC, and CLIA and other interactions that impact programs at state and federal levels that impact state contracts including Managed Care, Texas Health Steps, Children with Special Health Care Needs, WIC, CHIP, Medicaid, Women's Health Program, PCCM, Long Term Care, Breast and Cervical Cancer Program, Epilepsy, Genetics, Indigent Health Care, Kidney Health, Primary Health, Maternal and Child Health, WIC, HIV/STD, Primary Health Care, and Family Planning (Titles V, X, XIX, XX), TWICES, CBS,etc.  especially in regard to trends, claims processing, and data reporting and budget forecasting for contracts. Writes, edits, analyzes, prepares, and recommends system and policy changes as necessary to meet state or federal guidelines. Ensures compliance with established procedures, requirements, laws, and regulations  completeness of data and presence of documentation. Develops and implements effective techniques for ensuring provider underpayments are recorded, reported, monitored, and providers are paid the appropriate interest penalty in accordance with contractual agreements. Facilitates a process improvement team to ensure varying state agency needs are addressed related to accounts receivable monitoring activities. Develops policy and procedure manuals for contract monitoring activities. Ensures rigorous application of information security/information assurance policies, principles, and practices to the systems analysis process by performing preliminary research into technical errors. Troubleshoots problems using spreadsheets, databases, and other platforms associated with business processes and financial queries. Makes recommendations regarding modifications to contractor reimbursement process, allocation formulas, contracting training techniques, financial billing systems, state/federal/internal audit research and findings, and automated claims systems. Drafts, edits, and writes policy/procedure changes. Performs design evaluation of automated claims systems to ensure compliance with policies and rules of contracts according to state, federal, legislative or contractual guidelines. Prepares budgets, reports, and graphs (or other visual aids) for executive staff, Board of Health presentations, federal funding entities, and national organizations. Develops and maintains state file furnished pay file database using ACCESS and HHSAS 8.8 and develops, maintains, and analyzes expenditure report data, aging receivables for audits. Participates and prepare internal and external audit requests on policy, claims, budget, and contracting areas. Meets with auditors for external or internal purposes especially in regard to legislative, financial, and compliance research. Writes and review policy manuals providing oral and written input and comments within the requested review time frames. Trains and communicates in administrative policies and procedures regarding claims and program standards, administrative and clinical policy guidelines and interpretation of eligibility, legislative updates, and medical billing changes. Serves as a technical and financial consultant for capacity-building in for EDI 837 P ASC X12 format basics and in resolving billing and payment problems, and in generating and interpreting reports and communicates with clearing houses and third-party vendors to resolve financial issues. Maintains an extensive knowledge of HIPAA regulations, Healthcare electronic claims formats and processing principles, CLIA requirements, HCPCS coding, Medicaid edit/audits adjudication policies, Remittance & Status Reports interpretation, Accounts Receivables, Recoupments, Eligibility. Writes and edits procedures that includes analysis of state/claims/work problems having provider impact  interpret complex material. Experience interpreting and applying federal and state laws applicable to Medicaid/CHIP/and other programs. Experience in cost/reimbursement issues, extensive work experience in health systems issues including health financing, expenditure of public resources, health service delivery and health information systems. Experience in health financing (costing) and implementing health sector reform programs (financing mechanisms, provider payments, insurance, etc). Demonstrated ability to design, implement and manage processes. ability to provide coordination and leadership strong interpersonal and effective communication and negotiation skills. Served as Compass21 subject matter expert at stakeholder meetings and for internal state compliant IT related areas. Prepare and monitor contract audits and legislation budget cost reports. Database Administrator Texas Department of Health, Bureau of HIV and STD Prevention - Austin, TX August 2001 to January 2003 Manages the statewide HIV Counseling and Testing System (CTS) data collection system application packages for reports generation  responsible for maintenance, reliability and confidentiality of the CTS data by controlling all quality checks, program debugging, program editing, and the updating of all contractors with regard to changes in record completion procedures  creates and updates all filing systems, logs and procedure manual for the system  adds new cases to the CTS database by hand entry or receiving an electronic transfer  provide technical assistance to users of the scannable HIV Counseling and Testing Report Form by telephone, correspondence, fax, e-mail and frequent site visits. Train personnel and regional contractors to effectively operate the CTS system and transmit their data to our facilities via diskette  collect CTS data from the field offices via diskette and transmit data to CDC monthly  maintain logs of data transfers to CDC and those being received from the field to ensure timely transmission  ensures the integrity of the Counseling and Testing Sites database by monitoring the quality and completeness of the scannable forms and by contacting contracted agencies and doing follow up for quality review assessments. Runs monthly summary reports to assure quality data and prepare graphs or other visual documentation as requested. Provide analysis of CTS data collected to all contractual and non-contractual sites, regional health departments, staff within the division and to the general public and often provide training on statistical analysis. Analytic breakdown includes total number of clients tested, percentages on race, age, sex, test result, and epidemiological data of outbreaks. Provides tabular and graphic reports for programmatic reports and annual grant reapplications by providing statistical reports on CTS sites to the division staff and CDC. Generates CTS Summary Reports in ASCII file format for analysis by the Epidemiology and Evaluation Branch. Enters and evaluates confidential data and prepares CTS monthly reports for mailing to contractors. Uses a Partner Elicitation Reporting database in FoxPro for positive HIV reactors and trains state agencies on how to enter data. Provide analysis of that data collected to the Field Operations Branch for QA reviews. Maintain a database listing all CTS organizations in the state and trains other DBAs. Maintains a chart listing all 135 organizations and over 500 different site types and site numbers. Designs and runs monthly, quarterly and yearly CTS reports  Conducts studies, surveys, databases and trade-off analyses  Prepares business cases for the application of IT and business solutions  Develops cost estimates for new or modified systems  Ensures the integration of all systems components  e.g., procedures, databases, policies, software, and hardware. Database Administrator Texas Department of Health, Infectious Diseases Epidemiology and Surveillance - Austin, TX October 2000 to July 2001 Responsible for development, maintenance, support, integrity, safety, and continual improvement of surveillance database system. Coordinate with health care professionals, local health departments, regional health departments, laboratories, and other TDH programs regarding installation, management, and/or integration of surveillance databases for electronic transmission of confidential morbidity data. Compiles, manages, and analyzes notifiable disease data from surveillance sites throughout Texas. Recommends and implements data access, data integrity, and database security policies. Participate in electronic reporting of notifiable conditions. Monitors/verifies incoming confidential infectious disease data to ensure quality. Imports, processes, merges, and exports data to and from multiple surveillance/reporting sites  use programming language such as SQL and Visual Basic for Applications to accommodate differing database formats (i.e., spreadsheets, delimited data, fixed length data, HL7 messages, and EpiInfo rec-files). Responsible for development of methods for data flow/ dispersal/feedback between surveillance sites and other TDH programs and the Division. Evaluate and respond to requests for new data variables. Work with Center for Disease Control (CDC) to update and revise programming files. Ensure interoperability of surveillance hardware and software. Maintain Public Health Laboratory Information System (PHLIS) database and ensures linkage with the division's NETTS database. Collaborate with clinical, hospital, and reference laboratories, federal agencies, insurance companies, and other TDH programs to ensure translation, transmission, and/or integration of infectious disease data using various data management/ database and translation software packages. Manages infectious disease surveillance data. Maintain records, enter data, and perform audits to insure data integrity. Respond to requests for complex morbidity data  query data to generate reports summarizing surveillance data. Research cost, functionality, and comparative merit of software and hardware. Respond to Division staff questions about computer hardware/software. Assists with training and other educational activities related to notifiable disease reporting and/or surveillance databases. Working knowledge of a variety of data management software packages, database structures, theories, and associated technologies  database/systems management  data analysis techniques, and principles, practices, and techniques of computer programming and systems design. Ability to process information logically  exercise sound judgment  be resourceful  organize and complete assigned tasks with minimal supervision  establish and maintain effective working relationships  interpret public health laws and regulations  understand concepts of reportable disease surveillance. Public Health Technician III Texas Department of Health, Bureau of Children's Health - Austin, TX March 1999 to September 2000 Perform a multitude of complex tasks that require independent judgment, problem solving skills, problem resolution skills, organizational skills  interpretation of program rules, policies, procedures, confidential medical reports and related information  assist in the developing of procedures and evaluating their effectiveness  ICD-9 coding  HCPCS coding  ADA procedure codes  CSHCN service codes  other medical codes  knowledge of complex medical and orthodontic equipment  knowledge of other health related state programs  knowledge of telecommunication systems/processes  the ability to communicate effectively verbally and in writing (English & Spanish), and the utilization of many computer software. Answer information calls from providers, families and clients, caseworkers, representatives of other state programs, and the public regarding authorization of services, payment of services, program eligibility, client eligibility, CSHCN interface with other programs such as Medicaid, CCP and CHIP, and general program information. Take requests and authorize services: transportation, meals, lodging, and medical services. Calls are received by answering the CSHCN program's toll free Inquiry telephone line. Writing meeting minutes, letters to providers and parents, and translating documents (English & Spanish). Provides program information to families of CSHCN , clients (45% Spanish-speaking), community organizations the general public, hospital and social case workers, other governmental agencies, and providers including general information and status of authorizations, claims, payments, and client eligibility  implement procedures based on program policies  provides costumer service on the CSHCN 1-800 inquiry line  performs routine consultative and technical work in the implementation of statewide Information and Referral (I&R) Service dedicated to children with special health care needs. Process authorization requests for medical and social services, supplies, and equipment from DME providers, hospitals, pharmacies via telephone and written requests  issues appropriate authorizations and notifies providers and families, in writing, of denials and approvals of services  enters appropriate authorization/denial information into computer  process medical authorization requests, and verifying client and provider eligibility and benefits  refers unusual CSHCN authorization requests to medical review staff. Assists in the development of complex authorization procedures  writes, edits, types procedures  performs other complex processing tasks  edits agency publications  coordinates with bureau and department's computer support staff, research automated issues and problems, and make recommendations for changes. Prepares workload reports and daily/weekly authorization reports  prepares special reports or summaries and makes recommendations for administrative review  other assigned duties. Works under stressful conditions and meets deadlines in a timely manner. Interprets verbal and written confidential medical records for CSHCN and other departments from Spanish to English. Authorization and Information of services: Equipment, Medications, Supplies, Hemophilia blood products, Dental services, Orthodontic services, and Home health services, Meals, Lodging, Gas mileage Reimbursement, Bus Tickets, Therapy. Executive Assistant University of Texas, Texas Memorial Museum - Austin, TX August 1994 to December 1998 Supervised employees  monitored, evaluated, and reported work productivity  recommended activities to maximize productivity and effectiveness  entered, developed, and reported data into computer  developed curriculum goals and objectives  maintained public relations  performed consultative and technical work in the planning, development and implementation of administrative policies  schedule appointments and meetings  participated in hiring employees  reported to supervisors and directors about data base systems and employee progress  studied and analyzed operations and prepared cost, budget and performance reports  assisted in administrative decisions and policies, and prepared procedures and tests for evaluations  worked independently on updating and maintaining computer programs, public/educational programs, department websites, and coordinated public and private facility events  assisted in public speaking and correspondence  assisted in preparation of special administrative projects. Education Bachelors in Psychology Biology University of Texas - Austin, TX June 1994 to May 1998