SR DATABASE ARCHITECT/DEVELOPER SR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> ARCHITECT/DEVELOPER Davie, FL Work Experience SR DATABASE ARCHITECT/DEVELOPER CORELOGIC - Sunrise, FL March 2009 to Present Participated on multiyear long project migrating large mainframe application to SQL Server.  ? Created a Data Warehouse from ground up. Built full an incremental scheduled processes using SQL/SSIS to keep the Data Warehouse up to date minimizing load times and therefore having more accurate data more  often. Generated reporting solutions using SSAS and SSRS.  ? Solved business problems utilizing SQL Server features including CLR, Service Broker, Table Partitioning and Change Data Capture, TDE.  ? Configured and managed Enterprise SQL server clusters.  ? Proficient in SQL Server versions 7.0 till 2017, standard - enterprise.  ? Implemented high availability solutions utilizing mirroring, log shipping and transactional replication.  ? Managed databases GB in size to ones with tables that are 100+ TB in size.  ? Developed SSIS packages to perform full and incremental loads/exports. Tuned/Designed the packages to be  able to run parallel efficiently from application servers and SQL server.  ? Proficient with TSQL, SSIS, Microsoft Reporting services.  ? Created and managed scheduled jobs to perform data loads, extracts, backups and index maintenance.  ? Proficient in end to end tuning/optimization.  ? Proficient on analyzing TSQL execution plans and TSQL tuning.  ? Proficient in Index tuning, Index/Statistics maintenance  ? Proficient in maintaining/tuning OLTP or Data warehouse workloads.  ? Proficient in coding best practices.  ? Proficient on code generation (SQL, C# or similar) to automate task. (Ex generating stored procedures, views, inline table valued functions in fly, generating C# code which would process certain data structures in fly).  ? Supported a team of developers tuning and writing complex database code.  ? Proficient on implementing schema changes on production live databases.  ? Proficient in SQL Server upgrades and making sure all code will perform optimum after an upgrade.  ? Created monitoring solutions to manage common database problems (deadlocks, excessively long blocks, auto growths, among others)..  ? Provided on call support for all SSIS, tSQL scheduled jobs.  ? Worked in migration to PostgreSQL and Greenplum databases. Microsoft Certifications January 2008 to Present Microsoft® Certified Master for SQL Server 2008 (MCM)  ? MCSE: Data Management and Analytics - Certified 2019  ? Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert - Data Platform (MCSE)  ? 767: Implementing a Data Warehouse  ? 465: Designing Database Solutions for Microsoft SQL Server  ? 464: Developing Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases  ? 463: Implementing a Data Warehouse with Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014  ? MCSA: SQL Server 2012/2014 - Certified 2016  ? 461: Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014  ? 462: Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Databases DATABASE DEVELOPER/ ADMINISTRATOR SUNGARD - Miami, FL May 2007 to February 2009 Created upgrade and rollback packages for software rollovers.  ? Created upgrade packages from earlier version of SQL server (SQL 7, SQL 2000) to SQL 2005.  ? Supported developer with stored procedures, views, functions, and triggers during development.  ? Performance tuned and rewrote necessary database code written by developers.    ? Stress tested the database with new changes prior to deployment.  ? Created new objects (tables, views, indexes) needed to support the application development and new  features.  ? Automated the day to day activities like backups, restores, dbcc check, index maintenance.  ? Architected the usage of IO system used by client, according to raid level, available space and backup  frequencies. SQL DEVELOPER/SQL SERVER DBA RELIABLE TELECARD - Miami, FL October 2006 to April 2007 Responsibilities include architecting and maintaining SQL 2000 and SQL 2005 databases. Backed up and restored  mission critical databases.  ? Developed stored procedures/triggers/User design functions using T/SQL.  ? Installed and maintained the transactional replication on the high availability customer database.  ? Maintained sales and customer service applications written in C# (MS Visual Studio 2003.  ? Optimized SQL 2000 and SQL 2005 databases for efficiency.  ? Design and development of reporting tools for the company's management information system. DATABASE ADMINISTRATION MANAGER ALPINE ENGINEERING - Pompano Beach, FL March 2006 to August 2006 Responsible for the upgrade SQL Server version from 2000 to 2005 for the software sold to clients. Redesign the database for efficiency; make the database fully relational and fully SQL 2005 compatible. The old design was using  triggers to keep the database relational and the new design was using referential keys.  ? Used DTS and SSIS (Business Intelligence Development Studio) to transfer data between SQL databases, Microsoft Access Database and custom database files.  ? Managed and coded during the project to upgrade the software from C++ MFC to C#.  ? Managed the team of 6 on above projects. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER NTERA HOLDINGS - Miami, FL June 1996 to November 2005 Responsible for designing, implementing and administration of SQL servers develop/maintain applications for the calling card and wholesale tandem customers of the company.  ? Initially administered one database on one SQL server 100MB in size and grew to 5 SQL servers, 9 databases  and 2.5 Terabytes.  ? Developed application using SQL-DMO to streamline day to day administration tasks (scripting database  objects and storing them in SourceSafe).  ? Worked on Data transfers using BCP, DTS between SQL servers and different formats received from external  sources.  ? Upgraded the databases from SQL6.5 to SQL7 to SQL 2000.  ? Backed up and restored databases for mission critical processes and/or testing purposes.  ? Implemented Least Cost Routing algorithm for Call Flow application, which processed more than 6 million  transactions a day.  ? Developed a call processing application using Visual C++, SQL Server Tools, and Microsoft Message  Queuing.  ? Developed the call processing application to verify accounts, and Least Cost Routing during the calls to generate CDR records for any/all call attempts or completed calls. At its peak this application generated  more than 5 million CDR records and handled 25 million minutes per day.  ? Upgraded/Optimized the application from serving 192 channels to 300,000 channels within 5 years.  ? Developed front-end applications to administer calling card account management, management reporting, automated bulk account creation (creates unique pins in millions).  ? Developed Credit Card Processing applications for POS business with revenue of 30 million USD a year.  ? Developed an application for stores to activate calling cards using their existing credit card machines.  ? Modified the application to act as a soft switch, converted landline calls to VoIP.    ? Managed application running on more than 30 servers doing call processing.  ? Developed and constantly optimized the Least Cost Route application according to the new needs.  ? Maintained a clustered SQL 2000 installation on Windows Server 2003 with IBM Shark SAN storage system.  Separated Data and Log files to different partitions to gain speed.  ? Developed automated debiting software (ACH) for billing.  ? Managed architecting relational SQL Databases, application design and development, testing and deployment  ? Using SQL Profiler and custom application monitors kept the application system running at optimum  efficiency.  ? Created billing/commission system for an 8 level marketing program.  ? Developed a POS system running offline on Pocket PC devices running Windows CE using SQL 2000  replicated database. This system could be replicated over any network. The devices would be used to take  input at the sales point for sales, any time connected to the internet (wireless at this case) the devices would  synchronize with a centralized server    MICROSOFT CERTIFICATIONS Education BS in CIVIL ENGINEERING BOSPHORUS UNIVERSITY 1991 to 1996 Additional Information • Proactive, creative and self-motivated individual;  • 20+ years of experience in SQL Server Development and Administration;  • Managed hundreds of server and thousands of databases, some of which had 100+ TB in size;  • Created hundreds of code components to support complex processes on large volume highly concurrent  environments utilizing TSQL, SSIS and C#, SSRS, SSAS  • Experienced in PostgreSQL, Greenplum  • Experienced in Linux and shell scripting  • Active member of SQL Server forums community.  • Microsoft Certified Master for SQL Server