Wing Administrator Wing <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Wing Administrator - Civil Air Patrol, Connecticut Wing East Haddam, CT Work Experience Wing Administrator Civil Air Patrol, Connecticut Wing - Middletown, CT August 2015 to Present full-time  The Civil Air Patrol is a volunteer organization that functions as part of the Unites States Air Force Auxiliary. As the Wing Administrator I am responsible for all the bookkeeping and budgeting for each of the individual squadrons  located within the states of Connecticut and Rhode Island. My position also includes a great deal of project  management, as well as a strong attention to detail and financial auditing.  Additional Responsibilities: general office administration, technical support, website maintenance, grant coordination, and staff meeting minutes. Bookkeeper, part-time Sound Medical IT Solutions, LLC - East Haddam, CT June 2009 to Present Sound Medical IT Solutions is an IT service provider for medical and dental professional offices. The business offers  managed services for monitoring systems, hardware and software upgrades, and project management services to our  clientele. Currently employed part-time at Sound Medical IT Solutions, LLC, I am responsible for the bookkeeping  functions of the business.  Additional Responsibilities: Customer service, technical support, and sales and use tax filing with the State of Connecticut. Operations Administrator/Board Appointed Secretary, part-time Point O' Woods Association, Incorporated - South Lyme, CT July 2014 to August 2015 Point O' Woods Association is a home-owners association comprised of over 400 seasonal and year-round properties.  It operates as a quasi-municipality under the direction of an appointed Board of Governors. I was hired as the Operations Administrator for the newly erected administrative office. Serving as a single point of contact for the board  members and residents alike, my job entailed a great deal of administrative work, as well as process development. As  the board secretary, I was also tasked with meeting minutes and agendas. During my employment there, I designed and implemented a Microsoft Access database to track property owner details and association assigned registrations.  Additional Responsibilities: Digitized records, website administration, assistant to the Treasurer, designed and edited  association newsletter. Manager, part-time Computer Troubleshooters of East Lyme, LLC - Niantic, CT September 2007 to March 2009 Computer Troubleshooters operated as a computer repair storefront, servicing walk-in customers, on-site customers, as well as commercial clientele. As the shop manager I was responsible for the storefront, the cash register, and the  technicians. I designed and maintained the Microsoft Access database responsible for all point of sale transactions.  Additional Responsibilities: Sales, marketing, and advertising; customer service and support; scheduling technicians  and approving payroll; computer troubleshooting, maintenance, and repair; invoicing clients as well as ordering parts;  project management. Database Administrator/Account Manager, part-time Performance Programs, Incorporated - Old Saybrook, CT September 2000 to July 2008 Performance Programs is a Human Resources consulting company that provides employee and performance  assessments. As an account manager with Performance Programs, I was responsible for one of the larger accounts that  required maintenance and customization of a Microsoft Access database utilized to track customer-review driven  commission reporting. This position required detailed data-entry, as well as numerous ad-hoc reporting requests. I was  instrumental in streamlining the data-entry and reporting processes, as well as customizing the database functionality, enabling the prompt delivery of information to the client.  Additional Responsibilities: Managed and maintained various client project specific databases, general office  administrative activities, assisted with website maintenance.    (cell) 860-262-0462 • (email) pwalters.photo@gmail.com  8 Orchard Road, East Haddam, CT 06423    SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE  Working knowledge of a vast array of software programs, including but not limited to: Microsoft's Office Suite  (experienced with Access); QuickBooks; Adobe Product Suite, including Acrobat, Photoshop, and Lightroom; Google  Product Suite; and various web design platforms, including WordPress and Dreamweaver.    SKILL STRENGTHS  Nearly twenty years of experience within the Information Technology field, coupled with administrative and bookkeeping skillsets.  Self-starter, forward thinking, able to work with little direction.  Exceptional customer service skills, extremely organized, and detail oriented.  Dedicated and proficient employee, fast learner, and eager to lend a hand wherever needed.  Excellent troubleshooting, problem solving, and research abilities. Education Certificate of Completion in Comprehensive and Advanced Photographic Programs Rhode Island School of Photography - Providence, RI September 1991 to June 1993