Finance Operations Admin - Lead Database Management Finance Operations Admin - Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> Management Finance Operations Admin - Lead Database Management - TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS Coral Springs, FL Efficient and Precise Database Administrator with an impressive history of assisting in creating and implementing database solutions. Dedicated team player with outstanding interpersonal dynamics and communication skills. Articulate, assertive and driven to succeed with exceptional attention to detail and follow-through able to meet strict deadlines. Other strengths encompass:    • Quality Assurance • Budget Management • Client Relations  • Multitasking • Project Management • Written and Verbal Communication Work Experience Finance Operations Admin - Lead Database Management TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS October 2017 to Present Work collaboratively with other teams and departments to develop and enhance database standards.  ? Executed policies, procedures and standards related to database management.  ? Manage optimal books of business for the sales teams.  ? Develop and accomplish lead generation and distribution plans as it related to segmentation.  ? Implements Customer Segmentation to assign leads to the party that is most capable of servicing the customer to the fullest potential.  ? Monitoring the performance of the Sales and Business Development functions and designing improvement models.  ? Assist Management with tracking Task trends via weekly reports.  ? Analyzes data to ensure the cleanliness of our database and makes necessary changes if discrepancies are identified.  ? Working closely with the Credit team to determine the correct billing settings for customers.  ? Setting up customers in Bill Trust to cut our cost of printing invoices and statements and making adjustments as it applies to the customer's preference. Office Assistant SMITH CHIROPRACTIC HEALTH & WELLNESS CENTER July 2017 to October 2017 Managed administration of the office and workflow by monitoring and scheduling customer appointments, and maintaining accurate records, in an efficient, professional office operation with a high degree of initiative and discretion.  ? Processing payments and looking up insurance information.  ? Communicating with adjusters for personal injury cases.+  ? Organizing the office and assisting associates to optimize processes.  ? Maintain trusting relationships with suppliers, customers and colleagues.  ? Continuously sought new opportunities to boost customer satisfaction and deepen international relationships. Paraprofessional CONNECTIONS EDUCATION CENTER September 2011 to July 2014 I assisted young children with autism to improve their academic and personal skills through patience and consistency.  ? Analytical skills were implemented in order to formulate personalized solutions to specific behavioral issues and additional areas needing improvement.  ? Attended many classes and certifications to further my knowledge in the work place. These include the Picture Exchange Communication System, Professional Crisis Management, and Blood Borne Pathogens certifications.  ? Daily communication with parents and legal guardians was essential to provide updates of progress and also advise them of any complications.  ? Teaching a lesson required new and unique ways to keep each child engaged while still furthering their education. Office Administrator ZOO HEALTH CLUB March 2012 to April 2013 Highly skilled and well organized in providing customer service, payment processing, and cashier management.  ? Coordinating with customer's responsibility of payment if any.  ? Instrumental in ordering supplies, inventory and budgeting assuring no over spending.  ? Greet members and provide detailed information regarding promotions.  ? New member payment details and data was loaded, verified and processed into the system. A swift walk tour was also provided. Education ASSOCIATES PALM BEACH STATE COLLEGE 2013 to 2019 HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA SEMINOLE RIDGE HIGH SCHOOL 2008 to 2012 Skills EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, WORD Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  MICROSOFT OFFICE: WORD, ACCESS, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, AND POWER POINT