Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - COSTAR GROUP Atlanta, GA Work Experience Database Administrator COSTAR GROUP - Atlanta, GA October 2016 to Present • Experience in migration projects and upgrading SQL 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012/2014/2016  • Perform SQL installations on cluster and standalone environments, also setup standard configurations after installations  • Set up and maintain database mirroring and high availability (Always On)  • Experience in setting up Transactional, Snapshot, Merge Replication and troubleshooting replication  • Experience managing multi-terabyte production of both STANDBY and CLUSTERED systems using ACTIVE-PASSIVE Clustering.  • Established standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup meets the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis.  • Administered and designed backup maintenance procedures and put them into operation  • Participate in 24x7 On-call rotations and promptly attended to business critical incidents  • Performed and monitored azure backups  • Support application deployments and provisioning of database systems during business and non-operating hours  • Monitor and maintain database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  • Designed and analyzed indexes, views, schemas, triggers and like structures  • Experiencing in migrating upgrading SSAS and moving cubes  • Responsible for setting up SQL server Health/policy base management check across production according to company standards to ensure healthy SQL server instances  • Deployed and migrated SSIS packages  • Ensured SQL server patch level was updated and current on all SQL instances  • Participated in Post windows patching validation, ensured instances/databases were up and running, instances were on preferred nodes, and maintenance jobs were re-enabled  • Used upgrade advisor to prepare for upgrades and identify issues to fix and analyze compatibility issues Database Administrator Support Space - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to September 2016 • Helped developers tune queries, assigned proper indexes, and aided developers in the creation of triggers and stored procedures.  • Established standards and schedules for database backups by making sure that the backup schedules meet the recovery requirements on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis.  • Established and enforced all database standards.  • Maintained the proper use of storage space requirements and adding new storage space (disk drives) when required.  • Responsible for installing SQL Server and upgrading existing SQL Server and ensuring the success of the upgrade.  • Performed backups of all SQL servers 2005/2008 daily, weekly, and monthly  • Ensured security of the database servers by implementing applicable security patches and maintaining appropriate security measures.    RDBMS  MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016; MS Access Education Bachelor's in Business Administration in Business Administration Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA Additional Information • Experience with SQL SERVER 2008 R2, 2012 and 2016 Primary and Standby databases  • Experience in creating, monitoring, backup, recovery and tuning SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/2012/2014/2016 databases in a multi-platform environment.  • Proficient in copying and migrating SQL SERVER 2008 R2/2012/2016 databases.  • Experience with SQL Server database automation tasks using SQL Server Agent.  • Ensured SQL server patch level was updated and current on all SQL instances  • Working knowledge in Microsoft SQL Server databases, as well as SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL, and performance tuning.  • Administered and designed backup maintenance procedures and put them into operation  • Experience in moving cubes and setting up SSAS  • Experience with cross-platform database migration and database instance consolidation.    OPERATING SYSTEMS  Windows Server 2003/2008/2012