Freelance Writer Freelance Writer Shawnee, OK I aim to grow the world of competitive gaming through hard work, dedication to the Fighting Game Community, skillful writing and publicity, and a passion to see our scene succeed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Writer Eventhubs September 2017 to Present Freelance Writer | EventHubs  • Writer of Cultural and News Articles  • Conducts Interviews with ESports Personalities and Professional Players Database Administrator Sooner Pain Clinic - Midwest City, OK April 2016 to Present Database Administrator | Sooner Pain Clinic  • Utilized Computer Software to Input and Organize Patient Data  • Communicated Within and Throughout Departments, Businesses, and Partners  • Worked with Employees and Departments to Locate and Update Information Stacks Management Max Chambers Library - Edmond, OK September 2014 to April 2016 • Managed Customer Service Relations and Appointments  • Organized Company Materials  • Utilized Computer Software (Excel, Word, Publisher) to Execute Business and Customer Relations  • Managed Phone Calls Between Customers and Departments Education University of Central Oklahoma May 2018 Prague Sr. High School May 2014 UCO Skills Data Management (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Highly Organized (Less than 1 year), Problem Solving (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.par.gg http://eventhubs.com https://ext0pd0ll.wordpress.com/ Awards Leaders of Tomorrow Scholarship 2014-05 This scholarship is awarded to incoming college students of the University of Central Oklahoma who display exceptional leadership qualities. Scholarship recipients are placed into the committee and must participate and credited classes and leadership development camps. Recipients are also required to volunteer 20 hours a semester and be involved with organizations on campus. Groups Oklahoma Fighting Game Community October 2016 to Present The Oklahoma Fighting Game Community is a tight-knit group of individuals dedicated to growing our local scene through a shared passion of fighting games. We gather bi-weekly to compete in tournaments run by our own community and stream these tournaments on twitch. Gamers of the University of Central Oklahoma October 2014 to May 2017 The Gamers of UCO was developed in 2014 as a way to gather students who have a shared hobby of gaming. When I was elected Vice President in 2015, I helped grow the local Fighting Game Community through my platform and was able to connect individuals who had a passion for fighting games in our area. Publications “I May be Slower, but I Can Out-Finesse You” — Absolute Battle’s Newest Challenger, MomGotThemHands, Talks Age, Gender, and Relationships in the FGC https://ext0pd0ll.wordpress.com/2017/08/26/i-may-be-slower-but-i-can-out-finesse-you-absolute-battles-newest-challenger-momgotthemhands-talks-age-gender-and-relationships-in-the-fgc/ 2017-08 Michelle Kennedy, known now in the FGC by her tag “Mom Got Them Hands,” sat down with me for a short interview that turned into an in-depth discussion on women in gaming, parent-child bonding, and the social stigma of gaming as a hobby. Her answers were certainly thought-provoking, and I thoroughly enjoyed learning about her experience in the fighting game world. Kizzie Kay: The anime community is more brother-based... but what I like about the Capcom side is its rivalry and fire https://www.eventhubs.com/news/2017/sep/27/kizzie-kay-anime-community-more-brother-based-capcom-side-has-lot-rivalry-and-fire/ 2017-09 As a fan of traditional fighters who lacks a genuine interest in the anime genre, I wanted to experience an event solely dedicated to these titles for myself. CEOtaku 2017 proved to be the perfect opportunity for this venture. Additional Information SKILLS  • Knowledge of Computer Software Such as Word, Excel, Publisher  • Representative for HxG Gaming Events  • Familiar with Social Media and Public Representation  • Advanced Data Management  • Ability to Represent Brands and Merchandise  • Skilled Writer with an Ability to Reach an Audience  • Highly Organized  • Strong Leadership Experience  • Quick Problem Solving Skills  • Ambitious and Dedicated to the Fighting Game Community's Success