Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Amazon Queens, NY • Excellent analytical, problem-solving and communication skills and experience covers all aspects and levels of database Administration • More than 5 years of experience as a SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2, DBA/Developer.  • Experienced in Installing, Configuring, Managing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting, Upgrading and Migrating MS SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2 • Management of backup and restore, export and import from SQL Server to SQL Server.  • Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of High Availability (HA) including Clustering, Always On, Replication, Mirroring and LogShipping.  • Experienced in diagnosing and troubleshooting Performance related problems and have used different native and Third Party tools for Performance Tuning • Some of the tools -Execution plans, Database Tuning Advisor, PerfMon, Activity Monitor, Windows Event Logs and OpNet, SolarWinds • Experience in creating and scheduling SQL Server agent Jobs, setting up Alerts & notifications using SQL Mail.  • Good understanding of Normalization /Denormalization and data modeling database design methodology.  • Creation of Tables, Views and user created Data Types, Indexes, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Working in Production, Test and Development Environment extending logical and physical data models, preparing technical design documentation • Configuration, performance tuning, client/server connectivity, Database Maintenance plans, Database Consistency Checks using DBCC.  • Database Migration, upgrade project from Oracle, MySQL Databases and other data source to SQL Server • Followed the best practices like change management and raising tickets for any changes in production environment.    Database: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2008R2, MS Access,  Scripting Languages: SQL Scripting, PowerShell, JavaScript  DATA Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server DTS  Reporting Tools: SSRS, Report Builder 3.0/2.0, Crystal Reports  Data Modeling: Toad Data Modeler, ER-Win, Visio, SQL Server Data Diagram Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Amazon - Queens, NY August 2017 to Present • Responsible for database server security for highly optimized production databases, maintain 24/7 services for users • Developed Database Maintenance Plan for better performance and design highly effective database recovery plan for prevent data loss • Database Backup & Restore, Installed & Configure, SQL Server 2012 & 2014 in development, test, and production environment • Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL Server 2012 & 2014 Failover Cluster Excellent ability to work with team or start alone and Research new topics and quick, and continuous learner Servers, Replication and Log Shipping configure and maintain • Maintained and configured SQL Server 2012 Clustering on Microsoft Clustering services (MSCS) from data center to test environment.  • Troubleshoot production issues and fine-tuning of databases, and designing database schema and capacity planning disk utilization • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008 to 2014, Cold fusion to MySQL database in test/production environment • Run DBCC statements to check physical and logical consistency of database and Rebuild indexes • Monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server by using SolarWinds and Performance Monitor native tool. Database Administrator Military Personnel Services Corp - Falls Church, VA August 2014 to May 2017 • Install, Configure and Maintain Failover Clustering using SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 for Windows environment.  • Install Configure and Maintain Database Mirroring using automatic failover option in, High Safety/High Performance Always On technology on MS SQL 2012, 2014, 2016.  • Participating in migration and consolidation of SQL Server databases and Assisting in operational activities of database platforms.  • Responsible for disaster recovery (DR) and high availability (HA) solutions.  • Implementing performance tuning and assisted in system troubleshooting database and providing technical support for all components of major databases.  • Conducting data modeling and designed relational databases, maintain and manage DBCC checks and resolved data corruption issues.  • Database modeling and create database schema objects including indexes and views.  • Monitor SQL Server performance and administered SSIS data flow transformations.  • Strong communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to meet deadlines and set priorities.  • Database security Administration. Protecting database integrity. Managing access controls and adequate segregation of duty, user access management i.e. creating and granting user access and roles • Design virtual network, install and configure VM's for various database servers as connected through micro soft cloud • Created Backup strategy for production and development environment and provide High Availability solutions for current project • Write automated script, Scheduled jobs, manage automated solutions for all the production servers • Backup plan and disaster recovery solution and Scheduled transactional Replication process for updating our parallel servers.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server, MySQL to 2014 in test/production environment • Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL Server Failover Cluster Servers, Replication and Log Shipping set up and maintaining • Lock, Block and Deadlock Monitoring and Tuning • Involved in creating and modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers • Data Modeling using ERWin and Designed Logical, Physical Database using ERWin Education Bachelor's in Mathematics Bachelor's Univ of Dhaka Skills SQL (5 years), DBA, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) October 2018 to Present Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server, Windows 7/10, PowerShell