Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator New Britain, CT • 3+ years of experience in Oracle Database administrator, having exclusive experience in database administration, installation, configuration and upgrades with Oracle Software 11g/10g on Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, AIX, and Windows Platform.  • Knowledge in GoldenGate Replication  • Converted Physical Standby to Snapshot Standby and to Active Data Guard.  • Knowledge in Exadata.  • Hands on experience on RAC database  • Experience in active duplication of databases using RMAN cloning.  • Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard by implementing RMAN backup.  • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, TOAD 12.1  • Experience in designing, implementing and supporting highly available RAC clusters for companywide single sign on application, as well as other database solutions using advanced replication and standby (data guard) options.  • Setup and installed Oracle 11gR1 2, 10g RAC software with ASM & OCFS2 File systems.  • Performance tuning of the database using 11g new features - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM, SPA and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, triggers, cursors, functions, packages, UNIX Shell Scripting, Indexes, Logical and Physical database design to implement the business logic.  • Handled operational responsibilities like database refreshes/copy backs, security, documenting standards and procedures, data migration, data clean-up, data archiving, etc.  • Good co-ordination and communication with system administrators, business data analysts and development teams. Work Experience Database Administrator Polaris - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2012 to June 2014 Hyderabad, India  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Backup of Database (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc.).  • Configuration and Maintenance of oracle 11g RAC, Standby database.  • Database upgrades and migrations from 9i to 10g/11g database versions.  • Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path.  • Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability.  • Involved in Creating and Managing Table spaces with different block-sizes to prevent row chaining.  • Performed day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Analysis and management of Oracle problems/defects using SRs and/or Metalink with Oracle  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • 24x7 production support for several critical systems which utilize multiple Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g databases.  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN.  • Implemented Database Security, Management of role-based security.    Environment: Oracle 11g, 10g with RAC and ASM, SQL, PL/SQL, CRONTAB, Erwin, O/S: RHEL 4.2, OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, ASM Packages. Database Administrator Swarna Bharathi Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to May 2012 Hyderabad, India  • Developed backup and recovery strategies, batch processing, performance monitoring, log maintenance and automating functions wherever possible.  • Maintained database security by managing users roles, privileges. Implemented new security rules via roles as per the company policies.  • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Loaded data into database tables using SQL *Loader.    Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle 10g, TOAD, SQL PLUS, PL/SQL Developer. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Central Connecticut State University - New Britain, CT 2014 to 2016 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2008 to 2012 Skills DATABASE (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), PL/SQL (2 years), RMAN (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages SQL • PL/SQL • C • C++ • UNIX Shell Scripting  Database Oracle 11g/RAC • Oracle 10g/RAC • Oracle 9i • Microsoft SQL Server  Tools RAC • OEM Grid Control • SQL *Loader • ASM • SQL Server • Export/Import • Patch Management • SQLNET • ODBC • RMAN • TOAD • Data pump • Data Guard • VMware • CronTab  Tuning Tools TKPROF • EXPLAIN PLAN • STATSPACK • ADDM • AWR • ASH & ADDM.  Terminal Emulation Toad • Putty • Telnet • FTP • PL/SQL