Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database administrator Chicago, IL • Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) with around 10 Years of experience as Oracle Database Administrator providing 24/7 Production support/ Engineering for Oracle databases 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i on various Unix platforms like Solaris, HP-UX, Linux and AIX.  • Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) for a high transaction volume OLTP application with Transaction Application Failover.  • Extensive experience in Installations, Configurations, Cloning, Patching, Upgrades, Performance Tuning, Backup-Recoveries, Data Archiving, DB Monitoring, Capacity Management, User Management, Index Management, Managing Data Dictionary Objects, and Database Troubleshooting and Oracle tools.  • Extensive experience in supporting very large and mission critical Oracle databases in both OLTP and OLAP environment with database size over 30+ TB.  • Experience in deploying secondary and disaster sites with physical standby databases using Data Guard and Logical standby as well.  • Experience in Upgrading/Migrating Oracle databases to 10g/11g/12c versions.  • Experience in Oracle 12c database consolidations. Implemented Multi-tenancy architecture in 12c, migrated databases from Non-CDB to Container/Pluggable databases.  • Perform necessary Co-ordination with Application team and other IS teams during the project life-cycle.  • Responsible for applying patches on Single / RAC database instances.  • Install and Manage Automatic Storage Management (ASM) Instances and databases on it.  • Responsible for performing Data guard switchover/failover and fixing GAP issues.  • Hands on experience on RAC database /EXADATA maintenances such as patching / disk replacement / supporting hardware failure repair/ performance issues.  • Configured Hybrid columnar compression / Flash cache compression / IORM. Also created Cell/ Grid disks in Exadata.  • Expertise in setting up replication with Materialized Views, Streams and Golden Gate.  • Experience in Data Migrations using SQL Loader and DATA PUMP.  • Perform the capacity management for the Databases and Administering Databases of size in TBs.  • Troubleshoot Performance issues in databases using OEM and all available tools like AWR, ADDM, SQLT, SPM and other functions/ packages.  • Experience in Database level tuning using SAR reports, TOP, IOSTAT, VMSTAT, Session wait monitoring etc  • Perform Table Partitioning activities such as Addition, Merge, Split, Exchange and Drop partition.  • Involved in and successfully performed a number of restore and recovery operations.  • Configuring Database maintenance scripts and new shell scripts for the requirement.  • Successfully performed database cloning using RMAN and disk mirroring.  • Good Knowledge in Configuring and Maintaining Database Backup Strategies. Also configured and restored databases using Flashback.  • Creation of roles, granting privileges and profiles based on Application design.  • Coordinating with various teams and Oracle support during Sev-1 issues.  • Provided On-Call support and resolved many priority Incidents.  • Involved in Problem management and provided Service Improvements.  • Ability to function successfully in a highly stressful, 24x7 mission critical environment.  • Result oriented, self-motivated, team player with ability to work independently. Managed a team of 20+ members across locations - offshore, Nearshore and Onsite.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with good written and verbal communication skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions December 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities  • Have Performed up-gradations from Oracle 9i/10g to 11g versions and migrations in Dataguard and RAC databases.  • Perform necessary Co-ordination with Application team and other IS teams during the life-cycle design.  • Creating, Configuring and deleting Oracle databases using the DBCA.  • Building Dataguard environments - Both Physical and Logical standby databases.  • Install one-off /PSU Patches and Bundle fixes on Single / RAC database instances.  • Install and Manage Automatic Storage Management (ASM) Instances.  • Installing and configuring RAC databases based on project need.  • Configuring Database maintenance scripts.  • Performed Dataguard switchover/failover.  • Perform the capacity management for the Databases.  • Administering Databases of size in TBs.  • Involved in and successfully performed a number of restore and recovery operations.  • Successfully performed database cloning from production to lower environments using RMAN and disk mirroring.  • Coordinating with various teams and Oracle support during Sev-1 issues.  • Provided On-Call support and resolved many priority Incidents.  • Configuring the Replication using MVIEWs and STREAMS.  • Creation of roles, granting privileges and profiles based on Application design.  • Involved in Problem management and provided Service Improvements. Database Administrator Sify Technologies Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2006 to December 2009 Client: General Motors / Harvard Business Publishing / General Insurance Corporation  Environment: HP UX/ Solaris / RHEL with Oracle 9i /10g  Support Location: Chennai, India.    Responsibilities:  • Install Oracle binaries and create databases / ASM instances.  • Creation of tablespaces, data files, users etc., for the project requirement  • Managing physical and logical database storage structures.  • Controlling user operations by limiting the database space and grant the necessary roles, privileges and profiles to the users.  • Node eviction issues and configuring high availability services for transparent application failover (TAF).  • Building standby database for the replication of the primary database.  • Experience in patching, Software Upgradation and version upgrade in Single / RAC instances.  • Experience in performing schema level restorations with the help of expdp/impdp.  • Monitoring the database growth and perform re-organization and necessary capacity planning.  • Monitoring the scheduled jobs like (Backup, Statistics, and Maintenance jobs) and fixing it during failures.  • Checking the consistency of the data files using the DBVerify utility.  • Performed regular online and offline backups.  • Performed logical backups using Export/Import utilities.  • Monitoring ASM disk groups.  • Database cloning using RMAN.  • Worked on block corruption issues with RMAN.  • Troubleshoot the performance issues using AWR & Tuning advisors. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Santhosha Engineering College, Anna University Skills Oracle DBA (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), Exadata (4 years), RAC (9 years), Golden Gate (5 years), ASM (10+ years), Oracle 10G / 11g (10+ years), Performance Tuning (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional Additional Information Technical skills:  Operating systems Red hat Linux , Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HP UX  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c  Database tools & Utilities  RMAN, Datapump, Dataguard, Streams, Golden Gate, RAC, ASM, Materialized views, SQLLoader, SRVCTL, EMCTL, CRSCTL, AWR, ADDM, DBArtisan, TOAD, OEM, DBCA, OUI, SQLT , Opatch and Exadata.    Languages Unix shell scripts, SQL, PL/SQL