DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR • Talented IT professional with extensive training in Oracle 11gR2 and 12c with extensive hands on experience.  • Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Implements and enforces security for all of the Databases.  • Performs databases re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the databases.  • Expertise in hardware/software integration, reinforced by proven ability to develop business solutions that improve efficiency, productivity, and profitability.  • Experience in administering, tuning and monitoring database using OEM, SQL PLUS, ASM, ASMCA, SVRTL,RMAN, NETCA, DBCA, LSNRCTL, EMCTL, ORAPWD, SHELL SCRIPTING, ORACLE GRID CONTROL, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ASMCMD  • Designed strategies for performing database backups and recovery.    • Strong interpersonal, time management and organizational skills. Proven team player with strong ability to multitask.  • 24x7 on-call Production support for database activities.  • Ability to adapt to new environment fast.  • Knowledge of Oracle security management.  • Perform both Oracle and also operating system performance monitoring and the necessary adjustments.  • Experienced and knowledge in migrating code, database changes, data and menus through the various stages of the development life cycle.  • Proficient experience with Oracle Financials, Discoverer, and Enterprise Manager.  • Good knowledge of Database security management, and Oracle tools. Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NATIONAL RURAL ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION 2016 to 2018 PROJECT SCOPE: SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS  The National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) is a trade association for over 900 consumer-owned electric cooperatives serving more than 42 million people. Supported Oracle Infrastructure projects including administration of Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, implementing disaster recovery policies, Database corruption remediation, ASM storage analysis, and system configuration analysis.  Responsibilities/Deliverables:  • Experience in Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting of Oracle Database on UNIX, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Windows on highly transitive and Very Large Databases (VLDB) and mission critical large OLTP, OLAP systems to support NRECA program.  • Implementation and Administration of Oracle Data guard technology to replicate OLTP active database to OLTP passive database.  • Perform administration tasks (installing, maintaining, monitoring, recovering, rebuilding, upgrading, patching and performance tuning).  • Develops and document processes and procedures for maintenance, installation, upgrade, backups and recoveries of production and test databases as required by the business.  • Analyzing the quality of the data, managing and designing accurate logical data models.  • Organizing large data feeds from variety of data sources and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and tablespaces to improve the performance.  • Works with project team to design quality physical database designs and implement accordingly.  • Configure storage systems software to meet requirements (ASM).  • Provide recommendations on how best to fine tune and resolve data quality issues.  • Test database software deployment.  • Investigate data anomalies.  • Post system deployment to investigate.  • Resolve technical data issues related to the applications and back-end data processes.  • Support production builds and system hardening.  • Integrate new products and software packages into the system.  • Makes recommendation for hardware upgrade based on system performance and forecasted growth.  • Handled daily DBA activities and excellent experience with SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints and business rules.  • Creating and managing users, roles and profiles, implementing security, assigning tablespaces to the users, granting roles and privileges etc.  • Co-ordinate with UNIX administrators and management team for space management, problem resolution, capacity planning, software version control, evaluation and support on various servers.  • Works with application developers and user communities to determine requirements for new database-driven applications, including data transition and conversion support, creating user/group roles, and helping to define any reporting requirements.  • Works with application administrators to ensure that all applications are functioning properly and resolves all database issues.  • Monitors database performance and implements changes necessary to maintain acceptable performance levels.  • Provide day-to-day Database support that includes monitoring, troubleshooting, and performance tuning of database environments  • Provides general database analysis, administration, and programming support for various database systems, include user management, database design, data imports and exports, database software updates and patches, database backups, and security compliance.  • Work independently but also function in a team oriented environment and have excellent communication skills. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR WALMART INC.(CLIENT) 2014 to 2016 PROJECT SCOPE: ENERGY TECHNICAL SYSTEMS  Peabody is the leading global pure-play coal company and a member of the Fortune 500, serving power and steel customers in more than 25 countries on six continents. Supported Oracle Database projects including implementing disaster recovery policies, Oracle 12c installation/administration, Database corruption remediation/mitigation, ASM storage analysis, and system configuration analysis.  Responsibilities/Deliverables:  • Perform Installation, configuration, upgrade, and administration of Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control.  • Perform administration tasks (installing, maintaining, monitoring, recovering, rebuilding, upgrading, patching and performance tuning).  • Designs, implements and maintains moderately complex databases, access methods, access time, device allocation, validation checks, organization, protection and security, documentation and statistical methods.  • Maintains database dictionaries, monitors standards and procedures and integration of systems through database design.  • Performs ongoing tuning of the database instances.  • Plans, develops and implements backup, archival and recovery policies and procedures of the databases.  • Develops and document processes and procedures for maintenance, installation, upgrade, backups and recoveries of production and test databases as required by the business.  • Control the migrations of programs, database changes, reference data changes and menu changes through the development life cycle.  • Work within a team of developers, system administrators, web developers to design, implement database systems by application of principles and techniques of computer science, engineering, and mathematical analysis.  • Responsible for the successful running of all applications and services running on the database.  • Analyze software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  • Develop software system testing procedures, programming, and documentation.  • Maintain current knowledge of relevant technology as assigned, and participate in special projects as required.  • Participating in quality assurance reviews when necessary with an emphasis on accessing data with efficiency.  • Review audit and error logs to ensure systems / applications are functioning as expected.  • Monitors database performance and implements changes necessary to maintain acceptable performance levels.  • Creates and maintains all databases required for development, testing, and production usage.  • Provides general database analysis, administration, and programming support for various database systems, include user management, database design, data imports and exports, database software updates and patches, database backups, and security compliance.  • On call support 24x7. Education MBA in Finance / Information Systems Lindenwood University 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Lindenwood University 2011 Skills DATABASES (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), SQL (5 years), PERFORMANCE TUNING (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Databases: ORACLE 11G R2, ORACLE 12C.  • Operating System: WINDOWS (SERVER 2008/2012), LINUX (RED HAT)  • DBA: Installation, Performance tuning, Back-Ups and Recovery, Upgrading Troubleshooting, Security, AWR Reports, Redo Logs, Auditing.  • Application Tool: SQL PLUS, SQL DEVELOPER, SSH, PUTTY, SQL LOADER, WINDOWS POWER SHELL.  • Oracle Utility: DBCA, OEM, NETCA, LSNRCTL, OUI, ASM, ASMCA, ORAPWD, SRVCTL, EMCTL, RMAN, SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ASMCMD  • Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX SHELL (KORN, BASH, C)