Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - AF GROUP New Berlin, WI Five (5) years of experience as a Database Administrator, having hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management, and database security with MS Sql Server(2012, 2014 and 2016) on Windows Platform, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, and Including Oracle (10g, 11g, 12c)  • Superb Knowledge of MS SQL Server 2008-2106 in Database and Installation Administration.  • Experience in database upgrade and migration.  • Experience in troubleshooting and resolving database installation issues, integrity issues, performance issues, blocking and deadlocking issues.  • Strong experience with Performance Tuning and query Optimization using performance monitor, SQL profiler, and other related monitoring and troubleshooting tools.  • Ability to detect and troubleshoot SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O, disk space and other resource contention.  • Experience with High Availability solutions-Log Shipping and Database mirroring  • Expert in backups, restores and recovery processes.  • Knowledge of High Availability (HA), Always On, MS SQL Clustering and Disaster Recovery (DR) options for SQL Server.  • Expert knowledge of Data Security, SQL Server Database Encryption (TDE) and data protection best practices.  • Experience working with Windows server with a working knowledge of general Datacenter operations both physical and virtual.  • Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g to 11g  • Experience working in an agile project methodology.  • Expert experience in implementing operational automation  • Strong Knowledge of how indexes, index management and how indexes are stored and how they can be created and managed effectively.  • Knowledge of SSIS and SSRS  • Experience supporting application Development request for database/schema refreshes  • Expert knowledge of oracle 11g and 12c installation, patching, upgrades and administration Work Experience Database Administrator AF GROUP - New Berlin, WI June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations/implementation for performance improvement in hosted HA databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases  • Maintained SQL Server Databases; ensured accuracy of information and automated numerous functions.  • Created and manage Oracle 12c container and pluggable databases  • Fine tuning of database objects and server to ensure efficient data retrieval.  • Monitor and optimize system performance using SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Installed and managed and provided day to day administrative support for SQL server 2012, 2014 and 2016  • Participated in on call rotation  • Experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Recovery, Database Monitoring tools and Application support  • Involved in the migration of on premise databases to Azure cloud  • Monitor and optimized system performance using SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Plan, Design and Scheduled Database Maintenance & Administrative Tasks  • Performance Tuning - Execution plan, Profiler, Performance Monitor, Extended Events, Data Collector and Resource Governor  • Administer and support databases in log shipping configuration.  • Expertise in T-SQL writing stored procedures, triggers and functions  • Implemented & Administered SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies  • Experience in using DMV and dynamic management functions for finding out long running queries  • Installed, upgraded and patched and managed Oracle Databases on 10g to 12c servers  • Monitored and managed databases in mirroring configuration environment Database Administrator Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH December 2013 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Plan, install, and test software upgrades and patches.  • Monitors database performance trends to identify anomalies or errors.  • Develops, plans, and establishes database performance baselines.  • Test and coordinate database modifications.  • Plan and coordinate security measures alongside Banner Security Administrators and Database Administrator Manager.  • Create and maintains all SQL Server databases required for development, testing, education and production usage.  • Perform the capacity planning required to create and maintain production and dev databases.  • Perform ongoing tuning of the database instances.  • Install new versions of the SQL Server RDBMS and its tools and any other tools that access the Oracle database.  • Periodically test the databases backup and recovery process.  • Implement and enforces security for all of the SQL Server Databases.  • Monitor log shipping configuration  • Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database.  • Enforce established standards to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Perform reviews on the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards are being adhered to.  • Help evaluate releases of SQL Server and its tools, and third party products to ensure that PCOM is running the products that are most appropriate.  • Provide technical support to the Enterprise Applications Team.  • Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  • Administer all database objects, including tables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Assist with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Respond to and resolve database access and performance issues.  • Perform database transactions and security audits.  • Establish appropriate end-user database access control levels. Education Some college Skills DATABASES (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), SQL SERVER (5 years), ORACLE (5 years), SQL (5 years), DBA, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses MCSA Present MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present OCA Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c. MS Sql Server 2012-2016  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Azure Monitor, Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, VN, Sql Developer, Sql Server Management Studio, Iginite/DPA, MobaXterm, Cisco Automatic workload Automation, OEM 12c    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Other Skills Microsoft Azure, Azure Virtual Machines, SSIS, RAC, GOLDEN GATE, DATA GUARD, AZURE CLOUD