Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - ULTIMATE RELIANCE, INC Austell, GA Over 3 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator in installation, configuration, upgrades, tuning, backup, recovery, cloning and support. Demonstrate the ability to work independently with minimum supervision as well as communicate both orally and in writing. Self-directed, highly motivated team player focused on leading team towards common goals and building strong working relationship. Work Experience Database Administrator ULTIMATE RELIANCE, INC February 2012 to Present Monitoring and tuning database management system.  - Analyze database performance and recommend enhancements as appropriate.  - Monitoring data usage to ensure correct use by applications and to minimize redundancy.  - Performing health checks and constantly reviewing the alert logs.  - Installed and configured Oracle Database software and Utilities for multiple client server.  - Participated in the project for the Installation and configuration of Disaster Recovery Infrastructure (Oracle Data Guard)  - Migrated Oracle Database 11g from File system to Automatic Storage Management (ASM)  - Monitoring the storage utilizations and planning future storage requirements.  - Made changes to development and production database in response to developers request.  - Provided recommendations to Sys Admins. to enhance performance of database.  - Performed SQL tuning to improve performance of the database.  - Performed backup and recovery of the database. Also clone and duplicate database for Development and testing.  - Used SQL-Loader utility to load data into oracle database from external files.  - Provide database related support for application development team. Database Administrator KAYBAMZ, INC June 2010 to January 2012 Proactively assist in the evaluation of application requirements as it relates to the database environment.  - Monitor database growth and provide input to overall system capacity planning.  - Managing Backup and Recovery for Oracle on Linux Platform using RMAN  - Going through the day to day user requests and troubleshooting the database related problems  - Monitored Tablespace size, resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O  - Created Users, allocation of appropriate Table space quotas with necessary privileges and roles. Used OEM Diagnostic and tuning pacts to tune the application and SQL queries  - Created Backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups, flash copy and RMAN technology Education MBA in Business Administration Honors - Long Island University - New York, NY Additional Information Oracle Certified Associate (OCA)