Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Altisource Business Solutions pvt ltd bengaluru ? Having 3 + years of Experience as Oracle Database Administration (10g, 11g).  ? Experience in Installation of standalone, RAC 10g/11g on Linux environment.  ? Experience in Handling the Oracle Cluster ware and RAC database.  ? Good Experience in Creating ASM disks, ASM Disk groups and adding to existing environment.  ? Experience in Upgradation of Databases from lower version to higher versions.  ? Good experience on Applying Patches, CPU, PSU.  ? Configuring and managing Physical dataguard on Linux platform by Manual / DGMGRL utility.  ? Switchover, Activating the Standby to Primary and No data loss.  ? Maintaining the DR in sync with Primary and resolving the GAP whenever required.  ? Configuring and managing backup through RMAN utility using recovery catalog.  ? Experience in Clone the databases by using cold, Hot and RMAN methods.  ? Good Experience in refreshing of Databases and schemas by using Data pump utility.  ? Configuring Listener &Tnsnames using NETCA utility.  ? Creating Database links in Oracle for communicating with external databases, and materialized views.  ? Experience in administrating database security by creating users, grant/revoke roles, privileges to users.  ? Experience in creating and assigning profiles to users.  ? Having Good knowledge on Oracle Architecture.  ? Having Good Knowledge on Unix/Linux.  ? Having good Knowledge on hot backup, cold backup, Data pump, rman. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Altisource Business Solutions pvt ltd June 2015 to Present Technical Qualifications:  ? Operating Systems: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Windows 2000/XP etc.  ? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  ? RDBMS: Oracle 10g & 11g  ? Tools & Utilities: DataPump, RMAN, DBCA, ASMCA,  ASMCMD, SQL*PLUS, Exp/Imp, ORAPWD, DBUA,  CRSCTL, SRVCTL, OCRCONFIG. Database Administrator Ocwen Financial Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to Present Cloning the databases from prod databases for application testing  ? Created and Managing Standby Databases for Disaster recovery.  ? Good working and implementation knowledge on Stand-by databases for fail-over and recovery.  ? Responsible for configuring and taking level 0 and level 1 incremental RMAN backups and resolving issues arising out of those. Performed daily health check of the databases by implementing above backup and recovery procedures.  ? Configuration of grid listeners using NETCA and starting and stopping the listeners.  ? Responsible for refreshing DEV, UAT and other environments upon business request.  ? Responsible for monitoring the alert logs and resolving if any issues. For unresolved issues follow-up with Oracle support.  ? Checking if there is enough disk space for the data file to grow.  ? Monitoring session locks. Monitoring DB backup jobs and sending reports.  ? Refreshing Non-Prod databases with Prod databases.  ? Deploying the scripts in Prod & Non Prod environment.  ? Responsible for Installation, administration and upgrade of Oracle RAC Grid Infrastructure & standalone 10g & 11g production and development databases.  ? Providing 24x7 on call support for production database issues.  ? Upgraded the databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Bangalore. (Kumar Raja) Education B.tech in computer science benagaluru June 2015 to September 2018 Skills 10g,11g,Rman,Asm,Dataguard,Patching,Upgradation,Cold backup,Hot backup,Datapump,Rac,12c (3 years)