Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Calpine Microsoft Certified SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA). U.S. Citizen over 5 years of experience in SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014/2016 databases seeking a position as MS SQL Server Database Administrator. Detail oriented hardworking professional with an effective combination of logical, analytical, communication and documentation skills. I served in different roles on agile development projects. Fast learner, and great team player takes proactive approach towards tasks assigned and can work independently. Work Experience Database Administrator Calpine - Alexandria, VA April 2018 to Present • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server in development, test and production environment  • Strong working experience in SQL native database Backup and restore.  • Disaster Recovery planning and implementation  • Administers SQL Server database systems  • Oversees the scheduling of database projects, database and transaction log backups, notifications.  • Configured and maintain Database High Availability group always on.  • Configured and maintain database replication between multiple SQL Servers and remote sites.  • Reviews technical designs, reports, documentation, and other material produced by team member.  • creates and maintains high-level reporting systems using SSRS (SQL server Reporting Services)  • Perform day to day and monitoring of system health relates to database usage and performance.  • Perform research into database performance issues and come up with solutions to address those  • Perform database health checks using SQL profiler, Extended Event, performance  monitor, performance counters and DBCC commands.  • Calculate database sizes and plan appropriately for growth.  • Monitored and scheduled automation jobs using SQL Server Agent and Maintenance Plan  • Configured Database mail, Operator, Notification, alert to send and receive database  related information which can affected the performance.  • Developed and applied Backup strategy at my current workplace  • Used DMV (Dynamic Management View) for different database Administration tasks like find backup history, indexes fragmentation, statistics, and status of different jobs Database Administrator Whole foods Market 2014 to 2016 production database tables, views, stored procedures  • Maintains and monitors client data import/export processes  • Database programming experience like writing T-SQL coding and testing: functions, views, triggers, cursors, dictionary, stored procedures  • Monitor daily basis databases and database engine health and performance using Extended Events, DMVS, SQL Server Profiler, Trace Flags, Performance Monitor, and third-party tools such as Spotlight, and SolarWinds.  • Monitor Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Failover Cluster Manager Event Viewer for software and hardware related errors  • Detect and troubleshoot SQL server related CPU / memory, I/O, disk space, deadlocks, blocking and locking and other resource contention issues.  • Support and develop multiple SQL Server Databases and data replication subsystems  • Maintain and monitor all redundancy and disaster recovery configurations for SQL systems  • Collaborate with application developers to support the development process  • Configured and maintain SQL server High availability (Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Failover Clustering, Always ON)  • Ensure all developed SQL Server components function flawlessly in a production environment  • Each week review top 10 most resource-intensive queries and suggest ways to improve them  • Implement, maintain and respond to critical job notifications on failure  • Identify and troubleshoot issues and tune all SQL databases for maximum performance  • Support all departments with requests related to SQL database, such as ad-hoc reports, new database deployments, etc.  • Create and maintain up-to-date documentation of all SQL environments and processes associated with the database  • Support a 24/7 environment  • Other duties as assigned Amerigroup - Washington, DC March 2013 to January 2014 Database Administrators    • Installed, Configured and Managed SQL Server in development, test and production environment  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over SQL Clustering Server  • Upgraded databases from SQL Server lower version to upper version in testing and production environment  • Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server  • Responsible for Database Backup, Restore and Point-in-Time Recovery  • Monitored Server Activity, Error Log, space usage and solved problems as needed  • Managed MS SQL Cluster (Active/Active), Multi node cluster.  • Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring using automatic fail-over option  • Configured Log Shipping as Standby database from Production database for Reporting purposes  • Configured and Maintained Replications.  • Data load, Disk management,    Feb2014-Mar 2018