Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Database Engineer Newark, DE • Expert in Oracle Database Architectures  • Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g and 12C with experience in very large-scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Experienced in Oracle installations, upgrades, migration, configuring logical/physical architecture, SQL, Tuning, database access and Security and auditing.  • Cloning and Consolidating Databases.  • Create, test and implement backup and recovery plans utilizing RMAN for Oracle databases.  • Proactively monitoring Oracle databases to detect and resolve bottlenecks.  • Extensive knowledge in Database Backup and Recovery concepts using RMAN utilities (scheduling full/incremental/cumulativebackups, hot/cold backups writing/editing UNIX Shell Scripts for RMAN).  • Responsible for Loading Data on different databases using SQL*Loader  • Experience in LOGICAL BACKUPS and Database migration tools with DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable table spaces.  • Extensive knowledge in Data guard configuration, implementing and monitoring standby databases.  • Enforcing business rules by employing integrity constraints.  • Delivered SQL and Database performance tuning services via V$/GV$ views, Explain Plan, TKPROF, AWR (Stats pack) reports, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid control, analyzed SQL trace dumps for 9i/10g/11g.  • Experience in database cloning with RMAN, Capacity Planning, Database Refresh and patch management.  • Capacity Planning, Production server Alert setup.  • Knowledge of NoSQL Databases  • Good analytical and planning and presentation skills.  • Strong verbal and personal communication skills.  Willing to Relocate: Anywhere  Authorized to work in the US for ANY Employer Work Experience Database Engineer Marcy Staffing May 2016 to April 2018 Environment: Oracle 11g, 12c, Erwin, OEM 12c, RMAN, TOAD, sqldeveloper, SQL, PL/SQL, STATPACK, AWR, ADDM, Data Pump, NoSQL, Linux (RHEL), Dataguard, Putty  • 24x7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Backup databases and weekly Database refresh in Oracle.  • Installed, upgraded and configured the Oracle by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing as well as managing blockers and waiters in the database.  • Provided technical expertise, support, oversight, and need analysis in functional areas such as, but not limited to, design and development of IT solutions and architecture.  • Reviewed logical and physical database design and application design, and facilitated the use of IT solutions by end-users.  • Performed backup configuration and backed up databases using RMAN for Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups in Oracle  • Performed Full and Incremental backups using RMAN.  • Created Link servers to update different databases at the same time.  • Cloned Databases in Oracle 12c using RMAN at the request of developers, testers and training environment.  • Utilizes an enterprise-wide set of disciplines for planning, analysis, design, construction, reverse engineering, and reengineering of information systems.  • Moved data between servers using Oracle Data Pump Export/Import Utility  • Created logical and physical design of database and ER Diagrams using the ERWIN and StarUML modeling tool.  • Worked extensively on forward and reverse engineering processes.  • Created DDL scripts for implementing Data Modeling changes.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL Programs such as procedures, functions, packages and triggers  • Performed SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL  • Maintained daily Health Check Up of Oracle.  • Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Performed creation of databases, tablespaces, and all types of schema objects.  • Managed Schema Objects. Database Administrator CHERT Systems March 2013 to February 2016 Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, MS SQL Server (R2 2008, 2012, 2014), Redhat Linux, Solaris, OEM, Management Studio, RMAN, Export/Import, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD  • Migration of Database from 10g to 11g and applying patches whenever required.  • Migration of Database from SQL Server R2 2008 to 2012  • Maintained daily Health Check Up of Oracle and MS SQL Server Databases.  • Ensured technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  • Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Performed creation of databases, tablespaces, and all types of schema objects.  • Managed Schema Objects.  • Configured and implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases  • 24x7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN  • Performed physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Performed database cloning and duplication using RMAN.  • Installed and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity. Education Masters of Science in Information Technology Coventry University - Coventry 2014 Bachelor of Technology in Science Lab Technology Ladoke Akintola University of Technology 2011 Skills LINUX (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), PL/SQL (4 years), RMAN (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux (RHEL), UNIX and Windows 10 Professional, Windows 2012 Server  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripting.  Tools and Utilities: TOAD, RMAN, Export/Import, Datapump, SQL*Loader, Netca, Netmgr, Net Backup, SQL*Plus, ERWIN, StarUML, Data Pump, Sqldeveloper, Oracle Enterprise Manager, NoSQL, Putty, DBCA, Logminer, TKPROF, OPATCH, SQL Loader.    IT Methodologies: Agile development Process, SCRUM, DSDM.