Database Engineer <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Cypress, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Engineer Dotlen - Norristown, PA May 2016 to November 2017 • 24x7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Backup databases and weekly Database refresh in Oracle and MS SQL Server  • Facilitated Oracle and MS SQL Server databases from development to Test and then to production environment.  • Installed, upgraded and configured the Oracle and MS SQL environment by creating databases, storage structures and objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing as well as managing blockers and waiters in the database.  • Provided technical expertise, support, oversight, and need analysis in functional areas such as, but not limited to, design and development of IT solutions and architecture.  • Reviewed logical and physical database design and application design, and facilitated the use of IT solutions by end-users.  • Performed capacity planning, Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL*Loader, External Tables, Import Export Wizard, OPENROWSET (BULK).  • Performed backup configuration and backed up databases using RMAN for Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups in Oracle  • Performed backup configuration and backed up SQL Server databases for Full backups, Differential backups, Transaction log backups and Tail log backups.  • Performed Full and Incremental backups using RMAN.  • Created Link servers to update different databases at the same time.  • Cloned Databases in Oracle 12c using RMAN at the request of developers, testers and training environment.  • Utilizes an enterprise-wide set of disciplines for planning, analysis, design, construction, reverse engineering, and reengineering of information systems.  • Moved data between servers using Oracle Data Pump Export/Import Utility  • Created logical and physical design of database and ER Diagrams using the ERWIN and StarUML modeling tool.  • Worked extensively on forward and reverse engineering processes.   • Created DDL scripts for implementing Data Modeling changes.  • Applied Oracle database patches.  • Developed T-SQL, SQL, PL/SQL Programs such as procedures, functions, packages and triggers  • Performed SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL  • Maintained daily Health Check Up of Oracle and MS SQL Server Databases.  • Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Performed creation of databases, tablespaces, and all types of schema objects.  • Managed Schema Objects. Database Administrator Chert System - Lagos, Nigeria March 2013 to February 2016 • 24x7 Production database administration, support and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of database issues.  • Administration of all database objects, including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures.  • Migration of Database from 10g to 11g and applying patches whenever required.   • Migration of Database from SQL Server R2 2008 to 2012  • Maintained daily Health Check Up of Oracle and MS SQL Server Databases.  • Ensured technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  • Installed and managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Performed creation of databases, tablespaces, and all types of schema objects.  • Managed Schema Objects.  • Eliminated time required in reconciling conflicting data for internal and external customers using Teradata integrated data warehousing to pull reports.  • Configured and implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN  • Performed physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Performed database cloning and duplication using RMAN.  • Installed and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity. Education Master's in Information Technology Coventry University - Coventry, United Kingdom January 2013 to April 2014 Bachelor's in Science Lab Technology Ladoke Akintola University Of Technology - Nigeria January 2005 to November 2011 Skills Oracle 11g (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), SDLC (3 years), Agile (3 years), Linux (3 years), ERWIN & StarUML (3 years), Toad (3 years), T-Sql (3 years), SQL (3 years), Oracle Enterprise Manager (4 years), MS SQL Management Studio (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/wole-akanbi-b8a318154/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate September 2011 to Present Additional Information Skills  Proficient in use of Microsoft packages (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, Visio, Access), Data Analysis (Using VLOOKUP and pivot tables) and Oracle Database Certification (OCA).