Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Tech Mahindra Americas Schaumburg, IL • Over five years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration, installation, configuration, upgrades, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, auditing.  • Proactive Monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using AWR, ASH, ADDM and 11g OEM Grid Monitoring  • Experienced in using 11g features Data pump; Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid monitoring  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, 11g OEM Grid Monitoring.  • Proven ability to install and administer Oracle GoldenGate in a variety of operating system environments including Linux, Unix and Windows  • Experienced in Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Meta link and other Support Procedures.  • Created standby database and configured Data guard environments for disaster recovery and high availability  • Checking for Alert log file for errors and monitoring the Hit ratios. Management of schemas, objects, tables & indexes partitioning.  • Managing client requirements, project workflow, and preparing and/or coordinating complex written and verbal materials related to technical problem solving  • Support for implementing and upgrading various new and third party application on the client end.  • Excellent interpersonal skills and strong analytical, problem-solving skills with an attitude that is oriented towards customer satisfaction.  • Working in the team of Oracle database administrators and actively coordinated with the end user community  • Exceptionally good team player, self-motivated, dedicated towards work in any kind of environment. Work Experience Database Administrator Tech Mahindra Americas May 2012 to Present Client: AT&T  Project: Mobility Care and Home Solutions    Responsibilities  As an Oracle DBA, performed day-to-day database administration including software installation, migration, network configuration, performance tuning, backup/recovery, security, etc.    • Supporting over 150+ production/non production application databases including Mission Critical apps  • Managing and monitoring objects, tablespaces, database usage and growth.  • Implementation and monitoring of Golden gate for replication of data across various environments.  • Prepare and setup monitoring script for Golden gate processes  • Monitor, analyze and tune databases to ensure that levels of performance, data integrity and availability are within measures defined by Service Level Agreements.  • Work closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  • Responsible for creating and managing user logons and accounts, roles.  • OEM alert monitoring for database and golden gate  • Primary ADBA for multiple mission critical Oracle databases supporting applications operating in a high availability 24x7 environment  • Managing communication with Oracle co. to report bugs, open SR and support Provide third level support for critical escalations from production  • Capacity planning and space management  • Extensive Experience in working with the Tools like OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM Expdp/Impdp, SQL Tuning Advisor  • Performed data to day deployments on production environment  • Adding space to the data files according to tablespace growth  • Performed GoldenGate activities for Oracle database and enable real-time data integration and continuous data availability by capturing and delivering updates of critical information as the changes occur and providing continuous data synchronization  • Backup and Recovery strategies for Oracle database  • Modifying Oracle parameter (init.ora) for Oracle performance and growth  • Provide Performance Tuning guidelines and direct the team in constantly optimizing response times for both batch processes as well as online transactional systems.  • Prepare the roadmap and implementation plan for the migration and upgrade of applications currently on UNIX to Linux platforms. Advice the best practices of data migration using enhanced techniques available like Golden Gate and Data Pump.  • Work with users/developers to design portion of database needed for specific application  • Schema/Table level Replication using Golden Gate    Key Projects Managed:  • Migration of over 50+ production databases including 3 TB of databases from UNIX to Linux platform with minimal downtime to business.  • Partitioning of large size tables for improved performance  • Golden gate implementation and monitoring for Data replication including cascaded db configuration for over 30+ schemas  • Configured Golden gate for over 20+ DB's  • Set up Bidirectional replication for critical mobile app database    ? Tech Mahindra Ltd, Pune  Client: AT&T  Project: Uverse and Mobility Production support    Responsibilities  • Creating database object like tables, indexes, constraints and views including materialized views.  • Involved with developers in analyzing business rules, identifying ambiguous and conflicting development requirements.  • Monitoring the database daily activities via OEM, and scripts.  • Monitoring of alert logs and follow up with any errors found.  • Documenting the database admin activities and other configuration details.  • Creating database users and setting the default & temporary table spaces, assigning quotas, roles, privileges and profiles to users.  • Schema refresh, table refresh using data pump IMPDP, EXPDP  • Monitoring the table growth, database growth, current users, and system resource usage Project Engineer Scan Electronic Systems - Pune, Maharashtra July 2011 to March 2012 Project Engg    Responsibilities  • Develops, implements, and monitors information systems policies and controls to ensure data accuracy, security, and regulatory compliance.  • Reviews database and manage reports of computer and peripheral equipment production, malfunction, and maintenance to determine and address problems.  • Generates and organizes data collected from SCADA system information into tables, lists of rows and columns using RDBMS.  • Helps support and ensure the accuracy and integrity of information.  • Accommodates data processing and reporting needs  • Manage data collected by Recording Software - Mini SCADA to facilitate Standard features like Tabular Reports, Online graphs, History graphs, Batch Recording, Multiple level passwords.  • Perform database backup/cleanup at regular intervals Education Tech Mahindra's Expert Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sachin-murkar-93257015 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: UNIX Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux ES, AIX-Unix 5, Windows, Oracle Linux  CentOS  Databases: ORACLE 10g/11g  Tools & Utilities: Toad, OEM 11g/12C, SQl Developer, RMAN, ASM, Datapump, logdump  Applications: PL/SQL, Oracle GoldenGate  Scripting Languages: UNIX Shell Scripts