Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Etienne & Sons Riverside, CA Work Experience Database Administrator Etienne & Sons June 2014 to Present • Install oracle software, creating, configuring and managing oracle database- • Constantly checks the log files for any critical errors that may have been detected and using proactive measures in resolving them  • Create users, passwords and grant privileges to users in a multiuser environment to ensure access to right users in order to boost the security of the company's data.  • -Developed and tested storage strategies and disaster recovery plans for large manufacturing company's operational database, delivering solutions that guaranteed recovery performance and high availability.  • -Directly responsible for setting up and troubleshooting transactional replications and able  • to quickly resolve problems and ensure minimal end user downtime.  • -Collaborate with the technical directors and site leads to ensure patching and upgrades  • are scheduled at opportuned times to minimize interruption to site activities  • -Managed oracle database administration assignments for diverse industry clients.  - Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning tools such as tracing, tkprof, tuning advisors etc, and conduct regular system backups  • Actively performs different forms of advanced recovery activities; point in time, recovery on a different host and other flashback import activities.  • Automate DR log archive and apply monitoring via the OEM Grid control  • Monitor and proactively tune oracle database via the OEM Grid control (10g) and RAC platforms (11g) or using the Advisors (SQL Access Advisor, SQL Tuning Advisor, and SQL Repair Advisor) or using scripts.  • Assist in investigating and testing RMAN backup enhancement software and hardware; DATA DOMAIN for RMAN  • Apply various patches ( interim patches, patch set CPU and PSU)  • Enhance existing database designs for improved longevity, reduced maintenance, and improved performance.  Technical Skills  Operating System; linux, unix, RAC, window  Database; oracle Rdbms, 10g, 11g, 12c warehouse  Tools; OEM/Grid control, Rman, Sql*developer, DBCA, Data Pump  Language; Sql Education Bachelor's Skills BACKUPS (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (3 years), MAINTENANCE (3 years), ORACLE (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS Summary:  • Extensive knowledge on RMAN backup and recovery.  • Experience in export/import, and data pump utility. Establish and maintain sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • -Ability to multi-task and prioritize under ever changing and challenging workloads.  • -Capable of managing multiple servers in a multi- instance environment, backups/restores, troubleshooting and proactive maintenance  • Broad knowledge of automatic storage management environment(ASM)  • Motivated self-driven technical troubleshooter-independently digs into technical issues.  • Experience in Data Guard and RAC instances  • -Experience with the application of database backup/recovery architectures and procedure  • Experienced in database administration on oracle (10g and 11g)  • In-depth knowledge of database procedures, regulations, applications and methods.  • Capable of developing, maintaining and implementing database in SQL and oracle  • Outstanding communication and problem solving skills  • Trustworthy and capable of keeping the confidentiality and integrity of a company's data.  • A strong team player with perfect collaborative skills.