Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Associate - ExecuTech Strategic Consulting O'Fallon, IL Work Experience Database Administrator ExecuTech Strategic Consulting - Scott AFB, IL December 2008 to Present Responsible for the maintenance and monitoring of the GATES and GDSS production system. Products supported include Sybase ASE, Sybase Replication Server, Sybase Openswitch, Sybase High Availability, Oracle 10G, SharePlex Replication, OEM, and RMAN.    • Account Management - Responsible for the management of all GATES user accounts. Responsible for the management of all GDSS accounts.    • Coordination - Coordinated with security personnel, developers, operational support, management, system administrators, and other operational DBAs to accomplish the mission.    • Database Backups - Responsible for maintaining backups of the dataserver running Sybase ASE and Oracle 10G.    • Database Security - Created administrator accounts with required roles. Maintained all necessary security paperwork for these operational accounts. Coordinated with Security personnel, both in the PMO and in IA, to ensure that all accounts met their standards. Reported any suspicious activity to our IA personnel.    • Documentation - Provided documentation on new and existing procedures for both GATES (Sybase) and GDSS (Oracle) operational environments.    • High Availability - Responsible for the availability of all supported Sybase and Oracle products.    • Performance Tuning - Identified problems areas for both Sybase and Oracle databases. Resolved any issue that surfaced. If the fix was not sufficient the problem would be escalated to the appropriate level.    • Reporting - Generated reports related to replication queues, replication connections, processes, and database free space. Also received daily reports regarding overall system health and latency.    • Scripting - Responsible for the creation and maintenance of new internal tools. These tools are now used by the level 2 operational DBAs as the primary means of monitoring roughly 200+ ASEs worldwide. Also created various tools for the maintenance and monitoring of the GDSS Oracle 10G systems.    • SQL Programming - Created database objects to increase the productivity of the operational DBAs. Procedures range from those that check user accounts to those that run SQL across multiple servers. Also responsible for the generation of ad hoc T-SQL and PL/SQL queries that provide important information to the administrator.    • Support - Provided phone support, after hours, to lesser experienced DBAs. Travelled to the site when necessary to assist the on shift administrator.    • Training – Trained, and worked closely with, senior DBAs on the GATES and GDSS projects. This includes developers, support personnel, and those in operations. Also shared responsibility of training new employees with other DBAs.     • Kept communication open with all shifts through the use of email distribution list, SharePoint, shift change, and shift meetings.     • Utilized BMC Remedy ticketing program to track work on various issues.    • Utilized various logs to document work done at our level.    • Shared responsibility of shift work with other DBAs. Personnel are staffed 24x7x365.     • Participated in the migration of servers to new hardware, including the upgrade of our application. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Management & Information Systems (CMIS) Southern Illinois University Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL 2006 to 2008 Associate in Science Southwestern Illinois College - Belleville, IL 2003 to 2007 Skills Databases, DBMS, Sybase, Oracle, OEM, ASE, SharePlex, Replication, Unix, Linux, Windows Server, Information Systems, Information Technology, Shell Scripting, Stored Procedures, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Backup and Recovery, Maintenance and Monitoring, Patching, Upgrades, Problem Identification and Resolution, Performance Tuning