Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator ? 2 plus years of experience in Information Technology with as an Oracle database administrator.  ? Involved in implementation and support of enterprise applications based on Oracle 10g/11g, 12  ? Strong proficiency in Relational Database Management Systems.  ? Experience in Installing Oracle Database Software on Linux, Unix, Windows and Solaris.  ? Experience in working with both RAC and standalone databases.  ? Outstanding facility with load balancers routers and switches.  ? Strong knowledge on different scripting languages like HTML, PHP, Java script, JQuery and CSS.  ? Extensive knowledge on Object Oriented Programming, and MySQL.  ? Experience working on SQL Server Database Management, T-SQL.  ? Knowledge on Angular JS  ? Experience on ETL tool Informatica.  ? Experience on reporting tools like SSRS, SSIS, Cognos and Tableau.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner and determination to learn new technologies, and good Team player with excellent interpersonal and team work skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Skynous Software Services June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installation of Oracle on Linux  • Investigating potential problems and issues raised by business users.  • Creating & Maintaining of Databases through DBCA.  • Creating and Assigning Roles, Privileges and Profiles to Users.  • Maintaining Tablespaces, Storage management, Undo Management.  • Monitoring Alert logs for any errors, problems or processes running.  • Prepare and execute proper backup and disaster recovery procedures.  • Configuration and working with RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Generating AWR reports during performance tests and analyzing areas of improvement.  • Knowledge of SQL primary knowledge in PL/SQL.  • Having knowledge in Database performance monitoring and tuning.  • Configure physical Data Guard and active standby data.  • Know how to upgrade database from 10g to 11g.  • Apply patches for up to date and to Debug 11g 10g.  Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle 10g/11g, TOAD, Linux, Windows, My SQL. Education Masters of Science in Information Technology University of Mary Hardin-Baylor - Belton, TX Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Languages: C, C++, C#, Core Java, J2EE, Java Script, HTML, JQuery, CSS, XML and SQL.  ? Applications: Eclipse, Net beans.  ? Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, MS Access  ? Tools: ServiceNow, Tableau, Adobe Photoshop  ? Platforms: Windows (7, 8.1,10 and 2008R2), Linux, Unix  ? Others: MS word, MS excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Visio.