Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Las Vegas, NV More than three years Oracle Database Administrator  ? Conducted Monitoring and database problem resolution  ? Exercised Database backups, recovery and restoration process  ? Administered users by granting and revoking privileges and roles Work Experience Database Administrator Action for IT Development August 2012 to May 2015 Description: Action for IT Development is an Ethiopian information technology company based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia starting 2000. I worked in the company as an Oracle DBA.  Responsibilities:  Effectively installed, upgraded, migrated and configured oracle SQL 10g, 11g and 12c in different 32/64-bit production, test and development environments.  Responsible for oracle SQL logical and physical database design, implementation and maintenance.  Automated maintenance plan jobs in oracle SQL and backup database  Extensively used SQL tools for monitoring, performance tuning/troubleshooting and solved many database and server related problems.  Ensured database availability  Created databases, tables, indexes, stored procedures, views, database management policies and constraints, defaults, rules, functions, triggers, cursors and dynamic SQL queries.  Made sure the security of the database was protected by creating Logins and assigning Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of User Support.  Designed, implemented and managed database maintenance and disaster recovery plans including full /differential /transactional backups with recovery procedures. Education Associate in OCA Montgomery College - Rockville, MD 2017 Masters in International Relations Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET 2009 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Computer Science Rift Valley University - Addis Ababa, ET 2005 Skills HTML, Javascript, SQL Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate January 2018 to Present