Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Boltos-Solutions - Laurel, MD October 2014 to Present FOLASADE FAMOGUN B.  240-565-2181 (obacat@gmail.com)    Career objective: - Seeking a position as a Database Administrator in enterprise that utilizes state-of-the-art, software and hardware components with a creative, technology-driven organization in an environment that encourages innovative thinking, recognition and promotes career development.    Immigration status: - Green card holder    Years of experience: - 6+    Relocation: - Willing to relocate    Availability: - Open to positions within and outside the US.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    · Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS  · Knowledgeable in Dataguard configuration, creation, management, maintenance and patching.   · Installation and management of Oracle database using database control  · Installation and application of several Oracle critical patches to various database versions  · Install and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity   · Establish, implement and maintain comprehensive Oracle database maintenance plans   · Performed import and export as needed and scheduled nightly export on each database  · Perform various cold and hot backups using the RMAN utility.  · Performing database cloning using RMAN.  · Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set  · Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases.  · Upgrade Oracle 10g database to 11g.  · Managing Database Security using audit statements and fine grain auditing  · Troubleshoot and resolve various Oracle problems such as connectivity problems, backup and performance issues.  · Perform maintenance and related preventative maintenance on databases   · Providing Oracle network troubleshooting  · Create and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases  · Perform bulk load into the database using SQL Loader  · Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights  · Ensure the creation and usability of backups for recovery needs  · Expertise in the creation of databases, table spaces, tables, indexes and other database objects  · Installed and manage Oracle Enterprise Manager.  · Managing Schema Objects.  · Regular Monitoring Alert log Files and trace files on Day to Day Basis.  · Monitoring Tablespaces and Datafiles utilization.  · Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files  · Performing Complete Media Recovery of Database depends on the nature of failure.  · Creating and rebuilding indexes as necessary.  · Proficient in Enterprise Manager     BOLTOS-SOLUTIONS 2009-Present.   POSITION: ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR    Responsible for dataguard creation and management   Responsible for deployment of enterprise wide systems and develop a backup policy using enterprise manager scheduler and RMAN.  Always part of after-hours on-call support team.  Responsible for using SQL-Loader to extract, transform and load data into database tables hence enabling the firm to retain critical historical data and generate key reports.  Responsible for upgrade of oracle databases using patch-set release.  Responsible for creation of database users, implementation of database securities, profiles management in compliance with enterprise policies.  Responsible for data migration from auxiliary database to target database using data migration tools such as EXPDP and IMPDP.  Responsible for monitoring and automating of systems using Enterprise Manager, administration of resources, privileges, roles and allocation of space.   Responsible for creation, maintenance and implementation of backup policies, recovery catalog management, monitoring of different operational processes and quarterly installations of CPU patches.  Responsible for database statistics gathering, performance tuning using ADDM, AWR, and SQL Advisor through enterprise manager both on Linux and windows.  Responsible for development, management, maintenance and improvement of tested backup, restore and recovery procedures.    I am an employee who believe in hard work, possess good leader skills, excellent written and verbal communication skills, ability to perform in a pressurize environment and good individual as well as team spirit.    EDUCATION  Database Administrators Workshops  Bio-Informatics workshops (RUN UNIVERSITY)  Fewak Computer Institute (Associate)  Olabisi Onabanjo University (Bachelors) Education Certificate in Biotechnology and Bioinformatics RUN UNIVERSITY 2010 to 2011 Bachelor of Science Olabisi Onabanjo University Fewak Computer Institute St Joseph's College Ondo Nigeria Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Expert (RAC & Performance Tuning ) ,Oracle Certified Professional,Oracle Certified Associate. Present