Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Exterran Group • Having 3.4 years of experience in IT sector as an Oracle Database Administrator.  • Strong skills in Oracle Database Administrator activities include DB Cloning, Backup, Patching, Upgrading, Database Security, Development and Production support in Oracle 10g/11g.  • Experience in installation and configuration of different versions of Oracle software on different OS.    • Having Good Knowledge on Oracle Database Architecture, memory and process structure and data dictionary.  • Database Creation, modification and configuration file changes (pfile, tnsnames.ora etc ).  • Responsible for Maintaining Database Security (Roles, Privileges etc..).  • Responsible for tablespace Management, User, Role, Profile Management.  • Having Knowledge in PL/SQL.  • Have Knowledge on ASM.  • Responsible for Database Backup using Logical (Export and Import ).  • Creating Privileges, Roles and User profiles.  • Granting Resources to users.  • Knowledge on Data pump, Traditional Export and Import Utilities.  • Creating Primary Objects like tables, views, indexes, stored procedures.  • Responsible for Cold and Hot backups.  • Performed Database Cloning from Cold Backup and Hot Backup, knowledge on RMAN Cloning.  • Database Duplication using RMAN.  • Managing materialized views, refresh on daily basis.  • Knowledge on Oracle 11g Database.  • Exposure to Oracle Utilities and Tools like OEM, Import-Export, Datapump, DBCA, DBUA, NETCA RMAN.  • A Self-motivated, responsible, and reliable team player with a set of very strong technical skills.  • IT working experiences with a proven background of technical problem solving.  • Performed the database upgrade from lower versions to higher versions  • Performing Cloning activities as per requirement from production to development or stage instances  • Good experience in resolving the database issues.    Skill Set:    Database: Oracle 10g, 11g.  Operating Systems: Linux AS 4.0, 5.6 Sun Solaris 6.0  Tools/ Utilities: Sql*Plus, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, Enterprise Manager, sftp, putty. Work Experience Database Administrator Exterran Group - Houston, TX October 2012 to Present • Working with Nethu Soft Pvt Ltd from Oct - 2012 to till now.    CURRENT PROJECT:  • Title: Shell Trading System Gas and Power Company  • Client: Exterran Group, Houston  • Role: Database Administrator  • Team Size: 6  Roles Responsibilities  • Monitoring the Instance.  • Checking the alert logs.  • Patch Production as well as development and test instances.  • Maintaining the Cold and Hot backups as well RMAN Backups of the databases.  • Performing Logical backups using Export utility and recovering specific object or schema using  Import Utility.  • Created users & privileges with appropriate roles and levels of security.  • Schema, Table, Database refreshes on demand for dev teams.  • Extensive experience in supporting Production and Development environments.  • Worked under the environment of 24X7 DBA support  • Had exposure in Configuring and Installing OS packages (RPM's) for Oracle Database Creation.  • Regular health checkup of database including space management.  • Monitoring the CPU usage, IO statistics, and CPU time to identify any OS level Performance killers.  • Taking care of all other daily routine DBA tasks like creating users, roles, tablespaces, addressing alerts triggered from monitoring tools etc.    PROJECT #1:    • Title: United Health Group Insurance Processing  • Client: Genisys  • Role: Database Administrator  • Team Size: 5  Scope: Novelis is a defended manufacturing Aluminum Company. Novelis is manufacturing the permanent qualities of aluminum into vital components of innovative design in the creation of high-demand consumer products. Unique material advantage, customer-focused innovation to sustainability defines the Novelis Aluminum brand. Increases the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any permanent chemical change for innovation that fuels the design, development and global delivery of some of the successful consumer products. The system was a client-server setup using Oracle RDBMS v 10.2.0.4 and Java Swing clients in a Linux Enterprise Server system environment  Responsibilities  • Monitoring the Instance.  • Checking the alert logs.  • Creating and monitoring the different Tablespaces like user, Undo, temporary Tablespaces.  • Created new user accounts, created profiles, roles and assigned them to different users.  • Worked on Table Resizing activity during the Implementation.  • Upgraded the Database from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4.  • Have been involved in upgrading Oracle Database 10g to 11g.  • Patch Application on Production as well as development and test instances.  • Database links were created to access the data from remote databases.  • Planning and performing ONLINE (HOT BACKUP) as well as OFFLINE (COLD BACKUP) backup and LOGICAL BACKUP.  • Adding the roles, profiles to the user upon request.  • Scheduled Cronjobs as per the Requirements.  • Troubleshooting Oracle connectivity issues.  • Creating technical documentation & Troubleshooting issues. Education M.C.A. JNTU 2012