Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Tata Consultancy Services New Delhi India US Work Experience Database Administrator Tata Consultancy Services New Delhi India - New Delhi, Delhi December 2013 to Present • Working as an Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) for one of the largest Pharmaceutical Company.  • Managing and supporting 1100+ Oracle databases.  • Create/clone Oracle Instance & Databases on ASM. Perform database cloning and re-location activities.  • Managing table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments.  • Maintaining data integrity also managing profiles, resources and password security.  • Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  • Installation of Oracle software and patches.  • Upgrading the 11g databases to 12c.  • Upgrading the Database from lower version to higher version.  • Write script to monitor database with shell and PL/SQL code like procedure, function and package.  • Exported and imported data using export/import utilities.  • Move a database from server to another  • Move and upgrade of databases  • Patching on 11g and 12c databases on Linux and Windows Platform  • Database Cloning and Disaster Recovery Plan(DRP) test  • Database Recovery and Restore  • Troubleshooting of database error and daily health check.  • I am also a POC (Point of Contact) of a Business Area in Eli Lilly. So, I look into all the issues related to this business area and interacts and help out the customers to resolve their issues.  • Basic knowledge of Performance Tuning  • Fair knowledge of Dataguard Education Bachelor in Technology in Electrical and Electronics in Electrical and Electronics ITER University - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa May 2009 to May 2013 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Discipline and consistent performer in all areas and having willingness to utilize all of the available resources in order to accomplish objectives.  A versatile and target oriented person with 'go-getter' attitude  Strong data administration and management  Excel in time and resource management and its execution  Good in creation of strategy for the defined objective  Excellent organizational, teamwork, presentation and interpersonal skills.