Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR US • Utilizing & enhancing my skills and qualifications through a big organization which encourages continuous education and development of its employees, and through which I can interact and work efficiently in a dynamic environment to prove myself. Work Experience Database Administrator Altawfeek Leasing Company - Cairo, NY December 2009 to September 2012 1- working as a Database Administrator using Oracle E-Business Suite R12.1.3  Main Responsibility:  Administration Function:  • Experience in Installation, Maintenance/Support of Production and Development EBS Environment.  • Experience in AD utilities like adadmin, adpatch, adctrl etc.  • Database and Oracle Apps Upgrade experience.  • Oracle Application Sysadmin skills.  • Knowledge of ALL Oracle backup and recovery scenarios.  • Administration of Oracle ERP R12 and 11i (installation, Patching, Cloning, monitoring).  • UNIX Skills.  • Good hands-on technical knowledge.  • Ability to create Reports by using Oracle report builder & XML publisher.  • Ability to Create Alert.  Staff Support & Training:  • Helps all users to solve their IT related problem.  • Analyze the problem and advice the users accordingly.  • Update the knowledge base with resolution.  • Perform training for staff.  Achievement:  • Shared in Oracle Project testing and training.  • Maintained database system reliability.  • Prepared user guides for Oracle modules.  • Applied and maintained the system responsibility matrix.  • Prepared test environment for Oracle system.  • Developed new reports, and alerts  • Shared in installing new instance of E-Business suite R12  • Handling SR Education computer science & information system Helwan University 2009 Certifications/Licenses Oracle SQL 9i Oracle Database Administration I Oracle Database Administration II (OCP) Additional Information 9. Soft skills  10. Advanced windows Form Technology with Microsoft (Visual Studio 2005)  11. Core windows Form Technology with Microsoft (Visual Studio 2005)  12. Programming with C#  13. English (AUC)  14. Microsoft (ASP.NET) (certified from Microsoft)    Computer skills:  • Oracle SQL Developer  • Oracle Report Builder  • XML publisher  • MS-Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  • Java script  • HTML  • Microsoft Visual Studio .NET(C#) (background)  • SQL    Soft skills:  • I believe that I have the right skills to bring useful ideas to a problem, communicate those ideas effectively and play apart in bringing them to fruition.  • I'm self-reliant worker, capable of a team as necessary.  • Ability to work under stress.  • Able to learn new tasks quickly.  • Ability to work independently and as an effective team member.  • Self-motivated, target-oriented.    QUALIFICATIONS:  • Work as a DBA from 9-DEC-2010 till 30-SEP-2012.  • Ready to Travel & work on shifts.  • Job title: Officer