Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - General Dynamics Woodbridge, VA Work Experience Database Administrator General Dynamics - Fort Belvoir, VA October 2018 to Present • Serves as a DBA primarily managing Oracle 11g & 12C databases on WINDOWS, LINUX and UNIX servers in an OLTP environment  • SME & Competent in the configuration & management of HP Arcsight 6.9 Enterprise Security Information Event and Management (ESIEM) system on RHEL 7 and AWS cloud Solutions.  • Configured DOD critical databases to meet DISA STIG requirements to maintain compliance.  • Oracle Database Migration and upgrades from prior versions to 12C  • Oracle Data Guard Configuration, Management and User administration.  • Ensure that all aspects of database environment(s) are OFA compliant (giving environment limitations)  • Install Oracle Database Server software using industry best practices  • Allocate system storage and capacity planning for future storage requirements  • Involve in industry best practices for schema object management  • Perform routine database health checks to forecast possible issues using TOAD, SPOTLIGHT and other Command line utilities.  • Create databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes and other database objects to comply with CIA Triad  • Provide business continuity and promote knowledge sharing by documenting database structure changes, problems, issues for future reference  • Responsible for schema object management, Backups, Restore and Recovery using Rman utility and Oracle export and import. Database Administrator FCI Enterprises - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2018 to October 2018 Served as the senior DBA on the ARCYBER contract. Duties were as stated above under the GDIT contract. Database Administrator Booz - Fort Belvoir, VA May 2017 to August 2018 Served as the senior DBA on the ARCYBER contract. Duties were as stated above under the GDIT contract. GDIT took over Booz Allen Hamilton contract.  AWS DEV & TEST ENVIRONMENT  • Manage technology landscape and understand current application workloads  • Understand and document technical requirements from clients  • Define Migration strategy to move application to cloud  • Develop architecture blueprints and detailed documentation, including required Cloud Services (such as EC2, S3) and tools;  • Design the overall Virtual Private Cloud VPC environment including server instance, storage instances, subnets, availability zones, Elastic Load Balancers etc.  • Design the AWS network architecture including VPN connectivity between on-premise applications and subnets  • Design the HA & Multi-AZ strategies  • Set up required processes, services and tools around cloud. Responsible for the building of the environment and migration plan & Leveraging appropriate AWS services & Validating the environment to meets all security and compliance controls Database Administrator US Army Cyber - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2016 to May 2017 Duties were as described above under the BAH Contract: Booz Allen Hamilton took over the Insight Global Sub-contract. Education BSc. in Data Management & Analytics Western Governors University May 2020 A-Level in Mathematics Tema Secondary School 1987 to 1989 O-Level Koforidua Secondary Technical School 1982 to 1987 Chaveran Technology Institute - Bowie, MD Skills Sql Server, Oracle Dba, DBA, MYSQL