Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Wellpoint, Inc Alexandria, VA • Strong experience in Database Administration and Developer for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2012  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production and non-Production servers with configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities  • Highly experienced in configuring and maintaining High Availability Solutions including Mirroring, Log shipping, and Replication in SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications  • Expertise in T-SQL Query writing, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures and Functions  • Administering and maintaining SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of SQL Server 2005/2008 R2 and 2012  • Experience in upgrading SQL Server from version 2000 to 2005/2008 and to 2012.  • Strong experience in working with team and problem solving capability Work Experience Database Administrator Wellpoint, Inc June 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Managed and maintained SQL server 2008, 2012 database servers  • Configured and managed high availability solutions Mirroring, Log shipping and Replication  • Strong knowledge of how indexes, index management, integrity checks, configuration, patching. How statistics work, how indexes are stored, how they can be created and managed effectively  • Migrated SQL server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.  • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases.    • Analyze and determine informational needs & elements, data relationships, proposed manipulation, data flow, and storage requirements.  • Define logical attributes, design/data structures to accommodate database production, storage, maintenance, and accessibility.  • Performed server installation and configurations for SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008  • Setup backup and restoration jobs for development and QA environments  • Setup Database Maintenance Plans to reorganize indexes, re-indexing and update the index statistics on the production databases.  • Used Index tuning wizard to redesign and created the indexes for better performance.  • Fine tuned Stored Procedures using Execution Plan in T-SQL for better performance.  • Used SQL Server Profiler to monitor and record database activities of particular users and applications.  • Implemented disaster recovery solution at the remote site for the production databases using Log Shipping.  • Worked with various business groups while developing their applications, assisting in database design, installing SQL Server clients, phasing from development to QA and to Production environment.  • Extensively worked on Dynamic Management Views in SQL Server 2005.  • Installed, authored, and managed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services.  • Managed the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2005.  • Monitoring SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and dead locks.  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Prepared the project management and technical documentation.  • Unit Testing the SSIS packages with respect to its flow and performance issues.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning. Additional Information Technical Skill    Databases: MS-SQL Server 2012, 2008R2, MS SQL Server 2005  Programming: Visual Basic 6, Visual Basic 5  DBA: Database administration of MS SQL Server 2012, 2008, 2005  Operating System: Windows 2008/2003 Advanced Server, NT & Windows 9x, Linux  Other Software: Windows 2008/2003 Advanced Server, NT & Windows 9x, Linux  Tools: Backup Utility, Visio  Network Topologies: TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP, SNMP, SMTP