Job Seeker Boston, MA Work Experience Northeastern University October 2018 to December 2018 Created visually impactful dashboards in Excel and Tableau for data reporting by using pivot  tables and VLOOKUP. Extracted, interpreted and analyzed data to identify key metrics and transform raw data into meaningful, actionable information.  • Designed and built statistical analysis models on large data sets that helped in knowing top  crime reported districts in US and this analysis will help in lowering crime rate by applying  security measures. Database Administrator Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd August 2016 to August 2018 This project consists of more than 150 applications which are distributed among different  databases.  ? Worked on databases like ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, and MySQL.  ? Executed Extract Transform Load (ETL) using tool like INFORMATICA.    Academic Projects Smart City Enforcement Operation December 2015 to April 2016 Worked on web technology like JSP and lead a team of 4 people to implement Web Engineering  concepts to create a user-friendly platform for citizens where they can easily connect to government body and register their issues and feedbacks which help in improving city planning.  ? Project chosen for further implementation by 'Amravati' city Municipality.  Corruption Control through Budget Maintenance (Self) Jan 2015 - May 2015  ? Collected the data from various government offices of a city and analyzed that there requires a clarity between officers and contractors and hence developed a platform to bring transparency  using web technologies like Servlet and JSP. Education Master of Science in Informatics in Expect. Grad Northeastern University - Boston, MA May 2020 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Ram Meghe Institute of Technology & Research - Amravati, Maharashtra July 2012 to May 2016 Skills Microsoft access, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Qlikview, Tableau, Eclipse, Java, Jsp, Servlet, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript, Python, Linux, Css, Windows 98 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/piyushgondchawar https://github.com/piyushgondchawar