Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - St. Barnabas Health Systems Information Technology ? Customer Service Executive in Get Through Guides (GTG), Pune - 3rd March 2014 to 15th October 2014.  • Served as a basic point of contact for customer with queries, request, complaints and feedback  • SQL- Running SQL queries for troubleshooting like user credentials retrieving and update user accounts.  • Scheduling training session/exams and coordinating with multiple stakeholders like trainers, candidates, administrators and logistics  ? Database Administrator in St. Barnabas Health System, New York- 1st June 2015 to Present.  Status    Passport/Visa Status: Have Indian passport with H1B Visa to the USA, sponsored by St Barnabas Health System valid till 26th April, 2021. Work Experience Database Administrator St. Barnabas Health Systems Information Technology June 2015 to Present at IT-Healthcare Analytics team in St. Barnabas Health Systems, Bronx New Yok since 1st June 2015 to till date    Role: Database Administrator/Report writer in IT team and reporting on many EHR and Practice Management, Revenue Cycle Management projects at St Barnabas Health systems including Allscripts SCM, eClinicalWorks and McKesson (STAR)  Responsibilities    ? Developing the queries using SQL server studio tool and generating reports  ? Actively participating in gathering Business Requirements and System specification from end users\stake holders  ? Using MS SQL Server Management studio 2008 to create Moderate to Complex SQL Query to evaluate result for the reports.  ? Facilitate the analysis and creation of complex statistical statements on healthcare data that measures various aspects of healthcare services and operational events  ? Developed different Scripts for the Data analysts for verification of reports.  ? Utilized Pivot tables to provide structure to Reports in proper format like months etc.  ? Transferred data from flat files, Excel spreadsheets and heterogeneous data to and from SQL Server using DTS.  ? Scheduled the Reports to run on daily, weekly or monthly basis in Report Manager and also emailing them to user/requester to be reviewed in Excel Sheet.  ? Used Temp Tables to reduce the number of rows for joins, to aggregate data from different sources for different reports  ? Created new tables in database to simplify or faster the querying process.  ? Created stored procedure to minimalize the querying of data for the Reports.  ? Responsible for deploying reports to Report Manager and Troubleshooting for any error occurring in execution  ? Developed SQL report from healthcare EMR like Allscripts, eClinicalWorks  ? Hands on experience in SQL Server DTS and SSIS (Integration Service) package design, constructing, and deployment.  ? Modified and tested database structure when needed.  ? Familiar with data dictionary/fields definition for appropriate application.  ? Assisting in the maintenance, update and backup of database: merging old database into new ones.  ? Participating in software migration, upgrade process, activation support and on call support for applications.  ? Attended training on Healthcare\Business information application like SSIS-QlikView, eClinicalWorks and CPM (Clinical Performance Manager) Education Computer Engineering Savitribai Phule University Skills DATABASE (3 years), SQL SERVER (3 years), SQL (3 years), SCM (3 years), EMR (3 years) Additional Information Area of Expertise    ? EMR - Allscripts - SCM (Sunrise Clinical Manager) Database Reporting  ? McKesson - STAR (HBO) - Database Reporting  ? EMR - eCW(eClinicalWorks) and EBO (Cognos) Database Reporting  ? Microsoft SQL server and Microsoft Visual Studio