Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Having valid H1b visa from CSC expires on 2019. Hyderabad ? 8.2 years of experiences in IT.  ? Hands on experience on various oracle versions ranging from 7 to 12c.  ? Other DBMS knowledge like Postgres and Greenplum and MySQL.  ? Worked on various Operating systems like Linux, HP Unix, IBM AIX. Work Experience Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation- CSC - Hyderabad August 2012 to Present 8 years 2 Months    • PostgreSQL Database Administration  • Hot Streaming Replication  • PostgreSQL Backup and Recovery  • PostgreSQL Performance Tuning    • Oracle Database Administration  • Oracle Backup and Recovery  • Data Guard/ASM/RAC Administration  • MySQL administration. Education M.Com Vikram Dev College affiliated - Orissa, IN B. Com DAV College affiliated - Orissa, IN Skills oracle 10g (5 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), greenplum (2 years), MySQL Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Additional Information Having a valid H1b visa from CSC  Technical Qualifications:  • Oracle 9i DBA course from Wilshire Technologies, Hyderabad  • Oracle 9i Database Architecture and Introduction to SQL  • Advanced Diploma in Computer Science, from Hindustan Institute of Computer  • PostgreSQL administration  • MySQL Intermediate level experience (self learning)  • GreenPlum database (Self Learning)    Database Consultant professional 2, CSC (Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC))    (Aug 2012 to till date)    Roles and Responsibilities:    • 8+ years of Experience as Oracle DBA in 24 * 7 Production environment including Disaster recovery site using RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Performance tuning and Replication.  • Databases Refresh as per need from client using export/import, expdp / impdp.  • Refreshing databases on Stage, Test, Development databases from production using COLD, HOT and RMAN.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM to ASM.  • Database Backup, restore and Recovery using RMAN as client requirement.  • Handling issues on ASM and RAC environments.  • Worked on high availability- Clustering, database mirroring.  • Worked on high availability- Physical standby and theoretical knowledge on Logical standby database.  • Resolving issues on data guard both physical and logical standby databases.  • Refreshing databases using incremental backups in data guard setup.  • Supporting the databases projects related activities.  • Determining the root cause of problems and identifying solutions.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting large databases, during the off hours and over the weekends.  • Have a basic knowledge on oracle 12c database.  • Ability to function as a team player and alternatively work independently to achieve objectives.  • Was one of the primary SPOCs on newly supported project Involved in from pipeline to converting the project to our standard.  • Won RnR reward for implementing proactive automated refresh scripts using rman duplicate for regular databases refreshes which not only saved lot of money to customer but also to CSC in the form of man hours  • Have good knowledge on quarterly patches like PSU for all environments i.e., Production, stage and development databases    Database Consultant, Hitachi Consulting (Sierra Atlantic)    (April 2010 to Aug2012)    Job Profile:    • Provide support to over 80 small to large (approx. 3 TB) Greenplum, Postgres and Oracle databases in Production, Development, Quality and Test environment.  • Involved in setting up of new databases from installation to back up in RAC environment using ASM storage.  • Perform routine DBA & on-call support apart from performing periodic database environment refresh/cloning.  • Working on Day to day DBA issues and handling escalations.  • Database refresh activities.  • Managing backups and recoveries.  • Handling adhoc requests from clients.  • Finding areas to automate.  • Hands on experience in writing shell scripts.  • Provide permanent fix for recurring issues and DBA consulting services to application team besides implementing cost effective solutions.  • Deployment of performance monitoring & tuning strategies; mentoring new recruits in the team besides supporting fresher & non-DBA resource induction into projects.    Oracle Consultant, Om systems and Private limited in project APGLI (Andhra Pradesh General Life Insurance Corp)    (Jan 2008 to April 2010)    Job profile:    • Handling Development and Production Databases  • Data Base Refresh  • Replicating data through Materialized views to web server  • Cloning the database.    • Monitoring Databases Performance Tuning Troubleshooting day to day issues related to Aloha System.