Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Metropole Tech INC Lowell, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Metropole Tech INC March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.    Performed frequent refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using DataPump, RMAN Duplicate database.    Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Foglight.    Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.    On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.    Completed data mining through GoldenGate integrated replication for application schemas  Installed,Configured and maintain goldengate for data center migration  Used GoldenGate to replicate data from source to target in order to eliminate overhead on the source database  Replicating Data Definition Language(DDL) using GoldenGate for dynamic in-house, developed database applications. Hence eliminating need for import/export  Achieved real-time/no -real-time data replication using GoldenGate installed on a downstream system  Maintained ODS downstream database using goldengate integrated replication methodology    Schedule and tune backups, automate refreshes and STATS jobs using UC4 and crontab    Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.    Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing and confirming possible solutions to the problem.    Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links.    Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.    Involved in performingupgrades from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12cdatabases.    Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.    Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.    Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.    Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.    Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.    Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.4, 12.1.0.2, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, SQL Developer, RMAN, OEM12c & 13c, Datapump,    Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  Managing database security.  Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  Have touch-point calls with offshore team and make sure all issues happen in off business hours are addressed with sense of urgency.    Define database design and infrastructure standards in conjunction with the server configurations  Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to    Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups on UC4 clients and designed the backup methodology for the organization..  Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  Create and maintain data model  Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL..    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL,, OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, DataPump.    Role: Database Administrator.  Responsibilities    Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.    Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.    Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.    Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.    Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  Schedule Performance jobs, Backups in all environments, STATS jobs, refreshes, and alerts on UC4 clients  Ensure sound database definitions, structures and documentation.  Creating and cloning database from PROD to DEV, UAT and QA.  Presenting and analyzing database performance reports and improvement recommendations to client company's senior executives.  Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.    Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.    Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).    Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.    Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.    Worked with application developers to address and clarify data requirements to resolve technical and functional issues.    Enforced corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management.    Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing and confirming possible solutions to the problem.    Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links.    Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, Education Certified Associate University of Yaounde - Yaounde, CM Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATA MODELING, DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, SQL, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, HP-UX, BACKUPS, UC4, RMAN, JIRA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA