Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Tri-State Linen and Event Rentals Glenarden, MD • Over three years of professional experience in Database Administration, Database Design, Development and Support of MS SQL Servers 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012 in Production, QA, Development environments  • 1+ Experience in MS SQL Server Installation, Configuration, Upgrading of Microsoft® SQL Server(TM) 2005/2008/2012  • 1+ experience in MS SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity and running Database Consistency checks Using DBCC.  • 2+ Experience in Administering SQL Server security by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Knowledgeable with Database Backup, Recovery and Disaster recovery procedures  • Experience in implementing SQL server high availability tools like Log shipping and database mirroring  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional replication  • Experience working on Data Extraction/Transformation using DTS/SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • 1+ Experience in configuring SQL server Reporting service (SSRS).  • Experience in T-SQL Programming in writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Experience in Data Migration between SQL Server 2000 and 2005, 1+ Experience in migration of Data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using BCP and SSIS.  • Experience in Creating Packages, Jobs and Sending Alerts using SQL Mail/ Database Mail.  • Experience with SQL-Server Management Studio, SQL profiler, Query Analyzer.  • Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills.  • Dedicated to continuous learning and improvement.  • Self-motivated, creative, team player with effective communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Tri-State Linen and Event Rentals March 2013 to Present Description: The relational database system of this company provides support to the core process of strategic Inventory, Billing, Services History, Planning Management, Marketing, Customer Service Management, and Human Resource in order to maintain core company mission and critical business transactions.  My Duties as Jr. Database Administrator    • Installation and configuration of MS SQL Server and Clients.  • Create New Databases and maintenance of existing User Databases and System Databases.  • Performing Backup and recovery and Automation of Backup.  • Defining and Implementing the Processes required for proper data conversion from the existing system to the New System.  • Interacting with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designing and implementing the Database Schema.  • Responsible for Designing and implementing the backup strategy required as per the requirement.  • Running DBCC consistency checks, fixing data corruption on application Databases.  • Performance and Fine Tuning of Stored Procedures and SQL Queries and User Defined Functions  • Implementation of Trigger to maintain data integrity.  • Performing Data Transfer/Migration using Export/Import and SSIS.  • Reorganization of existing databases to standardize the placement of various databases related files.  • Creating user logins and adding users to respective databases.  • Using Performance Monitor for monitoring memory, processor, Disk I/O and user connections and fine-tuning.  • Managing security tasks like granting and revoking permissions. Database Administrator Intern Cellcom February 2012 to January 2013 Description: Cellcom provides GSM, Wire line and Internet Service to more than two million Customers. The main objective of this project is to design and implement customer care and billing applications. The system was integrated with billing application. The system generates report using stored procedure and ad-hoc queries. MS SQL Server relational database system and Informix Dynamic Server was used to support and maintain core company mission critical business and transaction data.    Responsibility  • Interacted with end users and prepared the functional and business requirement specification document.  • Involved in design, development, implementation and installation of this system using Visual Basic 5.0 as front end and SQL Server as back end on Windows NT environment  • Install Database Management Software for SQL Server on the server and client machines, provide connections and manage databases.  • SQL Server Installation, patch application, migration of databases to newer releases.  • Working with various business groups while developing their applications, assisting in database design, creating ER's, phasing from development to QA and to Production environment.  • Database design, creation of user databases, database devices, segments  • Creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, clusters, indexes, procedures, triggers and maintained Referential Integrity  • Importing and Exporting of Databases.  • Performance monitoring and tuning of SQL servers.  • Create and maintain various databases for Production, Development and Testing using SQL Server 2000.  • Perform everyday backups and develop recovery procedures.  • Migration of data across different databases and different servers.  • Create procedures, functions, and triggers; handle database performance and tuning.  • Install and configure Informix Dynamic server and clients.  • Generate timely reports to Supervisor about the progress of the project. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: T-SQL  RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012; MS-Access 2003/2007  Reporting Tools: SSRS Designer  Server Operating Systems: Windows 2000, Windows 2003, Windows Server 2008R2