Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Methuen, MA Work Experience Database Administrator Jetking Infotrain January 2011 to January 2013 SQL Server and Oracle)    Jetking Infotrain Ltd is a reputable Hardware and Networking Institute that trains non-technical students to be the IT professionals of tomorrow through some of the most in-demand hardware and networking courses. Various sectors such as IT, BPOs, Retail, Manufacturing, PSUs, Healthcare and many more require well trained professionals and that's where Jetking's wholesome courses provide students the edge. Jetking's hardware and networking courses are sought after due to them being the most relevant and compatible with industry requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL server 2005/2008R2 databases for production, Test and development environments and configured the settings accordingly.  • Setup Transactional replication for databases with high Transactions.  • Worked on setting up log shipping using Native log shipping.  • Upgraded SQL server 2005 databases to 2008 R2.  • Worked on Data Transformation Activities using SSIS Import/ Export for transferring data between Oracle to SQL Server. Moved Data from flat files and Excel sheets using SSIS.  • Created and Developed Tables, Views, Triggers, Cursors, Dynamic Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, T-SQL (DDL, DML) statements and other advanced queries for databases by using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Performing all the Database Administration on Oracle 10g activity like space management in database, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases  • Developed startup/shutdown guides, trouble shooting documents, root cause analysis documents.  • Performing Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using RMAN, also setup RMAN catalog for the same.  • Provide 24 X 7 supports to all production, development, staging and clustered servers Database Developer/ Administrator Kayka Enterprise January 2010 to December 2010 Kayka Enterprise is a web hosting and content development organization.    Responsibilities:  • Installed Oracle 9i and 10g, RAC database, Redhat.  • Configured ASM (Automatic Storage Management) which includes creating disks, disk groups for the RAC environment.  • Using the tools such as TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, ORADEBUG and TRACE FILE to tune SQL Queries.  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Configured, implemented, 10 RAC with ASM disk on Linux servers.  • Experienced with all kinds(Status, Performance, Trend Analysis) of DB MONITORING  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and stand alone instances.  • Creating table spaces, tables, and users for custom applications.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/roles as and when required.  • Experienced with SPACE MANAGEMENT and SECURITY.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g/10g databases.  • Experience in working with QA team in unit testing.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in datacenters.  • Implemented oracle high availability solution using oracle 10g PHYSICAL STANDBY.  • Importing data from flat files into database using SQL loader and External Tables. Education B. E. in Computer Veer Narmad South Gujarat University