Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Ames, IA • An energetic graduate with knowledge in  Programming  Database  Management  as well as  Structured Query Language,  Database Design  concepts.  Ability to work under pressure. A good team player.  Positive attitudes and willing to take challenges.  Specially interested in programming & Database Management  LinkedIn  https://www.linkedin.com/in/  amal-wijayasinghe-893a3726/  Senior Database Administrator - Media Defined, Inc  Jan 2016 - Present  evaluate change requests, defects, trouble reports, and Ad-Hoc database query  requests and make recommendations to government management on design  approaches and alternatives.  Designs and manages backup and recovery processes and continuity of operations  Database Administrator - Media Defined, Inc  Jan 2013 - Dec 2015  Worked with application development team with responsible for development of  all database components. Supported to application testers and analysts for creating  the test data, making reports, solving performance issues etc. Creating and  maintenance backup plans, data uploading and downloading functions and ETL  operations.  Used Technologies;  Creating and maintenance backup plans, data uploading and downloading  functions and ETL operations.  Used Technologies: MS SQL Server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Windows Server, IIS  COMPUTER LITERACY  •: Programming and Scripting  Languages  C#,  Vb6, Html  • Databases: Microsoft  Sql Server, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Mediadefined, INC - Dallas, TX January 2016 to Present evaluate change requests, defects, trouble reports, and Ad-Hoc database query  requests and make recommendations to government management on design  approaches and alternatives.  Designs and manages backup and recovery processes and continuity of operations Database Administrator Mediadefined, INC - Dallas, TX January 2013 Worked with application development team with responsible for development of all database components. Supported to application testers and analysts for creating  the test data, making reports, solving performance issues etc. Creating and maintenance backup plans, data uploading and downloading functions and ETL  operations.  Used Technologies;  Creating and maintenance backup plans, data uploading and downloading  functions and ETL operations.  Used Technologies: MS SQL Server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Windows Server, IIS  COMPUTER LITERACY  •: Programming and Scripting  Languages  C#,  Vb6, Html  • Databases: Microsoft  Sql Server, Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, CRYSTAL REPORTS, Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA, ETL, Ssis Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/amal-wijayasinghe-893a3726/ Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows family, Ubuntu  • Development Tools:  Crystal reports, Microsoft  visual Studio