Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Chesterfield, VA • More than 5 years' experience in SQL Server Database Administration, Design, System  Analysis, Testing, Development and Support of MS SQL Server  2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000 in Production and Development Environments.  • Experience in database administration and development activities such as Installation,  Configuration, Database design & development, Data modeling, Backup & Recovery,  Performance tuning and Query Optimization, Data Transformation Services, and Database  Security  • Experience working with MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005/2000 versions.  Hands on experience in SQL Server DTS and SSIS (SQL Server Integration Service) package  design, constructing, and deployment.  • Upgraded SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2000/2005 to SQL Server 2008R2/2016  • Extensive knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS)  • Expert in creation of tables, views, triggers, stored procedures and functions using SQL  (Structured Query Language) and T-SQL (Transact-SQL).  • Assisted on the Adhoc-Query requests based on the requirement by using Joins, Sub Queries  and Co-related Sub Queries.  • Exquisite skills in SSMS-Creating and scheduling jobs, alerts and operators with SQL Server  Agent, handling Backup/Recovery of databases, Replication, Linked Servers,  and Database Maintenance.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication such as Snapshot and Transactional.  • Expertise in database Disaster Recovery procedures. Developed and documented disaster  recovery plans and backup and recovery strategies for production environment.  • Experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Database Monitoring tools and Application  support.  • Disaster Recovery planning and implementation - Database mirroring, Log shipping,  Replication and Active Passive clustering.  • Performance tuning, Index tuning, trouble shooting, maintenance and monitoring using  Performance Dashboard reports, Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiler, Server Side Trace,  Dynamic Management views (DMV) and DMFs.  • Experience in planning and implementing Database Security by creating Logins, Users, Roles  and assigning permissions according to the requirement.  • Experience in developing and tuning SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages and  SSRS reports.  • Experience in creating packages to transfer data between ORACLE, MS ACCESS and FLAT  FILES to SQL SERVER using DTS/SSIS  • Expert in creating Parameterized Reports  • Involved in all phases of SDLC, worked in development methodologies, such as Agile, Scrum,  test driven, Rapid application Development, and Waterfall.    1  • Configuring and maintaining Report Manager and Report Server for reporting services.  • Documenting procedures in runbooks.  • Supported more than 1,000 databases, 500 applications and 200 servers  • Experience in providing 24 x 7 production support.  • Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills and committed team player,  self-motivated and work well under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Andinet International School - Addis Ababa, ET September 2010 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  Administering and maintaining large SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005 databases with more than 100 million records in individual tables.    • Responsible for Installation, Configuration and Administration of SQL Server  • Installed SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 on Windows Clustered and standalone environments with latest service packs.  • Migrated SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2000/2005 to SQL Server 2008R2/2016  • Developed SQL scripts to Insert, Update and Delete data in SQL database tables.  • Was responsible for defining relationship between tables, and enforced referential integrity  constraints.  • Created and re-evaluated indexes and made required process modifications for better  performance.  • Table Partitioning for existing and new application databases.  • Backups and Restore for SQL Server.  • Creating databases and logins with permissions in SQL Server as per the developer's request.  • Performance tuning, trouble shooting and monitoring using Performance Dashboard reports,  Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiler, Server Side Trace, Dynamic Management views  (DMV).  • Assisted on the Adhoc-Query requests based on the requirement by using Joins, Sub Queries  and Co-related Sub Queries.  • Creation of tables, views, triggers, stored procedures and functions using SQL (Structured  Query Language) and T-SQL (Transact-SQL).  • Implemented Database Replication (Merge and Transactional).  • Having hands on experience in DR processes including Log shipping and Database Mirroring.  • Created Data Flow's for Aggregate, sort, lookup, merge, union and all and fuzzy lookups.  • Implemented transactional replication for data refresh  • Extensively used SQL Profiler and Query Tuning Wizard to troubleshoot problems and queries  • Created backup schedule for production, test and development servers.  • Involved in tuning SQL Server databases using available tuning methods like index tuning  wizards, profiler and execution plans.  • Created standard documentation for Disaster recovery testing and implemented them.  • Experienced with creating logical and physical database design for development projects.  • Experienced with improving SQL Server using windows performance monitor to improve the server performance.  • Worked with developers to do the database schema changes and database restore requests.  • Involved in restore operations to refresh the data from production to test servers.  • Experienced in troubleshooting production servers and fixed the user and application issues.    3  • Experience in working and troubleshooting 2TB Very Large databases (VLDB) in OLTP  Environment.  • Configured Always on availability groups in SQL server 2012.  • Application support for front end feeds and Resolved Application connectivity issues like connection timeouts, connection pooling issues and memory leaks.  • Extensively worked with SQL Profiler, Activity monitor, Perfmon, DMVs, DMFs and DTA to tune the databases, queries, performance related issues like memory, CPU and I/O issues.  • Analyze and tune long running slow queries to optimize application and system performance.  • Reorganizing/Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • To set up SQL Server configuration settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory  issues for SQL Server databases and to setup ideal memory, min/max server options.  • Configuring TEMP DB on files and file groups and capacity planning of databases.  • Configuring and deploying SSIS packages and SSRS reports.  • Setting up linked servers, ODBC drivers to Oracle, Teradata, Access, etc.  • Documenting procedures in run books.  • Highly dedicated, dynamic, ability to meet deadlines within fast paced environments  • Self-Starter, Result Oriented, Responsible Team Member and Co-Operative Individual  • Providing 24X7 support to maintain all Databases up and running in Production  environment    Environment: Database Administrator/Developer Andinet International School - Addis Ababa 2012 2008R2, 2005, Windows 2012, 2003 Server, Symantec NetBackup,  Visio. Enterprise Manager, SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, T-SQL, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS,  OLTP, VMware and Powershell. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science HiLCoE School of Computer - Addis Ababa, ET January 2010 Skills DATABASE (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), T-SQL (4 years), VISIO (2 years), Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Windows 2000/NT/XP, Windows Server 2003, 2008 r2, 2012 r2  Database MS SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2016, 2017, MS-Access 2016  Language C, C++, T-SQL, .NET  Reporting Tool Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting services (2008/2012)  Web Technologies Asp.Net with C# (Framework 1.1/2/0/3.5), HTML, XML and Java  Script  Web Server Technologies IIS 7.0  Database Tools SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Enterprise  Manager, Query Analyzer, Crystal Report, SQL Server  Reporting Service, SQL Server Analysis Services.    Development Skills T-SQL, PL/SQL  Software Packages MS Office 2013 to 2016: MS Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint,  MS Access, Visio    2