Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - TechWaze Solutions Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator TechWaze Solutions - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to Present Installing Oracle software, planning the database & security strategy, enrolling system users and planning for their Oracle Network access.  ? Creating, migrating and backing up database for various clients.  ? Project Lead - successfully analyzed, recommended and implemented an active Oracle Data Guard to facilitate data protection, site redundancy and disaster recovery.  ? Successfully upgrade multiple databases and performance tuning, maintenance and training for continuous operation  ? Carrying out Oracle Database maintenance; base lining, performance tuning, alert configuration, using snap shots taking by Automated Workload Repository (AWR)/ Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to generate performance reports, monitoring and database performance  ? Performed database cloning and refreshes from production to UAT/DEV environment    ? Work with Developers to design, develop, test and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages, triggers, stored procedures and functions to support multiple clients.  ? Created, modified and maintained Oracle database objects and storage structures including tablespaces, tables, users, roles, profiles, directories and indexes.  ? Running complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases, ensuring fast and secure access to business application. Database Administrator Charlotte, NC December 2012 to November 2014 Maintain the Oracle 10g RAC environment and troubleshoot performance problems.  ? Building test strategies, backup & recovery models for Oracle. Refreshing test databases.  ? Managing backup & Recovery for Oracle on Linux using RMAN  ? Going through the day-to-day user requests and troubleshooting the database related problems.  ? Linux shell scripting for monitoring oracle Database status, security & backups.  ? Monitored Tablespace size, resizing Tablespace, relocating data files for better disk I/O.  ? Created user, allocation of appropriate tablespaces quotas with necessary privileges and roles for Oracle Server databases.  ? Created backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups and RMAN backup technology.  ? Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune the application and SQL queries  ? Running complex queries to retrieve data and ad-hoc reports from multiple tables within Oracle database Education Certification C.T.S. Clemgas technical college Associate in OCA Benin City Edo State Nigeria Skills Database (4 years), databases (4 years), Oracle (4 years), security (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  • Provided 24x7 production supports for Oracle 10g/11g databases on Windows / UNIX platforms.  • Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Patches, Performance Tuning, Backup, Recovery, Cloning, Space management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Database Design, Unix Shell Scripting, Scripting in RMAN and Documentation.  • Planned and implemented maximum availability and disaster recovery infrastructure using Oracle Active Data Guard plus Broker and Installation and Configuration of UNIX/Red Hat Linux, Windows 2003/2008 for Oracle database and Grid Infrastructure (ASM)  • TOOLS: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid Control, Data Pump, SQL Loader, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Recovery Catalog, Automated Workload Repository (AWR), ADRCI, Oracle Scheduler, Data Pump, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Standby Database (Physical, Snapshot, Logical), Unix Shell Scripting, Automatic Storage Management (ASM), TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT, Enterprise Reporting using Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Project.)  • LANGUAGES: HTML, XML, SQL, PL/SQL    Soft Skills  • Excellent Financial, leadership qualities, team management and development skills  • Good communication (verbal and written) and interpersonal skills  • Reliable, Result Oriented, Trusted & Proactive, very hardworking, resourceful and dedicated with a high sense of duty.