Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - CSC Work Experience Database Administrator CSC - Los Angeles, CA November 2013 to Present based insurance group, which  provides auto, home, small business, specialty, life, financial services and other products. The Farmers  Insurance Group of Companies was built to last, with a firm foundation of reliable businesses and a  dedication to continual improvement. What began as a simple Car insurance company for farmers has  become a multi-line, multi-company insurer and financial services group with a solid reputation for doing the right thing for the right reason. DBA Stryde Consulting Services as Oracle - New York, NY December 2011 to Present Project Summary:  Estee Lauder Companies  Estee lauder is a client project based in Manhattan, New York city, is one of the world's leading  manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  Estee Lauder's Clinique brand became the first women's cosmetic company to introduce a second line for men when, in 1976, they began a separate line called Skin Supplies for Men, which continues to be sold at  Clinique counters worldwide. Database Administrator CSC - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Maintaining and Administering Oracle databases.    • Planning and Implementing Backup and Recovery Strategy for databases using Hot and Cold  Backups, Logical Backups using exports and imports.    • Monitoring and resizing the tablespaces to accommodate database growth space Management.    • Monitoring Oracle backup schedule and completion of backup activity.    • Monitoring databases which include basic health checks and its performance.    • Maintaining tablespaces, adding and resizing data file.    • Rebuilding Indexes to improve database performance.    • Responsible for monitoring & resizing Oracle database objects (Tablespaces, Tables, Indexes etc.)    • Cloning the databases for making the respective instance for testing.    • Performing archive logs backups.    • Monitoring day to day backups and Checking Logs.    • Supporting Production and Development databases in 24*7 Environments.    Place: HYDERABAD Education Master of Science in Telecommunication & Electronics JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information • 3+ years of Professional experience as an Oracle Database Administrator and providing 24*7  supports to databases on 10g, 11g environments.    • Strong understanding of Oracle Architecture.    • Experience in Installing, Configuring and Maintaining oracle databases.    • Creating and monitoring the Tablespaces, adding & resizing Datafiles.  • Implemented data transfer using Export/Import utilities and Data Pump.    • Converting dictionary managed Tablespace to locally managed Tablespace.    • Experience in DBA activities like Database Creation, Tablespace management, User management,  Table/Index management.    • Creating and Assigning Roles, Privileges and Profiles to Users.    • Managing Database's critical files, Control Files, Redo Log files and Datafiles.    • Efficient in backup recovery strategy using RMAN.    • Knowledge on Performance Tuning.    • Knowledge on Generating AWR, ADDM, ASH Reports for improving database performances.    • Worked on Backup and Recovery Strategies using RMAN, Hot /Cold Backup and Logical Backup.    • Good Knowledge on Oracle Corp.'s various technologies including Data guard, OEM, ASM.    • Actively involved in database Upgradates (from 10g to 11g)  • Backup of the Development, Quality & Production Databases, based on business requirements,  perform daily incremental backup, weekly backups ( Hot /Cold)    • Applying database patches using OPatch utility.    • Good Understanding on RAC database Concepts & RAC 11g installation.    • Understanding of SRVCTL and CRSCTL commands in RAC databases.    • Proactively Monitoring Remedy tool for high priority tickets.    • Excellent Analytical, Communication and Presentation skills.    • Ability to adapt to new skills & technologies and dedicated in maintaining high quality standards.    • Strong ability to work within team environment and independently when needed. Experience in  client interaction and support.    Technical Skills:    Databases: Oracle 10, 11gR2  Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, Windows  Tools & Utilities: SQL*PLUS, OEM, Log Miner, Export/Import, Data Pumps,  SQL* Loader, RMAN, OPatch, DBCA, Putty, Netca.    Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Performance Tools: TKprof, Explain Plan, AWR, ASH, ADDM  Ticketing Tools: BMC Remedy