Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - ZOE Consulting group, Inc Hyattsville, MD To obtain a challenging position in Database Administration, Networking Administration, and System Administration fields that will enable me utilize my technical and team knowledge in helping to administer and manage your IT infrastructure in order to leverage your investments. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator ZOE Consulting group, Inc - Upper Marlboro, MD January 2013 to Present Using SQL Queries to insert, update, delete and view data  • Creating and manipulating database objects such as Tables, Forms, Reports, Views and Sequences  • Performed requirements analysis to document business processes,  functions and system requirements  Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS  • Performed database upgrade from 10.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.2 using a patch set to increase the release level.  • Installation and Management of Oracle using Grid and database control by installing the software and agent, this I used to manage multiple databases.  • Installation and application of several oracle critical patches to various database versions looked for critical path for the OS and also had to check the location of my O-Patch.  • Monitored, optimized and allocated physical data storage for database systems  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to back up the databases.  • Performed import and export as needed on each database.  • Performed various daily RMAN backups and recovery for numerous oracle 10g and 11g databases using physical back (RMAN) and logical backup (export, import and datapump).  • 24/7 production environment support  • Troubleshoot and resolved various oracle problems such as connectivity problems, back up and performance issues  • Provided Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties  • Resolved complex database issues.  • Created and managed documentation on the configuration and support of the oracle databases.  • Applied security features to 10g and 11g databases  • Tuned the database and applications for faster and better performance also performed goal oriented tuning as necessary Database Administrator Republic of Cote d'Ivoire Embassy - Washington, DC January 2010 to January 2013 Developed a database to track visas processing application  • Developed Oracle Web PL/SQL modules using Oracle Designer.  • Performed requirements analysis to document business processes,  functions and system requirements  Configured new hardware and software releases.  • Created and managed user accounts, profiles and system policies.  • Coordinated hardware and software installation and upgrades to ensure work is performed in accordance with company and clients policy.  • Resolved network connectivity issues regarding TCP/IP protocols, server issues and remote access.  • Performed hands-on monitoring, troubleshooting and administration of Local Area Network (LAN) resulting in performance and minimum downtime in the organization.  • Create and Maintain of Databases through DBCA  • Knowledge in Database performance monitoring & tuning  • Investigate potential problems and issues raised by business users  • Create and Assign Roles, Privileges and Profiles to Users  • Monitoring Alert logs for any errors, problems or processes running  • Configuration and working with RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Knowledge in cloning using cold backup, hot backup and RMAN Education Bachelors in Computer Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE    Relational Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008  Database Design: Creating and modifying Database tables; Use of Reports Builder and Forms Builder forms in a web browser.  Operating systems: Microsoft, DOS v2.x - 6.x, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, 2003 & 2008 Advanced Server, Unix(Solaris, Linux)  Networking Topologies / Protocols: Ethernet, TCP/IP & router configuration  Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, functions and Triggers.  Software Applications/Tools and Utilities:  Reports Builder, Forms Builder, OEM, RMAN, TOAD, TKPROF, STATSPACK, REPLICATION, DATA MIGRATION-EXPORT-IMPORT, PROCEDURES, PACKAGES & FUNCTIONS-BACKUP &RECOVERY PERFORMANCE TUNING-SQL-LOADER, DATA GUARD, SQL DEVELOPER, MSSQL QUERY ANALYZER.