SYSYTEM ADMINISTRATOR SYSYTEM <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> SYSYTEM ADMINISTRATOR - Thrivesoft Redmond, WA * Information Technology professional with over 4 years of experience as a production database administrator.  * Experience with all versions of SQL server  * Extensive experience with database administration, development, architecture, engineering, and reverse engineering.  * Operations support for 24/7/365 globally available databases, systems, and applications. Work Experience SYSYTEM ADMINISTRATOR Thrivesoft - Bothell, WA November 2015 to Present • Install and configure multiple Websites in IIS using different techniques and enable the web service extensions.  • Implement different Load balancing methodologies to ensure the High Availability of ASP.Net and web applications in the Production environment.  • Configure application logs, Systems logs, and Log rotation on timely basis.  • Background administer Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AND TESTER Microsoft - Redmond, WA July 2015 to November 2015 DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Microsoft Health Band - Redmond, WA April 2015 to July 2015 Design and document the process to create installers  • Perform comprehensive testing of multiple versions of the application on various platforms.  • Develop Positive and Negative test cases and executed manual test cases using VS test manager  • Perform functional testing of applications on iOS, Windows Phone and Android  • Perform Bluetooth and GPS testing for device interactions with iOS, Android and Windows based smart phones and car infotainment systems  • Assemble debug boards for device testing and subsequent calibration  • Perform Localization/Globalization/UI Testing on the band  • Execute functional tests on multiple platforms of Mobile devices, Tablets and Web interfaces  • Provide daily Status and Progress reporting  • Perform Regression testing and logging defects on daily basis  • Attend defect Triage meetings and Technical status calls  • At all times communicated with PMs, Developers, Test Leads and the rest of the team  • Test ERP secure software for processed claims and transactions  • Review requirements and specifications, creating and modifying test cases  Microsoft, Redmond, WA  DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR  April 2015 - July 2015 DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Microsoft - Redmond, WA February 2013 to March 2014 SQL databases for XBOX 3PP snap-shot success, standard SQL backup success, and transactions log backups. Health checks on all databases are a daily task.  * Ensure Microsoft SQL mirroring is performing optimally and all transactions are recorded locally and at the designated disaster recovery site.  * Perform database indexing on a weekly basis, due to high volume of I/O.  * Archive historical data from MSSQL data stores and LUNS. Move historical data to remotely located SANs.  * Design custom scripts to expedite database creation/maintenance. This includes, but not limited to: user audit reports, scripted table creations and data imports, database bulk inserts, and maintenance procedures.  * Working directly with vendors to allow application integration with our environment between front-end users and back-end serves/databases.  * General responsibilities include: Develop relational models and ERD diagrams, perform complex data analysis, create data dictionaries and database descriptions, and interact with various types of end-users (customers, team leads, managers, vendors etc.) to provide service and support for database implementation and maintenance. Keep the IT Director/Manager/Supervisor in touch with new technologies in database management, optimization and design.  Microsoft, Redmond, WA  DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR  February 2013 - March 2014  * Provide priority level troubleshooting and problem resolution for issues both internal and external.  * Coach and delegate work to other junior or mid-level database administrators.  * Support a 27/7 environment, including several environments with an SLA of 99.95%  * On call rotation for after-hours support, as well as escalation support for priority and high profile issues.  * Design and implement High Availability and Disaster Recovery (HADR) for highly critical databases.  * Maintain database performance and optimization enterprise wide.  * Analyze and perform metrics on databases. Identify performance issues and implement changes to optimize performance.  * Ensure successful database and transaction log backups are preformed for each instance based on the application's requirements.  * Work with vendors to setup proof-of-concepts, implementations, and full scale deployments of tools and applications that will be used throughout the enterprise.  * Document database environment architecture as required.  * Commonly access and handle confidential and sensitive information. Education Masters of Business Administration in Present Northwest University - Kirkland, WA May 2016 Arkansas State University - Jonesboro, AR School of Computer Science and Engineering Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  * Databases:  • Microsoft SQL: 2014/2012/2008-R2/2008/2005/2000  * Native SQL Tools:  • Reporting Services, Analysis Services, Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Performance Monitor, TFS, Visual Studio, Azure