Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Uptick Systems Woodbridge, VA • Displays a high level of energy, integrity and ethics with the exceptional ability to deliver outstanding bottom line results with short deadlines.  • An analytical approach to problem solving and detail specificity.  • Highly organized with a focus in prioritizing workload and scheduling follow-ups.  • Excellent writing and organizational skills.  • Results-driven DBA with skills in team building and problem-solving with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse groups of people and adaptability to changing environments and new software version releases.  • A proven ability to analyze all aspects of database entry in a multi-dimensional function, in terms of managing multiple tasks and projects with utmost accuracy.  • Extensive experience in Oracle Database Administration.  • Demonstrate strong knowledge of Oracle Server Architecture, Database Design,  • Optimal Flexible Architecture, Database Security, Performance Tuning, Backup and disaster Recovery Strategies.  • Excellent analytical, research, and problem solving skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Uptick Systems - Frederick, MD June 2011 to Present Apply Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches on our databases.  • Use RMAN to perform database recoveries when necessary.  • Performed database design tasks such as enforcing referential integrity standards; create database tables and table dependencies such as indexes, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, views, materialized views etc.  • Created databases and developed procedure to migrate and refresh databases between the development and production environments.  • Upgraded several databases from Oracle 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4-11.1.0.6.  • Performed database design tasks such as enforcing referential integrity standards;  • Performed various DBA Maintenance task such as rebuilding indexes, validating constraints, reorganizing tables using the move command.  • Setup technical procedures and administrative policies for production, test and development databases physical design, administration, maintenance, tuning, backup and recovery. Allocated system storage and plan future storage requirements for the database systems.  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11g on Unix, Linux and Windows, applied patches; upgrade Oracle server and application tools, maintained the software at the latest stable release level and tested and verified the installed components.  • Strong knowledge of oracle data-dictionary, configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) tools for monitoring, performance enhancement and debugging Database Support Technician Partsfleet inc - Lorton, VA August 2009 to May 2011 Responsible for controlling and maintaining the company's information system databases. Responsible for performing daily, weekly, and monthly checks of all databases, for database security and access management (creating and assigning roles to users), monitor application performance and tuning.  • Performed backups on a regular basis for safekeeping and recovery purposes using Oracle Backup utilities including, the Import and Export utilities and the recovery manager (RMAN).  • Worked with application developers and users as a first line to solve problems and provide solutions to programming questions and offer possible solutions and consulting services. Other responsibilities included the following;  • Oracle Installation and upgrading Software and Database  • Managing REDOLOGS.  • Created Oracle instances with appropriate initialization parameters.  • Modify tablespaces and object storage.  • Exported data from old systems and import into new databases.  • Setup backups and performance monitoring scripts using cron jobs.  • Created Users, assigned Privileges and Roles  • Altered, Modified and Created Tables, Views and Sequences  • Documented migration process, database creation, monitors, and load scripts.  • Administered BACKUP and RECOVERY  • Developed shell scripts for automating system level and database level backups.  • Modified and maintained UNIX scripts for startup, export, shutdown, instance creation Education University of Arts - London, OH 2004 Diploma in IT Management Westminster College - London, OH 2002 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Oracle 10gr2 installation, Windows 2008 Server, Linux/UNIX, PL/SQL, C, Shell Scripting, SQL Navigator. Unix/Linux, SQL*Loader, Toad, SQL Developer, Oracle Grid Control, Sitescope