Database Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Database Manager Seattle, WA Dedicated and hardworking database administrator with 2 year of experience working in the field. Committed to ensuring complete database organization and security. Excellent at database modification and improvement. Exceptional problem-solving and communication skills. Excellent attention to detail and experience with numerous types of database software.  Ability to work well on a team and individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Manager All Global Resources - Las Vegas, NV September 2018 to February 2019 • Update and Maintain core tables.  • Make sure the update is done correctly.  • Troubleshoot any SQL related problems.  • Create stored procedures and triggers.  • Write queries where others can use without difficulties. Junior Database Administrator KingsTech LLC - Las Vegas, NV June 2018 to August 2018 • Ensure data is secure and organized so analysts can easily locate information.  • Backup data and restore it properly to prevent any type of data loss.  • Make sure databases operate smoothly and efficiently and fix any errors to problems that occur.  • Create and administer databases based on user needs.  • Combine old databases with new ones.  702-768-6214 abenezerbelete01@gmail.com Database Administrator Ethiopian Community Center - Las Vegas, NV December 2017 to June 2018 Configured and Administered Microsoft SQL servers for over 30 databases and 4 servers • Modified database management systems, making changes whenever needed.  • Reviewed database management system procedures and suggested improvements.  • Specified user access levels for database segments.  • Performed testing and addressed any issues present Database Administrator Awash Bank - Addis Ababa, ET August 2016 to July 2017 Ethiopia) • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In- Time Recovery solutions.  • Expert in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, database snapshots and tracking • Performance Counters.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database  Engine Tuning Advisor(DTA).  • Expert in implementing the snapshot isolation and DDL triggers.  • Implemented Data partitioning, Common Table Expression (CTE). Education Diploma in Computer Science in Computer Science CPU college - Addis Ababa, ET 2016 Skills architecture (Less than 1 year), Database (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), SQL Server (Less than 1 year), Sql Dba, Sql Database Additional Information SKILLS  • Excellent problem-solving skills  • Microsoft SQL server, T-SQL, Excel, windows server 2012  • Experience in database design and architecture  • Log shipping  • Replication  • Mirroring  • Stored Procedure  • Triggers  • Functions  • Performance Management and Tuning  • Data Security  • Index  • Excellent communication skills  • Outstanding team leadership abilities