Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Professional Software, Inc Virginia Beach, VA Oracle Certified Professional with over twenty five years experience in computer programming and Oracle database management.  Oracle Certified Professional in Oracle 10g and 11g, Oracle Certified Expert (OCE) in 11g Performance Tuning, and Real Application Clusters (RAC) 11g and Grid Infrastructure OCE.    Experienced in Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Real Application Clusters. Experienced in the development of graphical user interfaces across multiple platforms and environments using Visual Basic. Experienced in various Information Technology fields including Department of Homeland Security, DoD military contracts, banking, small business, and insurance. Possess outstanding abilities in analysis, research, and problem solving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Professional Software, Inc - Norfolk, VA June 2016 to Present Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Norfolk Naval Shipyard Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle 11gR2 databases, single instance databases, and custom database applications, thereby improving database availability. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates and custom database applications ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2, SQL, Toad, Citrix, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator ManTech International - Norfolk, VA January 2016 to June 2016 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Norfolk Naval Shipyard Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle 11gR2 databases, single instance databases, and custom database applications, thereby improving database availability. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates and custom database applications ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2, SQL, Toad, Citrix, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - Stennis Space Center, MS August 2013 to August 2015 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Department of Homeland Security Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases, single instance databases, and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.  Environment: Oracle 11g, RAC, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Grid Control, Data Guard, VM Ware, Remedy, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator KForce Temporary Staffing - Stennis Space Center, MS January 2013 to August 2013 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 11g databases for the Department of Homeland Security Data Center. Creates, monitors, and maintains Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) databases, single instance databases, and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Works with customers as needed to ensure that their needs and requirements are met. Performs performance tuning when necessary on customer databases.  Environment: Oracle 11g, RAC, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Grid Control, Data Guard, VM Ware, Remedy, Linux, Solaris, Windows Oracle Database Administrator SNVC - Fort Bragg, NC September 2011 to May 2012 Provides 24X7 support to Oracle 10g database for the Army Reserve Command Automation System. Uses RMAN to do database backups without taking down the database and allowing for reliable database recovery. Maintains system security functions, ensuring data integrity. Creates and maintain SQL scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks. Monitors and maintains various Oracle databases and database servers, thereby improving database availability. Installs and maintains Oracle Data Guard to ensure databases have a reliable clone of the database. Installs Oracle Critical Patch Updates ensuring that the databases are protected against known threats and have current bug fixes. Implemented a test environment that is a duplicate of the production environment giving the customer a place to check out code changes before they go into the production database.  Environment: Oracle 10g, RMAN, SQL, OEM, Data Guard, Oracle CPUs, VM Ware, VMS, SSR, Toad, Windows Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA December 1979 Skills databases (4 years), Linux (4 years), Oracle (4 years), Solaris (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY    Languages: SQL, Fortran, Cobol, PL/1, Basic, Visual Basic 6  Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g.  Operating Systems: Solaris, HP/UX, Linux, Windows  Software Programs: Toad, VM Ware. Citrix  Hardware Platform: Solaris, Dell, HP, Compaq, IBM, EMC