Sr Database Administrator Sr <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Database Administrator Charlotte, NC • Around 10 years of experience in IT and as a Senior Oracle Database Administrator in the Database Installation, Development and Production System Support leading global teams in a wide variety of cutting edge environments.  • Proficient in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, cloning, space management, streams, Goldengate, partitioning, database security, troubleshooting, database design, UNIX shell scripting, korn shell scripting and documentation.  • Working Experience of setup and configuration, implementation of ASM/Grid Control/Automation/RMAN.  • Experience in OLTP/DSS database systems, managing large Oracle databases (VLDB) and data warehouse systems.  • Strong experience with Oracle Databases (12c/11g/10g/9i/8i), RAC on Unix/Linux/Windows/VMware platforms  • Experience with Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Migrations, Administration and Patching of Oracle Databases and Oracle Applications.  • Experience in handling unplanned outages using Application continuity and transaction guard.  • Implemented Edition based Redefinition to upgrade the database component of an application while it is use, thereby minimizing the downtime.  • 5 years of Extensive Experience in Installing and Upgrading Oracle 9i/10g/11g databases on production, test and development environments on Solaris, AIX and Linux/Unix boxes.  • 3+ years of Proficient Experience with Standby Database, Data Guard, Replication.  • 5 years of experience in Installation and Involved in Implementing RAC Database with multi nodes on Linux/Unix/Aix/Solaris.  • 3+ years of experience in Installing, Implementing, Configuring and Running Oracle 10g RAC.  • 3+ years of experience in Installing guest operating systems on VMware and installing and configuring 9i/10g databases and Oracle 9i/10g/12c RAC  • Strong Knowledge on Oracle 10g new features like data pump, flashback tables, ASM, ADDM, AWR, etc.  • 5+ years of strong experience in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery  • Strong Experience in Cloning of databases using RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup.  • Oracle 11gR2 RAC Database setup and administration using Dell/EMC SAN for storage and Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for backups.  • 5 years of experience in Implementing Streams, Goldengate Data Pump, Export and Import utilities.  • Strong skills in shell, Perl and korn shell scripting to automate jobs.  • 5 years of Extensive Performance Tuning experience, specializing in Operating system tuning, SQL tuning, Database/Instance tuning.  • 5 years of Proficient experience in Database performance tuning using STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, and Explain Plan.  • Experience in Troubleshooting oracle databases using sqltrace utilities.  • Excellent Knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests with Metalink.  • 5 years of proficient experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Perl Scripting, Shell Scripting, Korn Shell Scripting, Partitioning, Data modeling, Oracle Data Dictionary - meta data, Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures.  • Experiencing in basic and advanced replication  • 6 years of Experience in using OEM, TOAD, Tivoli, MOM  • 6 years of Experience in Implementing and configuring OEM Grid Control.  • Migrated Databases to Exadata.  • Planned and Sizing of databases on Exadata (X6-2 Full Rack)  • Extensive Performance Tuning on Exadata using Smart flash cache , Flash logs , HCC ( Hybrid columnar compression), Smart scans, Cell Offloading  • Configured IORM On Exadata machine  • Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*Loader.  • Proven ability to adapt to demanding schedules and changing priorities  • Ability to function successfully in a highly stressful, 24x7 mission critical environment.  • Strong analytical problem solving and good communication skills with ability to work within team environment and independently when needed.  • Experience in monitoring and administering IBM DataStage server performance and usage  • Maintained and configured the DataStage with a database backup of Oracle  • Result oriented, self-motivated, Team player, ability to work independently and within a team.  • Ability to function successfully in a highly stressful, 24x7 mission critical environment.    Technical Disciplines: Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Database Administrator Verizon - Irving, TX March 2010 to December 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Strong working experience in 24 X 7 on call Production database administration and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution..  • Supporting Oracle Databases 9i/10g/11g also RAC on Linux/Unix.  • Performed Cloning, export/import and Patching.  • Upgraded Oracle database from 11.1.0.6 to 11.2.0.3.  • Designing the logical and physical database structure.  • Setup 11gR2 RAC High availability using DG broker.  • Configured, Setup, maintaining Oracle10g RAC two-node environment on ASM  • Performing backups and recoveries using RMAN conventional hot backups.  • Establish and Document Backup and Recovery strategies and procedures after evaluating various options including RMAN.  • Involved in 24x7 support for 800GB 2 Node production RAC database with on-call pager  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required..  • Experience in troubleshooting Goldengate  • Experience in setting up the basic/advanced replication by using golden gate  • Configured golden gate bidirectional setup between the source and the target database  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention  • Created primary and standby databases that utilize ASM, and Data Guard (active/passive)  • Tuning heavy data loads. Monitoring and Performance tuning.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN and AWR for the Better performance.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance  • Monitoring Database for fragmentation and correcting them.  • Customization and development of Unix shell scripts, Korn and Perl scripts.  • Good Experience tranfering files by using scp, sftp, ftp and pscp.  • Partitioning strategies for very large tables.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot Database problems and failures  • Implementing range, list partitions, hash sub partitions.  • Creating and refreshing materialized views.  • Performing SQL*Loader jobs for data loading.  • Performed and Monitored Database using tools TOAD and OEM 10g , Tovali,MOM  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken.  • Monitoring Growth of tables and undertaking necessary re-organization of database as and when required.    Environment::SOLARIS, ORACLE 10g/11g R2 RAC, OEM, 10 g GRID CONTROL, AWR, ADDM, Shell Scripting, Data guard, RMAN, Data Pump,Golden Gate. Sr Database Administrator United Health Care (UHG) - Minneapolis, MN June 2009 to February 2010 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Strong working experience in 24 X 7 Production database administration, data warehouse systems and monitoring to ensure a proactive problem recognition and resolution of very large database issues.  • Created primary and standby databases that utilize ASM, and Data Guard (active/passive)  • Creating of databases for Testing, Development and Production on VLDB systems.  • Converted a single instance database to Oracle RAC 10g  • Installed and Upgraded Oracle 11g database from Oracle 10g database on test and development environments.  • Performed numerous Database upgrades including the most recent ones from 10.2.0.5 to 11.2.0.2  • Migrated databases from non ASM to ASM.  • Migrated non RAC non ASM databases to Databases on RAC with ASM.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of 4 node Oracle 10g RAC.  • ASM and CRS installation and new database creation for 10g RAC.  • Experience in configuring Oracle Advanced Security Option (ASO) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) on both server and client machines.  • Implemented Streams on both 9i and 10g Databases, Export & Import on 9i Database, DataPump in 10g Database.  • Performed Database Administration activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR-Support, Cloning, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, capacity planning, script development, and documentation.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed backup validations using RMAN.  • Implemented and Involved in Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans  • Oracle 9i & 10g RAC Database setup and administration using Dell/EMC SAN for storage and Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for backups.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace and TKPROF, STATSPACK.  • Developer Environment Setup, Support, Cloning and Refreshes.  • Proactive datbase monitoring using 10g grid monitoring tool  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development database  • Worked with Oracle acquired hyperion , a leading provider of performance management software  • Hyperion ensure accuracy -Validate forecasts with intetgrated, best-in-class analytics  • Setup of Standby database for faster disaster recovery and data guard setup for high availability.  • Used External Tables to Load data from flat files to database.  • Implemented different Partition methodologies to improve performance and manageability.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot Database problems and failures  • Written Korn, Perl, shell scripts for digitization the process.  • Load balancing, databases/schema/table re-organization for faster performance.  • Installation of Oracle version 10g on Solaris, HP-UX and AIX boxes.  • Database dot release upgrades using oracle universal installer and catpatch.sql  • Upgrading of Database from 9.2.0.6 and to 10.2.0.2  • Was involved in developing a disaster recovery (DR) plan and Stand by Database  • Continuous Performance monitoring and Tuning of the databases and application using OEM Tuning Pack , Diagnostics Pack and STATSPACK  • Rebuilding of Indexes  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Upgraded Discoverer Administrator from older version to new for administrative tasks and also applied most recent OLAP patches.  • Experience in reading Alert. Log and User trace Files and Diagnosing the Problem.  • Scheduling jobs through Oracle job Scheduler.  • Providing Solutions to the Problem Faced by end Users Or Programmers  • Automation of Startup Shutdown on all Production and Development Database.  • Scripts for Startup and Shutdown, Health Check of Databases, Analyzing of Tables, Cold Backups.  • Used TOAD tool for querying and troubleshooting PL/SQL queries and codes.  • Involved in process improvement, Oracle Server Installations/Upgrades/Patches, Space Management, Capacity Planning, Backup & Recovery, Disaster Recovery, Database Performance Tuning, Memory Tuning, Application Tuning, Security Administration, Data Warehousing, Data Guard, Oracle Advanced Replication, Real Application Clusters, Oracle Standby Serves.    Environment: Oracle Server 10g, RHEL 3, 4, Windows, Shell & Perl scripting, TOAD, Oracle 9iAS , OEM 10g Sr Database Administrator General Motors - Detroit, MI January 2008 to May 2009 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and managed Oracle 10g RAC  • Configured Oracle networking for RAC  • Installation and creation of 9i and 10g databases for Testing, Development and Production.  • REFRESH/CLONING of Database and applications for development, testing  • Installation and Maintenance of STANDBY database using DATAGUARD.  • Conducting sizing & capacity planning for Oracle databases.  • Upgrade and Migration of Database from 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.2 and applying patches whenever required.  • Experience in troubleshooting the ORACLE streams.  • Installed/administered databases on ASM.  • Experience in setting up the Basic/Advanced Replication by using ORACLE Streams  • Applied High priority, security patches downloaded from Meta link  • Designing the logical and physical database structure.  • Logical and Physical data modeling.  • Performed SQL Server Replication, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping  • Experienced with SQL Server DTS( Data Transformation Services)  • Configured Streams bidirectional setup between source and target database  • Installing and Implementing RMAN backup and Recovery Procedures.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and monitoring scheduled Backups  • Establish and Document Backup and Recovery strategies and procedures after evaluating various options including RMAN.  • Configuration of Oracle 10g R2 OEM Grid Control to monitor database and report on events as defined by the DBA group  • Taking periodic Backup of the Database and the software using RMAN and VERITAS Netback up  • Implemented Oracle Enterprise Security Manager( ESM)  • Performed upgrades from Oracle 9i to 10g.  • Developing 10g Grid Agents to target servers  • Partitioning Strategies for very large tables.  • Performing SQL*Loader jobs for data loading.  • Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TRACE FILE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Continuous monitoring of database performance during peak and non-peak loads using STATSPACK.  • Data refresh from production to test and development, maintain Database Security.  • Performed block recovery using RMAN. Performed backup validations using RMAN.  • Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using shell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing User Management, Space Management Granting required privileges to users.  • Defining and Implementation of backup and recovery strategies  • Tuning heavy data loads. Monitoring and Performance Tuning  • Performing all daily Maintenance tasks. Interacting with Oracle Customer service when required.  • Writing scripts for the system and database for effective functionality and report generation.    Environment: Oracle Server 10g, RHEL, Windows, Shell & Perl scripting, TOAD, Oracle 9iAS , OEM 10g Skills DATABASE (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), SQL (4 years), PERL (4 years), SCRIPTING (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skill Set:  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 5.8, 8, 9, 10, AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, Linux RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, Windows 2003, Windows 2008  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i  Languages SQL,PL/SQL C, C++, Perl, Korn, UNIX Shell Scripting, Java.  Tools RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, expdp, impdp, TOAD  Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK , AWR  Database Modeling Erwin 4.0, Rational rose, UML 2.0  Other EMC, NetApp, Veritas NetBackup