Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> KARNATAKA • OCA Trained IT Professional in the Domain of Oracle Database Management.  • Having 4.5+ years of experience as Oracle Database Administrator with Wipro Infotech.  • Having 4.5+ years of experience as an Oracle DBA, RAC (Real Application Cluster) DBA and Standby (DataGuard) Database.  • 2+ years of experience as Oracle Exadata Administrator.  • 3.5+ years of experience in Oracle Golden Gate.  • Core expertise in Oracle Installation, database restoration, Refresh, Patching, Migration and  Upgradation of database.  • Core expertise on Oracle Datapump utilities.  • Core expertise on Performance Tuning via AWR, ASH, ADDM and Statspack reports analysis.  • Core Expertise in Administering, Troubleshooting, Monitoring and Maintenance of Oracle  Databases of different versions and on various platforms.  • Hands on experience in Oracle Database Replications using Dataguard and Golden Gate and  Change Data Capture (IBM Product).  • Strong Administration and Interactive Skills supporting databases for more than 40 clients and providing 24x7 on call support.  • Skilled at learning new concepts quickly, working well under pressure, good communication skills for direct client interaction and communicating ideas clearly and effectively.  • Have capability to decrease the manual work efforts and to automate the repetitive tasks of an Oracle DBA.  • Experience on taking proactive actions to maintain Healthy Database and best service to customer. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator WIPRO October 2014 to Present PROJECT 1:  Duration: Oct, 2014 to Till Date  Project: WIPRO GSMC (Global Support Management System-Offshore) - Shared Environment  Current Role: Senior Oracle Database Administrator  Key Responsibilities • Analyzing of Tables Statistics and Rebuilding Indexes.  • Strong customer interaction on day to day activities and critical issues • Daily/weekly maintenance of all the databases to improve its performance by gathering schema/table/index stats, rebuilding indexes on regular basis Education M. Tech in (IT) Integrated Vellore Institute of Technology 2018 B. Sc in Computer Science ANDC Delhi University 2014 Skills Aix (Less than 1 year), Database (4 years), Dos (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Microsoft windows (Less than 1 year), Ms-dos (Less than 1 year), Oem (Less than 1 year), Oracle (4 years), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Oracle tools (Less than 1 year), Rman (Less than 1 year), Solaris (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Sun (Less than 1 year), team building (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), Windows 98 (Less than 1 year), Windows xp (Less than 1 year)