Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Choice Software Limited Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Choice Software Limited June 2011 to Present Technical Skills:    Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, .    Tools & Utilities: OEL, PUTTY, SQL PLUS.  Operating Systems: UNIX/Linux (RHEL, OEL).  Windows Applications: MS Office 2003/2007.    Work Experience:    Project#1  Designation: Jr dba. THE CREATECH GROUP August 2011 to July 2013 Environment: Linux.    Responsibilities:    ? Different versions of Oracle installations and configuration.  ? Applying Oracle database creation.  ? Performing full, incremental backups and recovery using RMAN.  ? Cloning and managing Duplicate/Standby on databases using RMAN.  ? Oracle database upgrade from Oracle 10g to 11g.  ? Creating and managing the listeners.  ? Perform health checks on the database.    Project#2    CDR project. CDR (Call Detail Record) is a Database application Developed by the core team, for providing the facility for automated reading loaded from the switch for the particular subscriber, billing generation, in the case of late of bill payment automated disconnection the phone services    Responsibilities:L2 Support:  Providing Level 2 Production Support. Responsible for processing all the E-mails and monitoring all the alerts.    ? Providing Oracle database administrative support for Production, Development and Staging databases.    ? Managing Daily Backups of Production database.    ? Supporting monthly Change Activities related to Production database and generating AWR and ADDM reports after every Change Activity and perform tuning on SQL's identified in the reports.    ? Implemented database refresh using RMAN and full EXPORT/IMPORT.    ? Scheduled full database backup jobs and archive jobs.    ? Creating and Managing Table spaces and Data files as needed and implemented database level security using Roles and privileges.    ? Backup and Recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager). Education PGDBM in LCCM London College of Computing and Mangement - London 2011 to Present MSc in Microbiology Acharya Nagarjuna University BSc in Biotechnology Osmania University - Osmania University, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Skill set:    ? Experience in creation of database by manual method and DBCA.    ? Having good knowledge of Oracle Architecture. Cloning database using RMAN.  ? Implemented Oracle dataguard physical Standby databases.  ? Performing upgradation of oracle database on linux.  ? Performing full, incremental, cumulative backups and recovery using RMAN.  ? Performing logical backups using Export, Expdp utility and Restore, recovering specific objects, schemas using Import, Impdp utility.  ? Involved in Database creation using dbca, manual.  ? Creating/altering/droping the users and assigning default tablespace.  ? Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g on Linux.  ? creating roles, assigning quota, granting roles, profiles, privileges to users.  ? Creating tablespaces, maintaining datafiles(Resize, add).  ? Performed Redolog file management like creating/altering/droping redolog files.  ? Regular monitoring of Alert log file on day to day basis.  ? Configured database to archivelog mode.  ? Configuring listener on server side and tnsnames on client side to communicate between client and server.  ? Maintaining pfile, spfile, controlfile.  ? Creating db-link to get data of remote database's object that are frequently used.  ? Transporting data between database using Export /Import.    Certification Details:    ? Certificate of O.C.A (Oracle Certified Associate) on Oracle 10g.