Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Saudi Family Fun Park .    ? Having around 2 .8 years of experience as ORACLE DBA.  ? provided 24*7 support to Production Environment by troubleshooting the daily Database problems reported by users.  ? Writing SQL Queries for DML operations on Database objects.  ? Good understanding on Oracle Architecture.  ? Multiplexing control files of a database.  ? Hands-on Experience in Table space Management  ? Good understanding on Data Pump.  ? Good understanding on User Management.  ? Good understanding of Table space and Data file management.  ? Performing operations like Creating of Users and Granting Privileges to users.  ? Performing Database level, Schema level and Table level logics.  ? Designing and Implementing of Cold and Hot backups.  ? Assist RMAN backup and recovery strategy for Dev and Test Databases.  ? Periodical checking of Alert Log Files for errors.  ? Changing Database name, Database ID using NID utility.  ? Transferring Data using Export/Import and Expdp/Impdp utilities.  ? Upgradation, Patch management and Migration Oracle 11g Databases.  ? Cloning Of the database by using Cold backup, Hot backup and RMAN backup  ? Troubleshooted Server configuration files such as Tnsnames.ora and Listner.ora.  ? Implementing, Configuring and Administering Disaster Recovery Environment using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 10g databases. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Saudi Family Fun Park May 2013 to Present Role: Oracle Database Administrator  Environment: Oracle 11g  Duration: May '13    Responsibilities:  • Extensive DBA experience in supporting several databases on a 24x7 production environment.  • User and database security management, creating groups, users, roles, granting permissions.  • Table space management and datafiles management.  • Managing the space, monitoring the free space etc.  • Managing undo segments, control file and Redo Log Files.  • Recovery and maintaining the Control files.  • Worked on creating Tables, Views, and Synonyms as per the requirement.  • Archive log management.  • Transported Tablespaces using expdp and impdp utilities.  • Used locally managed tablespace to improve the performance.  • Performed Logical Backup (Export/Import).  • Performed DB Cloning. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Global Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Skills Oracle Dba (2 years), sql (2 years), linux (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Oracle Utilities: RMAN, Expdp & Impdp, NID and DBCA.    Operating Systems: Windows 2000, RHEL and OEL.  Databases: ORACLE 11g.  Tools: SQL * PLUS.