Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Around 5+ years of experience in the field of Oracle Database Administration. Performed various activities like database administration, installation, configuration, upgrades, patching, performance tuning, backup and recovery, production support, cloning, space management, database security, disaster recovery.    • Excellent experience in Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c on a variety of operating systems including UNIX/LINUX and Windows environment.  • Experience in Migration Projects. Hands on experience in-migrating from Oracle 11g to 12c and applied oracle patches.  • Provided Primary Support for DG standby databases  • Having experience in RMAN Backup, Cloning, Opatch, Expdp/Impdp, Report Generation and a wide range of other DBA activities  • Migrated databases into OEL from other UNIX platforms with very minimal downtime.  • Migrated databases into Oracle owned Cloud platform i.e. OCI from other Cloud platforms like AWS / Soft Layer.  • Configured, Managed and Restored backups from Oracle Cloud backup services like ODBS and Casper.  • Working experience on Exadata X6, RAC, ASM, Oracle 12c.  • Installed and configured databases in OEM 12c/13c.  • Experience in PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Packages and DB triggers  • Written SQL queries for DML operations  • Create the objects like tables, synonyms, sequences and views  • Implemented Oracle Dataguard and created Physical Standby databases.  • Using Database gateways feature, established connectivity to SQL Server and MySQL databases from Oracle to extract relevant data by creating necessary database links.  • Resolved many RMAN backup issues and recovered the databases from their previous backups as per the requirements.    • Working knowledge in configuring ORACLE GOLDEN GATE for production databases.  • Good Experience in installation of Oracle DB manually (OMF) and using DBCA.  • Extensive Knowledge on Oracle Architecture  • Familiar with Table space level issues and User level issues.  • House Keeping activities of Archive logs and Trace files  • User management and providing security to the databases.  • Experience in working with ASM  • Experience in working with Oracle 11g RAC databases.  • Experience in handling production database support and maintenance as well.  • Taking scheduled backup as per backup strategy using RMAN.  • Configured and maintaining RMAN to take backup of the Oracle databases  • Monitoring performance using AWR Reports and ADDM Reports  • Enabled ASMM feature of Oracle 10g for implementing the self tunable SGA  • Involved in performance tuning and application tuning  • Administrating and maintain existing 2 node 11g RAC production environments.  • Installed and configured 11gr2 RCA using SCAN name and SCAN ips.  • Created high availability services and tested for load balancing and fail over.  • Troubleshooting day to day issues in RAC environment.  • Experience in patching and upgrade in RAC by applying patch set.  • Expertise in installing different versions of Oracle on Linux and OEL  • Experience in Flashback a Database.  • Experience in Offline and Online backup.  • Excellent interpersonal skills with the ability to work as an individual and as a team player.  • Quick adaptability to new technologies and zeal to improve technical skills. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Prime Ki Software Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2013 to November 2016 Working as an Oracle Database Administrator from Dec 2016 to till now in Oracle India Pvt Ltd. Education B.Tech JNTU - Ananthapur, TAMIL NADU, IN Additional Information SKILL SETS    Operating Systems Oracle Enterprise Linux 5, 6, 7, Red Hat Linux RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x and Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP.  RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/10gRAC,MySQL 5.6,SQL Server 2008R2, 2012  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, Python, UNIX Shell Scripting.  DB Management SQL Developer, TOAD, OEM, SSMS, OEM Grid Control.  Tools/Utilities  RMAN, OEM, Oracle Management Server, SQL*Loader, Export/Import, Golden Gate, TOAD, Data pump, MS Access, Data Guard, Oracle Gateway.    Tuning Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDR.  Hardware Platforms Sun Fire 15K, Sun Fire 6800, Sun V480, V240, AWS Servers and various PC desktop and servers.