Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Just a guy lookin' for a career. Wenonah, NJ For the last 4 to 5 years I've been working on my own with a brief stint in an office. I have learned most of what I know through trial and error with the obvious schooling and web tutorials mixed in. While it is nice to work my own hours it isn't a real career and I would like to work for something bigger. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Freelance/Self employed January 2017 to Present Formatted and inputted data into Excel, Access, and SQL tables for personal and commercial use. Responsible for creating graphs, reports, and cleaning up improper data. Explained how to use any functional data-entry content management system used for future needs of clients. Acquired clients through the use of online freelance websites. COORDINATOR FedEx Home Delivery September 2016 to January 2017 Cross-trained in customer support, driver compliance, and data checking, entry, and research. Worked with all departments to elevate more important task. Participated in the routing and delivery responsibilities of drivers. WEB ADMINISTRATOR Freelance/Self employed December 2014 to September 2016 Freelance / Remote  Maintained or enhanced websites for many different clients with all different needs and demands. Established accounts, websites, and other general task to help independent businesses promote their ideas. Acquired clients through the use of online freelance websites. Education AS in BUSINESS ADMINSITRATION Gloucester County College September 2011 to December 2014 Skills ACCESS (2 years), EXCEL (5 years), SQL (2 years), ACROBAT (2 years), BUSINESS MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), MYSQL, Sql Server, Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS  Time Management  Self-Motivation  Customer Service  Business Management  Data Entry    PROGRAMS  Excel Expert  Word Expert  PowerPoint Advanced  Acrobat Advanced  Access Advanced  Outlook Experienced  SQL Experienced