ORACLE PRODUCTION SUPPORT DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE PRODUCTION SUPPORT <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE PRODUCTION SUPPORT DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Silver Spring, MD Over 5 years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I have complete  life cycle knowledge including Installation. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g  versions involving database administration, production support, installation, configuration,  upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, cloning,  space management and security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE PRODUCTION SUPPORT DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR EMBLEM HEALTH - New York, NY June 2012 to July 2014 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle  Enterprise Manager ( OEM ) 10g Grid Control  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External  Tables. o Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic  performance tuning.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle  11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases  and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g  environments.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack , Diagnostics Pack ,  and EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance  tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications,  monitoring for Abend issues.  ? Involved in Performance Planning and Tuning, using baselines and proactive  monitoring, bottleneck elimination and the wait event interface to identify issues.  ? Performed production database maintenance and modifications to ensure  databases are operational, as well as diagnosed and corrected any database  environment problems; monitored database usage, and reported on database  performance and system availability.  ? Worked with developers to diagnose database related application problems,  provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data.  ? Involved in capacity planning and resource planning.  ? Generate weekly performance reports to identify and solve the problems with performance.  ? Applied patches and worked closely with Oracle to make Application  environment up to date.  ? Responsible for data integrity, user security, daily monitoring for production  and non-production systems.  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using  RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle  10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving  the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding  indexes, on tables and indexes.  ? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient  backup by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle  11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system  on AIX platform  ? Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC  databases  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. o Used TOAD for database management.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Guard Database C ONSTELLATION E NERGY - B ALTIMORE , MD 2014 to 2014 2014 - P RESENT  ? Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test anpurposes  on LINUX, UNIX and some Windows environments.  ? Applying patches for security and bugs fixes on all the databases.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Extensively worked with Oracle ASMCMD Utility for managing ASM disk  storage & Oracle 11g ASMCA.  ? Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed  ASM disk with a new disks  ? Worked on performing health checks in Oracle RAC & monitoring Oracle  Instance.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated database from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using  Oracle standard procedures and OFA , for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  ? Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance  activity.  ? Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table  spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed  database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file  system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Waits events, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone  database  ? Recovered huge Database (1 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got  corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC)  ? Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  ? Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used  SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases  ? Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance  configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  ? Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  ? Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as user management  (synonyms/privileges, roles, quotas, table indexes, sequence), space  Management (Tablespaces, rollback segment), monitoring (alert log,  memory, disk I/O, CPU, network activity).  ? Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binary structure,  Listener, TNSNames, SQLNet, V$ and DBA views.  ? Performed Database Tuning - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization,  SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning  using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, Analyze  AWR and ADDM  ? Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM database, Standby OMS architecture is under  progress.  ? Worked actively in configuring and maintaining Oracle Physical Standby/Active Data  Guard Database oracle 11g. GOLDEN GATE CONFIGURATION  ? Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  ? Setting up and managing Hot and Cold Backups, Exports, Import  ? Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, Performing monthly  annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning  ? Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized  views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indexes , using hints wherever    possible, amongst others.  ? Worked on both VMS and UNIX environments.  ? Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels  like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance,  memory, operating system  ? Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/10g , VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003,  Red Hat, Linux, TOAD, RMAN, OEM. Education Associate Degree In Nursing in Nursing Montgomery College Skills database (5 years), databases (5 years), OEM. (5 years), Oracle (5 years), performance tuning (5 years) Certifications/Licenses OCA Present Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    ? Experienced in Performance Tuning using ASH, AWR, Sql Advisor, EXPLAIN  PLAN.  ? Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC ,  Oracle Data Guard and replication using Golden Gate  ? Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application  Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file  systems  ? Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management  ( ASM ) required to fulfill the storage needs.  ? High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the  databases for maximum performance.  ? Performed database administration, production support, installation,  configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery,  ? Performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  ? Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle  Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control ( in Oracle 11g,  10g ) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  ? Implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.  ? Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard  (Physical/Logical standby Databases)  ? Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository,  provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning  techniques -- restore and recovery.  ? Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases  for switch-over and fail-over purpose  ? Implemented Single Node instance to RAC and added instance to the existing  RAC.  ? Extensively worked with Oracle ASMCMD Utility for managing ASM disk  storage.  ? Worked on ASM redundancy, Managing ASM disk failures & replace failed  ASM disk with a new disk.  ? Implemented Oracle 11g RAC data base with 3 node cluster and  instances using ASM storage.  ? Worked on to take backup and restore cluster ware storage (Voting Disk,  OCR Disk).  ? Worked to take backup on Oracle RAC database by using RMAN utility in  an 11g environment.  ? Worked on performing health checks in Oracle RAC & monitoring Oracle Instance.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated database from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle  10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard.  ? Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle  Including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery,  HighAvailability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard.  ? Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  ? Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and  Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying  patches/Patch sets to the databases.  ? Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  ? UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts.  Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs  ? Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time  Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using  RMAN utility.  ? Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those  recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2,  5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10.  Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, bash  Tools EXPLAIN PLAN, ASH, AWR, and ADDM.  Toad, Putty, Winscp, OEM    Database Utilities SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application  Cluster,  ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN,  DataPump, Export, Import    O RACLE D ATABASE A DMINISTRATOR