Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Springfield, VA • Over 5 years of extensive experience in various versions of MS SQL Server deep understanding of database system technology in relational database.  • Experienced in providing 24/7 and On-call Support for PRODUCTION environment.  • Expertise in Database Administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup & Recovery, Database Security, Data Transformation Services, Database Designing and Query Optimization.  • Experienced in VMWARE and managing multiple SQL Server Instances on Physical and VMWARE.  • Experienced in building ETL processes utilizing SSIS and DTS, including FTP data from remote location, transforming it, mart it to data warehouse and providing proper error handling and alerting.  • Hands on experience in implementing snapshot, transactional and merge replication.  • Hands on experience in implementing full, transactional and differential Backups.  • Experienced in using third party tools like Redgate, SQL LightSpeed and Commvault for Backups.  • Experienced in performance tuning SQL Server using profiler, query execution and index tuning.  • Extensively experienced in using of SQL Server DMV's for Performance Tuning.  • Experienced in creating basic and troubleshoot heavy-duty SSIS packages and deployed the packages from development to different environments.  • Expertise in MS SQL Installation, Migration, Upgrade, Configuration & Maintenance of multiple SQL server environments. Experienced in performing and involvement in Capacity Planning and Logical/Physical database design.  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks, planning and recovery procedures.  • Experienced in developing and managing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views, Data Transformation Services and Locking.  • Experienced in monitoring and tuning SQL Server performance with multiple tools including Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler, Event Viewer, Index Tuning Wizard and Spotlight to achieve better performance, accessibility and efficiency.  • Experienced in resolving Database Performance, Capacity and Distributed data issues.  • Able to exercise good judgment, resolve issues, and facilitate successful resolution of operational or application issues and constraints.  • Able to obtain, understand and interpret performance data and exceptional communication skills, both written and oral.  • Ability to multi-task and adjust priorities based on workload and management and response, post mortem follow-ups/root cause analysis Work Experience Database Administrator July 2018 to April 2019 Relocated back to New York City)    • Involved in project of Migration of all database infrastructure from SQL server to AWS platform  • Participating with the developer team to implement releases (Stored Procedure, DDL, DML commands) utilizing T-SQL codes.  • Managing the backup and restore portfolios of all databases using native SQL tools and Redgate  • Monitoring all the alerts pertain to SQL servers and digging/solving solutions collaborating with NOC, App and support teams  • Review and create daily database updates, update user security requests from the application developers  • Database support on release calls on the application updates from the app team and QA teams  • Manage JIRA board for MS SQL platform for daily database and table updates using T-SQL  • Extensively involved in 24/7 Production support of the databases and round-the-clock database operations  • Implement and maintain database security, replication, SQL Clustering, Stand by server, DTS, SSRS, Log shipping, Database Mirroring, SQL Mail, database mail  • Excellent analytical, communication skills, work ethics and ability to work in a team environment with strong determination and commitment to the deliverables  • A hands-on SQL Server Database Administrator (DBA) and Web Administrator with a proven track record of team leadership and technical skills  • Monitored & managed data storage capacity of production and test/development SQL Servers to support DB growth; coordinate drive expansions with Operations & Change Management Team  Key Achievements:  • Facilitated a migration project transferring the database infrastructure from SQL server to AWS platform.  • Designed and implemented High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) solutions utilizing SQL Server technologies.    Environment: SQL Server 2014/2012/2008 R2/2005/2000, VMware, Virtualization, SSAS, SSIS, SSRS, DTS, SQL Profiler, Clustering, Mirroring, Log Shipping, Windows 2008 R2/2003/2000, RedGate backup, Foglight, Database Administrator II Acorda Therapeutics - Ardsley, NY May 2016 to July 2018 • Involved on project of Migration and Consolidation from SQL Server 2008 to 20012  • Involved in developing and implementing next generation database systems architecture  • Monitored daily Administration and performance of Database related systems and migration of database related changes  • Backed up databases, Transaction logs and implementing Backup & Restore strategy  • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL  • Performed regular reviews of the database to identify performance problems, inadequate programming, and data duplication problems  • Managing finance systems (NAV, Sage, GP) from end to end support and solve issues in daily basis  • Support validated and qualified system to complement the R&D team from backend  • Create IQ, PQ, OQ scripts to implement new SQL server system for manufacturing team  • Expertise in Database Administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Backup & Recovery, Database Security, Data Transformation Services, Database Designing and Query Optimization.  • Experienced in VMWARE and managing multiple SQL Server Instances on Physical and VMWARE.  • Experienced in creating triggers to keep track of changes to the fields of tables when changes were made.  • Expertise in MS SQL Installation, Migration, Upgrade, Configuration & Maintenance of multiple SQL server environments.  • Experienced in performing and involvement in Capacity Planning and Logical/Physical database design.  • Strong experience in performing database consistency checks and planning and scheduling Recovery Procedures.  • Experienced in developing and managing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Views, Data Transformation Services and Locking.  • Provided guidance, support and system administration of an interoperable solution that enables integration of clinical and business workflows across all system.  • Worked closely with our customers to understand their business model, requirements and translate into requirements documents.  • Utilized my demonstrated knowledge of information management, business processes, technologies and applications, project management experience and superior skill in data research and business/systems analysis.  • Installed, monitored, and supported various SQL High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions  Key Achievements:  • Regularly and extensively monitored and evaluated internal systems while participating in FDA regulated and complaint testing of the DB system  • Successfully delivered major project involving the migration and consolidation from SQL Server 2008 to 2012.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2008 /2005, Windows 2003/2008/2016 Server operating systems. SQL Server Database Administrator Barnes & Noble - New York, NY September 2014 to April 2016 • Installation & Configuration of SQL Server 2008 R2 64-bit Enterprise Edition on new Servers.  • Implemented day to day operation such as database creation, monitoring disk space, monitoring performance using both System Monitor and Profiler, implementation, testing, and maintenance, and troubleshooting of software applications.  • Installed and configured Multi Instance SQL 2008 Failover Cluster on newly built Windows 2003 Server Cluster.  • Worked as a Data Analyst for ERP Application to analysis old system data and convert into SQL Server Data warehouse.  • Responsible for all the Database Server infrastructure related changes such as creation of new Clustered instances on VMware ESX, creation of SQL Server and Oracle test labs, installation of SQL Server 2005 and 2008 named instances etc.  • Responsible for optimization of existing Stored Procedures and created new ones to support faster data retrieval by existing applications.  • Involved in designing and developing SSIS packages for Extraction, Cleansing, Transformation and Loading (ETL) of data from multiple feeds and sources into Data mart.  • Supported team in resolving SQL Server Reporting services and T-SQL related issues.  • Worked with business stakeholders, application developers, and production teams and across functional units to identify business needs and discuss solution options.  • Ensured best practices were applied and integrity of data was maintained through security, documentation, and change management.  • Extensively used tools like SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, and Windows Performance Monitor Dashboard for monitoring and tuning MS SQL Server performance.  • Testing the functionality of the backup tool Redgate to see if that fits our environment.  • Provided On-Call support on rotation.  Key Achievements:  • Contributed to several major technology related projects, including the migration and consolidation from SQL Server 2008 to 2012, development and deployment of next generation database systems architecture, and configuration of report manager and report server.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008 /2005, Windows 2000/2003/2008 Server operating systems. Education Master's Degree in Information Technology in Database System Technology Specialization University of Maryland - Adelphi, MD BBA in Analytical Finance in Computer Systems City University of New York - Baruch College - New York, NY Certification DePaul University Skills DDL, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba, SQL server 2016, SQL server 2014, Windows, Vmware, SQL server query analyzer, SSMS, DBCC, DMV, Stored procedure, View, Trigger