Database Administration Advisor <span class="hl">Database</span> Administration Advisor Database Administration Advisor - NTT Data Services Federal Government Mount Pleasant, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administration Advisor NTT Data Services Federal Government December 2015 to Present - Remote  • Department of Veterans Affairs contract (Up to date clearances).  • Provides cost effective business systems and applications analysis in support of the development and implementation of business applications.  • Includes evaluation, analysis, documentation of requirements, translation into proper system requirement specifications and configuration. Formulates and defines systems scope and objectives based on both end-user needs and a thorough understanding of business systems, applications and industry requirements.  • Operates as a liaison between technical personnel and the appropriate end-user department.  • Evaluates and translates end user needs and problems to technical associates and/or vendors where appropriate.  • Understands the business implications of technical solutions, and assists in defining and documenting the technology solutions to support any future business needs.  • Teaches end users new technology and enhancements using all appropriate communication tools as well as providing support for existing systems.  • Stakeholder for VA RDBMS Baseline Capability Project  • Part of the IBM Design Partner Program (DPP)  • Manages production and development SQL Server systems, ranging from 2005-2012.  • Manages production and development SQL Server Systems for the VA Technical Reference Model (TRM) project, VA Technical Service Project Repository (TSPR), and the IBM Rational Collaborative Lifecycle Management Tools.  • Performs database and query tuning for VA project teams.  • Maintains all levels of backups (log, differential, full) for all production and development databases.  • Performs SQL Server upgrades and large scale database migrations.  • Performs regression testing after all upgrades.  • Installs and configures SQL Server Reporting Services and other required MSSQL Services.  • Creates and publishes SSRS reports for management use (Reporting SME)  • Maintains the IBM Jazz Reporting Service (JRS) application and the IBM Rational Publishing Engine (RPE) tool.  • Presents JRS tool to users through visual demonstrations and presentations.  • Provides support to users for all IBM Rational Tools.  • HIPAA compliance certified through VA training courses. Database Administrator Management Science Associates, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA May 2013 to December 2015 Life Sciences Division:  • Assisted in design and development of SQL Server databases and SSIS packages required for large scale organ transplant application  • Maintained SQL Server databases housing protected health information (PHI) inside a secured PHI Citrix environment  • Adhered to all HIPAA security protocols and regulations  • Managed backup procedures for clinical production databases via RMAN utility (Linux and AIX environments)  • Assisted on and designed own internal software development projects to create a more efficient environment for the Life Sciences group  Media Division:  • Implemented and maintained database security (created and maintained users and roles, assign privileges)  • Established and maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedures  • Installation, configuration, and upgrading of Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle software  • Performed database tuning and performance monitoring  • Completed SQL Server development projects as needed  • Monitored health and performance of over 400 Oracle and SQL Server databases across 28+ Linux and Windows servers daily via Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control, Linux command line, Operations Manager, and Management Studio to ensure smooth operation for ~50 developers and ~30 quality-assurance testers  • Provided troubleshooting and resolution for a six-application software suite (Gabriel)  • Packaged all updated releases of Gabriel software which recently won an Emmy Award in the "Pioneering Development of Data Driven Traffic Systems for Multichannel Environments" category  • Migrated over 50 SQL Server databases from MSS 2008 R2 to MSS 2012 with minimal interruption to production  • Provided DBA and decision support for Business Analytics projects, supporting SSIS and SSAS requirements  • Worked face-to-face with development, QA, and architecture teams to resolve and document technical issues to improve resolution time in case we faced an issue again in the future  • Trained and mentored newly hired DBA team members Database and OS Support Specialist Remote Database Experts - Pittsburgh, PA December 2012 to May 2013 • Responded to critical SQL Server and Oracle database alerts (Backups, CPU, Disk, Blocking Locks, etc.)  • Followed over 100 client connection, page reaction, and connection protocols through specific documentation  • Contacted clients during emergency situations in order to make he/she aware of issue and to gather appropriate information  • Provided 24X7 Monitoring and Support  • Member of "New Hire Training" and "Page Reduction" Focus Group Education Master of Science in Health Informatics University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg - Greensburg, PA April 2012 Skills DATABASE (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), ORACLE (3 years) Additional Information Skills    • SQL/TSQL  • C#  • Windows and Linux  • Microsoft SQL Server 2000-2016  • Microsoft BI ( SSIS / SSAS / SSRS)  • Oracle 10G-12C  • Concurrent Versions System (CVS)  • IBM Rational Tools  • Jira  • IBM Clearquest  • Rational Publishing Engine  • Dell Spotlight  • Visual Studio    • Microsoft Operations Manger  • Oracle Enterprise Manager  • System Backups  • System Upgrades  • System Installations  • Database Design  • Toad  • Tableau  • SAS Enterprise Guide  • ICD 9-10 / SNOMED / CPT  • Data Analysis  • Agile