Sr IT Systems Management Analyst Sr IT Systems Management Analyst Oracle Certified Professional MySQL DBA Orlando, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr IT Systems Management Analyst UnitedHealth Group under Optum Technology - Orlando, FL December 2014 to Present Responsibilities  - MySQL database administration including MySQL database design, installation, configuration, implementation, replication, backups, query optimization, index tuning, performance tuning and capacity planning.  - Monitor databases for problems, diagnose those problems and ensure timely resolution.    Accomplishments  - Work with the various Engineering groups and ensure database changes are in-line with operational standards and meet the strategies needed to scale while maintaining a scalable, reliable, and robust database environment.  - Drive best practices in monitoring MySQL databases with the ability to identify key performance indicators and put facilities in place to alarm on-call personnel for actionable events.  - Expertise in various MySQL replication technologies including when to use one method over another, limitations, and alternatives.  - Build database tools and scripts to automate where possible.  - Support MySQL databases for production and development.  - Provide 24/7 escalated on-call support on a pager rotation.    Skills Used  - Percona MySQL 5.6,   - Percona XtraDB Cluster,  - Percona Toolkit,  - Percona XtraBackup  - MongoDB,  - MSSQL,  - 3rd party DBA monitoring tools (e.g. MONyog, vFoglight, Nagios, Zabbix, MMS, Cacti) Junior Database Developer/ Database Administrator KODEGENIX - Poland - Koluszki, ?ódzkie October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities  - Design, deploy and maintain all aspects of MySQL databases.  - Work with development teams to make the best schema designs that balance feature requests with  performance concerns.  - Analyze and make decisions about optimization of existing schema and queries for all database  instances.  - Monitor, tune and report on the performance of MySQL database servers.  - Troubleshoot, perform problem isolation, and correct problems discovered in production databases.  - Design maintainable databases for high availability/performance and scalability to meet service  levels.  - Follow change management procedures and help to create policies and best practices for all database  environments.  - Monitor and optimize MySQL database performance and capacity planning.  - Optimize database design for new applications.  - Develop and support MySQL database replication. Junior Database Developer/ Database Administrator NJSITE CONSULTING - Wildwood, NJ November 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities  - Design, build, maintain and administration of MySQL databases.  - Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  - Test changes to database server configurations and determine hardware  and software requirements related to such changes.  - Perform routine database startup and shutdown procedures and maintain records.  - Optimizing queries, databases, server and environment. Education Master in Engineering in IT Technical University of Lodz, POLAND - ?ód?, ?ódzkie Skills - Server Installation, configuration, upgrade and migration - Backup and recovery - Database security - Storage and capacity planning - Performance monitoring and tuning - Troubleshooting (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, MySQL 5 Database Administrator - Certified 2014 Present Oracle Certified Professional, MySQL 5 Developer - Certified 2014 Present MCSA: SQL Server 2012/2014 - Certified 2017 Present Additional Information Attributes    - Ability to work with other teams to resolve issues, and coordinating testing activities.  - Ability to quickly learn new concepts and technologies and adapt to changing needs.  - Organized, detail oriented and capable of working independently with minimal supervision.  - Strong analytical and organizational skills and attention to detail.  - Very ambitious and self-motivated.  - Logical problem solving mind.