Database Developer/ Business Intelligence (BI) <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer/ Business Intelligence (BI) Database Developer/ Business Intelligence (BI) - NRC-Neighborhood Reinvestment Corp Washington, DC Work Experience Database Developer/ Business Intelligence (BI) NRC-Neighborhood Reinvestment Corp - Washington, DC January 2012 to Present Responsible for developing and implementing SSIS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSIS  • Responsible for developing and implementing SSAS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSAS  • Responsible for developing and implementing SSRS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSRS  • Managed the BI environment and administered SharePoint - SharePoint 2010 and MOSS  2007 - involved in migration, planning, development, review, testing, rollout and support of  Business Intelligence environment of the SharePoint.  • Implemented Dashboard solution for the enterprise reporting.  • Implemented SharePoint -SSRS integration and created Data warehouse from scratch  • Performed SQL Database Development tasks - Creating database, tables, views, stored  procedures, triggers, user defined functions, index and other database objects  • Performed SQL Database Administration activities.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Window 2003/2008R2, SharePoint Server 2010, MOSS Sr. SQL Database Developer S H R M - Alexandria, VA December 2010 to January 2012 Architected and developed the ETL process, Cubes, scorecard reports and dashboard for  HRCI using SQL server Integration Services, Analysis Services and Reporting Services.  • Designed Data warehouse and Business Intelligence architecture for HRCI.  • Designed dimensional model for various data marts; designed and developed OLAP cubes.  • Prepared technical requirement and design document for the project.  • Created dashboards and developed different kinds of reports used by Management Executives.  • Performed administration of the SharePoint site.  • Manage database backup and restore and created high availability using log shipping and T-  SQL script.  • Configured the SQL Server Reporting Services and Installed and configured SQL Server  Instances.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2005, Window 2003/2008R2, SharePoint Server 2010, MOSS 2007 Sr. Database Developer/ Administrator Amtrak - Washington, DC September 2009 to December 2010 Created SSIS, SSAS and SSRS Solutions  • Responsible for monitoring production and development server logs, troubleshooting,  controlling site access, administering database and performance tuning.  • Offer database administration and support on production and test SQL servers.  • Provide support to the shift operations in respect to managing the SQL databases  • Monitoring multiple servers and troubleshooting issue as necessary  • Configuring, tuning, and optimizing SQL Server 2000/2005/2008  • Monitor performance of SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008 databases  • Database monitoring, backup, recovery and performance analysis  • Scheduling Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent  • Perform daily system check and maintenance jobs  • Installed, configured and upgraded different SQL Server versions  • Controlling SQL server security  Environment: SQL Server 2005/MOSS 2007 Database Developer/ Administrator CNET November 2007 to August 2009 Responsible for developing databases and managing the SQL Server databases. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Addis Ababa University Additional Information Over 5 Years of experience in Microsoft SQL Database Development/Business Intelligence  Development using Microsoft Business Intelligence tools - SSIS, SSAS and SSRS and SharePoint  Technologies and Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2005/2000.    • Implementing SSIS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSIS -  Implement Control flow, implement data flow, implement dynamic package behavior by  using property expression, implement package logic by using variables, implement package  configuration, implement auditing, logging and event handling, deploy SSIS Solutions and  manage SSIS package security.  • Implementing SSAS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSAS -  Implement dimensions and measures, implement data source views, configure dimension  usage in a cube and implement custom logic in a cube by using MDX.  • Implementing SSRS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining SSRS -  Implement report data sources and datasets, implement a report layout, extend an SSRS  solution by using code, create an SSRS report using an SSAS data source, implementing  report parameter, implement interactivity in a report, implement report items, configure report  execution and delivery, install and configure SSRS instance and deploy an SSRS solution.  • Experience in Data warehouse Development and SQL Database Development - Creating  database, tables, views, stored procedures, triggers, user defined functions, index and other  database objects, designing star schema and snowflake schema.  • Experience in SQL Database Administration - Manage backup and restores, performance  tuning SQL Server and databases, perform high availability using Log shipping and manage  securities.  • Proven skills in SharePoint Administration - Deployment, SharePoint Rollout, SharePoint  Server and Desktop Support and SharePoint Business Intelligence  • Proven skills in implementing SharePoint - SSRS integration.  • Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist as well as Professional in Database  Development with Solid oral and written communication skills, willingness to work hard to  achieve employer objectives, and expertise at setting goals and achieving them.    Certification and Trainings:    • Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS): SQL Server 2008 Database developer  • Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS): SQL Server 2008 Database administrator    Technical skills: RDBMS: SQL Server 2008R2/2008/2005/2000 - SSIS, SSAS, SSRS  ERP: Microsoft Dynamics, PeopleSoft  Tools: Active Directory, IIS, SMTP  Languages: .NET, C#, T-SQL, PL/SQL  Operating Systems: Windows 2003/2008R2/XP/NT  Web Technologies: HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, XML, ASP.NET  MS-Office: Microsoft Office Suite (i.e. Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, MS Project)