SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Craytek Inc Bowie, MD Experienced and knowledgeable Database Administration Professional with Four years success in designing, implementing, and managing database solutions that improve business functionality. Possess a diversified technical background with enterprise systems solutions. Proven abilities to implement resource that decrease cost increase performance and constantly exceed targeted goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Craytek Inc - Washington, DC February 2015 to Present Installation of SQL Server 2012 /2008 /2005 on Windows 2008, and applied service packs with security fixes.  • Installing MS SQL Server and maintained multiple Access database.  • Implemented the SQL Login Security for developers and users.  • Created Windows Logins and privileges to User Accounts/Groups and objects.  • Created jobs, alerts to run SSAS, SSRS packages periodically. Created the automated processes for the activities such as database backup processes and SSAS, SSRS Packages run sequentially using SQL Server Agent job.  • Created and Configured OLAP Cubes (Star Schema and Snow flex Schema) using SQL Server 2008 Analysis Services (SSAS).  • Performance tuning of SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard in SSAS and SSIS.  • Configured Server for sending automatic mails to the respective people when a SQL Job is failed, log files are grown beyond the predefined limit, or free space of the hard disks fall below the threshold limit.  • Created Database and Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, User Defined data types and functions.  • Developed Query for generating drill down reports in SSRS 2008. Prepared AD HOC reports through report builders.  • Creation of Schema objects, rules and granting of roles to the users. SQL Server Administrator B.E.A.T LLC - Bethesda, MD July 2014 to January 2015 Dell, Federal Government Services    Responsibilities:  • Responded to database events including resource management, performance monitoring of cluster administration, managing high-availability, scaling VLDB, database recovery, and distributed partitioned database design.  • Established Standard Operating Procedures for the Database and application support teams.  • Responsible to Install, Upgrade, Design, and Implementation of SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Enterprise database environment for multiple clients sites.  • Oversee and Assist database developers and web programmers in query writing, query optimization, performance tuning.  • Designed, Implemented and maintained Database Schema, Entity relationship diagrams, Data modeling, Tables, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers, Constraints, Indexes, Schemas, Functions, Views, Rules, Defaults and complex SQL statements.  • As part of a team, developed a backup and recovery plan based on the data availability requirements of the business and on the potential impact of data loss on the business after considering and analyzing the different backup and recovery strategies.  • As part of a team, designed database maintenance plans to set up core maintenance tasks to make sure that the Bank database performs well, is regularly backed up in case of system failure and is checked for inconsistencies.  • Employed the Database Engine Tuning Advisor to analyze the performance effects of workloads against the Bank database and implemented its recommendations wherever appropriate.  • Used the SQL Server Profiler/ Performance Monitor to monitor the performance of SQL Server - particularly to analyze the performance of the stored procedures, Network and CPU. SQL Server Database Administrator HP Support Inc - Washington, DC June 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed new instances of Ms. SQL Server2012 Supported upgrades and • configuration modifications of an existing SQL Server 2008R2and SQL Server  • 2012 Created maintenance plans to automate routine database tasks like backups,  • integrity check, index maintenance and statistic update according to company  • standards Manage SQL Server security and control access permissions and • privileges Checked database integrity with DBCC commands to fix database  • corruption in user databases Worked on Work Request, Work Orders\Change  • Requests and Problem tickets Assist the SQL developers to optimize the SQL  • queries and store procedures Configured Transactional Replication to • synchronize data objects across regional databases Used Performance monitors  • such as SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases SQL Server Database Administrator HP Support Inc - Washington, DC June 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Control the activities related to database planning and development:  • Perform software installation, upgrades, and configuration.  • Perform data analysis, database design and creation, and data modeling and optimization.  • Assists with establishing policies and procedures pertaining to database management, security, maintenance, standards, and utilization.  • Installation and configuration of SQL server 2005/2008 and latest service packs  • Work with SSIS and SSRS with SharePoint integrated, Replication and SQL Clusters  • Plan and monitor security of databases by setting and restricting database access;  • Manage and perform detailed testing of database objects and scripts and perform code reviews  • Ensure data integrity through implementing constraints, creating and maintaining data manipulation processes and performing standard database maintenance  • Create and maintain contingency plans for data, including backup/recovery and replication with sys admin  • Ensure efficiency of queries and proper indexing on database tables  • Work with the Network and System Engineers to make sure the physical or VM servers are built correctly for SQL Server use.  • Monitor and manage database backups, log and journal  • Make data management decisions, such as placement of databases and backups  • Determine system capacity for planning  • Research Third party tools and how to implement them in our environment.  • Use the SQL Server Profiler tool and DMV to monitor the performance of SQL Servers  • Work with SharePoint Administrator for better SharePoint SQL performance Education BA in Computer Systems Database Technologies University of Maryland University College September 2010 to March 2012 AA in Information Technology and Criminology Prince Georges Community College Skills SSIS, SSRS, SQL Upgrade 2008/2012 (5 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise    Built SQL server 05,08R2, 12  SSIS, SSRS configured  SQL server Migration  SQL server Clustering    Crystal Report  SS Query Analyzer  SQL server Tuning.  SQL server Node configuration.    Database Design/Modeling Unix, Solaris, AIX  SQL Loader Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008  ESX CLUSTER VMware