Database Administrator/ IT Manager <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ IT Manager Database Administrator/ IT Manager - Pinnacle USA Naples, FL My career goal is to obtain a position where my natural ability to build positive relationships with people will be utilized, along with my  experience in technology, to continue to produce quality results. Work Experience Database Administrator/ IT Manager Pinnacle USA - Naples, FL April 2015 to Present • Develop and modify Access and SQL Server database to track job records from inception to completion.    • Developed Ecommerce website for sister company.    • Provide hardware and software support for 50+ onsite users and remotely for 3 other locations with long term solutions.    • Service provider liaison with Comcast, ATT, and Century Link.    • Maintain a local server with SQL Server and Microsoft Exchange.    • Manage outside consultants for web application development within Microsoft Azure. Database Administrator/ Web Developer The Interior Designer Store .com - Naples, FL April 2014 to February 2015 • Delegated work among data entry specialists.    • Continuous design and improvement of a product catalog in a SQL database for over 300,000 products from over 200  suppliers.    • Web page layout and implementation via html5 and JavaScript.    • Responsible for updating homepage with news, testimonials, and pictures via a CMS system.    • Managed email campaigns to 3,000 customers and 5,000 prospected customers, as well as tracking there usage on a landing  page. Education Bachelors of Ssience in Information Technology Plattsburgh State University - Plattsburgh, NY September 2010 to 2013 Business Administration Studies Hudson Valley Community College - Troy, NY September 2009 to May 2010 Skills SQL Server (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS / AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Strong computer skills and exposure to HTML, SQL Databases, Unix/Linux, Mathematica, Microsoft Office,  Apache, PHP.    • Highly organized, able to multitask and accomplish multiple objectives.    • Professional demeanor and attentive to detail.    • Able to meet deadlines and work in team settings.