Sr. PostgreSQL Database Administrator Sr. PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. PostgreSQL Database Administrator - Prudential Iowa City, IA • Over 9+ years of experience in database design, performance tuning and optimization of core Oracle Database 10g and 11g, 12c.  • 4+ Years of experience in PostgreSQL RDBMS with knowledge of installations and Configurations, Backups, Warm/Hot Standby/Streaming Replication/pgHA, pgbouncer, Stado and ora2pg.  • Lead the design, testing, implementation, maintenance, and control of the organization's physical, relational, and object-oriented databases across multiple platforms and computing environments.  • Provide senior-level consulting services in the identification and resolution of database issues.  • Experienced in Oracle 9i, 10g and Physical Hot Standby setup and administration.  • Having hands on experience in Upgrade/Migrate Oracle Database from 10g to11g and 12c.  • Hands on experience in configuration of Oracle Real Application Cluster [ ] databases on Linux/Solaris Servers.  • Installation of OEM grid control, configuration and installing agents on all database servers.  • Experienced in Capacity Planning, Configuration, Installation, Upgrades and High Availability (HA) solutions and & Backup & Recovery, performance tuning & Cloning.  • Unix shell scripting and business reporting using sqlldr and SQLPlus. Have strong logical and physical database architecture and design experience, provide day to day DBA support.  • Experience in setup Oracle Data Guard, Logical and Physical database designs, object layout and sizing.  • Setup and configured Oracle 10g and 11g RAC implementations. Setup, implemented and supported Disaster Recovery on the production environments.  • Strong Perl and Shell scripting abilities and on-call support 24 X 7 Production server support. Strong communication, leadership, organizational, analytical, interpersonal skills and strong problem solving skills.  • Good knowledge of implementing changes to development, test, and production environments. Work Experience Sr. PostgreSQL Database Administrator Prudential - Iowa City, IA April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configuring and fixing the Issues with Pgadmin-III client application. Responsible for monitoring environments using monitoring tool viz. Nagios, Check_Postgres.pl, pgOn, custom scripts and other supporting tools like pgBadger and tailnmail.  • Installing and configuring new servers as per customer's request. Cloning the Development, test and UAT environments with production data as per customer's request.  • Design and implement disaster recovery for the PostgreSQL Database. Configuring third client software pgadmin-III, phppgadmin to access the database server. Configuring the backup jobs on customer system. Experienced in performing PITR.  • Patch, Upgrade and keep the PostgreSQL DBs current. Develop and enhance scripts to automate and execute various DBA tasks.  • Assist engineering team in the design of appropriate DB Schema and indexing strategy for performance and scalability.  • Experience supporting a mission-critical database environment with 24x7 On-Call Support including weekends. Identifying and resolving incidents and address to user problems/concerns. Trouble shooting database issues.  • Support developers for efficient SQL query and Identifying long running queries and optimizing. Setup/Maintenance of Test/Development/UAT Servers setup  • Coordinating of Service Request (SR) with business team and providing them SQL queries.  • Monitoring of system logs, OS logs, database logs, trace files, database alert files to detect and troubleshoot runtime problems.  • Planning, deploying RDBMS Upgrades/Patches and performing other weekend maintenance activities as a part of On Call support.  • Active participant in discussions related to Backup Strategy, DC/DR architecture. Maintained, patched, and upgraded servers as required.  • Expertise in Analyzing data Quality checks using shell scripts. Upgrading, installing, and configuring PostgreSQL servers.  • PostgreSQL Installation, Configuration, Migration, Upgrades and Patches. Server versions ranged from PostgreSQL 8.2 to 9.5.  • Disaster recovery planning or Emergency Recoveries and Ensuring Recoverability of Databases.  • Optimize postgresql.conf for performance improvement. Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems.  • Ensure night cron jobs for backups, re-Indexing & vacuuming & materialized views executed properly on 24/7/365 high availability Postgres production and development databases.    Environment: PostgreSQL 8/9 and Command center. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator & PostgreSQL March 2013 to February 2016 Education databases UCLA Health - Los Angeles, CA March 2012 to February 2013 Skills Database (4 years), Database Administrator (4 years), Nagios (1 year), Oracle (3 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Skills:  DATABASE (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), RMAN (9 years), LINUX (6 years), SOLARIS (6 years)    Technical Skills:  Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c.    Operating Systems: UNIX, SUN Solaris, HP UNIX, Linux, AIX, HP, Windows [ ]  Tools: TOAD, Oracle Data Guard, ASM, Golden Gate ,Oracle Grid Control, SQL Tuning adviser, Oracle Enterprise Manager, ERWIN, RMAN, EXPDP, IMPDP, Oracle Snapshots, IMPPD, EXPDP, SQL*loader, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Oracle Trace, UNIX tools (vmstat, sar), Pgadmin-III, Nagios,Check_Postgres.pl, phppgadmin  Backup Tools: RMAN.  Languages: PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Perl Scripting, UNIX shell scripting, Unix CRON jobs.  Email Sr. PostgreSQL Database Administrator