Advanced Repair Agent Advanced Repair Agent Advanced Repair Agent - Geek Squad, Best Buy Smyrna, GA Work Experience Advanced Repair Agent Geek Squad, Best Buy - Smyrna, GA August 2015 to Present • Maintained, repair, and service client technology and devices.  • diagnose technology issues and create robust solutions as needed. Performed backup for other agents.  • Assigned help desk ticket request to appropriate IT resources to resolve incidents that were beyond the scope of my ability or responsibility.  • Secure the availability of efficient services for the University needs including desktop management, email / Wi-Fi / LAN / WAN systems management, and data center supervision. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Accelerated Design, Inc - Tucker, GA June 2013 to March 2016 • Administered, maintained, developed and implemented policies and procedures for ensuring the availability, performance, and integrity of the company database.  • Mentored and acted as the "go to person" for other Database Administrators. Assisted data modeling to design and implemented data structures which meet the business requirement for timely, accurate data  • Promoted data quality and enforce data integrity. Resolved database performance issues, capacity issues, replication, and other distributed data issues  • Determined user requirements, set up and tested computer databases, and coordinated changes  • Interacted with development and end-user personnel to determine application data access requirements, transaction rates, volume analysis, and other pertinent data required to develop and maintain integrated databases JUNIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Axiata Group Berhad - Kuala Lumpur April 2012 to January 2013 • Installed, configured and maintained 2008R2, 2012 and 2014 SQL Servers, virtual and standalone environments.  • SQL server performance tuning, backup and recovery, replication, index maintenance, security, and troubleshooting.  • Developed moderate stored procedures, views, user defined functions, indexes, and constraints.  • Building database schemas, tables, procedures and managing permissions. Implementing policy base management. Installing and deploying databases.  • Successfully engaged in various DR (Disaster Recovery) efforts for customers.  • Developed and supported Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS).  • Knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite.  • Analyzed Query statements by using Estimated Execution plan, Tuning Advisor.  • Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  • Database creation and design. Performed backups, recovery, performance tuning, index maintenance, disk storage, and database shrinkage.    Computer / Software: ITIL, COBIT, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, PHP, WordPress, SQL, Apache, Java, Oracle, MS SQL Server, Relational Databases, Mysql Windows XP/Vista/7/8, Business Systems, Security, LAN/WAN, Hardware/Software, Business Systems, Analysis, Research, SDLC, Web Tools, MS Office (Word / Excel / PowerPoint / Access), Visio Education Master of Science in Software Engineering Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA May 2016 Master of Science in Information Technology Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA May 2014 Bachelor of Art in Theology Islamic University in Medina February 2010 Additional Information Skills and Capabilities    Oracle 10g/11g/12c Database Administration  Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring  Data Security, Backup & Recovery  Standby/Failover Administration  Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation  Oracle Forms and Reports Development  Database-Backed Web Solutions  SQL Tuning in an Oracle Environment