SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Breakthrough Technologies Institute Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Breakthrough Technologies Institute - Washington, DC January 2017 to Present • Installed and configured 12 production SQL Server instances by developing and testing setup checklist that helped the process to be implemented both in manual and automated fashion.  • Designed a database backup strategy to backup system databases and user databases  • Performed Disaster Recovery (DR) drills on semiannual basis to make sure that the SLAs with regards to RPO & RTO can be met.  • Created and managed security principals on MS SQL Server, enforcing the security guidelines that were put in place by IT Governance fulfilling the requirement by the security auditors.  • Matriculated users, maintained system security, and monitored user access to the database.  • Eliminated longstanding production server issues by systematically troubleshooting and resolving the problem.  • Created projects and maintained packages that deal with different tasks using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Developed Crystal Reports used to generate daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) SQL Server Database Administrator QTC Engineering Consultancy PLC - Addis Ababa, ET January 2014 to December 2016 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia  • Migrated from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2014 by creating a Migration checklist in close collaboration with the app team.  • Designed different database backup strategies that comply with the company's RPOs and RTOs for multiple databases together with backup retention policies.  • Developed and maintained stored procedures, triggers, views, functions indexes and other objects within SQL server.  • Maintained the security and stability of multiple SQL server instances by applying service packs and security patches. I have closely worked with system administrators in validating the health of multiple SQL server instances post Windows security patching on a monthly basis.  • Extensively used Profiler, Extended Events and DMVs to identify bottlenecks that caused stresses on system resources.  • Monitored SQL Agent jobs to make sure all jobs run successfully every night.  • Worked extensively on Client/Server tools like SQL Server Management studio and Query Analyzer to Administer SQL Server.  • Created SSIS Packages to load and extract data from sources like flat files, excel, OLEDB, XML, and Oracle to SQL Server. Education B.Sc. Addis Ababa Institute of Technology - Addis Ababa, ET July 2013 Skills DATABASE (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SECURITY (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years) Additional Information Skills    ? Proficient in: SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Server data tools (Visual Studio 2010), TSQL, C#, .NET  ? Expert knowledge of Performance tuning, Backup and Recovery, and database Security.    ? Experience on Always on and disaster recovery (DR)  ? Adept with Microsoft office suite (Access, Excel, Word, outlook) Adobe Acrobat and Photoshop.  ? Experience on Redgate