Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Atlanta, GA Serve as an Oracle DBA for multiple Oracle applications and serve as the Global Operation Center point of escalation on Oracle application in a 24X7 production environment.  Oracle support includes problem analysis, monitoring and implementations for Production hosts. Interface with other DBA's to provide front line support for all production hosts.  Provided 24x7 production support for Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i databases on various platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Tuerk House Inc - Baltimore, MD March 2014 to Present • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise Red Hat Linux operating system versions and Windows 2008 servers for Oracle Relational (RDB) installation and Oracle grid infrastructure database software to meet the required expansion needs of the company.  • Effectively managed daily backups and recovery for Oracle on Linux using RMAN  • Created users, allocation of tablespace, quotas with appropriated privileges and roles for Oracle & SQL Server databases.  • Managed a project with a team of 7 and successfully analyzed and implemented an active Oracle Data Guard to facilitate data protection, site redundancy and disaster recovery.  • Successfully upgraded multiple databases and carried out short term performance tuning, maintenance and training for continuous operation  • Carried out Oracle Database maintenance such as base lining, performance tuning, alert configuration, using snap shots taking by Automated Workload Repository (AWR)/ Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to create performance reports, monitoring database performance, securing & protecting information/ database with unique secure configurations, data encryption and masking procedures as well as with sophisticated auditing skills.  • Worked with Developers to design, develop, test and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages, triggers, storing procedures and functions to support multiple clients.  • Executed complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases, ensuring fast and secure access to business application.  • Extensive hands on training on: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager (OEM), Grid Control, Data Pump, SQL Loader, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Recovery Catalog, Automated Workload Repository (AWR), ADRCI, Oracle Scheduler, Data Pump, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Standby Database (Physical, Snapshot, Logical), Unix Shell Scripting, Automatic Storage Management (ASM), TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT, Enterprise Reporting using Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Project.) Oracle Database Administrator Walmart - Moline, IL July 2013 to March 2014 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Implemented disaster recovery system, using RMAN and custom written shell scripts. Create and maintain Oracle Data Guard configuration  • Experienced working on non-prod databases which are resided on Virtual Machines and understanding the working process.  • Worked with different middleware & IDM teams to resolve their issues from the database side.  • Refreshed non-production environment with production using Datapump & RMAN  • Applied patches and database re-organization using oracle enterprise manager (OEM).  • Rebuilding indexes when needed to avoid fragmentation and improve performance, monitoring index usage and removing unused indexes. Oracle Junior DBA VERIZON - Newark, NJ June 2012 to May 2013 • Configure. Implement & Deploy Oracle 10g (9.2.0.8) & Oracle 11g (10.2.0.4), single instances on SunOS 5.9 using files systems for storage & VERITAS Clustering for high availability using IBM's HACMP  • Create oracle databases (single instance) on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 11g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts.  • Worked closely with Application Developers to design/create new Oracle databases/create new schemas/ database objects, as well as making database changes from DEV to PROD, via TST following requests/demands from the development team.  • Backup/Recovery of Oracle 10g/11g databases using Oracle RMAN.    Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 10g (9.2.0.8), RMAN, Data Pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Master of Sciences in Human Physiology University of Dschang March 2001 Bachelor in Sciences University of Dschang December 1999 Skills Oracle Database 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c Administration Introduction to UNIX Scripting/ Red Hat Linux, Solaris, AIX, CentOS, Ubuntu RAC, ASM, Data guard. SQL and PL/SQL Fundamentals Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate (OCA) Oracle Database 11g: Structured Query Language (PL SQL) Publications Cover Letter NGETLA MBONUH   1 443 615 6840• ngetla.mbonuh@gmail.com    Dear Hiring Manager,    I would like to convey my desire to be a part of your team, and submit my candidature for the same. I have enclosed my resume for your consideration. With 4 years of experience in the Oracle DBA Field, I believe my skills and talents make me strongly suited for an opportunity. I am an oracle certified associate and holder of both MSc and BSc in Natural Sciences. I have great organizational, communications, and strong analytical skills with the ability to cope in a competitive and challenging environment.     Additional highlights of my experience include:  • I have experience in working in the development of various database systems like SQL Server, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g and Microsoft Access    • Providing project support where I worked with a team on configurations such as Data guard for high availability/disaster recovery, upgrading and patching, as well as RAC configurations to name a few.    • Identifying user requirements to build and administer complex databases. Altering and updating the database structure when needed     With my background and skills, I would be a valuable asset. For further details on my work history, qualifications, and achievements, please view the included resume and contact me at your earliest convenience. I can be reached at ngetla.mbonuh@gmail.com or you may contact me at 1 443 615 6840.    Thank you and I look forward to speaking with you soon.    Very respectfully,    Ngetla Mbonuh    Enclosure: Resume  References upon request. Additional Information Technical Skills    • Provided 24x7 production support for Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i/8i databases on various platforms.  • Proficient in all DBA responsibilities such as Installation, Configuration, Perform Oracle Upgrades from 10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.3 for DEV, Stage & Production environment, Patches, Performance Tuning, Backup, Recovery, Cloning, Space management, Database Security, Auditing, Troubleshooting, Unix Shell Scripting and Documentation.  • Implement Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM 11g/10g) for centralized monitoring and administration.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions using Oracle 11g/10g RAC; Standby Database using Oracle Data Guard and Replication    • Operating Systems: Installation and Configuration of Unix/Linux, Windows NT 2000-08 for Oracle database, ASM and Oracle discoverer installation.  • Tools: SQL*Plus, Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, SQL Loader, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Scheduler, Data Pump, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Partitioning, Active Data Guard, Unix Shell Scripting, Automatic Storage Management (ASM), Data Archiving, TOAD, MobaxTerm, SecureCRT, Enterprise Reporting with Oracle Reports.  • Created and used unix scripting Involved in database upgrade from 11.1.0.6 to 11.1.0.7 for DEV and TEST environments. Upgrade the production and development databases from 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4  • Install and configured Oracle RDBMS 11.2.0.3  • Set up Oracle Data Guard on Oracle 10g/11g for high availability, data protection and disaster recovery, also manually created physical standby database using data guard. Performed quick switchover with physical standby to reduce downtime during upgrades and patching. Configured 11g data guard broker using command line dgmrl and EM grid control.