Production Clerk Production Clerk Production Clerk - SEYON E HWA INTERIOR SYSTEMS MANUFACTURING LaGrange, GA • Database administrator (DBA) with experiencein designing, coding, maintaining and supporting databases and possesses 2 years of database experience  • Experienced in managing databases in Oracle and MySQL  • In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.  • Hands on experience in performing analytics SAS /statistical programming.  • Ability to Generate the needs by having firm grip over various statistical procedures like proc SQL, proc report, proc tabulate, proc plot, proc chart, proc format, proc import, proc export, proc print, proc sort, proc append, etc.  • Developing SAS applications using PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC CORR, PROC ANOVA, PROC MEANS etc.  • Created derived Datasets from raw data sets based on Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP).  • Quick in generating output in all formats available in output delivering system HTML, PDF, RTF. XML and creating customized reports.  • Utilizing advanced SAS skills, including Macros and SQL procedures to deliver concise and flexible code  • Exporting and importing files from external databases like access and also from Excel spreadsheets.  • Generated various graphs using SAS/GRAPH procedures like PROC GPLOT, PROC GCHART. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Clerk SEYON E HWA INTERIOR SYSTEMS MANUFACTURING - LaGrange, GA May 2016 to Present • Clerical activities including making daily production reports, analysis of reports and documentation in a fast-paced environment using Microsoft Office.  • Handling of financial reports of production.  • Record reporting requirements and work with reporting owners to develop reports Junior Database Administrator ASSYST INTERNATIONAL Pvt. Ltd - Kochi, Kerala March 2015 to March 2016 Database administration, monitoring, reporting, and maintenance in Oracle and MySQL environments for the onsite project -National Population Register (NPR)- under Ministry of Home Affairs, Central Government of India.  • Served as a DBA in a very complex and high visibility national projectand associated with design and maintenance of databases having about 400 Million census data of 18 states of India and databases having size more than 1TB.  • Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, and conduct regular system backups, planning for future expansion and Ensured 24x7 database availability and reliability while in a production and testing environment in oracle and MySQL.  • Database server administration, Installation and Maintenance for MySQL production servers on Red hat Linux /Windows 2008 platforms and Oracle RAC Database installation in Linux Red Hat servers.  • Maintaineddatabase security -created and maintained users and roles, assigned privileges.  • Handled SQL performance tuning and query optimization to reduce CPU consumption and experienced in index management, and referential integrity in Oracle andMySQL databases.  • Associated with senior DBAs from Oracle India in the configuration and installation of oracle 12c grid infrastructure in RAC and in the configuration, setup, capacity planning of the oracledatabase 12c and ASM, as a part of the NPR project.  • Migrated huge data from MySQL schemas across several servers to oracle Database installed in a RAC using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) and SQL Developer.  • Utilized CRON job and Linux bash scripts for automation of backups Oracle Database Administrator Trainee INDIAOPTIONS SOFTWARE Pvt. Ltd - Kochi, Kerala March 2014 to March 2015 • Oracle 10g database administration and Well-versed in DCL (Data Control Language), DDL (Data Definition Language), and DML (Data Manipulation Language) commands.  • Created and administered all database objects, including tables, indexes, views, sequences, packages and procedures, and users profile.  • Configured Backup and Recovery using RMAN and its various parameters as per the requirement.  • Created appropriate tables and views for developer and client needs, Monitored Tablespaces  and Data files utilization, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs.  • Experienced in SQL loader utility(exp/imp) and Data Pump and used Flashback technology.  • Plan, design and implement database code objects such as SQL queries, stored procedures, views and functions, optimize procedures and triggers. Education Bachelor's in Electronics & Communication Engineering MG University Kottayam - THODUPUZHA, KERALA June 2010 to November 2014 Skills Database (2 years), Database administration (2 years), Linux (1 year), Oracle (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills    • Oracle 10g& 12c Database Administration  • Data Security, Backup &Recovery, RMAN  • Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation.  • Oracle PL/SQL, SQL  • Oracle OEM  • Linux/Unix&Windows Server Administration  • NAS/SAN storage device  • MySQL Database Administration  • InnoDB and MyISAM storage  • MySQL Dump Backup  • SAS 9.4 Analytical tool