Oracle Database administrator (support DBA) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> (support DBA) Oracle Database administrator Tempe, AZ • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Use change management tools like Service Now and Remedy  • Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.  • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Data guard - configure primary -standby using duplicate from active database command of 11g.  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Apply SCN-based Incremental backup to sync standby after loss of Archive logs on primary.  • Measure data loss based on latency/lag. Cross-platform migration using Data guard.  • Golden Gate - Involved in Golden Gate setup and monitoring. Hands on Troubleshooting replication errors & reading Trail files to identify replication issues. Performance/Latency test of GG. Hands on Golden Gate director experience.  • Write parameter files for EXTRACT/DATAPUMP/REPLICAT process to perform Replication/Transformation /exception handling.  • Knowledge in Golden Gate installation & Configuration setups in both windows/Linux environments.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues. Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM.  • Fine Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning).  • Expertise in fine Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listener, AGENT Tuning using explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • Experience as 24x7 productions  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Experienced in working with very large 24x7 Oracle RAC 10g & 11g databases on ASM of nearly 80GB to 2TB.  • RAC- Administration/Trouble-shooting of 3 Node cluster on Oracle 10g/11G R2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2.  • Migrate OCR files to ASM. Trouble-shoot Resource related issues. Cluster-wide Resource management such as create resource plan, Service configuration, parallel instance group, Application Isolation. Stress testing, benchmarking of clustered database.  • Managed ASM storage. ASM cloning. Prepare/Add/remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory problem.  • Experience in database patching, cloning, upgrade, migration & maintaining standby database server (DR).  • Experience with database backup, recovery, and setting up disaster recovery Database servers.  • Experienced in writing and designing the SQL queries as well as have extensive knowledge of Relational Database Management Systems. (Normalization, De-normalization, Entity Relationship diagram, DFD etc).  • Experienced in resource management like data files with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) (Trouble shooting, Add, Remove Files etc.), online redo log files, control files. Allocating logical storage structures like tablespace, schema and extents as well as configuring Oracle databases on Multi-Threaded Servers Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle database.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform. Work Experience Oracle Database administrator (support DBA) ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICES (APS) - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to September 2018 • Use ServiceNow ticketing system to.  • Deployed and Registered agents to Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 13c.  • Used acknowledge and resolve user error related to oracle databases and applications OEM 13c to schedule and manage backups, threshold alerts and incidents.  • I have done installation of 12c Oracle clients on windows platform  • Responsible for database, tablespace and schema refreshes using data pump export and import utility.  • Troubleshooting resulting from user and other scheduled jobs.  • Used the Recovery Manager (RMAN) to run backups and recovery to a point in time.  • Created restore points and recovered databases to existing restore points.  • Participate in weekly team meetings  • Created users, expire passwords, reset passwords and granted the necessary privileges as per approved requests.  • Used tools like putty, secure CRT, WinSCP, toad, dB Artisan, sql developer to manage databases  • Learned new tools like CyberArk to manage and rotate user credentials and database credentials on daily basis. Oracle Database Administrator Genco - Pittsburgh, PA December 2015 to May 2018 • Performed database fine tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Upgraded Oracle 10g database version to 11g.  • Upgraded Oracle 11g database version to 12c version  • Provided database related services to their development & QA environments.  • Good experience with Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Cluster) on different nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  • Upgraded various databases from 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and minor version upgrades  • Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 2-node RAC  • Applied Oracle Patches (CPU/PSUs and One-off patches)  • Strong skills in SQL* PLUS, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH), Import/Export Server Manager. Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements.  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10g/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of 11g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintained data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance. Skills DATABASE (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), SQL (3 years), RMAN (3 years), OEM (3 years), Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Database