Sql server database administrator Sql server <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Sql server database administrator Kansas City, MO ? Over 3 years of programming experience as an Oracle PL/SQL Developer in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).  ? Solid experience in database development and support. Database migration, SQL Server 2008 upgrade to SQL Server 2012r2  ? strong knowledge of DBA skills, sql server and plsql in both windows and Linux environment  ? Experience with Data flow diagrams, Data dictionary, Database normalization theory techniques, Entity relation modeling and design techniques.  ? Effectively made use of Table Functions, Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions, Materialized Views, Query Re-Write and Transportable table spaces.  ? Expertise in Client-Server application development using Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, PL/SQL, SQL *PLUS, TOAD and SQL*LOADER.  ? Strong experience in Data warehouse concepts, ETL., SSIS (Integration Service), SSAS (Analysis Service), SSRS (Reporting Service).  ? Created Tables, Views, Constraints, Index (B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based).  ? Excellent T-SQL and database programming skills  ? Created Shell Scripts for invoking SQL scripts and scheduled them using crontab.  ? Experience in managing large client/server environment and Performance Tuning for Oracle RDBMS using Explain Plan and HINTS.  ? Experience with oracle supplied packages like DBMS_SQL, DBMS_JOB and UTL_FILE.  ? Knowledge in cloud based systems(aws, azure, vmware)  ? Created Packages and Procedures to automatically drop table indexes and create indexes for the tables.  ? Worked extensively on Ref Cursor, External Tables and Collections.  ? Expertise in Dynamic SQL, Collections and Exception handling.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as part of a team. Work Experience Sql server database administrator cognizant August 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed user defined functions based on requirements. Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL Stored Packages, Procedures, Functions, Collections and Triggers. Created PL/SQL procedures and packages.  ? Extensive query optimization and performance tuning. Created the integrity constraints and Database Triggers for the data validations.  ? Used PL/SQL Tables and Records in payment generation process. Written  ? Test Plans and Involved in unit testing.  ? Created relevant staging tables to load the CSV files, identified the business validation rules. Created SQL Loader script generator  application using UNIX shell scripting and PL/SQL.  ? Experience in creating the tables and sequences for the experimental data  load capture. Loaded the data into the tables using TOAD and SQL*plus.  Created metadata validation look-up tables and pre populated them using  SQL Loader generator application.  ? Designed competent pl/sql programs using pl/sql collections, Records  types, Object types.  ? Good knowledge on joins, which are inner join, Left outer join and Hash  join, Semi join.  ? Involved in working on Oracle Psuedo columns like ROWID, ROWNUM, SYSDATE, SYSTEMTIMESTAMP, USER etc.  ? Automated Quality Check tasks by creating PL/SQL procedures, cursors,  functions and dynamic SQL. Enhanced it with creating exceptions for error  handling. Created triggers for auditing purpose and created group,  tabular and form reports.  ? Database security by authenticating users, using logon triggers. Created  materialized view on remote database and automated scheduler of refreshing of materialized view. Sql server database administrator Infosys January 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in full development cycle of Planning, Analysis, Design, Development and implementation  ? Wrote sequences for automatic generation of unique keys to support Primary and foreign key constraints in data conversions.  ? SQL Server 2008/2005 Database Administration  ? Installation and Configuration of MS SQL Server 2008 on Windows 2008 Servers..  ? Migration of data from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008Edition.  ? Installed, configured and maintained MS SQL Server Replication for production servers to provide high availability.  ? Managing high volumes of data.  ? Responsible for maintaining 24x7 support for 70servers where of which 50 are production servers and remaining are test and development servers  ? Generated reports for business requirements using sql server reporting services 2008  ? Managed unstructured data in sql server 2008 using file stream  ? Designed and developed Oracle forms & reports generating up to 60 reports.  ? Worked on SQL*Loader to load data from flat files obtained from various facilities every day. Used standard packages like UTL_FILE, DMBS_SQL and used BULK Binding involved in writing database procedures, functions and packages for Front End Module. Education Computer Information Systems University Of Central Missouri 2015 to 2016 Bachelors in Electronic and Communication Engineering VR Siddhartha engineering college 2010 to 2014 Skills SQL (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), REPLICATION (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Databases: MS SQL SERVER 2000/2005/2008/2012r2, Analysis Server 2000/2005, MS Access 2000/2005.  Databases Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Database Engine Tuning Adviser, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Data Transformation Services, Upgrade Wizard, Replication, DTS x change, MS Visio, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS  Programming Languages:: SQL, TSQL, XML, PL/SQL.  Operating Systems:Windows 95/98/2000/2003/2008/XP, MS-DOS, Linux.  Utility Tools:: MS Office, MS Project.