Systems & Database Administrator Systems &amp; <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems & Database Administrator - Pervasive Solutions Rochester, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems & Database Administrator Pervasive Solutions - Rochester, NY May 2016 to Present Active directory & windows administration for over fifteen companies across the state of New York. Managing all  aspects of group policy, security, patching as well as overall environment stability.    • Email administration and security for multiple organizations. Well versed with Office365, Gmail and Microsoft  Exchange as well as implementation of email based security policies.    • Maintenance & implementation of Windows Server, Hypervisor, Virtual Machine & SAN. Configured and installed  multiple devices for use at companies ranging from 20 to 100 employees.    • Project manager & technical lead for select projects (email migrations, hardware upgrades, network upgrades,  phishing tests & roll-out of new software to clients)    • Deployment of automated newsletters & management of email based mailing list system to keep in contact with current and potential clients across the US.    • Web design & maintenance for managed service clients. Strong Familiarity with HTML, CSS, WordPress & DNS  records. Student Manager Corner Store at RIT - Rochester, NY November 2012 to May 2016 Act in a management role assisting the full-time store manager in day-to-day store operation, including cashier  line volume and merchandise inventory tracking. Database Administrator Rochester, NY May 2015 to September 2015 Maintained & organized the RIT parts/distribution database, updating it after each week of purchased had been  completed.  • Created and submitted detailed order forms to reflect all parts purchased, this was submitted monthly to RIT's  finance department Orientation Assistant Corner Store at RIT - Rochester, NY August 2013 to 2015 Led a group of 20 freshmen students, showing them tools and resources to understand the campus and to better  their time at RIT.  • Applied leadership skills to help freshmen students adjust to the changes in college life.    Phi Kappa Tau Fraternity Rochester, NY  • As an active member of the Phi Kappa Tau Fraternity at RIT, I've helped lead and participated in multiple community  service and fundraising initiatives for the SeriousFun Children's Network. Education Management Information Systems Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY May 2016 Skills Data analytics (Less than 1 year), Encryption (Less than 1 year), HIPAA (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), security (1 year) Additional Information Selected Competencies    • Business level administration experience with Windows OS (XP, 7, 8, 10), Windows Server (2008, 2012, 2016)  & Mac OS (Sierra 10.12, El Capitan 10.11)  • Group Policy Management & strategic planning (GPMC, Microsoft Management Console)  • PowerShell, PowerShell ISE, Visio, SQL  • Data analytics & email marketing (Campaign Monitor, MailChimp)  • Email security and compliance (DKIM, SPF, DMARC, Encryption, HIPAA Compliance)