Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Sr. SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator - Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP Fort Lee, NJ More than 10 years of database design, development and administration experience in MS SQL Server 6.5, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012 and industrial experiences in legal, healthcare insurance, manufacturing etc.. An industrious, versatile team player with good Communication skill and has a demonstrated tracking records of getting things done in time and to the users' satisfaction. Work Experience Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP - New York, NY September 2012 to Present Environment: Windows 2003 & 2008 servers, Clustered environment, San, SQL  Server 2008 R2, SQL server 2012 Asp.net, Java    DBA Daily Responsibilities  • Performance tuning and production troubleshooting and provide 24/7 production support and on-call rotation support for over 100 virtual servers  • Responsible for enterprise level of data center migration tasks; Outlining the migration procedures and details; Preparing the sql server migration scripts; Perform migrations  • Install and configure sql servers, setup transactional replications; Responsible for data center migration preparation, migration and scripting tasks  • Troubleshooting performance issues and provide comprehensive reports to the management for the root cause of the production issues.  • Upgrade sql server from sql server 2005 to sql server 2008 R2 and from sql server 2008 to sql server 2012; Create, modify and migrate SSIS.  • Perform database migrations and sql server upgrades on production servers  • Perform recovering databases to the point of failure using transactional backups  • Responsible for staging and production releases  • Setup alerts for all productions sql servers to monitor performance, resource usage, failed jobs, etc.  • Setup DR environment ( database mirroring) for outlook messaging teams  • Provide support to all developers' requests, create ssis and responsible for ssis production migrations and provide sql coding recommendations to developers for better performance  • Creating/modify existing production procedures for better performance  • Creating virtual website, configure IIS, setup website dev, staging and production environments for attorney annual review, recruit and admin staffing annual reviews worldwide.  • Configure user single sign-on for the firm website  • Setup and maintain websites; Configure Kerbero authenticaton for SSRS site; Create operational SSRS reports.  • Responsible for website user access rights: responsible for assigning admin, solicitation, gatekeeper roles, etc. for restricted admin website access  • Creating a system to monitoring user login and activities  • Provide daily web support for firm's intranet applications  • Handling all production application tickets Sr. SQL Server Database Administrator Aon Corporation - New York, NY July 2009 to September 2012 Environment: Windows 2003 & 2008 servers, Clustered environment, San, MS SQL  Server 2000, 2005 & 2008, Asp.net    DBA Daily Responsibilities  • Performance tuning and production troubleshooting  • Generating new dbs for new clients through copy client procedures  • Tuning stored procedures  • Creating ad hoc complex management reports as required.  • Designing and developing reports using sql server reporting services 2005&2008  • Designing and developing data warehouse cubes  • Interacting with business users to resolve application issues and performing data upload requests    Operational Responsibilities  • Performed as a technical lead for HRPortal DBA support team to allocate DBA tasks to team members and ensure the tasks being completed successfully in a timely manner.  • Building new DR environment and replication environment  • Providing 24/7 production support in clustered environment for over 60 sql servers and providing scale up or scale out suggestions to the management  • Detecting the causes and troubleshooting high cpu, disk space, blocking, deadlock, top running queries that used the most resources  • Storage planning for annual AE production, development and QA environments  • Troubleshooting production maintenance jobs issues  • Coordinating with team members and delegate production tasks  • Creating SSIS to automate production import and export tasks  • Setting up transactional replications, ensuring high availability and excellent performance for all production servers  • Manage database security and user login requests Education M.S. in Management Technology University of Wisconsin-Stout 1995 to 1997 Additional Information Technical Profile  SQL Server: SQL server 6.5, 7.0, 2000, 2005 & 2008  Reporting Tools: Sql server reporting services 2005 & 2008 R2  Data warehouse Development tools: MS Visual studio, Sql Server Analysis Services  Third Party Monitoring Tools: SQL Sentry, Idera, Redgate, VMware vSphere Client, etc.