Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Minneapolis, MN Linux /Oracle DBAFull responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases. Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating Systems with sizes up to 11 TB. Experience in Installation of Oracle Databases 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c versions. Experience in the Upgrade of Oracle Databases in patch set Level and also in version Level (9i to 10g), (10g to 11g) and (11g to 12c). Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations. Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and performing periodical backup, restoration and recovery using RMAN (full and incremental) Testing and implementing different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, data pump export/import. Knowledge on designing and managing applications on AWS. Skills in designing Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status and sizing issues using grid control (OEM) and extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance. Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases. Extensive experience in installation and implementing OEM and TOAD and setup of Oracle Grid Control. Proactively monitoring the database's health and taking preventive or corrective actions. Proficient in Database Design (Physical and Logical Database Design) and Normalization. Expert experience in Hot and Cold Backup and Recovery, cloning of databases using RMAN, Veritas NetBackup and IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM). Used EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at database level or tablespace level and accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation. Proficient in using various database Utilities like EXPORT/IMPORT, Data Pump, TOAD. Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility. Automated many common tasks using Crontab including Backups, exports and imports, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CHAVERAN INC - Bowie, MD January 2015 to June 2017 • Applying CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.  • Cloning of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Maintained Oracle 11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems.  • Created, Configured, Upgraded and Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on Linux Red Hat and Cent OS on Vmware and bare-metal environments  • Creation and configuration of new database server and database environments.  • Performing Monthly Re-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Participated in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically  • Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My Oracle Support)  • Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQLDeveloper and DBArtisan for Oracle).  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK, SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. Installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts. Oracle Database Administrator PROGRESS STAFF HEALTHCARE - Des Moines, IA May 2014 to December 2014 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNSnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Data pump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4. Oracle Junior DBA DREAMLAND HOTEL ENTERPRISE August 2012 to November 2013 • Migration from Linux to Solaris and 32 bit to 64 bit.  • Restore and Recovery of database in case of database crash, disk/media failure.  • Applying patches and works closely with Oracle to make Application environment up to date.  • Backups & Recovery Maintenance, Databases Performance Tuning.  • Created users and grant privileges according to the requirements.  • Provided System support for both development and 24*7 production environments.  • Clear documentation was prepared on all the processes like program specification, bugs fixing logs & change requests for future reference. Performed daily database administration tasks: User management, Space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning, Alert Log monitoring and backup monitoring.  • Performed Physical backup (hot and cold) as well as Logical backup (Export/Import).  • Proactively managed the databases; set up alarms for managing any exceptions in day to day management of the databases; pre-empted and prevented issues, disasters from happening.  • Monitoring tablespace issues, creating tablespaces and adding datafiles.  • Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database. Education Bachelors in Law University of Buea Associate in Arts in CERETIFICATIONS Indian Hills Community College Skills DATABASES (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), LINUX (3 years), SQL (3 years), RMAN (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate April 2017 Oracle Certified Professional June 2017 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, AWS, Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, TKPROF.  Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c  Operating System: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX