Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Herman Miller Work Experience Database Administrator Herman Miller - Grand Rapids, MI June 2016 to Present SQLSERVER\ORACLE DBA  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of 4 in 24*7*365 environment, working on-call 24*7 for every three weeks.  • handling over 150+ requests per week in Service Now  • installing SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2 on windows clustered and standalone environments  • experience in working and troubleshooting Very large databases(>1TB) in OLTP environment.  • application support for front end feeds and resolved application connectivity issues like connection timeouts, connection pooling issues like memory CPU and IO issues.  • rebuilding and re-org of indexes for better performance  • Involved in data modeling for the application and created data models using Erwin data Modeler  • Analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance using SSMS and SQL SENTRY.  • Setting up disaster recovery solutions like clustering and log shipping for high availability  • Implementation of SQL logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of security policies for various categories of users.  • Configured backups maintenance plans, backups, optimization jobs and involved in restoring database to point in time (in case of issues), troubleshooting locks, deadlocks and performance issues.  • Configuring and deploying SSIS packages and SSRS reports.  • Documenting procedures, scripts, incidents in OFFICE 365 NOTEBOOK.  ORACLE:  • Administer and Monitor oracle databases 11g and 12C via Oracle Enterprise Manager  • Upgrade of 11g database to 12C using in place upgrade  • 24/7 on-call support for oracle databases  • Troubleshooting database performance by analyzing and tuning SQL queries, finding fragmentation, looking at reports and statistics  • Increase performance by rebuilding tables and indexes, managing SGA.  • Work with developers and system analyst to provide security via roles, grants and privileges  • Backup and recovery via export/import and RMAN    Environment: SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, SSIS, Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Erwin Data Modeler, OEM, SENTRY ONE, Power BI, Visual Studio 2010. Database Administrator (Internship) NERACS MI January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities  SQLSERVER DBA  • Providing support to end users, databases and also participate in design, analysis and testing.  • Installing and configuring MSSQL server instances in our environment.  • Assisting in troubleshooting technical issues with our clients.  • Documenting everything regarding the issues and developing solutions and also assist in automation of environments.  ? Worked on MS SQL Server performance tuning, client/server connectivity, query optimization, back-up/recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC.  ? Database creation, restoration, recovery, User/Schema Creation and maintenance Space Management.  ? Played a good role in setting up always on High availability. SQL Server DBA Micron Technology - Boise, ID September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Production supporting DBA activities in huge OLTP environments.  ? Analyzing and designing and implementing different types of Replication Models.  ? Supporting Huge Databases, Troubleshooting the problems.  ? Spreading huge tables to different file groups to achieve maximum performance.  ? Writing TSQL code and complex stored procedures for different tasks. Tuning the code written by team members to achieve optimum performance. Always On 2012 to 2012 in windows clustering environments for High Availability.  ? Setting up monitoring alerts and dashboards in addition using of SQL built-in dashboards.  ? Discussion with peers about performance issues, SQL Internals about log shipping, DB mirroring, replication etc.,  ? MS SQL Server installation, configuration, performance tuning, client/server connectivity, query optimization, back-up/recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC.  ? Database creation, restoration, recovery, User/Schema Creation and maintenance Space Management.  ? Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server using Windows System Monitor, creating an Alert in Windows System Monitor, creating a SQL server Performance Alerts.  ? Data migration (import & export -BCP) from Text to SQL server.  ? Setting up High availability always on future on new 2012 servers.  ? Good understanding and experience in SQL Server 2008 features like Change Data Capture (CDC), Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Policy based Management.  ? Prepared and documented Backup & Restore Plans and manage data import and export form multi-agency interfaces  ? Managed team of 6 DBA's on a 24*7 production support basis.  ? Supported Application Development team with any database issues, updates or new releases. Support included deadlock issues, best practices in structuring SQL Queries, debugging unexpected SQL results, etc  Environment: SQL Server 2014/2012/2008, SSIS, SSRS, Visual studio 2008, MS Visio 2007, XML, VB.Net, Report Builder 3. Education Master's in Management Information Systems NIU College of Business January 2015 to May 2016 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages T-SQL, VB.Net, HTML5, C  Services Database Engine, SSIS, SSRS(Visual Studio 2008, 2005)  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2014, 2012 2008, 2005, 2000, 7.0, ORAGLE 9g, 10g, 11g and 12c  Reporting Tools BIDS, Report Builder 2.0, Report Builder 3.0, SSRS  Modeling Tools Erwin Data Modeler, SQL Server Enterprise Manager  Operating Systems Windows 2008 R2/2003/2000 Server (64/32 Bit), LINUX  Other Tools RMAN. SQL SENTRY, SOLAR WINDS, ITSM