SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Powder Springs, GA Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Fully Work August 2017 to August 2017 Environment: SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2016, Windows server 2008/2012, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.  Responsibilities  • Responsible for all the servers which are running in SQL platform (SQL Server 2005/ 2008)  • Created database maintenance plans for SQL backups, optimization, and integrity checks.  • Configured and maintained transactional and snapshot replication.  • Managed SQL Server databases and Configured failover cluster.  • Created databases, tables, indexes, stored procedures and triggers and maintained user permissions.  • Create databases and schedule backups (Transaction log backup, Differential backup and Full backup) with Recovery sessions (Simple or Full).  • Setup and maintained Replication for Production servers to provide high availability and monitor using Replication Monitor.  • Setup Alerts, Notifications, Jobs, Job steps with automated Response solution schedules.  • Used database utility programs and 3rd party utility to monitor database performance, such as blocking, expensive queries and memory utilization.  • Reviewed and optimized SQL queries, CDC, stored procedures, functions, Indexes, views and triggers.  • Involved in every phase of software development life cycle.  • Worked on SSIS projects with web services and REST API as data sources.  • Created a Linked Server to Oracle11g from SQL Server.  • Active Directory with Security group with Table level permissions.  • Created maintenance plan for regular scheduled Transaction log backup, Full backup (Separately in remote server), Check database, Reorganize index, Rebuild Index, Update Statistics and Cleanup task. Student Dandy - Toronto, ON January 2014 to April 2014 Environment: Android programming, Yelp API, Foursquare API, Google MAP  Responsibilities  • Developed an android app using android programming language, Yelp, Foursquare, and Google Map APIs. (Capstone project) Humber College, Toronto, Canada. SQL Server Database Administrator Environment International Data Management May 2011 to August 2013 SQL Server 2000/05/08, T-SQL, Excel, Advanced, SSRS, Windows 2000 Server, MS access.  Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of SQL server 2008 in development, production, testing, environments  • Installing and configuring windows 2003 fail over cluster for SQL 2008  • Up gradation to SQL Server 2008 along with some database up gradation.  • Created Database Maintenance Planner for the Performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Database Statistics and Re-indexing.  • Involved in cluster implementation  • Implemented log shipping for hot stand by servers  • Provided 24 X 7 dedicated support to all Production Environments  • Scheduled the full backup, differential, transaction log backup of Database  • Restored the Databases from the Disaster.  • Planned and modified the permission issues in the server.  • Transferred the data to homogenous and heterogeneous platforms using SSIS.  • Extensively worked on replication.  • Fine tuning the Database Settings as well as the Server Settings.  • Configured Mail Profile for sending automatic mails to the respective people when a job is failed or succeed.  • Created stored procedures, triggers and functions  • Maintaining SQL Script for creation of Database Objects.  • Created a secured customer care Website linking to the customer database.  • Generated complex reports as per business requirements using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2008/2005.  • Managed users account on active directory.  • Installed several hotfixes and patches on windows servers to eliminate vulnerabilities.  • Worked with VMware Infrastructure Client in supporting our Windows 2012 Server environment. Education Humber College May 2014 Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server