Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator uShip, Inc - Austin, TX March 2016 to September 2016 Junior Database Administrator June 2014 to February 2016 Reported directly to the Director of Data Architecture.  ? Served as the main contact for all Microsoft SQL Server and MongoDB production and development concerns.  ? Monitored performance to preserve a high uptime for the transaction-heavy ecommerce  site. Participated in the on-call rotation.  ? Sustained transactional replication on the production database to other databases for reporting and analytics.  ? Created disaster recovery plans including backups, restores, and database mirroring for existing hardware.  ? Installed and upgraded SQL Server 2012 to 2014 . Configured mirroring servers for high  availability during the upgrade.  ? Provided detailed reports regarding the overall system health with points of interest  noted.  ? Made improvements as needed by tuning queries, adjusting indexing, and modifying  configurations in both SQL and MongoDB.  ? Documented policies and procedures involving the database team.  ? Regularly cleaned up, archived, and removed unused SQL objects and MongoDB  collections.  ? Supplemented training by enrolling in online courses such as Mongo University and  Microsoft Virtual Academy.  Tools and Technologies:  ? Worked with SSIS packages, Visual Studio, SQL Import/Export, and Microsoft Excel for data imports and schema compares.  ? Employed monitoring tools such as Redgate, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor,  Graphite, Logstash, and SolarWinds.  ? Interacted with MongoDB database environments via MongoVue.  ? Researched new potential products and trial tested using VMware. Successfully set up  Fast/Amazon Glacier as a cloud backup solution.  ? Used Jira and Confluence for task tracking and documentation. Quality Assurance Associate March 2012 to May 2014 Acted as Lead QA on large, agile development teams by creating thorough test plans for all new products, regression testing, and defect fixes, as well as working with product to  help keep user flows consistent. Education Mathematics University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX December 2011