Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Houston, TX 3 years of experience in the field of Database Administration, Database monitoring, backups, scripting(shell) in  Linux environment for Comcast(xfinity).  Proficient in tasks related to Big Data handling, managing 500 Oracle, Cassandra servers (SSD's and VM's), SQL  database design, and architecture, with thorough understanding of database architecture.  Experienced in tasks related to reporting, change management, storage and backup teams on Linux platform, with  excellent knowledge in database management, Linux commands, upgrades, data migration for databases.  Excellent technical writing skills, experienced in writing and designing technical run books which include procedural  implementations. Work Experience Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions January 2014 to July 2015 Successfully expanded the servers/clusters in the production environment.  Successful in performing the horizontal scaling on production clusters(involves the addition of Cassandra servers in  Linux environment).  Successful in addition of a new Datacenter named amazon east with 32 nodes and its expansion to 128 nodes.  Implemented the virtual machines on physical servers for existing data centers - Potomac and Broad which holds the production/live data of clients.  Successful in up gradation of Cassandra version to 2.1 from 2.0, and upgrading of supporting kernel versions, and java versions.  Experienced in Cassandra query language CQL 3.0 (similar to SQL) for creating keyspaces and columns for the amazon east data center.  Successful in decommissioning of corrupt nodes from clusters and adding new nodes.  Created backup scripts using shell scripting to reduce the manual task of taking snapshots and backups( 40 hours) to 2 hours of automated task. Received award from Comcast for this. Database Administrator (DBA) Cognizant Technology Solutions - Philadelphia, PA September 2014 to November 2014 for in-depth  training.  Collaborated with other teams like Networking, storage and security to resolve issues and increase the performance of Cassandra.  Exposure to DataStax team for better understanding of Cassandra.  Data Migration An author Cognizant (Comcast) - IN January 2013 to December 2013 India 01/2013 - 12/2013  Successful in migrating the data from oracle servers to Cassandra servers using Cassandra architecture, backups,  restoring from backups.  Successful in task related to setting replication factor for the migrated nodes, performed performance tuning and checked the health of the nodes.  Proficient in tasks related to allocation of space on disk, trouble shooting (L1/L2/L3) issues related to disk.  Successful in managing/monitoring, performance tuning, creating keyspaces, columns for the servers.  Performed daily and weekly health checks, backups, created scripts for tasks, automated tasks.  Upgraded kernel versions and java versions to the latest version, cassandra version from 1.7 to 2.0.  Involved in tasks related to svn git repositories.  Knowledgeable and handled production servers for addition, deletion, upgrading, decommissioning of nodes.  Added security to nodes, provided security access for nodes to many users.  An author for many technical run books related to the migration of data. Engieering Trainee Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN August 2012 to December 2012 Trained on various platforms like JAVA, hands-on training on core JAVA(J2SE).  Trained in oracle and hands-on experience with SQL queries.  Trained extensively in Linux, commands, installation, kernel upgrades etc.  Trained in Infrastructure related fields like networking, troubleshooting networking etc. Education Master of Science University of Houston May 2017 Master's in education Actively involved in college events related to leadership 2017 Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Osmania University April 2012 Skills JAVA (2 years), APACHE CASSANDRA (2 years), ASTERADATA (2 years), CASSANDRA (2 years), LINUX (1 year), SQL (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sireesha-pendyala-65464821 Certifications/Licenses APACHE CASSANDRA JAVA Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills: Soft Skills:  Language: C, C++, core JAVA(J2SE), Python Strong verbal communication  Databases: Cassandra, SQL Project management, customer relationship  Tools: JIRA, CONFLUENCE, Campfire, OP5 management  dashboard, Splunk, Microsoft office suite Extremely organized, punctual  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux(CentOS/Ubuntu) Great team player and good with leading a team.