Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Pfizer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Pfizer - Peapack, NJ April 2017 to Present • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c in UNIX/LINUX and Windows server.  • Installation and configuration of 12c Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and Unix platforms.  • Upgraded multiple Standalone and RAC databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Used Logdump utility, Defgen utility in Golden Gate environment and Installed Golden Gate in dev, test, prod environment while managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  • Experienced in writing SQL queries, understanding of views, stored procedures, triggers and optimization.  • Worked on Oracle 12c New Features such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  • Supported in Performing Golden Gate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps.  • Replication Using Golden Gate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  • Involved in DataCentre migrating large size database across multiple platform.  • Expertise in Active DataGuard, using Dataguard Broker (DGMGRL) and Enterprise Manager. Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11g RAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Generated AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, reports for Performance tuning. Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements.  • Hands on experience in cloning and upgrading 11g non container databases to 12c pluggable databases using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Communication vault.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Experience in upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, and Crontab.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups.  • Experienced in tuning of Weblogic.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Hands on experience in migrating from SQL server 2014 to SQL server 2016.  • Ensure all SQL server databases are backed up to a shared location to meet Recovery Point Objectives (RPO).  • Experienced in creating and managing users and privileges in a Multitenant Environment.  • Hands on experience in patching and upgrading a multitenant container database. Oracle DBA Admiral Insurance Company - Austin, TX October 2014 to March 2017 • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control and TOAD.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Utilized Rman recover table functionality and created proof of concepts for our pre-prod environment.  • Installed, Configured and Manage Oracle 12c Goldengate for Uni and Bi Directional Replication. Troubleshooting and performance tuning Golden Gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden Gate in Unix scripting.z  • Experience with Change Board Meetings and Change Control Management for all database changes.  • Used import/export utilities and Rman for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g, 11g and 12c environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Installed and configured Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  • Configured Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, for faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Performed RAC Database upgrade from 10g through 11g to 12c.  • Applying RDBMS quarterly patches for Improved security and functionality of the databases.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system.  • Successfully migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Involved in converting single instance databases to RAC databases.  • Creating and Scheduling Oracle Backend Process Jobs using UNIX crontab.  • Configure SQL Server monitoring utilities for failed replication or failed lock synchronization. Education Bachelors in Micro Biology and Political Science in Micro Biology and Political Science University of Yaoundé Boltos Institute Skills Database, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Replication, Sql, Unix, Disaster recovery, Rman, Security administration, Load balancing, Security, Backups, Project support, Remedy, Erwin, Estimating, Cloning, Performance tuning, Production environment Additional Information Skills Summary    DBA with over 5 years of experience working on Oracle and SQL Server databases installed on multiple platforms. I have hands on experience in database installation and configuration, production and project support, backup and recovery, space management, database security, upgrades and patches, performance tuning, cloning and refreshes, migration, good documentation and communication skills.    • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, and TOAD, SSMS, AQUADATA Studio.  • Enforced Security Administration, system monitoring by creating users, granting and revoking roles, configuring quotas, auditing, and analyzing security problems.  • Expertise in migrating single instance databases to multinode 10g, 11g and 12c RAC environments for high availability and load balancing.  • Experience in Performance Tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc) by using tools such as AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, Autotrace, TKPROF and STATSPACK.  • Experience in configuring and maintaining Oracle Dataguard and providing critical solution with strategic disaster recovery plans. Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, and Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Experience in cloning and refreshing Databases to and from Production environment using RMAN backup, Datapump, Transportable Tablespaces.  • Hands on experience in configuring, managing and troubleshooting Oracle 3node RAC databases on various flavors of UNIX systems.  • Loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using export/import and DATAPUMP.  • Database replication using snapshots, materialized views and advanced replication methods (Golden Gate).  • Good experience in applying Patches (Patching), Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using OPatch Utility and runInstaller.  • Experience in capacity planning and estimating the growth of Oracle databases  • Create new Oracle databases using DBCA or database scripts. Creating new ASM disk group or raw devices for RAC DBs.  • Tuned the database at various levels such as Memory Tuning, SQL Tuning and Database Contention, I/O Tuning, Capacity planning by using TKPROF, Explain Plan, SQL Trace, UTLSTAT, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM.  • Excellent interpersonal, strong analytical and problem-solving skills with customer service-oriented attitude. A very good team player, self-motivated, dedicated in any work environment.    Technical Skills  Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Database Tools: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UN