SQL Developer SQL Developer SQL Server DBA/Developer Austell, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Developer Georgia Department of Education - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to December 2018 • Creation of tables, views, stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Developed ETL processes using SSIS with various Control Flow and Data Flow tasks per business requirements.  • Adept at using various SSIS data transformation tasks such as Look-ups, Merge Join, Derived Table, Conditional Splits, Sort, OLE DB Command etc.  • Performance Tuning: Indexing, query tuning, monitoring and optimization, analyzing execution plans.  • SQL Development: stored procedures, views, tables, triggers, functions, CTE, temp tables etc.  • Developed and maintained complex SSRS reports to meet business requirements.  • Extract, transform and load of data from various heterogeneous data sources like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, Flat Files etc.  • Experience with Team Foundation Server (TFS) Source Control for checking code in and out. SQL Database Administrator Kansas Department of Revenue - Topeka, KS November 2017 to June 2018 • Troubleshooting and monitoring of performance and connectivity issues using native SQL Server tools (Activity Monitor, Dynamic Management Views (DMVs)) and other Third-Party monitoring tools.  • Tuning and optimization of SQL queries.  • Assigning of server and database roles and permissions to users.  • Generation of complex reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Creation of SSIS packages for loading large volumes of data into database tables.  • Creation of database objects (Stored Procedures, Views, Tables, Indexes, Functions) • Replication of database objects to multiple instances of SQL Server.  • Setting up of disaster recovery and high availability solutions (Always-On, Mirroring, Replication, Log Shipping, Clustering).  • Database Integrity checks (DBCC CheckDB).  • Setting up of maintenance plans for the scheduling of SQL Server jobs.  • Installation, Upgrade and Patching of SQL Servers.  • Migration of on-premise SQL Server databases to Azure SQL database.  • Database maintenance (updating statistics and Index maintenance tasks (rebuilding and reorganizing fragmented indexes).  • Backup and Recovery.  • 24/7 on-call support. SQL Server DBA Dove Technology - Norcross, GA January 2017 to August 2017 • Performed database administration tasks including installation, configuration and maintenance.  • SQL Server Upgrades (Side by Side and In-Place).  • Proactive monitoring of performance and performance tuning of production databases.  • Creating copies of databases for development and test environments.  • Developing Backup strategies and Disaster Recovery solutions.  • Database maintenance (updating statistics and running Database Integrity Checks (DBCC CheckDB) and Index maintenance tasks (rebuilding and reorganizing fragmented indexes).  • Data migration.  • Managed SQL Server Security (creation of windows and SQL Server logins and users, assigning server and database roles and permissions.  • Working with developers, support and QA team to maintain all database environments (Production, Dev and UAT).  • Scheduling maintenance jobs for backup and database integrity checks.  • Creation of stored procedures, triggers, functions, tables indexes and views.  • Implemented High Availability solutions (Always-On Availability Groups).  • Implemented and monitored Replication (Transactional, Snapshot, Merge and Peer-To-Peer).  • Setting up and monitoring Database Mirroring, Log Shipping and Replication.  • Performed analysis and troubleshooting on complex database problems.  • Administer, maintain, develop and implement policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the company database.  • Troubleshooting performance and connectivity issues.  • Developing SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages.  • Developing Parameterized and Tabular Reports with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Physical Database designing.  • Monitoring SQL Server Clusters (Active-Passive).  • Virtualization using third party tools (VMWare Workstation Pro). Database Administrator NHIS - Accra, GH April 2014 to June 2016 • Part of a team of professionals that worked together to achieve set project goals and objectives.  • Writing, debugging, and tuning Transact-SQL statements and stored procedures.  • SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, constraints, table design).  • Configured SQL Servers to support filestream.  • Creation of SSRS reports.  • Setting up and administering SQL Server Database Security, database Privileges and Roles.  • Database mirroring, clustering, replication and log-shipping.  • Database support in HA production data center.  • Installation, configuration, upgrades, performance monitoring and tuning, backup and recovery and maintenance of SQL Servers.  • Provide technical support, training and help desk activities for users across the organization.  • Designing backup and restore strategies and Disaster Recovery solutions.  • Implement security policy design for new applications.  • Coordinate team meetings with groups for any new design/strategies.  • 24x7 production support.  • Creation of database objects such as Stored Procedures, Views and Tables.  • Use of problem-solving skills and root cause analysis to resolve operational issues. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Oil and Gas All Nations University January 2011 to November 2015 Certificate in Managing Big Data With MySQL Duke University - Durham, NC May 2014 to May 2015 Oracle Database Administration Kofi Annan Center for Excellence in IT Skills Database (4 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (4 years), SQL (4 years), SSRS (4 years), stored procedures (4 years), T-SQL, Ssis, Sql Database, ETL, Sql Server Additional Information Skills Overview:    • Disaster Recovery  • Replication  • Log Shipping  • Database Mirroring  • Performance Tuning  • SQL Server Upgrades  • Always-On Availability Groups  • Backups and Restores  • SQL Server Security  • SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS)  • SQL Reporting Services(SSRS)  • T-SQL  • Stored Procedures  • Failover Clustering  • Development.  • Azure SQL Database  • Windows Active Directory  • Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint  • Excellent Organizational and Communication Skills.  • Virtualization    Third Party tools/Services: IDERA, VMware Workstation Pro, Red-Gate SQL Compare, Spotlight.  Databases: SQL Server (2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014), MySQL, Oracle 11g.    Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012R2, Windows 7, 8 and 10.