Business Analyst Business Analyst IT specialist, Database Administrator, Business Analyst. Saint Paul, MN • 4 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, testing, implementation of software applications.  • 4 years of experience being a database administrator, in data management and analysis, documentation and programmer planning.  • Extensive knowledge in field works and surveys (Quantitative and qualitative), report writing, data management and other administrative works.  • Proficient in Database executions, use of MySQL, Oracle and Access.  • Strong analytical and interpersonal skills with ability to effectively handle multiple projects to meet business driven deadlines, results, objectives and set priorities.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills; with proven ability to communicate complex information clearly and concisely while dealing with enterprise and government clients.  • Working knowledge and application of project management concepts in software application projects.  • Extensive knowledge in producing BRDs (Business Requirements Document), FRDs (Functional Requirements Document), SRS (Software Requirement Specifications) and Use Cases.  • Proficient in User Acceptance Testing. Work Experience Business Analyst GB2G Solutions Providers - Maryland, USA January 2017 to Present ·        Worked with stakeholders to do a thorough walk through of their Business Process Document to gain an understanding of their current processes.  ·        Participated in Planning and Analysis sessions with all stakeholders to clearly define expectations for the new solution, analyzing the impact of requirements on other components the proposed solution will interact with.   ·        Translate high-level business requirements into functional specifications for the application development.   ·        Worked with end users and stakeholders to develop clear, concise and complete project initiation documentation, collaborate and consult to determine best options for development, production and utilization, and monitor feedback at project closing.  ·        Developed business process and data quality metrics to monitor long-term process stability and devised appropriate metrics to track progress and measure execution against program goals.   ·        Identified business and functional requirements and lead the collection, analysis, documentation and coordination of those requirements.   ·        Communicated system requirements to stakeholders for their verification and sign off.   ·        Created conceptual, functional, and technical design specifications.   ·        Evaluated and analyzed gaps between current and proposed solutions.   ·        Participated in the evaluation of the technology to meet the business needs.   ·        Developed methods, procedures and quality objectives including metrics for assessing progress.   ·        Adhered to standards, procedures, and quality objectives. Review system modules for quality assurance.   ·        Participated in testing efforts and coordinated feedback of test results.   Participated in the creation of training materials and system documentation and delivered training to end-users. Business Analyst/ Database Administrator John Snow Inc - Lagos February 2016 to December 2016 ·        Mapped current business processes against future businesses processes.  ·        Identified value gaps and opportunities for process enhancements or efficiencies.  ·        Conducted elicitation sessions with users to gather requirements.  ·        Analyzed the impact of requirements on solution components.  ·        Provided insight on how to integrate requirements with current systems and business processes.  ·        Developed functional requirements system solutions, which may span multiple business domains by partnering with stakeholders and appropriate IT teams.  ·        Leveraged multiple business requirements gathering methodologies to identify business, functional, and non-functional requirements.  ·        Documented requirements throughout each stage of the project or initiative to ensure traceability.  ·        Supported the development of comprehensive business cases to assess the costs, benefits, ROI, and Cost of Ownership of proposed solutions.  ·        Provided insight at design sessions to help translate requirements into workable business solutions.  ·        Reviewed the Business Requirement Documents and the Technical Specification Documents developed by other team members. Database Administrator (DBA) Africa Codes - Lagos January 2015 to November 2015 ·        Performing troubleshooting, administration, monitoring, tuning, and operational functions on Oracle databases for multiple projects  ·        Writing and troubleshooting database procedures, functions and triggers to optimize the results given by company software  ·        Proactively responding to database alerts by installing, upgrading, migrating and configuring SQL servers to resolve issues  ·        Managing duties like troubleshooting, tuning input/output to enhance database performance  ·        Working with DBA team members to provide client requirements, and suggestions to the developer team related to database activities  ·        Perform analysis and troubleshooting of queries using RDBMS toolsets; provide performance improvement recommendations  ·        Perform database administration activities such as storage management, backup, recovery, and performance tuning  ·        Provide proactive problem management to identify RCA to provide permanent resolutions  ·        Develop software and systems on test driven development and continuous integration practices; establish monitoring and automation processes  ·        Work closely with application development, server and storage groups to ensure optimal performance and efficiency  ·        Develop system documentation for all developed applications databases, processes, and jobs, including flowcharts and data models Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Babcock university June 2016 Skills BEST PRACTICES (5 years), HELP DESK (Less than 1 year), HELP DESK SUPPORT (3 years), INDESIGN (Less than 1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), SQL (3 years), Excel (6 years), HTML, testing, Methodologies: Agile, Traditional Waterfall (3 years) Additional Information • TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS    • Operating Systems: Windows 2000/ME/XP/7-10, Mac OS X.  • Software Applications: MS Office 2000-2013/XP, InDesign, Serif DrawPlus X6.  • Oracle Database10g  • Email account set up  • Security best practices  • Help desk support  • Network component installations  • Desktop and laptop installations  • Virus and malware prevention  • Operating system testing  • Team leadership  • Word Perfect, Publisher.