Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Knowers Consulting Inc Lithia Springs, GA I have about 5 years' experience designing physical and logical database, Backup and Recovery, Performance Tuning, database storage management, database networking, distributed database configuration, and advanced features of Oracle like ASM, RMAN, Dataguard, and RAC. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Knowers Consulting Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Configured, implemented 11g RAC with ASM disk on Linux servers  ? Performed several RDBMS upgrade from 11g to 12c on Redhat Linux platforms  ? Database duplications/recovery done via RMAN and cold backups  ? Maintenance and administration of customer databases - installations, configurations, performance, backup & recovery, and daily operational tasks  ? Database releases, patches, upgrades, and support, including on-call support  ? Document and follow standards and procedures for change management  ? Monitor production database using automatic workload repository (AWR) and automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM).  ? Oracle software installation, and instance creation and or migration  ? Configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10/11g Active Data guard  ? Installation and configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control  ? General production and development support Oracle Database Administrator Optimum Tech Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to June 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Designed and deployed backup and recovery strategy, using Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), shell scripts, import and export and Integrate Veritas Netbackup with RMAN  ? Perform database performance tuning activities - undertake troubleshooting, research and finding resolution of complex database problems by closely monitoring and tuning database performance issues.  ? Perform database reorgs and index rebuilds to reclaim spaces and optimize database performance.  ? Apply Oracle patches and bug fixes for Oracle database and Oracle Application Server.  ? Clone and refresh Oracle databases from one environment to another.  ? Perform configuration of Data Guard, and switchover activities as the need arises.  ? Used Flash Back option for quick recovery of dropped database tables, as well as rolling back the database to a point in time.  ? Write UNIX shell and Perl scripts for automating database related tasks.  ? Provide on-call 24/7 production database support and management.  ? Monitor OS file system, I/O, CPU, Swap, memory and network utilizations on UNIX and Windows 2000 and ensure efficient use of disk storage; reclaim dead space; optimize space allocation and avoid out-of-space conditions  ? Experience writing and debugging PLSQL programs for data processing and management.  ? Perform migration and conversion of MS Access and Applications to Oracle.  ? Creation and configuration of high availability databases, using standby databases, and data guard to guard against system failure.  ? Manage transaction logs, redo logs and archive logs.  ? Installation and configuration of Oracle Enterprise Manager for monitoring and management of databases.  ? Loading databases using SQL-LOADER, import and export, and Data Pump. Network Technician Optimum Tech Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to January 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Administered, maintained, upgraded, and monitored 85 desktops/laptops across main headquarters office and 4 remote office LANs  ? Troubleshot users' desktop, notebook, and connectivity issues within Microsoft Office 2000/2003 environment  ? Conducted root cause analysis for issues with servers, printers, and networks utilizing monitoring tools, Cisco network assistant, command prompt diagnostic tools, and remote desktop client  ? Maintained system backup and recovery; updated and maintained servers remotely.  ? Generated printer, workstation, server, and network equipment configuration reports.  ? Facilitated end-user training via remote support tools.  ? Maintained network diagram using Microsoft Visio and Fluke's Network Inspector. Skills AIX (5 years), BMC (5 years), BMC Patrol (5 years), crystal Reports. (5 years), ERWIN (5 years), Java (5 years), Linux (5 years), OEM (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Oracle 10g (5 years), PHP. (5 years), PL/SQL (5 years), scripting (5 years), Shell scripting (5 years), SQL (5 years), UNIX (5 years), Visio (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  OPERATING SYSTEMS/SOFTWARES/TOOLS: AIX, Linux, and Windows. Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c, crystal Reports. Oracle OEM/GRID, Oracle Statspack/AWR, UNIX Raw Devices; ERWIN and MS-Visio; Quest Tools-Toad, Spotlight, and BMC Patrol; Shell scripting, SQL, PL/SQL, Java, PHP.