Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Mayo Clinic Santa Clara, CA Over 7 yearsof Database Engineer, Database developer and Data Architect, experience which includes MySQLDatabase Administration on 24x7 critical production and large databases of over Terabytes Data using MySQL.    • Experience providing 24X7 on-call support to maintain all Linux, Databases in Productionenvironment.  • Worked in Agile Environment, fixing bugs and modifying technical requirement along the way.  • Knowledge of installing and maintaining OBIA.  • Linux Server Maintenance at all levels, like disk usage, file system maintenance, User creation and privileges, Patching, Upgrades etc.  • Working experience with Maintaining Apache Tomcat for Web Applications.  • Setting Security Measures on Servers, like access and authentication mechanisms.  • Good Experience on MAC OS, Linux, Solaris, IBM-AIX, HP-UX Platform to run MYSQL Databases.  • Setup and Configuring Replication (Active-Active, Active-Passive)Clustering on MySQL databases.  • Worked on Installing MySQL Proxy, HA PROXY. Enabling Read/Write Split on Database and Other High Available Solutions.  • Experience with performance tuning tools such as Nagios, Foglight, Oracle Enterprise MySQL in MySQL databases.  • Have worked on Backup and Recovery on MySQL databases. I have experience in setting up auto scripts to run the backup.  • Was responsible for ensuring Data security, data quality and integrity between the various system that are using the production for various purposes.  • Had experience solving issues related to data integrity, database privileges, database security and how the database is updated, inserted and queried by users.  • Setup SSL Keys for authentication mechanisms and had Single Sign on working.  • Experience with Linux OS Tasks NFS, inter-process communication, shell scripting, auditing system process.  • Have experience with ERP tasks to integrate MYSQL Databases of different business process to synchronize the activities going on in a company.  • Worked on Capacity planning of Production Databases to optimize disk space and Database resources.  • Experience with Designing databases at Physical and Logical level.  • Design of cloud infrastructure solutions for CA products including servers, storage in AMAZON AWS, VMWARE.    Technical Summary  atabases: MySQL, Sybase, MSSQL, SQl  Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10, IBM-AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3  RedHat Linux RHEL 5.x, 6.x and Windows  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Visual, C, C++, java script  Data Modeling: Erwin, Argo UML. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN March 2014 to Present Environment: Red Hat Linux 5and 6, MacOS X, MySQL databases, Mac OS.    Responsibilities:  • Installed, Security, and maintenance of linux based systems including Apache and MySQL 5.0.22 configuration.  • Performance Monitoring on Linux Environments. Patching for various Applications.  • Shell Scripting, Bash Scripting to setup various automated tasks, to check for logs and disk usages.  • Had setup Single Sign On for Applications on Linux Environment.  • Mysql database Installations and Configuration were major tasks assigned.  • Setting up replication and maintaining them, making sure the performance is good.  • Have experience setting Galera Clusters and Load Balancer for the DB and APIs.  • Experience working with PL/SQL scripting and programming.  • Typical Tasks were Capacity Planning and Performance Tuning.  • Upgrading the MySql Database and the replication slaves on production machines.  • Experience fixing MySql replication on Production when it broke.  • Experience with SQL tuning and Mysql Database tuning.  • Setting up Tomcat server and maintaining it and upgrading if necessary.  • Experience with RMAN to take Backups(cold, hot, cloning) and to do Recovery.  • Have worked on Data guard, which is used for fail-over on critical production system.  • Have experience with setting up security issues such as firewalls, pipelining etc.,  • Good experience with Debugging the error in SQL Scripting.  • Have experience with Rman backup, cloning, recovery and Rman utility related issues. Database Administrator Autodesk - San Francisco, CA December 2012 to February 2014 Environment: Red Hat Linux 5, RAC, MySQL databases, Drupal installations, Net app storages servers, Mac OS.    Responsibilities:  • Most of the Typical Tasks were Capacity Planning and Performance Tuning.  • Database Installations and Configuration were major tasks assigned.  • Experience working with PL/SQL scripting and programming.  • Have expertize in setting up Tomcat server and maintaining it.  • Installation of 9.2.0.6 and 10.2.0.3 on Sun Solaris and Linux platform.  • Configuring sendmail, X-window and Workflow mailer on Linux 5 server.  • Experience with setting up MySQL databases, backup, Recovery and Performance tuning.  • We used MySQL database for most of the Drupal Application we used.  • Have worked with Oracle BRM and CRM modules. Worked with team to install and maintain those modules.  • Performed 11.0.3 to 11.5.8 upgrade with migration from HP-UX to Linux Suse 7 SLES.  • Have experience in setting up GoldenGate replication.  • Setting various MySQL databases for applications like Drupal.  • Setting up Single Sign On on Application Servers using SSL keys.  • Worked on Setting up process maker and getting it work with Shibboleth (SSO).  • Worked on Creating Cluster of MySQL databases on Mac OS.  • Setup and Configured Oracle Golden Gate software on the client side. And have maintained it.  • Have configured and install Golden Gate for replication between RAC clustered Databases.  • Experience with Upgrading Oracle Databases Versions from 10g to 11gr2.  • Have worked with Oracle Data Guard for Disaster Recovery using Standby Databases.  • Experience with installing Drupal Multi Site and Migration of data from Single site to Multi site setup.  • Planned & transitioned hardware assets into Amazon Web Service (Cloud Computing.)  • Troubleshooting issues with the Tomcat.  • Experience with setting up Linux servers for various functionality or purpose.  • Worked on firewall rules for all the machines we setup. SQL Server Developer/DBA Thomson Reuters, HYD October 2012 to October 2012 AT&T Inc. is the largest communications holding company in the United States and worldwide, by revenue. Operating globally under the AT&T brand, AT&T is recognized as the leading worldwide provider of IP-based communications services to businesses and the leading U.S. provider of wireless, high speed Internet access, local and long distance voice, and directory publishing and advertising services    Responsibilities:  • SQL Server 2005 Database Administration.  • Installed and configured more than 2GB ram in SQL Server 2005.  • Managed the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2005  • Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.  • Installed, authored, and managed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services  • Build ASP.NET web pages using VB.NET  • Did trouble shooting of Client connections, viewing error log and applications.  • Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Developed and optimized database structures, stored procedures, Dynamic Management views, DDL triggers and user-defined functions.  • Experience in implementing and maintaining new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 that are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE).  • Transferred data (ETL) to Data ware house Environment using SSIS. Snapshot Isolation in SQL Sever 2005 to 2005 Expertise and Interest include Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production Support for Large (VLDB) and Complex Databases up to 2.5 Terabytes.  • Managing the clusteringenvironment.  • Expertise in SQL Server Analysis Services.  • Managed VERITAS net backups.  • To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  • Maintaining the database consistency with DBCC at regular intervals.  • Expertise in creating and supporting in OLAP Cubes  • Involved in development activities included hardware and network specification, installation and configuration, and participation in database design, architecture and SQL scripting.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2000 Enterprise Edition, Windows Server 2003, ASP.NET, VB.NET, EMC Storage Area. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science TKR college