DBA DBA DBA - Kohl's Expertise in installation, configuration, and administration of MySQL Server and Mongo dB    Core Responsibilities  • Having 4 years of experience as MySQL DBA.  • Experience on MySQL multiple instances set up, version upgrading & installing versions on Linux like 5.0/5.1/5.5 (RPM & Binary).  • Experience on MySQL Replication topologies like Master-Slave, Master-Master, GTID and Group replications.  • Having 3.5 Years of experience as Mongo dB DBA.  • Having certification on Mongo dB from Mongo dB university.  • Experience on installing, sharding, creation of databases, managing users & grants, replica sets in Mongo dB 2.4 /3.0 versions.  • Experience on database backup, restore and schedule backups, monitor & manage database replication (High Availability).  • Experience on Identifying, troubleshooting, resolving, monitor & manage database server performance, availability & error logs.  • Experience in Google Cloud Platform and Kubernetes.  • Exposure on high availability Architecture in mongodb, Mysql & Percona mysql. Work Experience DBA Kohl's March 2018 to Present Platform: GCP, mongodb 3.4 &3.6, mysql 5.4, Percona mysql, Python 3, datastore, shell, linux, proxysql, MHA  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Created Architecture for application (Amazon Returns, Gift Registry) using master slave replication using five nodes.  • Deployed Proxysql in kubernetes.  • Used python scripts for backup and replica sets.  • Designed architecture for application(CBP, PPD, Video-ml) in mongodb.  • Three region architecture with 5 nodes in mongodb.  • Maintain backups and monitoring system health, Optimization of queries which take long times to execute.  • Suggested indexes in case of latency in execution. Mostly fine tuning for mysql.  • Shell scripting for scheduled backups.  • Taken backup using snapshot in GCP.  • Configured MHA in the mysql setup.  • Used xtrabackup using Percona mysql for backup.  • Restoration of data.  • Upgradation of database with every new image from monthly patching.  • Creation of users with necessary priviledges.  • Monitoring CPU utilisation and disk utilisation.  • Upgrading the database without any downtime. MySQL Database Administrator October 2015 to Present Platform: MySQL Server 5.1/5.5/5.6, Linux, MSSQL 2005    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experience on installing, configuration sharding and replica sets in Mongo dB 2.4 /3.0 versions and of My SQL Server 5.6.  • Installed, configured and upgrade Mongo Db, MYSQL on Linux.  • Managing/Troubleshooting MySQL 5.5,5.6 and 5.7 in production and developer environments.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, recovery, security and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave.  • Setup, upgrade and administer MySQL database servers for Production, Development use.  • Creation of databases and users and assigning necessary privileges to them.  • Maintain backups and monitoring system health, Optimization of queries which take long times to execute.  • Restore the data whenever data crashes, taking daily backup and incremental backup and restoring databases if required.  • Responsibilities include monitoring tasks such as database backup, replication verification, installation, upgradation, daily tickets.  • Track down & troubleshoot database performance issues to ensure optimal performance of various applications and databases. sql analyst sql analyser tool October 2017 to March 2018 Platform: mysql 5.6, Percona mysql, mongodb    Roles & Responsibilities:    • Importing data to mongodb and helping in creating the required indexes.  • Fine tuning the sql queries.  • Tested the samples of sql queries and troubleshooting it. MySQL Database Administrator AOL October 2014 to 2016 Platform: MySQL Server 5.1/5.5/5.6, Linux, MSSQL 2005, Mongo dB  Client: Hobsons, Catelina etc. shared services