Oracle database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Inglewood, CA Work Experience Oracle database Administrator Walgreens - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to July 2018 - Led a team that upgraded databases from oracle9i to 10g, 10g to 11g and 12c using DBUA (oracle database upgrade assistant) and manual method  - Designed database administration (DBA), performance tuning,  Database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.  - Engineered the installation, upgrading and maintenance of RAC (Real Application Cluster) of 10g and 11g databases to support online applications.  - Configuring Automatic Storage Management (ASM) which includes creating disks and disk groups for oracle 11g and 12cR2 RAC databases.  - Experience in monitoring oracle instances and maintaining databases, performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Oracle GRID-control and database monitoring using 11g Grid monitoring tool.  - Created and configured physical standby database using data guard 11g and 12c active data guard.  - Administered flash back technology.  - Instituted Hot and cold backups, database recovery, cloning of database using RMAN  backup and recovery.  - Extensive experience in tuning the NetBackup environment and automated Installation  scripts for NetBackup.  - Installation, configuration, administration, and maintenance of VERITAS NetBackup  application  - Expertise in performance tuning for high performance of database availability for users, backup and recovery (RMAN and using catalog database), UNIX scripting for tasks like automated backups, space management, database security.  - Experience in application and memory tuning with explain plan, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL trace, SQL optimization utilities, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor and SQL planned management.  - Experience in using tools like AWR (automatic workload repository), ADDM (automatic database diagnostic monitor) and ASH (active session history) for database performance reports.  - Yielded performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features. Engineering Assistant Sogea Satom Construction - Yaounde June 2015 to June 2016 Created and Formalized checklist for the submission of necessary documents pertaining to a specific project.  • Reviewed construction plans drafted on Autocad  • Secured government projects for the company.  • Negotiated and organized work meetings between the company the city of Yaounde?  Urban Development Council.  • Co-chaired meetings between the Company and the City of Yaounde? Urban  Development Council.  • Oversaw Engineer’s quantity sheet and calendar Oracle Database Administrator Intern University of California, Irvine School of Computer Science - Irvine, CA April 2014 to June 2015 Tested and implemented different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including point in time, media recovery, full/partial, datapump export/import, using External tables to query data outside the database.  ? Designed each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development and production support activities.  ? Operated with large databases (1.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.  ? Planned and executed installation, configuration and maintenance of oracle 10g/11g, 11g RAC databases.  ? Experience in configuring oracle 10g, 11g Real application cluster (RAC) (2 and 3 nodes) using cluster ware and automatic storage management (ASM)  ? Spearheaded cloning a non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  ? Performed migration of oracle 10g/11g non-RAC single instance to RAC database instances.  ? Experience with 11g cluster maintenance using CRSCTL command.  ? Experience in using SRVCTL command for Oracle 11g RAC database  ? Administered EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at database level or tablespace level and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  ? Proficient in using various database Utilities like EXPORT/IMPORT, DataPump, TOAD.  ? Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  ? Automated many common tasks using crontab including Backups, exports and imports  Certification and Skills  ? Oracle SQL certificate  ? Oracle 11g associate  ? IBM SPSS  ? Autocad  ? STATSPACK  ? Microsoft word, Excel, powerpoint  ? UNIX  ? Linux  ? RAC  ? TKPROF Education Bachelor's University of California-Irvine - Irvine, CA September 2012 to June 2017 Bachelors of Arts in Economics University of California - Irvine, CA 2017