Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - VERIZON I have over 5+ years Oracle Database Administration experience. I have worked on Installing and configuring different Oracle versions like Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g, running on different platforms including Linux, HP-UIX and Unix. I have monitored and managed databases of varied sizes ranging from 40GB to 2TB across the SDLC. I have worked for Production support on performance tuning, backup and recovery, database security, data migration, managing/monitoring databases, database/schema refreshes, cloning, data Replication. I have done Project work on Patch/Upgrade Installation, configured a Physical Standby Data guard, 2 node RAC and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability Solutions and attended seminars on Data warehouse and data modeling. I have also supported some applications like PeopleSoft HR, FN and CRM. I have also worked with ETL.    ? Over 5 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including LINUX, Solaris, AIX and Windows.  ? Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  ? Expertise in Oracle's Data protection, high availability, and performance technologies such as Oracle RAC, Oracle Data guard, ASM, and Oracle goldengate.  ? Experience in administration and tuning of Oracle databases running on Windows and all types of UNIX platforms.  ? Experience in Oracle Grid Infrastructure implementation, administration, & performance tuning on ASM and implementing clusterware file systems.  ? Experience in Dataguard for different types of Standby Databases such as Active for reporting, Physical, Logical, and Snapshot standby on implementation, administration, & performance tuning.  ? Experience in implementation, configuration, troubleshooting, and performance tuning of Oracle Goldengate replication between Unidirectional, bidirectional, Oracle Databases.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning Oracle Databases with respect to all aspects of IT Infrastructure such as Network, OS, Storage, and Application.  ? Experience in using various performance tools or utilities like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ASH, and ADDM, and analyzing reports for tuning recommendations.  ? Experience in implementing Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (11g) and Cloud Control (12c) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  ? Experience in implementing desired database backup solutions based on environment, affordability, and other key IT Infrastructure aspects. Experience with Oracle RMAN backup utility and in traditional hot (online/cold (offline) backups, Experience in logical backups and Database migration tools such as DATA PUMP, Export/Import, and Transportable Tablespaces.  ? Experience in writing/modifying UNIX Shell Scripts base on requirements.  ? Experience in upgrading Oracle Databases from 10g & 11g, to 11g & 12c.  ? Knowledge and experience on managing very large Data Warehouse databases.  ? Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  ? Experience in implementing Oracle Flash-Back Technology and utilizing it for various rollback purposes such as Critical Application bug fixes, Load Testing, and QA Testing.  ? Oracle GoldenGate experience with Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle GoldenGate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database servers and ensure data synchronization.  ? Experience in Performance tuning of Oracle GoldenGate Processes to achieve zero lag times.  ? Hands on experience on using of macros, conflict resolution, filtering and transformation, exception handlers and Security.  ? Experience with Oracle Data Guard setup, maintenance and troubleshooting for High Availability.  ? Experience in performing Backups/Recovery using RMAN, Datapump and Flashback Technologies.  ? Experience in SQL Tuning using tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, TKPROF and OEM.  ? Effective troubleshooting of Database Performance and tuning using ASH, AWR, ADDM.  ? Experience in Database capacity planning, monitoring object growth and Storage Management.  ? Performed data migration from flat files into an Oracle database using SQL*Loader.  ? Experience in performing Cloning and Refresh using RMAN and Datapump.  ? Experience in Online/Offline Re-Organization of database objects.  ? Experience in Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Secure files, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  ? Demonstrated proficiency in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects, managing tablespaces, Rollback and undo segments, creation of database objects, Data Modeling.  ? Experience in defining Users, Roles, Privileges, Auditing to ensure database Security.  ? Experience working with database security tools TDE, DB Vault / VPD.  ? Experience in applying CPU/PSU patches to various versions of databases with minimum downtime.  ? Experience in upgrading Oracle Binaries and databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c.  ? Experience in handling very large databases ranging up to 3TB.  ? Proficient in writing SQL, PL/SQL (Stored Procedures, functions, packages and triggers) scripts. Work Experience Oracle DBA VERIZON - Irving, TX September 2017 to Present Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Stats pack snapshots and reports.  ? Utilized Grid Control to administer multi-node RAC database also managed redo and undo in the RAC environment. Load balancing of RAC instances.  ? Monitoring space, wait events, locks and long operations running on the database  ? Implemented RAC databases and ASM, Toad, Logical and physical data modeling and demonstrated experience translating logical models into physical models, Database design in a multi-terabyte Data Warehouse environment.  ? Supporting day-to-day Database administration activities like creating databases, troubleshooting tablespace issue, mount point space issue, high CPU utilization, locking/blocking sessions.  ? Perform Primary/Standby database switch over/fail over using Flashback option.  ? Performance Tuning Experience - AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL Tuning Advisors, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace with TKPROF, Toad.  ? Monitoring the session waits for the database performance and resolving the performance issues.  ? Monitoring the database for growth and added space to the table spaces as per demand.  ? Generating AWR/statspack reports on regular basis to identify the database performance at peak load.  ? Tuning the SQL statement by analyzing the explain plan and ADDM reports  ? Implemented scripts to monitor and get information on free space, alert log errors. Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  ? Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.  ? Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 9i to 10g, Cross platform migration from different platforms such as Oracle, windows and postgreSQl  ? Experienced in using 10g and 11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Control Monitoring and Recycle Bin.  ? Expert in SQL Loader, export/import and data pump to load data in to tables.  ? Upgraded Oracle 10g/12C to the Oracle 11g R2 database version.  ? Implement backup and recovery procedures using (RMAN) for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations.  ? Implemented the Golden Gate Replication  ? Oracle Database capacity planning, space management, storage allocation and different type of storage structure (SAN/NAS)  ? Extensive experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, RMAN, Data Guard and maintain Standby database.  ? Data guard Broker configuration and Managing Physical Standby databases using Oracle Data guard Broker.  ? GoldenGate replication implementation.  ? GoldenGate Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  ? Proficient knowledge in RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery.  ? Experience on working with data guard physical/logical standby databases.  ? Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  ? Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Expert in Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  ? Expertise in performance-tuning, SQL tuning services with EXPLAINS PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, AWR, ADDM to collect and maintain performance statistics and improve the database performance.  ? Extensive knowledge of Oracle Architecture, SGA, PGA, Binary structure, Listener, TNS Names, SQL Net, V$ views, DBA views and Data Modeling, Logical and Physical databases design using tools like Erwin and Visio.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  ? Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  ? Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  ? Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  ? Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  ? Environment: Oracle 10g/11g RAC VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator RILEY TECHNOLOGIES - Mooresville, NC October 2014 to September 2017 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.3, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on AIX platforms.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  ? Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  ? Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  ? Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  ? Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  ? Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) database.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes. Education BSc Electrical and Electronic Engineering National Polytechnic Bambui Cameroon Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  OPERATING SYSTEMS:  Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x and Windows XP  RDBMS:  Oracle 12c/11g/10g  SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS/ TOOLS:  DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, Sql Developer, TOAD, Data Pump (expdp/impdp), SRVCTL, SQL*Plus.  TUNING TOOLS:  SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM  WEB TOOLS:  HTML, XML