Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator US To excel in the field of Information Technology industry and to be a part of growth of the industry with the pace of change in the field. Looking forward for a challenging and a growth oriented job. Work Experience Database Administrator Pest Control of India (PCI) May 2016 to July 2016 MySql DBA Anmsoft Technologies Pvt Ltd September 2014 to April 2016 Mysql Database Administrator Envee Information Technology Pvt Ltd February 2013 to November 2013 Technical Support Executive Reliance Communications June 2011 to September 2012 Organization: PCI(Pest Control of India)  Role and Responsibilities:  • Database administration, maintenance and schema design for MySQL and PostgreSQL.  • On call for various PostgreSQL database related assistance.  • Performed query analysis for slow and problematic queries.  • Installing PostgreSQL 9.3 and Mysql Server 5.7 on standalone servers.  • PostgreSQL and MySQL version upgrades, data migration, backup and recovery, replication, disaster recovery, performance monitoring & tuning, index optimization.  • Log Based or Streaming Replication of PostgreSQL databases.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.    Organization: Anmsoft Technologies  Project: My Global Trip, Satguru Travel (Dubai)  Role and Responsibilities:  • Installing Mysql Server 5.7 on standalone servers.  • Performance Tuning, Query Optimizing, client/server connectivity.  • Experience of Database Administration, design, development, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySql Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master.  • Database consistency checks.  • Performed query analysis for slow and problematic queries.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters.  • Experienced in Database optimization and developing stored procedures, Joins, Views on SQL databases.  • Supported SQL queries and databases by updating and tuning in proper manner.  • Resolved database related problems by troubleshooting and evaluation of database events.  • Maintained system documentation relating to application architecture, assembling and technical platforms.  • Experience with MySQL on both Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in Resource Management like allocating and managing physical storage structures.  • Working Experience in Production Systems in 24x7 environments.    Organization: Envee Information Technology Pvt Ltd.  Project: Worked on Midc project for Database migration.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Worked in development/implementation of database in accounts domain  • Working Experience on Production Systems in 24x7 environments.  • Participated in system analysis which includes procedure, functions and cursor.  • Good working knowledge on import-export database by using various commands.  • Hands on RedHat Enterprise Linux 6.  • Troubleshooting issues with live production servers.  • Alter and modify tablespace for additional instances.  • Strong analytical and troubleshooting skills & also fast understanding of business processes.  • Working knowledge of toad 8.5 tool.  Worked on Bmc remedy.    Organization: Reliance Communications.  Project: Worked on macd (modify, alter, cut, delete) project.    Role and Responsibilities:  • Data importing from database by using various commands.  • Creating user and granting role and privileges.  • Making backend changes from Customer Account Management for changes like Product addition, deletion, Product Termination.  • Creating & firing SQL queries for report generation as per client's requirement.  • Handled different portals to access data.  • Working knowledge of toad 8.5 tool.  • Ticket Solving for Point of sales(POS) of RCOM customers through BMC remedy application. Education B.Com E.B. Madhavi Senior College. - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2012 HSC S.H. Jondhale Jr. College February 2007 SSC S.H. Jondhale School March 2005 Additional Information Operating Systems Windows Xp, Ubuntu/Linux 12.04, windows 2003, Solaris  Programming languages Mysql  Databases Mysql  Tools Toad 8.5, Bmc remedy, Amdocs clarify