JR SQL database Administrator JR SQL <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> JR SQL database Administrator Maryland Work Experience JR SQL database Administrator Save The Children International - Ethiopia August 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Resolved SQL server connectivity issues.  • Performed security by creating user logins and Windows logins with appropriate  roles, and resolved permission related issues  • Design and implement comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies  • Implemented database mirroring as a part of disaster recovery plan.  • Involved in Installing Configuring and Maintaining Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2008R2  • Applied patches and service packs to keep the database up to date  • Performance Monitoring using SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, planning for CPU and Disk space  Requirements  • Reviewed, tested and improved SQL Scripts from the development team before releasing them into a  Production Environment.  • Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and  BCP  • Configured log shipping for reporting purpose  • Managed Transactional replication from the Production servers to the Reporting servers.  • Managing and scheduling daily jobs relating to data transfers, backup and recovery,  • Integrity checks, and update statistics.  • Moved databases from Production to Test environment on request according to the compatibility level.  • Worked on daily reports, which notifies about the database growth, failed jobs, failed Backups and failed  transactional log backups.  • Developed stored procedures, advanced queries, trigger, views, and indexes  • Involved in Databases Migration from SQL 2005 to SQL 2008R2.  • Monitored and tuned databases to meet the performance and availability requirements.  • Migrated the databases and managed the database location and size.  • Created Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes to increase the performance of queries.  • Automated the Defragmentation and rebuilding of indexes on the production Server.  Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2 Enterprise Edition, window server operating system (2003, 2008) Internship Addis Ababa University April 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities:    • Database support  • Help create documentation of every aspect of Database Management Systems including hardware  Configuration and maintenance records  • Help maintain existing Entity Relationship Diagrams, Data Dictionary and Meta-Data repositories  • Load database software on test environments after installation of new hardware or software  • Help test newly installed databases in conjunction with application software  • Help monitor newly installed databases for optimal performance Education Bachelor of Science in Computer science ADDIS ABABA UNIVERSITY 2010 Skills Windows server /2003/2008/2008R2 Languages: C#, T-SQL, Java, .NET, SQL Server (2005/2008R2/2008/2012) Query Execution Plan, Profiler, DatabaseTuning Advisor, SQL Profiler Activity monitor, SQL Server/Agent Error Log, Windows Event, SQL Server Management Studio, Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Index Tuning Wizard, SSIS Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) Groups PASS,SQLServerCentral, MSSQLTips,