Junior Database Administrator Junior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Database Administrator Atlanta, GA • Over 4+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands and experience in database installation, administration, configuration, production support, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, shell scripting and documentation.  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL scripts and instance. Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM advisors, autotrace and execution plan.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g and 11g in Sun Solaris, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment.  • Adept at routine Database Administration tasks including automated installation, creation and replication of databases, management of tablespaces, logs, grants, roles, users, indices.  • Working experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security. Work Experience Junior Database Administrator CSC India Pvt - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, implement, troubleshoot, upgraded, and managed Instances and databases in SQL Server 2012/2016.  • Created complex T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Functions to support efficient data storage and manipulation.  • Monitor and optimize system performance; tuning of Databases, queries and stored procedures using SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard.  • Apply database patches and updates.  • Set user privileges within the database environment by administering SQL Logins, Roles and Authentic Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Defined Constraints, Rules and Defaults.  • Scheduled jobs for backup, created alerts for error reporting and performed Database Recovery tasks.  • Performed daily tasks such as checking database functionality, disk space optimization, and inspecting error logs.  • Assist in Creating views to support Crystal and SSIS Reports  • Creating RMAN Backups & Recovery procedures and Implementing BACKUP and RECOVERY strategies for off-line and on-line Backups.  • Experience of Flashback Technology, Flash recovery Area, Automatic Storage management (ASM) and Flashback technology, data pump import/export  • Recovery Manager (RMAN) backup; full and differential. Data Specialist Trianz - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Provided and enforced security and integrity to the database by issuing usernames and passwords to all users of the database.  • Resolved database performance issues in order to speed up daily tasks.  • Assisted in establishing and maintaining a scheduled database backup plan.  • Managed Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Performed fine grain database auditing whenever necessary.  • Upgraded the Oracle server and application tools.  • Performed instance tuning, memory tuning, and complete database tuning.  • Maintained archived data. Education Bachelor's in Computer Applications Osmania University - Atlanta, GA Skills DATABASE (4 years), SECURITY (4 years), DATABASES (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), RMAN (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows, Virtual Machine and UNIX/Linux.  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server and Sybase.  Applications: MS Office, MS Project  Tools: SQL Developer, Toad, FTP, Putty, SQL Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), My SQL, TOAD, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Data Migration (Import and Export), Crystal Reports, Database Upgrade, Oracle 10g/11g/12c Database Administration, Database Advance Security