Oracle Database Administrator/ Developer (Contractor) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Developer (Contractor) Oracle Database Administrator/ Developer (Contractor) - C Spire East Newark, NJ Looking to secure a position as a Database Administrator/Developer where I will be challenged technically and intellectually. I enjoy learning and working on new technologies that will help me enhance my scope of knowledge. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator/ Developer (Contractor) C Spire - Ridgeland, MS February 2013 to Present • Install, configure and administer Oracle RAC and single instance databases using Oracle software tools and utilities as per the requirement for development, testing and production usage.  • Backup, clone and recover databases using RMAN.  • Install, configure and administer Oracle Enterprise Manager / Grid Control.  • Provide 24x7 production support to more than 55+ TeraBytes of Oracle Databases both customer impacting and Data Warehouse.  • Upgrades, patch management, and space management using Oracle Software tools & utilities.  • Setup, test and monitor Data Guard for test and production environments to provide database redundancy. Use of transient logical standby for database rolling upgrades.  • Setup and monitor Change Data Capture (Streams) for Data replication from Oracle Source (OLTP) databases to Data Warehouse for reporting purposes and to maintain history of all the transactions.  • Setup, test and monitor other replication tools such as Informatica Fast Clone and Informatica Data replication (IDR) for data replication. This also includes interacting with IBM Netezza Databases.  • Write, modify, enhance, test, debug scripts, and automate processes using SQL, PL/SQL, and shell scripting.  • Write PL/SQL functions, stored procedures, packages and triggers.  • Coordinate and deploy changes to databases during releases.  • Performance monitoring of databases and tuning of SQL queries using Oracle Enterprise Manager/Grid Control, Explain-Plan, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM and AWR Warehouse.  • Create tablespaces, tables, indexes, views, synonyms, database links, etc. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Sullivan University - Louisville, KY December 2015 Master of Science in Electrical Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA December 2011 Bachelors of Engineering in Electronics University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra Additional Information Technical Skills    RDBMS: Oracle 10g Releases 1 and 2, 11g Releases 1 and 2, 12c Release 1  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, AWK, C, C++  Tools: Informatica Data Replication, Informatica Fast Clone, Change Data Capture (Streams), Oracle RMAN, ASM, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Data Pump, TKPROF, Explain-Plan, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g/12c/13c, OS-watcher, EM-Diag, TFA.    Operating Systems: IBM AIX, UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, IBM Netezza