Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Houston, TX Over 4 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator in various industries like Information Technology, Software's, Learning Centers and performed different tasks like database administration, installation, configuration, upgrades, performance tuning, backup and recovery, production support, cloning, refresh, space management, database security etc. in production as well as development databases on variety of platforms.    • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and RAC 10g in Red Hat Linux, Unix and Windows environment on 24/7 critical production and large databases.  • Oracle RAC Database Administration including Installation, configuration, Upgrade, Performance Tuning, Analysis, Design, Backup and Recovery (RMAN).  • Installed 10g, 11g applied patches in various environments and upgraded databases from 10g to 11g and using ODUA (Oracle Database Upgrade Assistant), patching Oracle production RAC databases (10.2.0.4 to 10.2.0.5)  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, SQL TRACE, ADDM, ADR, ASH and Oracle Flashback Data Archives.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  • Have implemented two types of standby databases supported by DATAGUARD, LOGICAL STANDBY and PHYSICAL STANDBY databases.  • Setup, Configured and Maintained Oracle Data Guard to control Primary and Standby databases and also to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Management of Schemas, Objects & Partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Experienced in creating USERS, GRANT privileges and ROLES to users.  • Experience on Installation of Oracle Internet Directory and created Users data store and Oracle virtual Directory with its Functionality and Security Domains, Deployment, High availability support.  • Co-ordinate with UNIX administrators for space managements on various servers.  • Proficient knowledge in RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery.  • Performed Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using security compliance auditing, expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*LOADER and Data pump import/export.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, import/export.  • Extensive performance tuning activities like Operating System Tuning, SQL Tuning, Database/Instance Tuning on Oracle and SQL Optimization.  • Experience with mid-tier architectures, OEM, TOAD, Oracle grid-control and Grid Controlling using OEM.  • Creating new user accounts, profiles, and roles and assigning them to users. Assigning users to groups and granted privileges and permissions to appropriate groups.  • Excellent communicational skills, analytical, investigative and problem solving capabilities and provided technical support for DBMS software releases, upgrades, or changes.  • Good experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Partitioning, Data modeling, OLAP, Logical and Physical Database Design, Backup and Recovery procedures. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator New Horizons India Ltd July 2010 to May 2011 New Horizons is the world's largest independent IT training company. Through an integrated learning approach that ensures that new knowledge can be applied to real life situations. New Horizons delivers a full range of technology and business skills training from basic applications and software's productivity tools to complex and IT systems.    Description: Installation of RAC on multi-node systems (11g, 10g) using ASM disk groups on RHEL and configuration of OEM grid control and its maintenance. Install and configure RMAN with or without catalog 10g/11g. Upgrade Oracle databases from the older versions to the latest supported version. Monitor and optimize the database performance through database, system and SQL tuning. Designed a physical standby database for maximum availability and supporting databases in data warehouse environments.    Responsibilities:  • Installed 10g, 11g applied patches in various environments and upgraded databases from 10g to 11g and using ODUA (Oracle Database Upgrade Assistant).  • Installing and maintaining Oracle database according to security baseline.  • Implemented Data Guard and created Physical Stand by database for high availability and Maintained Database..  • Designed logical databases and implemented physical databases.  • Performed maintenance tasks on existing test and production environments that included modifying database sizes and migrating changes through various environments.  • Ensuring physical backups are complete on a regularly scheduled basis and performing recovery of the database as required.  • Performed Database and SQL tuning by using various Tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN for Query Optimization and SQL tuning advisor, Database Health Monitor, ADR and Creating tables with Virtual Columns, DDL Lock Timeout, Invisible Indexes and knowledge of Database Resident Connection Pooling.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target databases with the Catalog and implemented Oracle database backup and recovery strategies using RMAN.  • Maintained the RMAN repository and customized recovery catalog.  • Database maintaining including backups, recovery, imports/exports.  • Monitored the various database activities such as backup, error logs, space, object, performance, user and session monitoring to ensure proper capacity and availability  • Analyzed tables and re-builded indexes regularly and Reports, Statspack, AWR, Explain Plans, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Utilized Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) to manage users, privileges, profiles, schemas.  • Involved in Performance Planning and Tuning, using baselines and proactive monitoring, bottleneck elimination and the wait event interface to identify issues.  • Installation of Oracle Internet Directory and created Users data store and Oracle virtual Directory with its Functionality and Security Domains, Deployment, High availability support.  • Utilized SQL*loader and data pump import to load data into tables and Oracle Flashback Data Archives.  • Audited database for statements, privileges, and schema objects.  • Developed/customized Linux shell scripts to automate routine DBA tasks.  • Provided 24X7 supports for production problems and generated the weekly, monthly and Quarterly reports.    Environment: Red Hat Linux, Sysbase, Oracle 11g, 10g, RAC, SQL*Plus, OEM, TOAD, RMAN, TKPROF, SQL Trace, STATSPACK, ADR, AWR, ADDM, Data Guard, DB Connection Pooling, Virtual Columns. Oracle DBA HCL Infosystems Ltd July 2007 to July 2010 HCL Infosystems Ltd. Is India's premier hardware, services and ICT systems, Integration Company offering a wide product that includes Computing, Storage, Networking, Security and Telecom.  HCL Infosystems Ltd. Created own UNIX & RDBMS, software's developed firewalls for enterprise & personal system security and networking products.    Description: Performed database integration, migrations and consolidations which includes installation of 10gR2 RAC database on Linux environments, migrating existing production Oracle 9i databases to Oracle 10g RAC databases, patching Oracle production RAC databases (10.2.0.4 to 10.2.0.5) hosted on a LINUX environment, performed backups using RMAN, implementing replication schemes like Materialized views, snapshots, implementing advanced features like AWR, ADDM, OEM, RMAN and supporting different databases like prod/test/dev/QA.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in production support activities 24/7 during on call and resolved database issues.  • Backup (RMAN) script creation and standardization. Performed database installation and up gradation.  • Created materialized views, table partition for tuned databases.  • Created indexes, rebuilt indexes and maintained indexes.  • Involved in user creation and user access control. Involved in schema creation and management.  • Created the USERS and ROLES and Performed SGA/PGA tuning using OEM.  • Implemented oracle security features and audit mechanisms for fine grained access control.  • Maintained the RMAN repository and customized recovery catalog.  • Database maintaining including backups, recovery, imports/exports.  • Customized Data Guard as a tool for disaster planning and implementation.  • Created logical and physical standby databases to ascertain high availability of database during system crashes.  • Performed database tuning for daily loads and slow response issues.  • Used triggers for database activities like deleting and updating.  • Used STATS PACK, PER STAT, TKPROF utilities for tuning and analysis.  • Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events in the database.  • Involved in query optimization and using rule based optimizers and cost based optimizers.  • Maintained the RMAN repository and customized recovery catalog and used Flashback Recovery.  • Created and managed the database objects such as tables, indexes and views.  • Created the USERS and ROLES and Performed SGA/PGA tuning using OEM.  • Successfully implemented the physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High availability configuration.  • Analyzed tables and re-builded indexes regularly and Reports, Statspack, AWR, Explain Plans, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Used SQL * Loader for data import from remote databases.  • Written the control files in SQL*Loader to load the files in database tables.    Environment: Red Hat Linux, Oracle 9i, 9x, 10g, SQL*Plus, OEM, TOAD, RMAN, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, Linux Shell Scripting, MS server 2000/2005. Education B.Tech. in Electronics Engineering Uttar Pradesh Technical University - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Unix, Red Hat Linux RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, and Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP.  RDBMS Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i/10gRAC  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Linux Shell Scripting  DB Management TOAD, OEM, OEM Grid Control  Tools/Utilities  RMAN, OEM, Oracle Management Server, SQL*Loader, SQL Server, Export/Import, TOAD, Data pump, Query builder, Net Backup, MS Access, Data Guard.    Tuning Tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADR, AWR, ADDM  Servers MS SQL Servers 2000/2003/2005/2008