Specialist Specialist Specialist Plainfield, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Specialist Incomplete - Indianapolis, IN October 2014 to May 2015 Indiana University,  Indianapolis, IN  Performed data analysis, database entry, and information TECHNICAL SKILLS  retrieval tasks associated with the intake of admissions ? Executing manual and documents. Utilized a high level of accuracy and attention to automated tests  detail while processing workflow in a fast-paced, ? Utilizing multiple  data-centered environment. tools and interfaces to perform tasks    ? Creating and Administrator Blackboard September 2012 to May 2014 Indiana State workflows    University, Terre Haute, IN  ? Writing and following  Provided technical support and training of the university's internal and external  distance course website to faculty and students via email, over documentation the phone, and in-person consultations. Created, updated, and ? Basic programming  published online tutorial web pages. Utilized customer service skills in php, XML,  skills, computer knowledge, troubleshooting techniques, HTML, Javascript  software testing methods, and teaching abilities.  BASIC SKILLS  ? Advanced skills in  Microsoft Office Suite.  ? Working knowledge of    both Windows and Assistant Archives March 2012 to May 2014 Indiana State University,  Terre Haute, IN ? Product leadership and training others.  Used scanners and computer programs including Adobe  Photoshop to digitize archival materials and university records. ? Providing end-user  Created metadata for holdings and utilized data organization support. and management to ensure proper preservation of digital files. ? Equipped with strong  Worked on the digital initiatives project which involved analytical and digitizing materials, converting format types, and adding to troubleshooting skills.  online databases. Position involved careful attention to detail, ? Very focused and project dedication, and strong computer skills. attentive to detail. Database Specialist July 2013 to November 2013 Education B.S. in Mathematics State - Dublin, OH May 2015 to Present Skills DATABASE (2 years), TRAINING (2 years), ACCOUNTING (Less than 1 year), AUDITING (Less than 1 year), AWARD (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills Cert.:  uploaded into an electronic records management database.  Indiana State University-  Prepared and submitted accounting documents for internal 2014  auditing. Used Excel spreadsheets to analyze data regarding  department processes, workload, and staff efficiency.    Cook Medical, Inc., Bloomington, IN    Accounts Receivable Department  Core Supervisor Training  May 2012 - July 2012  Cert.:  Assisted with updating client information, posting payments  Indiana State Personnel  and credits, scanning and indexing documents, entering sales  Dept- 2014  orders, drafting mass correspondence in English and French,  and purging outdated records. Performed data analysis through WORKPLACE AWARD  running system reports, balancing payment totals, and  investigating payment discrepancies and tax issues.    COMPLETED COURSES  OCLC Star Award:    IBM - Big Data Foundations; Big Data Hadoop Foundations Member library-nominated  Lynda - Agile Project Management customer support award-