Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Inovalon Inc MD , USA Database Administrator with proven strengths in designing, testing and coding database solutions in development, test and production environments. Highly skilled in multiple technologies such as RDBMS, high availability disaster recovery and SQL server integration service (SSIS) under minimal supervision. In addition, I can relocate anywhere in the US and authorized to work for any employer in the USA. Work Experience Database Administrator Inovalon Inc - Bowie, MD May 2018 to Present US  • Wrote and coded descriptions for physical and logical databases  • Designed, built, implemented, and maintained databases systems.  • Identified functional and business requirements to meet business needs.  • Assessed customer needs and modified existing databases.  • Automated various jobs.  • Specified user access levels for each segment of databases.  • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect data.  • Developed data models and database designs.  • Diminished workflow downtime, ensuring handheld feed database was accurately initiated.  • Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.  • Partnered with projects teams on development scope and timelines.  • Ran tests on databases and made modifications.  • Analyzed and developed technical and functional specifications.  • Installed and supported over 30 Microsoft Windows Servers in an Active Directory Cluster.  • Chosen as the main corporate office contact, answering questions and resolving issues from customers and vendors.  • Aligned closely with other departments to better understand product features so that appropriate training materials could be developed.  • Helped design complex interfaces to support third party systems.  • Provided senior technical support to both in-house staff and user departments for all network applications.  • Ensured that sites adhered to brand guidelines.  • Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups & restores.  • Provided customers with advice on relevant applications.  • Served as sole database administrator for MS SQL running on various operating systems.  • Monitored project budget through the careful assessment of resource usage and task management to ensure that costs were kept low.  • Maintained quality-focused performance benchmarks and schedules when directing project teams.  • Worked with clients to analyze computing and network needs and installed appropriate solutions within each organization's budget.  • Evaluated project plans and recommended adjustments based on complete review of objectives and related documents.  • Optimized projects by performing in-depth technical research (RCA)and applying knowledge to current plans.  • Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate.  • Ensured the immediate resolution of issues so that all project deliverables were met key milestones as defined by stakeholders.  • Developed and managed project plans while providing status updates to management.  • Created and integrated a component for scanning purposes based upon SQL Server.  • Improved reliability of supply chain software, systems, database and order processing.  • Assisted in the monitoring and reporting on website traffic and performance.  • Used pipe and filter model to find bottlenecks and enable measurement of system resource usage and process behavior.  • Promoted the company in maintaining a work environment focused on quality, communication, collaboration, integration, and teamwork.  • Assessed and tested game builds to uncover bugs and assisted in finding resolutions.  • Explored new technologies and tools that the quality assurance team could use for testing purposes.  • Oversaw the development, testing, and rollout of a complete suite of Web-based software solutions.  • Managed onsite testing for customers as required by the project's specifications.  • Collaborated with stakeholders to address technical issues and develop effective resolutions.  • Created, edited, and updated project manuals and technical documentation used by the entire QA team. Junior Database Administrator Mr. tees Embroidery - District Heights, MD August 2016 to March 2018 US  • Developed data models and database designs.  • Diminished workflow downtime, ensuring handheld feed database was accurately initiated.  • Identified functional and business requirements to meet business needs.  • Partnered with projects teams on development scope and timelines.  • Developed and implemented security initiatives to protect data.  • Specified user access levels for each segment of databases.  • Assessed customer needs and modified existing databases.  • Ran tests on databases and made modifications.  • Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups.  • Ensured that sites adhered to brand guidelines.  • Analyzed project requirements to find bugs and eliminate issues within a timely manner. Junior Database Administrator & Co-Ops Engineer Ethiopian - Telecom - Addis Ababa, ET February 2014 to January 2015 Addis Ababa, ET  • Applied various skills to evaluate, design, implement and optimize databases and database applications.  • Managed a complex database project with zero issues due to effective troubleshooting.  • Collaborated with solution architects to define database and analytics engagement strategies for operational territories and key accounts.  • Managed performance monitoring and tuning while identifying and fixing issues within the database realm.  • Adept in troubleshooting and identifying current issues and providing effective solutions.  • Produced statistical reports documenting business efficiency and performance.  • Monitored the performance and status of internal hardware systems and software efficiency.  • Performed HADR  • Improved reliability of supply chain software, systems, database and order processing. Intern Database Administrator & Co-Ops Engineer ERM - Addis Ababa, ET March 2013 to January 2014 Addis Ababa, ET  • installation and configuration SQL 2005/2008/2008R2/2012  • Managing Technologies that influence SQL architecture like service broker, full-text  • Assisted the IT department staff by answering phone calls and responding to emails.  • Tagged, organized and stored physical files.  • Increased meeting efficiency by developing agendas.  • Implemented and managed Security including security.  • Managed new files and retrieval requests with speed and accuracy.  • Increased customer satisfaction by greeting visitors promptly and professionally. Community Service Volunteer USA Embassy - Addis Ababa, ET June 2009 to September 2009 Addis Ababa, Addis Ababa, ET  • Removed trash and debris from highways, parks and other public locations.  • Kept facilities organized, clean and well-maintained to best meet program needs.  • Tutored basic algebra for public funded schools. Education MCP Prince George Community College - Largo, MD 2014 Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills DATA ANALYSIS, DATA CONVERSION, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, REPLICATION, Sql Database, Sql Server, Oracle Dba Awards Chosen as the main corporate office contact, answering questions and resolving issues from customers and vendors Certifications/Licenses MCP Additional Information SKILLS  • Testing, installing, configuring and upgrading SQL servers  • Writing queries  • ETL (Extract, Transform & Load)  • Database administration  • Data conversion and migration  • Agile methodology  • Customer needs assessment  • Information systems management  • Data testing  • Microsoft SQL  • Data analysis  • Microsoft PowerShell  • Analytical problem solving  • Continuous process improvement  • Data generation tools  • Excellent problem-solving skills  • Data extraction  • Configuration management  • Oral and written communications  • Database servers  • Conflict resolution  • Stored Procedures  • Database Triggers    • Data warehouse architecture  • Data collection and analysis  • System administration  • Technology development  • Optimizing and performance tuning  • Proficiency in TCP/IP protocols  • Design and development  • Operating systems  • Information security  • SQL transactional replications  • SAN technologies  • Patch management  • Computers and electronics  • UNIX/LINUX  • Microprocessor-based systems  • Data synchronization  • Databases  • Data evaluation  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Replication  • HADR  • Mirroring & Fail-over Clustering  • SSRS  • Python  • Java & Java Script  • Data cubes