Database Administrator /Application Support Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> /Application Support Specialist Database Administrator /Application Support Specialist - Baxano Surgical Wilmington, NC Work Experience Database Administrator /Application Support Specialist Baxano Surgical - Wilmington, NC 2009 to Present Handle day-to-day administration of Salesforce.com org. Cre ate users, dashboards, reports, and profiles to support company. Handle level 1 support calls from users and manage help desk cases submitted to Salesforce.com  • Utilizing Apex Data Loader and Excel Salesforce Connector, imported account, contact, product, and legacy opportunity records from Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.  • Set up extensive synchronization with E RP System using SQL Server Integration Services. Multiple items including products, accounts, and invoices created in ERP system are sent to SFDC  • Create Salesforce.com solutions for multiple departments. Employ workflows, Visua lforce pages, and Apex classes to rapidly develop solutions. When necessary, perform operational and performance qualification scripts to maintain the validated state of Salesforce.com org.  • Selected Projects:  - Employee Training Application: System that allows Regulatory department to create training records based on an employee's departments, and email the user to view training documents. Solution utilizes custom objects, Visualforce page, Apex class, Visualforce email templates, and time-based workflows.  - Cycle Count Application: Developed a solution for sales representatives to count their inventory and compare it with what the ERP system reports they have. Customer care is notified if there are discrepancies. Solution employs custom objects, a Visualforce page, Apex class, and a workflow.  - Automated Invoice and Dunning Emails: Using workflows and Visualforce email templates, send invoice and dunning emails to designated accounts payable contacts.  - Packing Slip Generator: Visualforce page allows printing of bar-coded packing list reducing data input time by over 75% and subst antially increasing accuracy.  - Consulting Tracking: Extensive reporting and dashboards allow Professional Affairs to track consultant activity  - Customer Pricing Agreement Solution: Solution allows salesperson to create a pricing agreement for a customer. Once approved using an approval process, the agreement is imported into the ERP system. Education M.S. in Computer Science and Information Systems University of North Carolina Wilmington - Wilmington, NC B.S. in Computer Science University of North Carolina Wilmington - Wilmington, NC Skills Salesforce.com Administration, Salesforce.com Development, SQL Server Administration, Apex, Visualforce, Data Integration, Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator (ADM201) October 2010 to Present Salesforce.com Certified Developer (DEV401) April 2014 to Present Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS  SALESFORCE.COM CERTIFIED ADMINISTRATOR & DEVELOPER  Three years' experience with publicly traded medical device company, demonstrating a consistent record of supporting Salesforce.com (SFDC) users. Instrumental in creation of 100+ user org, and responsible for designing, developing, implementing, and maintaining solutions created in SFDC. Well versed in Apex, Visualforce pages, workflows, validation rules, and page layouts.    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Programming: Apex, Visualforce, SQL Scripting, Visual Basic  Software:Force.com IDE, Apex Data Loader, Excel Salesforce Connector, SAP Business One, SQL Server  Management Studio, QAD  Platforms/Applications: Windows (XP, Windows 7, Server 2003 and 2008), SQL Server 2000 and 2008, Microsoft Office, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Photoshop 5.1, BMC Remedyforce, GitHub