Junior SQL Server Database Administrator Junior SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior SQL Server Database Administrator - Douglas County Omaha, NE • Experienced in SQL Server administration and design  • Seasoned SQL Server database administrator with over 3 + years of Strong Experience with SQL Server 2000 through 2016 Administration  • Production support in a 24/7 environment and project support.  • Interacts with clients, application team and project managers to design, implement and support solutions to meet client needs  • Install and Upgrade SQL Server 2008, 2012 and 2014 database standalone / cluster instances  • High Availability Solutions- Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Always On etc  • Performance tuning and optimization  • Complex database environments, Production, Test and Development Environments    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE  • Administering, Managing, Developing and configuring SQL Server database design,  • Performance tuning and query Optimization  • SQL Server Performance Dashboard Reports for Monitoring  • High Availability Solution- Clustering, AlwaysOn, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping  • Disaster Recovery Strategy  • Query Store, SSMS, SQL Profiler, Extended Events, Red-Gate tools etc.  • Replication Models (Snapshot/Transactional/Merge)  • Clustering Setup, Troubleshooting and Management  • CMS Reporting-Member enrollment  • Temporal Tables  • Knowledge of SQL Azure Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior SQL Server Database Administrator Douglas County - Omaha, NE January 2015 to Present , I have about 3 years of experience administering SQL Server.  Over time, I have worked both in a standalone environment and clustering environment.   In my current environment, we have a standalone instance  I have my data files, log files and my system DB files in different spindles (drives). This is done to enhance performance.  I manage 20 instances installed on production, and over 280 databases in production.  We also have a DR site where I configured database mirroring to an offsite location and in that location, all the databases in the production are mirrored to this DR site.  I have also configured Always on Availability group  I have my TestDev environment, which I refresh with production data on a regular basis, to mimic what is in the production environment so that there won't be any discrepancy.  In TestDev environment, I have up to 30 instances for different applications.   Altogether, the size of my databases ranges from 16G to 1TB.  I have done different upgrade from older version to newer version of SQL Server   I have done performance tuning and making my environment to be stable is my number one priority.  I have resolved deadlocks and blockings, analyzed my queries using execution plan to understand what is going on.  I have configured compression to safe space and improve performance when needed   Also to enhance performance, I make sure that my jobs are scheduled appropriately,  I have a job schedule called index optimized and what this job does is, it rebuilds indexes, reorganizes indexes and updates statistics of an index so that the indexes on the tables do not become fragmented.  This scheduled job runs twice a week, so in case there is any index fragmentation, the job will rectify it.  I have also configured database encryption on the databases.  I scheduled backup jobs with a proper backup strategy based on my company SLA.  I have done different types of upgrade, both In-pace and Side by Side upgrade.    I have a good knowledge of Azure Database, I have managed azure resource, Using Azure Portal, managed azure elastic pool, migrated from one pricing tier to another based on needs, from one pool to another, Set up a read only geo- replication.  I have managed database security in both on premises and azure SQL, set up firewall rule to prevent unauthorized IP addresses, set up contained database. Managed in active user access for audit compliance. Troubleshoot complex queries to enhance performance.    I am very big on documentation of our processes, and knowledge sharing within the team.  These are some of the things I have done over time Education Master of Arts in English Language/Modern Letters in English Language/Modern Letters Higher Teachers Training College, Ecole Normale Superieure 1992 Bachelor of Arts in English Language/Modern Letters in English Language/Modern Letters University of Yaoundé 1989 Skills Sql Dba