Data Associate Data Associate Data Associate - Samasource Uganda US I am a young modest, but hard working person, and I consistently set firm goals for myself. Then, once I've defined the  benchmarks, I take the necessary steps to achieve those milestones. I am someone who thinks positively and who can  execute on difficult tasks. I'm not an individual who needs to be micro-managed. Rather, when given a specific task, I can  figure out the best ways to solve the problem in an autonomous manner. Work Experience Data Associate Samasource Uganda August 2017 to Present Samasource is a non profit business with a goal of reducing global poverty by outsourcing digital work to youth. My time  there has taught me some skills like;    Work Readiness  Internet Research  Internet Literacy  Computer Literacy  Image Annotation Knowledge  Video Annotation Knowledge  Data Research and Collection  Data Analysis and Conclusion Internee, DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Uganda Revenue Authority June 2016 to August 2016 Confirm the status of the database  Review the database alert log  Confirm that scheduled jobs have passed  Confirm that backups have passed  Confirm the System Global Area used  Monitor the archive log destination  Check for any blocking sessions  Display current sessions running on the database Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Gulu University August 2014 to June 2017 Skills NETWORKING, TIME MANAGEMENT Links https://ug.linkedin.com/in/isaac Assessments Security Guard Skills — Proficient June 2019 Assessing risks, enforcing security standards, and handling complaints. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p9rg6puloiulrvda Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  Proven Written and Oral Communication Skills.  Excellent Time management skills.  Excellent Team spirit.  High Commitment, Negotiating and Socialization Power.  Conflict Resolution.  Ability to work under minimum supervision.  Maturity and ability to deal with difficult situations.  Data Consolidation, analysis and Reporting.    Qualifications  Monitoring and Evaluation Certificate training  Higher Rising International Limited through the Higher Rising Foundation 2017  at Gulu University  March 2017.    Web development skills.  Networking Skills.    Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education February 2012 - November 2013  Kisubi Mapeera Senior Secondary School    Physics  Mathematics  Technical Drawing  Subsidiary Computer Science    Uganda Certificate of Education February 2008 - November 2011  St. Joseph's Senior Secondary School, Naggalama