Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Romeoville, IL Oracle Certified Professional with a proven track record in performance and troubleshooting on over dozens of high profile Oracle systems. Committed to fast product development while retaining emphasis on database stability. Proven ability to quickly adapt to any environment during any point of the project cycle and provide efficient response to company deadlines and system complications. Work Experience Database Administrator ALL Data Inc - Elk Grove Village, IL December 2010 to March 2012 Responsible for installation and administration of the oracle database systems and tools.  • Implemented database refresh using full export for table level and full database defragmentation, resulting in improved performance and effective space management.  • Worked closely with the business areas to understand the requirements and to write SQL queries.  • Reorganized databases and sized database objects to meet standards and improve performance.  • Implemented RMAN based backup and recovery strategies. Query and physical database tuning using a variety of tools such as Auto -Trace and SQL Trace.  • Troubleshooting, backup and recovery, proactive database and system maintenance, proactive monitoring support. Part Sales Manager AutoZone - Romeoville, IL May 2008 to October 2010 Maintained a balanced inventory consistent with the requirements of the service department, commercial & wholesale accounts, and the do-it-yourself public.  • Assisted in establishing pricing parameters in each customer category that generated sufficient gross profit to produce a satisfactory profit while maintaining customer loyalty.  • Established individual parts inventory levels and balanced them for maximum turnover.  • Analyzed monthly sales, expenses, and inventory to maintain profit goals.  • Provided technical assistance to employees and customers. Education Certificate Oracle University May 2011 Oakton Community College August 2009 to May 2010 Additional Information Skills  Setup and manage testing systems    Technical Support    Databases & tools  MS SQL Server  Oracle - SQL Plus    Miscellaneous  Windows OS  MS Office Suite