Job Seeker • 3+ years of experience in ORACLE Database Administration on Production and Development Databases.  • Install Oracle Clusterware (as part of Oracle's grid infrastructure) or upgrade from earlier version.  • Work with Oracle Automatic Storage Management and Oracle Storage Management Cluster File management.  • Create synchronized standby database using Oracle Data Guard.  • Reliably archive and store data with Oracle recovery manager.  • Configuring Oracle 12c Control Enterprise Manager for management of an Oracle Maximum availability environment.  • Extensive experience in administering, troubleshooting, supporting, analyzing & improving performance of Oracle Databases.  • Interacted with end users.  • Experience in administering and monitoring database using Toad, OEM.  • Designed strategies for performing database backups and recovery.  • Experience in High Availability RAC, Data Guard implementation, troubleshooting and scheduled maintains activity.  • Applying CPU, PSU and one off patch set.  • Strong interpersonal, time management and organizational skills. Proven team player with strong ability to multitask.  • Experience in capacity planning, space management, database upgrades/migration.  • Expert in ORACLE Database Administration including planning/implementing backup/recovery strategies using RMAN and without RMAN.  • Expertise in installation and configuration of Oracle and large databases on Unix Operating System.  • Creating and maintaining logins, synonyms and access privileges using roles, controlling access to the database using operating system and Oracle security features.  • Experience in developing PL/SQL objects.  • Creating report using HTML. Work Experience Wipro InfoTech December 2012 to Present Client: BAFL (March 2012 to Nov 2013) Database Administrator Mattel Inc January 2011 to February 2012 Installation, up gradation 10g, 11g and 12c grid control installation.  ? Experience in capacity planning, space management, database upgrades/migration.  ? Applying Patches and Patch sets for Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c Cloud Control.  ? Creating database for Testing/Development/Production.  ? Data Guard configuration and troubleshooting.  ? RAC Monitoring and troubleshooting.  ? Migrated Non-ASM Single Instance to ASM RAC Instance.  ? Creation of users, granting accesses permissions to users using roles and appropriate privileges.  ? Managing Import/Export and Data Pump depending up on Requirement.  ? Implementation of backup and recovery processes using RMAN.  ? Creating Database Links and Snapshots (Materialized views).  ? Regularly monitoring the performance of database.  ? Proficient use of AWR, ADDM, SQLTRPT for analyzing the performance of the database.  ? Gathering the database statistics to improve performance.  ? Creation of Plan of Action for various DBA Maintains activities.  ? Explicitly use of Explain plan and Tkprof Utility for better performance.  ? Analysing indexes and rebuilding indexes on weekly.  ? Raising SR with oracle for critical issues.  ? Database Baseline implementation and review.    ? Providing 24X7 supports for production databases.  ? Regular monitoring of Alert log file on day-to-day basis. PL/SQL Developer MBK Software August 2010 to December 2010 System analysis and database design.  ? Create scripts to load the data in to tables using SQL Loader.  ? Population of database using SQL*Loader.  ? Oracle SQL Query optimization.  ? Evaluation on packages for higher performance using Explain Plan, sql*plus and tkprof.  ? Performance analysis of different database objects.  ? Development of the front-end functionality.  ? Create various Stored Procedures and Database triggers. Education B.C.A University of pune 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX shell programming  • Operating Systems: AIX 6.1, REDHAT LINUX 5.3, Solaris, Windows.  • Database: ORACLE 11g/10g on UNIX and Windows.  • Database Tools: EXPORT, IMPORT, DATAPUMP, RMAN, OEM, Toad, TK Prof  • Utilities: AWR, ADDM, SQLTRPT, ASH, RDA  • Scheduling Tool: UC 4 job scheduling Tool, crontab and AT Command  • Ticketing Tool: Remedy Ticketing Tool (BMC Inc)    KEY SKILLS    Self motivated, good communication skill, ability to work in adverse situations, mentally strong, positive thinking, creative and logical thinking, cooperative & helping team worker, Quick learner