Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Boltos Solutions Information Technology Inc Abingdon, MD Proficient in Oracle 11g and 12c Database Administration Proficient in Enterprise Manager  Data Guard Administration  Proficient in Database Migration and Patching Application Proficient in RMAN, Backup and Recovery  Real Application Clusters  Strong in solving problems of diverse scope where technical analysis and evaluation is required. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Boltos Solutions Information Technology Inc - Laurel, MD May 2015 to Present Installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of Oracle 11g and 12c databases on Linux and Windows OS.  Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11g to 12c.  Administer database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights.  Managing Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs. Extensively using DATAPUMP and Export/Import utilities for logical backups. Create Testing and Development databases following OFA compliance rules.  Regular monitoring Alert Log Files and trace files on day to day basis. Perform instance, memory tuning query and complete database.  Configuring various RMAN parameters as per the requirement. Perform physical and incremental backups using RMAN utility.  Configure and implement the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases.  Use explain plan, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database. Perform database application development to create, maintain and improve database functionality.  Write scripts as it pertains to database management and conduct daily audit checks of log files.  Analyze data to identify trends and ensure data integrity.  Install and configure multiple instances of databases for training, development, testing and production databases.  Create procedures, plans and documentation needed by other database administrators, as well as any oracle utilities and tools utilized.  Apply quarterly CPU patches to different version of databases. Installed, configured and managed 12c RAC on ASM storage. Manage RAC database using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and grid control.    Configure and setup Oracle 12c Data Guard.  Troubleshoot and resolved log gap in Data Guard Configuration. Desktop support South Baltimore County Medical Center - Halethorpe, MD April 2014 to Present Build and provide basic end-user troubleshooting and desktop support on Windows, Linux and Mac systems.  Install software, modify and repair hardware and resolve technical issues. Maintain and update customer service database.  Use ticketing systems to manage and process actions taken.  Provide base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the business. Activate accounts for clients interested in new services.  Manage customers' expectations and experience to a high degree of customer satisfaction.  Work closely with team members to meet or exceed all customer service requirements.  Manage call flow and respond to technical support needs of customers.  Create and manage database objects, such as Tables, Indexes and Views, database storage structures Education Some college Skills Dba, Windows 7, sql (3 years), Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, DB2, Sql Database, Oracle Database, Rman Additional Information SQL Fundamentals