Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES Vernon Hills, IL SUMMARY:    8 years of professional experience as Oracle DBA. Worked extensively on oracle 11g, 10g and 9i versions involving database administration, Installation, Configuration, Backup and Recovery, Migration, Upgrades, Patches, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, RAC, Data Guard, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, Grid Control, Oracle Streams, Golden Gate, Data Modeling.    • Expertise experience in installation, administration and configuration of Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i on OEL, RHEL, SUN SOLARIS, IBM-AIX, WINDOWS, HP-UX in OLAP and OLTP environment.  • Good Experience in Hot and Cold Backups, and Cloning of Databases.  • Experience in taking the logical backups of data using oracle DATAPUMP utilities EXPDP and IMPDP.  • Expertise in installing, configuring and maintaining Standalone as well as RAC databases on various platforms and responsible for full time availability of the database.  • Worked on Oracle Exadata Backup Configuration utility.  • Worked on ERP technology ORACLE JD EDWARDS ENTERPRISE ONE.   • Extensive experience in installation and implementing OEM and TOAD and setup of Oracle Grid Control.  • Installed and Configured Enterprise manager OEM12C and 11g.  • Installation and configuration of RMAN with and without Recovery Catalog on Oracle 11g/10g/9i.  • Experience in SQL Tuning, Optimization, rule based optimization, cost based optimization and Hints.  • Upgrading databases by applying patches, patch sets and critical patch updates.   • Management of schemas, objects & Partitioning the tables & indexes, USERS and PRIVILEGES.  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM).  • Migration of databases from one platform to another platform.  • Created database objects like tables, indexes, synonyms, views etc.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Server 11g RAC with ASM on multi node systems, 11g, 10g and 9i in different operating systems for OLTP environment on Very Large Databases(VLDB).  • Supported ASM database and performed migration of normal database to ASM database using RMAN.  • Recovery of Databases (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption etc.)  • Implementation of High Availability Solutions using Oracle 11g RAC, 10g RAC, Physical and logical Standby database (Data Guard).  • Excellent experience in configuring and tuning of Oracle 10g/11g RAC, CRS and ASM for high availability database.  • Database performance tuning using STATPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, and ASH.  • Detecting and diagnosing production system performance problem by analyzing STATSPACK reports, Oracle trace and log files, AWR, ADDM, analyzing SQL statements, measuring system and database activity, Querying Oracle dynamic performance views.  • Basic knowledge on Oracle Streams.  • Experience of Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and troubleshooting Golden Gate issues.  • Used Cron jobs to automate many DBA tasks.  • Experience in Oracle Support (raising process) processes for technical requests through Metalink.  • Extensively used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Worked on different types of storage structures (SAN/NAS).  • Experienced in loading data from flat files into database tables using SQL*Loader.  • Experience using Erwin as a Data Modeling tool.  • Proficient in writing PL/SQL procedures, Triggers, Functions, Packages and Cursors and Exceptional handling.  • Assisting in implementation of change control process in production.  • 24*7 on-call production database support and maintenance including remote database support.  • Possess technical ability and self-initiative to learn and implement new concepts in short duration.  • Ability to work in a team as well as to take individual responsibility.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Databases Oracle 11gRAC/10gRAC/10g/9i, SQL Server 2005/2008.  Operating Systems X 10.7/10. Windows 2000, XP, 2003, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x Sun Solaris5.8/5.9/5.10, AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3, Mac OS 8.  Languages C, SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Shell scripting.  Tools and Utilities Oracle Grid, OEM,TOAD, Putty, Erwin,SQL loader, Export / Import,Expdp / Impdp,AWR,ADDR, STATSPACK, RMAN, Win SCP, TKPROF, Cron jobs,Log Miner,Fugu,Moba-Xterm.  Protocols HTTP, TCP/IP, FTP, SFTP, SSH, TELNET    EDUCATION:  Bachelor of Technology from Jawaharlal Technological University (JNTU), Hyderabad. Work Experience Oracle DBA WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES - Chicago, IL July 2013 to Present Responsibilities:   • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g database on SUN SOLARIS.  • Configured Physical Standby for Production databases and converted Physical standby to  Snapshot Standby and ACTIVE data-guard.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 2 /3 Node Real Application Cluster.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance  and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Configured disaster recovery databases using Data guard and perform switchover & failover  and monitor using Data Guard manager command line.  • Worked on Active data guard and performed Troubleshooting data guard environment.  • Applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Up gradation of Grid Infrastructure and Oracle Databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 on 3 node RAC environment.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities.  • Migrated the Database from Non-ASM to ASM.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log’s & recovering them as per the requirement.   • Configured and Implemented Cold/Hot Backups.  • Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using data pump export/import.  • Providing Application Support for performance and database related issues.  • Implementation and configuration of Oracle GOLDEN GATE.  • Configured Extract and Replicate pumps for Golden gate replication. Troubleshooting issues in GOLDENGATE Environment using LOGDUMP.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery in RAC and stand-alone database.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using EM 12C cloud control.  • Cloned schemas, objects and data between servers using Data pump.  • Configured Oracle Transparent Application Failover (TAF) setting for Production databases.  • Experience in performing backup and recovery operations using RMAN.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Performed Block Recovery and Data file recovery using RMAN.  • Performed database refresh from production to test environment in both RAC and NON RAC environment using RMAN.   • Performed data refresh at Table level, Schema level, Tablespace level using DATAPUMP.  • Performed Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation   of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path, creation of materialized Views and   gathering necessary statistics on objects.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the   database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Performance Tuning for the SQL queries which are Running slow and consuming high   resources  • Involvement in day to day activities like Space management, rectification of Lock problems,   managing quotas, Table partitioning to improve I/O access. s  • Alert log Monitoring for critical databases every day in the production environment.  • 24/7 on-call production database support.  Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Control, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, Sun Solaris, ASM, Golden gate, RAC, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TTS, Data pumps, Exports/Imports. Oracle Database Administrator BROWN GREER - Richmond, VA September 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:   • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g database on OEL.  • Created databases in RAC environment and involved in moving databases from TEST to  Production Environment.  • Installed DR for 8 databases using Data Guard for Single instance and also in RAC  Environment and troubleshooted issues in DATAGUARD environment.  • Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Worked on X2-2 machine where backups, restores are run across all database instances in Exadata system with two or four RMAN channels allocated per instance.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and Data pump export/import utilities.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log’s & recovering them as per the requirement.   • Configured and Implemented Cold/Hot Backups.  • Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using data pump export/import.  • Implementation and configuration of Oracle golden gate.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery in RAC and stand-alone database.  • Created a Clone Database using RMAN on remote Server and used SRVCTL commands for Real Application Cluster (RAC) Databases.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Implemented Data Guard with maximum availability, protection and performance configurations and worked with Data Guard Fail over and Switch over cases at the times of up gradation and migration.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using EM 12C cloud control.  • Weekly Data Refresh from Production to Development and Test environments using data pump export/import.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF.  • Always monitoring the Oracle Instances, Users, Tables, Table-spaces, Memory structures, and Rollback segments, Redo logs, Archived Redo logs and Alerts.   • Creation of Users and granting them the required Roles and Privileges accordingly.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas.  • Configuration of Listener and Net Service names using NETCA.  • Created, monitoring database objects like Tables, Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links etc.  • Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using Data pump.  • Responsible for capacity planning, recovery planning and installing patches.  • Worked extensively on monitoring 10G grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.  • Conducted time-to-time analysis and monitoring of the software and hardware requirements and act accordingly.   Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, SQL, Oracle Grid Control, Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Control, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, ASM, Golden gate, RAC, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TTS, Data pumps, Exports/Imports. Education Bachelor of Technology . in computer science Jawaharlal Technological University (JNTU) - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2001 to 2005 Bachelor of Technology Jawaharlal Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Databases Oracle 11gRAC/10gRAC/10g/9i, SQL Server 2005/2008  Operating Systems Windows 2000, XP, 2003, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x Sun Solaris5.8/5.9/5.10, AIX 5.1/5.2/5.3, Mac OS X 10.7/10.8  Languages C, SQL, PL/SQL, Unix Shell scripting.  Tools and Utilities  Oracle Grid, OEM, TOAD, Putty, Erwin, SQL loader, Export / Import, Expdp / Impdp, AWR, ADDR, STATSPACK, RMAN, VMware, Win SCP, TKPROF, Log Miner, Fugu, Moba-Xterm    Protocols HTTP, TCP/IP, FTP, SFTP, SSH, TELNET