Database Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist Database Specialist - Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers Willingboro, NJ A+, ITIL, and ServiceNow certified, with over five years' experience in implementing and managing Software as a Service ("SaaS") databases, actively looking to gain more experience with software systems, SaaS platforms, and ITSM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Specialist Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers - Camden, NJ February 2017 to Present • Manage and configure Salesforce systems (internal and external partner's) as lead Salesforce administrator. Migrate program participant and contact data from various tracking systems to Salesforce instances.  • Supervise Database Assistant in designing and implementing internal Salesforce CRM system.  • Work closely with Exponent Partners developer and program staff to customize and implement Salesforce Exponent Case Management (ECM) application.  • Manage TrackVia workflow database used for tracking the community health team's patient case management.  • Assist with the migration of TrackVia database to newer platform through configuration of tables, dashboards, forms and table relationships. Work with staff to design and test workflows.  • Use R code to clean patient data that is imported monthly into TrackVia database.  • Configure third party app integrations between TrackVia and Salesforce systems using Zapier. Salesforce System Administrator Phipps Neighborhoods - New York, NY February 2016 to December 2016 • Managed Salesforce database and 80+ users, including license procurement and program-specific customization.  • Initiated discussions with system developer, Exponent Partners, on developing a self-service application (web lead), that would cut down on program enrollment time by at least 10 minutes.  • Supported data quality and integrity through analyzing report data. Used Data Loader to make record updates.  • Updated naming conventions of participant system records, leading to improved data quality and historical analysis.  • Successfully led Salesforce trainings at various Bronx program locations, with content including customizing reports and usage of custom features, resulting in users feeling more empowered to use the system to its fullest capacity.  • Managed 2016 Voter Engagement Campaign and developed tracking system to monitor and analyze community and staff voter pledge and registration forms, to reach organization goal of 500+ submitted forms. Education Master's of Science in Information Technology in Informatics/Information Assurance University of Maryland University College December 2020 ITIL v3 and ServiceNow System Administration NPower Technology Career Accelerator - Brooklyn, NY September 2016 to November 2016 A+ Certified in Computer Fundamentals, Networking, Web & Microsoft Office NPower Technology Service Corps - Brooklyn, NY January 2016 to June 2016 Bachelor's in Sociology, Specialization in Urban and Ethnic Studies, Minor in Arabic The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ August 2009 to May 2013 Skills Data Analysis (5 years), Data Management (5 years), Java (1 year), SPSS (8 years), ITIL (3 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), Salesforce (5 years), R Code (2 years), SQL (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), ServiceNow (3 years), Javascript (3 years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified April 2016 ServiceNow System Administration October 2016 Additional Information KEY SKILLS    • ServiceNow UIs 15 and 16 System Administration   • Salesforce System Administration and Implementation  • ITIL v3   • Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, R code, SQL   • Data Management  • Research and Data Analysis  • SPSS  • Microsoft Office Suite