Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Boynton Beach, FL Professional with over 6 years of expertise and passion in the extraction, cleaning, manipulation, and transformation of massive volumes of raw data from multiple datasources into compelling and meaningful reports and executive-level visualizations. Possess advanced understanding of database administration as well as various statistical tools and packages (R, Python, STRATA, Matlab, etc.) and Business Intelligence platforms (Tableau, PowerBI, QlikSense). Expert in data management, analysis, auditing and integration in an enterprise environment. Passionate for developing and analyzing complicated data sets and converting them into insights that drive business decisions at all levels of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Tibco Spotfire June 2016 to August 2017 Klipfolio • Design, develop, analyze, test and review the quality of existing data.  Develop test scripts and testing plans. Develop database and  Five9 warehousing designs across multiple platforms and computing  environments utilizing Perl, Unix, Linux, Toad and Putty.  Raven Tools • Utilize data management systems including PL/SQL stored procedures to write complex queries and debug stored procedures in Oracle 11g.  Google Analytics Create schema, users, tables, constraints, indexes, stored procedures and views, triggers.  • Write SQL queries and leverage visualization tools such as Excel and  Tableau to clearly communicate meaningful findings cross-functionally  • Troubleshoot data inconsistencies efficiently and provide  recommendations for improving overall data quality. Business Intelligence Specialist A&W Healthcare Management November 2014 to June 2016 DATA ANALYST AND BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST Education B.S. in Data Management Western Governors University August 2017 to Present Skills DATA MANAGEMENT (2 years), DATABASE (1 year), EXCEL (1 year), LINUX (1 year), SQL (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (CONTINUED)  Advanced Excel skills (Power  Query, Power Pivot, Power • Proactively analyze and study client data to provide valuable insights  Maps, Dax queries, "What If" (i.e. promotional response, sales trends, etc.) which may lead to more  analysis, VBA coding and educated strategic decision-making.  Macros, Process Automation, • Investigate and understand internal and external company data  Merging or reformatting large sources. Increasing the effectiveness of data management, forecasting,  datasets etc.) and opportunities by designing dashboards, reports, and other data  tools that enable self-service for business users.  Strong understanding of data • Create and monitor the delivery of ad hoc and regularly scheduled  warehousing concepts, OLTP, reports. Partner with cross-functional teams to understand business  OLAP, Normalization, Star and requirements and common reporting/analysis use cases to help identify  Snow Flake data models.  trends, issues, insights, and opportunities. Educate stakeholders on the  value of data-driven decision making and use of data analytics to  Database: SQL, NoSQL, T- improve performance.  SQL, PostgreSQL • Compile historical results, current activity measurements, and results  projection including dashboards, funnel reporting and analysis,  Python for Data Analysis interpretations and recommendations based on results.  (include some modules here) • Create suggestions for A/B testing methods to drive results, and  weekly/monthly/quarterly annual reports to multiple levels of  Other statistical packages: R, management.  SAS, SSAS, SPSS, Strata,  Matplotlib    Data Visualization Digital Marketing Analyst  Gadinsky Real Estate / April 2012 - November 2014  Regression Analysis  • Prioritize and manage multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring timely  Linux / Bash Scripting delivery.  • Create repeatable standardized processes for data extraction,