Database Administrator & Webmaster <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Webmaster Database Administrator & Webmaster Miami, FL Work Experience Database Administrator & Webmaster Students Office - Division of Student Affairs, University of Florida June 2015 to August 2018 Develop interactive database systems and forms to increase productivity and end user satisfaction  ? Create, redesign, and update the Dean of Students Office website which receives tens of thousands of unique visitors per month for six functional areas  ? Create Dean of Students Office web databases (CRUD) and manage web applications  ? Manage multiple projects simultaneously while working in a professional team environment  ? Attend meetings with Dean of Students Office professional staff and other professionals  ? Transfer databases from FileMaker to MYSQL in order to provide a secured platform for forms and reports  ? Configure AWStats to keep detailed statistics on site visitors  ? Write custom JavaScript functions to cycle through news items on home page  ? Track and maintain approximately 30 databases for the Dean of Students Office  ? Design and develop User Interface for the databases to allow end users to easily query information Student Assistant Language Learning Center, University of Florida June 2014 to June 2015 Managed phone calls, greeted guests, answered questions, and provided information about resources.  ? Acted as a liaison between Language Learning Center and patrons that entered the center StepUp Leadership Summer Program - Gainesville, FL June 2012 to August 2012 Attended an intensive 6 week engineering program which involved a STEM and leadership curriculum Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Engineering University of Florida - Gainesville, FL May 2019 Associate of Arts in Mathematics Dade College North Campus - Miami, FL May 2012 Skills MYSQL (3 years), C++, CONTENT MANAGEMENT, HTML, JAVASCRIPT (3 years), Sql Dba, Sql Server, DBA, Oracle Dba, DB2 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  ? Extensive experience using Expression Engine and CMS that uses PHP/MySQL  ? Extensive experience using a Content Management System (CMS)  ? Experience working with file permissions and Apache/nginx configuration files  ? Extensive knowledge of PHP, HTML, MySQL, and Apache/nginx configurations  ? Extensive knowledge of Red Hat Enterprise Linux or similar Linux environment  ? Extensive knowledge of LabView, Microsoft Office Products, JavaScript, Mean Stack, Agile, Pivotal Tracker,  Slack, Balsamiq, C++, C, and Java