SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Annandale, VA Over four (4+) years of Hands-On Professional Experience as a SQL Server DBA with detail oriented, analytical and troubleshooting experience in different Microsoft products like SQL Server (2000, 2005, 2008, 2012), Operating Systems, AD (Active Directory), data modeling including gathering and analyzing business requirement, solid working experience in managing large databases in 24/7 environment including backup/recovery, developing and managing reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), Monitoring, Performance Tuning, stored procedures, triggers, functions, constraints, DBCC, etc. Working experience entails strong working experience on using database third party tools like Idera, SpotLite, ERWin, Visio, Toad Data Modeler, and Toad for SQL Server Admin. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Data Group USA - Alexandria, VA June 2012 to May 2015 Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  • Managed 24/7 Database Environment  • Installed, Configured, and Administered SQL Server 2005 & 2008 in development, test, and production environment  • Database High Availability: Installed, Configured and Managed Database Mirroring, Replication and Log Shipping. Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Cluster Servers in SQL Server 2012  • SQL/T-SQL, Triggers, And Stored Procedure: Wrote SQL, T-SQL, Stored-Procedures and triggers. Assisted SQL developers to optimize SQL queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers  • Monitoring and Performance Tuning: Performed database monitoring and Performance tuning. Monitor Servers activity, and worked with clients to solve different problems. Performed index and statistics management. Managed SQL Server Error Logs, space usage, growth pattern. Used DBCC and ALTER C statements to check and manage database consistency, index fragmentation/rebuilding, statistics. Managed BLOCK and LOCK. Used SQL Server profiler, Windows performance monitor and Database engine tuning advisor to analyze and fine tuning of long running queries and stored procedures and slow running servers.  • Database Automation: Created Backup jobs for different types of backup like FULL, Differential and Transaction Log. Created Jobs for database maintenance Index fragmentation, rebuild, database statistics. Created BAT programs to move backup and other files to backup servers  • Data Modeling: Worked on different Data Modeling projects using Toad Data Modeler on designing Logical & Physical Database. Used Backward & Forward Engineering to create Logical and Physical database  • Index/Constraints, Triggers, Stored Procedure: Created and managed Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints  • Security Management: Created and Managed users, roles, security at object level, data encryption  • Export & Import data from/to Oracle, MySQL, and Access Database including flat files like text, excel, and CSV files to SQL Server 2005/2008  • Database Migration: Migrated MS Access databases into MS SQL Server. Migrated Oracle 10g, MySQL database into MS SQL Server 2008. Imported data from Oracle, Excel, Flat file, CSV file to SQL Server Database,  • Backup/Recovery: Work experience and strong knowledge in disaster recovery. Rebuild databases using backups  • Reports: Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Developed Reports using SSRS. Developed Ad-hoc Reports using Report Builder 3.0, 2.0. Deployed Reports. Managed security for reports. Managed reports and helped developers in designing and developing reports.  • Documentation: Created documentation for installation, monitoring procedures, security policies, configuration changes, migration procedures, and best practices SQL Database Administrator Sholla Corporate - Silver Spring, MD February 2011 to June 2012 Core Responsibilities:  • SQL development: write and troubleshoot SQL code and design (SPs, functions, tables, views, triggers, indexes, constraints).  • Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.  • Creating and managing database resources, providing administration of database security including the monitoring and maintenance of user access.  • Monitoring, migrating, backup, recovery and tuning of SQL Server/2008r2 databases in a multi-platform environment.  • Utilize and analyze SQL Server Profiler to tune SQL Server 2008r2 databases.  • Detect and troubleshoot SQL server related CPU / memory, I/O, disc space and other resource contention.  • Design and implement relational databases to support complex database systems and applications.    • Create documentation for installation, monitoring procedures, security policies, configuration changes, migration procedures, and best practices Database Administrator (INTERNSHIP) Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authority September 2005 to March 2006 Essential Job Functions and Responsibilities:  • Creates test database environment for applications section, including the creation of necessary libraries and procedures.  • Loads databases, reorganizes as necessary, and assists in monitoring database performance.  • Maintain data standards and prepare and develop database documentation, procedures, and definitions for data dictionaries.  • Assist with designing, analyzing, and developing databases.  • Assist with the design and maintenance of database structures.  • Assist with establishing and implementing database security controls and user access levels.  • Perform related work as assigned. Education B.S. in General Science Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA