Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA at CHAVERAN Inc Burtonsville, MD ? Administrative understanding of Oracle 10g and Oracle 11g  ? Executing Oracle database tasks for Client Database Service Level guarantees  ? Monitoring, troubleshooting & resolution of failed tasks  Knowledge of Installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, patching, administration, performance tuning, upgrading and database creation  ? Perform database backup and recovery tasks using RMAN (strong Oracle RMAN backup & recovery skills)  ? Develop and document database and strategies, tools, performance tuning methods, and backup and recovery methods for staff.  ? Responsible for installing Oracle software & creating Databases, schemas, database storage - tablespaces and datafiles.  ? Refreshing development & test schema/tables using Export/import, Datapump  ? Expert level knowledge of creating and maintaining Tables, Partitioning, indexes,  ? Participate in a DBA team-environment supporting mission-critical databases on both UNIX and Windows operating systems.  ? Create, maintain and modify tables, indexes, and other objects. Design, develop,  ? Performance Tuning of Oracle Database & SQL, PL/SQL Queries. Conversant with AWR, ADDM  ? User Account Management, creating database users, quota, roles, privileges etc  ? Writing shell, batch scripts, SQL scripts    OS:  ? Windows 2003 Server, Vista, XP, 2000, 98,  ? LINUX. and UNIX, bash scripting.  ? Installation and configuration of OS on new servers    Software:  ? Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i  ? Active Directory  ? Remedy Ticketing System Work Experience Oracle DBA CHAVERAN Inc August 2008 to Present Install and configure Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g and Oracle 11g on Windows and Red Hat  ? Perform 10g to 11g databse upgrade  ? Create and implement backup strategies  ? Use SQL*Loader to perform ETL operations on the database.  ? Write scripts/procedures/triggers in PL/SQL  ? Use import and export utilties to migrate and backup data.  ? Performed basic DDL and DML to create databases according to business requirements.  ? Write, test and implement RMAN backup and recovery scripts  ? Developed scripts to monitor database and system performance  ? Streamline databasse and increased the overall efficiency and performance level  ? Development and documentation for sql statements in implementing reports  ? Under supervision tune SQL queries using table indexing and table partitioning  ? Participated in various projects that required the installation, configuration and administering of several Oracle databases for development and training purposes.  ? Trained and monitored interns and students in the use of SQL and PL/SQL  ? Creating and multiplexing datanase control and data files to provide fault tolerance  ? Performing point in time recovery for development instances.  ? Tuning and implementing flashback recover.  ? Oracle networking configuration, including SQLNET.ora and TNSNAMES.ora  ? Creating and managing users using roles and permissions.  ? Performance Tuning - Install, configure and use of STATSPACk and Automatic Workload Repository to diagnose performance problems.    REFERENCE  References will be provided upon request. Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Inc. - Bowie, MD August 2008 to Present Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Strayer University Present