Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - U.S. Marine Corps San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator U.S. Marine Corps - San Diego, CA September 2016 to Present • Performed server, network, and database administration on a network consisting of 3 foundation tier servers and 1 mid-tier server across 3 sites.  • Designed disaster recovery plans and monthly planned and unplanned maintenance plans minimizing downtime and increasing of work productivity.  • Installed Data Alignment Programs and implemented a plan to insure that manual baseline updates are received and installed while in a non-replicating environment.  • Ensured system security on a network comprised of 300 end users by installing the latest Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts.  • Created group policy objects and loaded all system changes in a test environment before installing them on the network to ensure data integrity in order to maintain the highest level of system security. Information Technology Analyst U.S. Marine Corps - San Diego, CA July 2014 to August 2016 • Managed a group of 5 specialist in the Customer Support Division providing help desk support to a network consisting of 230 local users to include the creation of accounts for new users, assignment of permissions to existing users, cable management, and daily troubleshooting as required to satisfy office IT needs.  • Installed network equipment and workstations in new facilities and performed network administration.  • Updated operating systems and desktop applications as needed to ensure all users maintained access to all available resources. Education Some college Skills NETWORK ADMINISTRATION (4 years), DATABASE (3 years), ACTIVE SECRET CLEARANCE (5 years), CONTINGENCY PLANNING (3 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (5 years), DESKTOP SUPPORT (5 years), DBA, Sql Server Additional Information KEY QUALIFICATIONS    • Active Secret Clearance  • Customer Service  • Database Management  • Training and Mentoring  • Network Administration and Instillation  • Project Management  • Server Administration  • Contingency Planning