Database/Data Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span>/Data Analyst Database/Data Analyst Manassas, VA Work Experience Database/Data Analyst Mathcraft Security Technologies, Inc - Ashburn, VA February 2018 to May 2019 • Create new databases by following the SDLC model to configure database per client's needs  • Created database objects such as tables, views, procedures, triggers, and functions using T-SQL to provide definition, structure and to maintain data efficiently.  • Worked in an agile team to construct and coordinate database upgrades, QA/QC design, provided risk assessment reports for the database to the Project Mangers.  • Experience in SAS programming for auditing data, developing data, performing data validation QA and improve efficiency  of SAS programs.  • Debugged and traced programming code to resolve errors encountered with the code.  • Worked on the planning and coordination of work activity for projects involving more than 2 million records.  • Integrated SQL Server 2008 with CRM using SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, and Importing/Exporting  data from legacy data sources using SSIS.  • Collaborate with Business Systems Analysts, other developers, and system owners in the testing of new CRM programs and applications.  • Used ADO.Net for database connectivity, storage and retrieval on SQL Server  • Support and troubleshoot the existing webform-based system using SQL Server 2008/2012/2016 Network Administrator General Dynamics - Warrenton, VA May 2017 to February 2018 • Monitored networks performance using Nagios and troubleshot problems and outages.  • Configured and monitored instances and virtual routers on AWS environment.  • Performed Nessus Scans on AWS environment (instances) such as DEV, IMPL, and PROD environments to check their  vulnerability and Compliance using Wireshark.  • Managed accounts, reset passwords, and unlock Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) and Active Directory (AD)  user accounts.  • Configured SolarWinds TFTP, SFTP & SCP server and troubleshot errors to notify responsible departments based on the severity level.  • Practiced agile and scrum methodologies as a CMMI Level 3 federal contractor for ABACUS, USPS, and CMS. Business Analyst Sky Solutions - Fairfax, VA January 2016 to May 2017 • Developed the product backlog along with the Product Owner  • Identified and prioritized requirements  • Created stories in JIRA  • Conducted UAT with cross-functional business teams to ensure the system was aligned with the vision of the business teams  • Created process flows and mockups using MS Visio  • Defined features into stories, participated in all scrum ceremonies such as sprint planning, sprint review, sprint retrospective, daily standup, and grooming.  • Collaborated with team members to streamline project goals and provide timely solutions Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering University of New Hampshire - Rochester, NH Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Postgresql, Sql, Hipaa, Nagios, Networking, Remedy, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Iso, Nist, Wireshark, Power bi, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Tableau, Jira, Router, DBA, ETL, VBA, T-SQL, Sql Dba, PL SQL, Evaluation, XML, Mapping Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master Additional Information Agile consultant experienced with working in an agile and team-oriented environment.  Exemplary problem-solving skills; able to identify problems and implement corrective processes. Excellent verbal and written  communication skills, with an ability to interact in a collaborative environment with all project members and stakeholders    Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: Python, JAVA, MSSQL, PostgreSQL, XML, HTML, CSS  • Ticketing Systems: Heat and Remedy Ticketing, JIRA, Fresh-Desk ticketing system  • Technologies/Application: Confluence, AWS Console, MS Visio, Microsoft Office Suite (Office 365), Outlook,  SharePoint, VMware, Eclipse, SolarWinds, Nagios, GitHub, HP Application Lifecycle Management, Visual Basics,  HipChat  • Database: Data warehouse, Visual Studio 2010 - 2017, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, MS-SQL server 2008-2017, SSMS 2008-2017,  SSDT 2013-2017, Crystal Reports, Tableau, PostgreSQL, Power BI  • Networking: LAN, WAN, ISO, TCP/IP and OSI model, Router and Switch Configuration  • Security: Wireshark, Angry IP Scanner, NIST SP800-53, HIPAA, FIPS  • Operating Systems: Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, 8, 2000, Mac OS, Windows server 2007-2016