Database Administrator Intern LabCorp <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intern LabCorp Database Administrator Intern LabCorp Charlotte, NC Certified Database Administrator with 4 years of experience in Database Administration Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Database Administrator Intern LabCorp LabCorp - Raleigh, NC May 2019 to August 2019 Project: LabCorp Oracle DBA  Responsibilities:  1. Installation, configuration and deployment of Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 13c Release 2 (13.2.0.0.0) on Oracle Database  Appliance (ODA) virtualized platform.  2. Managing Oracle Exadata development and test databases by monitoring daily email alerts.  3. Troubleshooting performance issues within databases and identify issues at OS level, network, CPU, disk etc.  4. Monitoring of database alerts using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c and resolved database issue tickets using Ivanti Ticketing tool.    Project: Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Assay performance monitoring for Laboratory Directors  Worked on award winning innovation project of LabCorp. Use Talend ETL tool, Apache Hadoop and Apache Hive to transform the data, SAP HANA database to store the data and tableau to create dashboards and reports for the medical professionals. Oracle DBA Tech Mahindra - Pune, Maharashtra September 2014 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  1. Managing Oracle RAC and standalone production and non-production databases of size 32TB+.  2. Database creation, patching, relinking and upgradation of standalone Oracle databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c.  3. Restore & Recovery in the Database by using RMAN backups.  4. Import and Export of the database.  5. Managing replication of the data using Oracle Golden gate and troubleshooting of Golden Gate Processes.  6. Monitoring of alerts using Innotas ticketing tool, handling triage issues and coordinating with concerned teams.  7. Coordination with different application and development teams for major release deployments.  8. Performing performance tuning to keep up the database performance and exceed users' expectations.  9. Database Health Checkup report generation, analysis and taking corrective actions (STATPACK/AWR/ADDM).  10. Performance tuning of Memory, I/O and Network.  11. Setting up crontab to monitor and schedule jobs in the database.  12. Setup and maintain documentation and standards. Education BE Information Technology University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra August 2011 to July 2014 Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, DBA, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, ETL, RAC, Oracle Database, Rman, Sql Database Links https://github.com/root2omkar/om21-github http://www.linkedin.com/in/omkar-marne Additional Information Oracle Database 11g Certified Associate.