Teradata Database Administrator Teradata <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Chicago, IL Work Experience Teradata Database Administrator Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI October 2012 to Present Responsibilities  Teradata Database Administrator  Worked extensively in Data Warehousing as a Teradata DBA well versed in Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning, Workload Management, Solving the Design and performance issues in the system. Conduct regular proactive security audits to address any security issues that may occur and necessary action to protect the integrity of data and systems. Proactively reviewed Teradata technical alerts and identify any impacts applications/systems/data and make the necessary recommendations or actions to mitigate these impacts.  • Created/participated on creation of data model for the mentioned modules.  • Develop archival, backup and recovery strategy.  • Performance-tuned written SQL and PL/SQL code.  • Support the application development teams for database needs and guidance  • Helped fixing data migration errors from the legacy systems.  • Wrote SQL for Oracle and Teradata, scripts for Teradata loading utilities and Linux/UNIX shell scripts.  • Designed and created database hierarchy, initially sized the databases and managed their sizes afterwards, created and modified according to developers’ needs all database objects, set up users, roles, profiles and general security rules based on customer’s internal standards, designed and maintained table compression and statistics collection, carried out various maintenance tasks (packdisk, showfsp, scandisk, checktable, etc.), backed up and restored databases according to project’s needs, monitored operations of Teradata systems, etc.  • Handling the Change Management and incident management for the production issues.  • Implement/Revise indexes (Implement Primary and Secondary indexes and set up Statistics collection process)  • Managing the live code movement in ENDEVOR system.  • Was involved in Implementing TDWM (earlier Priority scheduler was used)  • Performing the data warehousing space, capacity planning & analyzing the CPU and IO requirements  • 24x7 on-call support rotation Database Administrator British American Tobacco May 2009 to February 2012 Manage Oracle database administration assignments for diverse industry clients. Enhance database performance, perform restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning and conduct regular system backups. Ensure technical and functional designs meet business requirements.    Responsibilities  Installation of Oracle 11g on Linux and creating new databases.  Developing PL/SQL programs for data manipulation.  Installation of Oracle client tools and establishing connectivity to databases  Creating table spaces, tables, indexes, users, etc.  Providing assistance in physical data modeling.  Managing security.  Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance  Trained a new DBA in our environment. Oracle Database Administrator ABN AMRO Bank December 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities    The work was to maintain, refresh and load a number of very large Databases for customers throughout Pakistan. This involved database creation and monitoring. The team provided support to users who accessed the databases by Business Objects. This involved advising in the setting up of Business Objects Universes. Database optimization and performance tuning was a large part of the work. Education BS in Software Engineering Foundation University of Management and Computer Sciences Additional Information Specialties  • Teradata Utilities: BTEQ, Fastload, Multiload, Fast Export, Tpump  • Oracle 10g Installation and Troubleshooting at (Windows, Solaris, AIX, RedHat 4 AS) platform  • Oracle Backup through RMAN, Data pumps  • Oracle DBA task, Application server, RAC, Data Guard  • Ability to analysis MIS System. All General task on Linux system  • Oracle Financial R12 Install Patch, Cloning, AD utilities and Multi-Node Installation on Oracle Linux, Red Hat, Sun Solaris and IBM UNIX    Skills and expertise    • Oracle 11g Database Administration    • SQL Tuning in an Oracle environment  • Standby/Failover Administration    • Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring    • Data Security, Backup & Recovery    • Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation    • Oracle forms and report development