Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - National Cancer Institute Rockville, MD Self-directed and driven database systems technology administrator with an accomplished record of succeeding in developing database designs, performance optimization, upgrading databases and executing systems migration. Known as an innovative thinker with strong disaster recovery, relational schema and user requirement satisfaction. Highly organized, efficient problem solver who excels in complex database administration and systems analyses contexts. A good team player, Oracle Certified Associate for Oracle 11g. Master of Science in information technology and database systems technology graduate. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator National Cancer Institute - Rockville, MD October 2018 to Present • Executed upgrade project from 11g to 12c and leveraged data pump utility to successfully facilitate database migration.  • Maximized performance tuning of 11g database by employing EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Trace, TKPROF and Statspack.  • Configured pages in 64-bit Red Hat Linux 5.5 to handle large production database load via collaborating with UNIX team.  • Installed Oracle 12c software, create new databases and set up RMAN backup scripts for backup and recovery.  • Restored, recovered and refreshed databases and employed data pump to restore and recover.  • Collaborated with application developers to create new Oracle databases, schemas and objects.  • Translated business requirements by altering tables, indexes, constraints, triggers and stored procedures.  • Executed Oracle database migration using data pump utility from 11g Release 2 to 12c.  • Oversaw performance of databases, including log and trace files.  • Optimized RDBMS functionality and productivity in production and non-production environments.  • Developed logical database designs and generated DDL files to effect database object creation.  • Leveraged Oracle SQL Developer Data Modeler and SQL Developer to achieve goals.  • Ensured user satisfaction by resolving identified database or query performance issues.  • Conferred with database advisors and employed AWR/ASH reports to mitigate user concerns.  • Applied Database patches to Oracle 11g and 12c databases on Linux platform.  • Resolve the day to day customer concerns through the service-now ticketing system.  • Support SQL server database operations like backup and recovery, High availability, database refresh, run scripts from developers etc.  • Also supports Filemaker databases as the sole DBA in the team for this database technology. Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting - Greenbelt, MD 2015 to 2018 • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Extensively implemented Data Pump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of the database.  • Performed tuning on the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM.  • Test backups periodically to ensure minimal recoverability time to meet business objectives.  • Used Oracle Data Pump utility making faster exports/imports on large databases and saving a lot of time.  • Performed patching on Oracle Database Server 10g and 11g using Opatch utility.  • Used AWR, ADDM and statspack Reports for troubleshooting performance issues and Capacity Planning. Extensively used Explain Plan, Tkprof and SQL Trace Education M.S in Information Technology in Database systems Technology University of Maryland University College 2016 to 2019 B.A in Political Science in Political Science University Of Dschang 2010 to 2013 Skills DBA, Oracle Dba Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/database-admin Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate