Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Hanes Brands Work Experience Database Administrator Hanes Brands September 2018 to Present • Manage all SQL Servers ranging from 2000-2016  • Work with development and business employees to implement production changes efficiently  • Perform database migrations and SQL Server upgrades  • Monitor jobs and maintenance plans in order to maintain database consistency and recovery. Product Support Specialist Superion October 2017 to September 2018 • Front/back end troubleshooting within SQL Server/Visual FoxPro.  • System administration duties to ensure proper functionality.  • Communicate with Customers in a professional and timely manner to ensure customer satisfaction.  • Participate in on-call rotation Entry Level Database Administrator Remote Database Experts May 2016 to July 2017 • Maintained up to date knowledge of change management processes.  • Monitoring, troubleshooting, and escalating SQL Server related issues regarding high availability, hardware, networking, and more.  • Maintain strong knowledge of different Windows environments and components.  • Communicate with Customers in a professional and timely manner to ensure customer satisfaction. Database Development Intern Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Charlotte January 2016 to May 2016 • Assisted the company in managing the profiles of current and previous contributors.  • Exporting data from Microsoft excel to the company database (etapestry).  • Developed thank you letters/phone calls, and updating necessary information about donors. Education Bachelor of Arts in Communications University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2016 Skills Sql server, Odbc, Replication, Sql, Visual fox pro, Remedy, Solarwinds, System administration, Migrations, Network troubleshooting, Scripting, Backups, Disaster recovery, Bmc, Microsoft office, Windows server 2003, Maintenance, Shipping, DBA, Sql Dba