Web Application Developer Web Application Developer Web Application Developer - Nifty ICT Solutions Banjul, The Gambia Work Experience Web Application Developer Nifty ICT Solutions - Brusubi, The Gambia September 2017 to Present 1. Design and develop websites for clients.  2. Meets with clients and colleagues to determine website needs and follows up with regular conversations and updates.  3. Determines the best plug-ins and applications to provide websites with new features and functionality, and installs them accordingly.   4. Tests websites using a variety of browsers, including Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Safari, and Mozilla Firefox; and debugs as necessary.  5. Regularly checks in with clients to assess their satisfaction and determine necessary updates or website repairs.  6. Maintains websites by checking for errors, broken links, and hacking attempts.     Designed and developed Nifty ICT Solutions official website.  Developed The Gambia Armed Forces website (www.gaf.gm)  Developed MDI website (mdi.edu.gm) and much more. Nifty ICT Solutions January 2018 to October 2018 Designed and developed The Gambia Armed Forces (GAF) Website.  th th Database Administrator Gambia Telecommunication Company July 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Monitoring performance and managing parameters to provide fast responses to front-end users.  ? Considering both back-end organization of data and front-end accessibility for end-users.  ? Further refining the physical design to meet system storage requirements.  ? Installing and testing new versions of the DBMS.  ? Controlling access permissions and privileges.  ? Developing, managing and testing back-up and recovery plans.  ? Communicating regularly with technical, applications and operational staff to ensure database integrity and security. Trainer at the Give1Project Gambia September 2016 to October 2016 19 September- 4 October 2016: Facilitated a 10-day nationwide training for all the linesmen, test clerks, and operators on Line Plan Management Project of GAMTEL.  12th December 2015: Trainer at the Give1Project Gambia tech camp at Gunjur Basic Cycle.  th  15 September 2015: Trainer at the Give1Project Gambia tech camp at Kairaba Senior Secondary  School. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Engineering University Institute of Technology Bolívar 2012 to 2014 Associate degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University Institute of Technology Bolívar State 2010 to 2012 Diploma in Administration and Management in Centro Único de Nuevas Profesiones Software Academy in Ciudad Bolivar June 2010 to October 2010 Information and communication technology The Gambia Telecommunication and Multimedia Institute January 2008 to April 2008 Nusrat Senior Secondary School 2004 to 2007 St Peter's Technical Junior and Senior Secondary School 2001 to 2004 Skills Css, Html, Javascript, Php, Networking, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Architecture, Bootstrap, Front End, Jquery, Wordpress, HTML5 Additional Information Computer skills  ? Website and web application developer.  ? Strong grounding in programming (HTML, CSS, PHP and JavaScript), data base management, networking  and computer architecture.  ? Microsoft Office applications: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Access.  ? Open Office applications: Writer, Calc and Impress.  ? Well-developed analytical and numerical ability.    Other skills  ? Public speaking and presentations