SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Staten Island, NY I am detail-oriented, hard-working individual with over three years of experience working with SQL Server databases. Seeking a SQL Server Database Administrator position; to work with an organization which will utilize my competencies to achieve company goals and objectives and to enhance my overall continuos growth and development as an individual. I have worked in multiple geographical areas with high degree of initiative, numerical ability with strong organizational and analytical skills. I have excellent communication skills, Excellent Team player, flexible, fast Learner, possesses characteristics of self-motivation and a "can do" attitude. I am an experienced SQL Database Professional with over 3 years experience in Database administration. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Bank of America - Pennington, NJ March 2017 to Present Duties and Responsibilities:  ? Installed and configured MS SQL Server on Production, Test and Development boxes.  ? Involved in capacity planning, data modeling and logical/physical database Design.  ? Involved in creating Schemas, Logins, Tables, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes, Views, Functions and Stored Procedures.  ? Undertook General Database Administration, Query Performance tuning, Optimization of procedures, created necessary indexes and validated some of the existing schema.  ? Created the Jobs using maintenance Plans for Full, Differential and transactional log backups.  ? Security set up including creating logins, database roles, DDL, Schema Design, Applying Data integrity rules, and wrote many DML scripts for hot fixes.  ? Worked with SQL server Profiler to generate traces to identify performance issues.  ? Created and Maintained Database Maintenance Plans for backup and also performed Database restores.  ? Creating, maintaining the users, roles and granting privileges.  ? Used SSIS and SQL Data Tools to support deployment and business solutions.  ? Provided 24/7 on call support and fixed the production issues resolving tickets in problem management tool (Remedy).  ? Backup & recovery and performance monitoring.  ? Responsible for disaster recovery planning for SQL Servers.  ? Performed database enhancement and modification as per the requirements in SQL Server.  ? Prepared daily report on the job failures, backup failures and disk space.  ? Extensively used Database Performance Monitoring tools for performance tuning.  ? Designed and implemented database maintenance plan.  ? Used Index tuning wizard and rebuilding indexes for faster Query Performance.  ? Assisted in capacity planning, space management and data maintenance activities for database system in SQL Server.  ? Involved in resolving deadlock issues and performance issues.  Database Tools: SQL profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, Index Analyzer, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, DTA, Upgrade Wizard, Bulk Insert and BCP, SQL Server Management Studio. SQL Server DBA Texas INC - Fort Worth, TX December 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Configured SQL Server installations to meet defined best practices.  ? Worked on Client/Server tools like SQL Server Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer to Administer SQL Server.  ? Created Database Maintenance Planner for the Performance of SQL Server, which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Database Statistics and Re-indexing  ? Backing up master & system databases and restoring them when necessary. Supported production environment.  ? Responsible for data analysis to determine trends and outliers impacting results  ? Setup Snapshot, Transactional Replication between Servers. Troubleshoot monitor Publishers, Distributors, Subscribers  ? Analyzed long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  ? Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  ? Involved in Creation of logins, Users as per Security standards and groups, roles, jobs, alerts and sending mail confirmation upon tasks.  ? Implemented and maintained database security according to client security requirements.  ? Monitored SQL Server error logs and windows event viewer for software and hardware errors.  ? Worked with application team to implement, test, and enhance stored procedures, views, functions and other T-SQL scripts.  ? Troubleshoot the performance issues for slowness in the hardware and also in the SQL by using profiler and execution plans.  ? Worked with application team to implement, test, and enhance stored procedures, views, functions and other T-SQL scripts.  ? Migrated database objects from development/test environments to production. Database Engine Tuning Advisor Maintenance and Administration 2012 to 2012 of SQL Server 2014/2012/2008r2/2005.  • Experience in implementing backup and restore, ensuring proper recovery and recovery models.  • SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation.  • Setting up and administering SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.  • Used SSIS and SQL Data Tools to support deployment and business solutions  • Experience in Performance monitoring using Activity Monitor, SQL Profiler, SQL Trace, and System stored procedures, DETA ( Database Engine Tuning Advisor).  • Experience in monitoring and troubleshooting 24x7 operations.  • System database migrations and maintenance.  • Database Installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning.  • Experience in High Availability Solutions: Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, Failover Clustering and Replication.  • Experience in using Query Analyzer and Profiler to tune SQL Server databases  • Good knowledge in writing SQL queries and joins using SQL Server 2012 and other tools based on the need to compare data in database.  • Experience in implementing SQL Server security and Object permissions like maintaining Database authentication modes, creation of users, configuring permissions and assigning roles to users.  • Created maintenance plans to perform index de-fragmentation, re-indexing and update the index statistics.  • Experience in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and scheduling DTS and SSIS Packages.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional on basis of business specification.  • Experience in performing integrity checks. Methods include configuring the database maintenance plan wizard and DBCC utilities.  • Experience in troubleshooting SQL issues by using SQL Tools, execution plans, Trace, statistics, index tuning wizard.  • Excellent keyboarding skills, strong PC experience in Word/Excel/PowerPoint and ability to quickly learn in house order management system ;  • Ability to work in an operational environment of statistics ;  • Good follow-up and follow-through techniques ;  • Ability to handle multiple tasks ;  • Team player with effective interpersonal skills and customer focused attitude ;  • Self- motivated individual willing to see all assignments to completion ;  • Strong organization and prioritization skills (10+ years) ;  • Ability to work under pressure. Education Master's in Philosophy Imo State University Skills Data migration, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Sql Dba, DBA, Ssis, MYSQL, ETL