Lab Technician Lab Technician Lab Technician Seattle, WA A hard-working, trustworthy and focused individual graduated from Southern Alberta Institute of Technology with Chemical Engineering Technology diploma; looking to secure a sound position in the field of expertise, that will enable me to continue learning and expanding my knowledge of science and technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lab Technician 502 Processor Group (www.interraoils.com) - Seattle, WA April 2018 to Present - Extracting plan material using Ethanol and Super-critical CO2 extraction method; taking the lead role on post-extraction processing (winterization, filtration, decolorization, ethanol recovery, THCa decarboxylation); running short path fractional distillation for THC and CBD isolation from refined cannabis extract  - Making sample for lab-testing analysis that meet the requirement of state for potency, microbiological, mycotoxins, and residual solvents  - Creating documentation, implementing of good lab practices, good manufacturing practice, and products quality; advising on changes in procedures as well as equipment or design in new equipment   - Keeping track on material weigh, product yield, cannabis batch ID from raw material to finish products; entering run logs data into database for each cannabis batch from start to finish  - Becoming familiar with the market and products being offered in order to help develop new products and processes  - Learning state regulations for cannabis processing; becoming familiar with leaf data to enter products for track and trace system Assembly Technician Bloom Energy (www.bloomenergy.com) - Sunnyvale, CA November 2016 to November 2017 - Sampling, testing, and analysis Bloom Energy, Sunnyvale, CA 94089 (www.bloomenergy.com)  - Setting up, conducting chemical  - Planning, scheduling and purchasing to meet production and sales experiments delivery goal.  - Reviewing and maintaining proper inventory levels to ensure on- Computer Skills time deliveries for production lines.  - Ability to perform inventory control transactions - receiving, - Basic database administration counting, inspecting, sorting and shipping product in accordance with - Microsoft suite established policies and procedures. Database Administrator/ Business Developer Chau Duy Phat Co. Ltd. (www.cdp.com.vn) - Ho Chi Minh June 2010 to November 2012 - Assisting with installation, configuration and upgrading database.  - Providing database security, backup, and recovery data control. Education Associate in Chemical Engineering Technology Program Southern Alberta Institute of Technology - Calgary, AB September 2014 to May 2016 Computer Information System Vietnam National University of Information Technology September 2008 to January 2012 Skills Operating equipment for cannabis extraction and refining process (rotary evaporator, short path fractional distillation kit) (1 year), Sampling, testing, and analysis (1 year), Setting up, conducting chemical experiments (1 year), Basic database administration (2 years), Microsoft suite (3 years), Work well under pressure and fast-paced environment, Documentation, Chemistry Additional Information Volunteer Experiences:    Why Not Children Association, Sep 2015 - Oct 2015  - Assisting in fundraising events to help underprivileged children in Vietnam.  - Communicating with sponsors about the mission and objectives of the association.  - Setting up events and creating slideshows for the event.    Alberta Election 2015- Calgary Fort, Apr 2015 – May 2015  - Volunteering at Andy Bao Nguyen’s campaign, a political candidate during his 2015 election.  - Assisting the team with data entry and phone bank.