SQL Database Administrator Lead SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead SQL Database Administrator Lead Arlington, VA • Experienced Multi-Platform Application Database Administrator with over 10 years of experience in different version of IIS, SQL and Oracle (IIS 7.5/8, SQL 2014/2016/2017, and Oracle 12c) in Testing and Production environments.  • Microsoft Certified Database Administrator in both the design and administration of SQL Server databases.  • Very practiced in Installation, Configuration Upgrade, administration and maintenance and auditing and performance tuning of SQL Server instances, Web Servers, Application Servers and Database servers.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS EC2 and RDS) and Microsoft Azure cloud platforms.  • Well experienced in Data Security, Encryption (TDE) and data protection best practices.  • Expertise in Application support and Database Administration, Security, Performance Tuning and Query Optimization and troubleshooting using Dynamic Management Views.  • Proficient in High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) including Availability Groups, Failover Clustering, Replication, Log Shipping, Mirroring, Backup/Recovery, windows load balancing.  • Expert in SSIS, SQL data extract transform and load (ETL) services and Bulk Loads and BULK INSERT ETL operations and SQL Server Reporting Services Reporting (SSRS) administration.  • Extensive involvement in translating business requirements into technical implementations including but not limited to design, implementation.  • Very good understanding of Network architecture and Active Directory Security Kerberos, AD groups, LDAP and SSO.  • Sound understanding Coordinated Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) activities including requirement analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance as well as project coordination, end user training and documentation.  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications.  • Excellent people skills, hard-worker, customer-focused, innovative problem-solver and team player who thrives in a dynamic and challenging environment. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Lead US Department of Labor (DOL) OCIO - Washington, DC August 2012 to August 2012 • Maintain uptime of all databases and associated applications.  • Architect, design, install, configure, optimize and manage enterprise-wide SQL Server, Data warehouse, SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS) and Oracle databases on windows.  • Operate a comprehensive backup and recovery plan using a combination of ComVault tool and SQL backup.  • Refresh/restore databases from Prod to Dev, Test and Stage environment as requested.  • Design, model, document, and guide the logical and conceptual relationship of data and database changes for critical applications  • Understand monitoring metrics and translate them to proactive issue resolution to avoid customer impact.  • Design and manage Disaster recovery and high availability solutions (SQL Failover Clustering, AlwaysOn Availability Group, Database Mirroring and Replication, Windows Load Balancing, NetScaler ).  • Apply Dynamic Data Masking, Always Encrypted and row-level encryption security features.  • Respond to any system outages and send Unscheduled Service Interruption (USI) notice and Root Cause Analysis Report (RCA) after service restoration  • Work with project managers, system owners, application developers to deploy code change, and patching (Implementing Change Requests (CR)).  • Develop and implement T-SQL, PowerShell and batch scripts to automate administration tasks.  • Attend daily-standup meeting to report projects status and over all team's work.  • Monitor and analyze databases and applications availability and reliability using enterprise monitoring, SolarWinds Splunk, and SCOM.  • Maintain and update as necessary all system documentation including SOPs, Work Instructions, database and application inventory as well as Administrative accounts info.  • Ensure all SQL and Oracle Servers are compliance with FISMA and DHS.  • Coordinate with windows patch team to make sure all systems are up to date with Microsoft updates.  • Provide support to cots software, Sirsidynx Library application, Event Management System (EMS), USMT Remedy.  • Conduct regular DbProtect scan and address any security findings.  • Participate in the preparation of project plans, providing technical expertise regarding architecture, development tools, and work effort estimates.  • Research and analyze best cloud solutions that best suits department's current infrastructure.  • Support AWS systems EC2 and RDS systems (SQL and Aurora) and future migrations.  • Write standard procedures and processes for databases as well as application installation and configuration in accordance with CIS and DHS baseline.  • Monitor comvault backups to make sure point in time recovery.  • Support On-Prem SharePoint server farm. Database Administrator- Veteran Affairs (VA)-Webops CSSS.Net - Silver Spring, MD September 2010 to August 2012 -Silver spring, MD    • Create and maintain SQL databases required for development, testing and production usage.  • Synchronize SQL Databases from development to production through SSIS/DTS packages, SQL jobs, and SQL scripting.  • Ensure adherence to VA security policy through the management of user accounts, granting privileges, creating groups, and monitoring user accounts.  • Monitor SQL server's health in accordance with NAGIOS alert.  • Perform regular maintenance to enhance performance and availability.  • Create and maintain processes and procedures with regard to database administration.  • Develop, deploy and monitor SSIS Packages including upgrading DTS to SSIS.  • Monitor SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and dead locks.  • Create connection strings (ODBC) for Applications- Asp.NET and ColdFusion.  • Provide general database related application support for ASP.NET, ColdFusion applications.  • Involve in the on call rotation for 24/7 support applications. Database Administrator BLS Limo-Tour Group - Washington, DC June 2009 to August 2010 • Provide support of Database connectivity for Developers and users.  • Develop strategies and move databases from a SQL 2005 environment to SQL server 2008 using Copy database wizard and backup\restore.  • Install SQL server 2005 as instance on a SQL Server 2008  • Create file groups and file partitions for separating frequent transactions and static data.  • Involve in troubleshooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Monitor the server for High availability of the servers.  • Perform daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2005 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  • Resolve various performance issues running DBCC commands, SQL Tracer, SQL Profiler and using activity monitor.  • Configure and maintain of database mirroring with automatic recovery by configuring a witness server for constant availability of sales. Education Masters of IT in Software Engineering in Software Engineering University of Maryland University College 2014 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering in Industrial Engineering Mekelle University 2005