Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Centereach, NY A customer oriented and highly motivated individual who can provide a prominent level of administrative support to enable the smooth running of a busy office.    VALUE OFFER    A self-motivated, focused, driven, and results-oriented customer service representative with extensive experience in data entry, customer relations, problem solving, multi-tasking and adapting to work situations. An energetic leader who mentors staff members and drives a culture of teamwork to improve morale. Possesses the knowledge, strength, and judgment needed to be an integral part of the team. Supports corporate longevity with a solid commitment to success. Strong communicator with a high sense of urgency. Exceeds expectations. Work Experience Database Administrator Detailed Inventory Solutions - Centereach, NY August 2017 to Present Responsible for the proper entry of information from paper copies into an excel spreadsheet according to policies, procedures, and the State and Federal regulations. Quality care for pricing items to ensure correct and accurate totaling on personal property for insurance claim adjustments. Providing confidentiality of customers and their property while handling claims. Working directly with public adjusters to promptly provide a high quality and proficient claim in a timely manner.    Primary Activities and Responsibilities:  • Review and process paper copies of personal damaged items  • Organize and format excel spreadsheets  • Research items for pricing and comparison  • Manipulating and revising excel spreadsheets to compute totals in specified areas  • Complies with standards of employee conduct Sales Associate 7 eleven - Centereach, NY March 2017 to Present Handle all cash register operations. Coordinate with delivery trucks and off-load incoming merchandise. Properly greet customers with a friendly and courteous attitude. Efficiently stock coolers and shelf products to ensure full capacity of store products. Providing a clean working space inside and outside of the store. Diligently inventory products to forecast and place merchandise orders.    Primary Activities and Responsibilities:  • Drive sales with effective consumer relations and a positive attitude  • Inventory and manage merchandise  • Operate a cash register to ensure accurate money handling  • Coordinate with delivery trucks and off-load merchandise  • Maintaining the cleanliness of the store and its property  • Maintain daily operations that keep the store running smoothly Sales Associate/Cashier TOYS 'R' US - Holbrook, NY September 2016 to March 2017 Maintained knowledge of current promotions, policies on payment and exchanges, and security practices. Properly place special orders and calls to other store locations for desired items. Make strong and confident recommendations of merchandise based on consumer needs. Operated a cash register to process cash and credit card transactions adequately handling monetary exchanges. Replenished store stock and processed shipments to ensure product availability from customers.    Primary Activities and Responsibilities:  • Greet customers and assist them with item searches  • Receive and process monetary transactions  • Review and implement current policies and procedures  • Stock shelf merchandise and manage inventory    EDUCTION Education Diploma in Accounting Hunter Business School - Medford, NY April 2012 High School Diploma Centereach High School - Centereach, NY June 2011 Skills Microsoft Office programs (10+ years)