Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - JPCM New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ * 4+ years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, decommission, shell scripting and documentation.  * Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c with experience within very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  * Experienced with ORACLE STREAMS (unidirectional, bidirectional and downstream capture) and managed Operational, Historical and reporting databases.  * Proficient in setting up Standby Database using shell scripts and RMAN utility tool, activating and Re-building Standby Databases both Physical and Logical supported by DATAGUARD.  * Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c in HP-UX, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Windows and UNIX/Linux environment  * Excellent experience in Migrating the Databases.  * Experience with Oracle 11g ASM & 10g RAC software with ASM & OCFS2 File systems.  * Experienced in Installation of high availability RAC environment (2, 3 and 4 node clusters) and upgraded standalone databases to 10g RAC environment.  * Built RAC ADG (Active Data Guard) databases for 4 node RAC databases.  * Managed very large database (VLDB) of maximum size 5TB with 18 servers including 6 Productions, 6 testing, 6 Development and 3 Standby databases.  * Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP, DSS and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.  * Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  * Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, Distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes.  * Data loading using SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP.  * Expertise in maintaining Database Security using security compliance auditing, and expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL*LOADER.  * Good experience of creating PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views to retrieve, manipulate and migrate complex data sets in Oracle Databases.  * Database replication using snapshots, materialized views and advanced replication methods.  * Experience in applying security patches to the databases.  * Effective troubleshooting of database and Performance problems.  * 24x7 availability for support Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator JPCM July 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Installed and configured the Oracle 12.1.0.2 in multitenant environment, migrated the standalone databases into RAC and PDB's.  • Supported the weekly deployments with application teams for Non-prod and Prod environments.  • Implemented the TDE for more than 500 databases.  • Implemented Active - Active Replication for Zero down time maintenance and Migrations including CDR (Conflict Detection and Resolution)  • Configure DML / DDL replication based on customer requirement  • Monitor GoldenGate process via script and take necessary action if we find any lag, Oracle errors etc.. in replication  • Replicate the tables / schemas from source to target systems on daily basis  • OEM 13c agent upgrade from 12c agent  • Automation using OEM & Scheduling Tools  • Maintain high availability production instances in AWS cloud  • Monitor AWS RDS dashboard and take necessary action if we see any discrepancies  • DB migration from on premise DB servers to Exadata servers  • Maintain RDBMS databases into Exadata machines for high availability and scalability  • Work with CellCli and Dcli utilities to maintain storage devices  • Implement SOX controls in various critical production systems to maintain compliance stuff  • Experience on Tidal & Netbackup tools for regular backups  • Follow SDLC process for major changes to ensure 100% compliance  • Installed OEM Grid Control 12c and configured targets, agents for monitoring and alerts.  • Build RAC ADG (Active Data Guard) databases for 4 node RAC databases.  • Setup and configured Oracle 11g Physical Standby database to ensure high availability.  • Did switchover and switchback and troubleshooting archive log gap between primary and standby databases.  • applied rolling patches such as PSU and CPU on RAC after testing on DEV, QA and Staging.  • Installed and configured SQLBACKTRACK to implement backups for mission critical databases to TSM Tape Devices managed by domain policies such as data domain, oracle domain and archive domain etc.  • Efficient in Database performance monitoring, Diagnostics and Tuning, Backup and Recovery, managing users and security.  • Expertise in creating Oracle Tables, Table Partitions, Views, and Materialized Views.  • Configured Dataguard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data warehousing environment.  • Experienced in applying patches, CPU/PSU/One-Off and Interim patches using Opatch utility.  • Performed cloning, duplicate of databases from Tape Devices and disks to facilitate the quicker refresh timings, build test environments and restore for table data related issues using RMAN and Active Database Duplication method.  • Performed Daily, Weekly and Monthly Backups. Tested and implemented restore procedures for complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN  • Applying patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date and good knowledge in Oracle utilities including export/import, SQL*PLUS, data loading using SQL Loader.  • Involved in migrating databases from non-ASM to ASM.  • Continuously monitor the database performance using AWR/STATSPACK by comparing with a baseline during both peak and non-peak loads.  • Providing 24x7 on-call support for production databases.  • Exceptional communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work efficiently as a part of the team and individually. Possessing excellent developmental and analytical skills.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, Oracle 11gr2 RAC, Oracle Golden Gate (Active - Active Replication), Linux RHEL 6, 5.x, AIX 5.L RMAN, Dbvisit Standby, SQL*Plus, SQL, PL/SQL, Import/Export, ASM, AWR, OEM Grid Control 12c/10.2.0.5, TOAD, SQL Backtrack, Import/Export Data pump Oracle Database Administrator ADP January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Installation, configuration, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 11g and 10g on Red hat 5.0, IBM-AIX 5.3  • Taking backup of OCR & Votedisk files using Cluster utilities  • Migrate the Non-RAC database to RAC database  • Convert non-ASM database to ASM database  • Managing Redo Log files in Archive log Mode for Online Backup.  • Scheduled (logical) backups for important schemas for customer Request  • Refreshing tables using EXPDP and IMPDP  • Oracle database upgrade from 10g to 11g  • Generating AWR reports and Tkprofing the trace files when needed and uploading to customer  • Monitored Tablespaces & their growth and took proper actions  • Involved in Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g RAC using Cluster ware and ASM.  • Successfully Migrated Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support for Database developers & end-users while migrating the databases.  • Experienced in Design, implementation and generating documentation of Oracle 10g Data Guard on both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g RAC environment for the Production databases.  • Writing and modifying UNIX shell scripts, Perl scripts to manage Oracle environments and for Backend Oracle Processes.  • Implemented Golden gate Bi directional and configured Heart Beat and conflict resolutions (CRD) and Implemented Monitoring through Foglight.  • Installed Oracle Streams as an enhancement for the Client's DW method and monitored Streams Issues using Grid Control.  • Integrated Tivoli [TSM] into RMAN for backup/recovery operations.  • Developed SQL*PLUS & PL/SQL scripts for Extraction, Transporting & Transforming (ETL) data from Production databases to Data Warehouse Databases.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities)  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and automatic session history.  • Automated the nightly RMAN backups for the Production and Test Databases in Crontab.  • Creating and Scheduling Oracle Backend Process Jobs in Crontab.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN.  • Expertise in recovering the database. Performed complete recovery, data file recovery, incomplete recovery.  • Experienced in Database Security User Management, Privileges, Roles, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  • Implemented VERITAS Net Backup using RMAN (Recovery Manager) as a media management layer.    Environment: Solaris 10, AIX 5.2/5.3 and Red Hat Linux 5.0, Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g and 11g, TOAD 9.0, Oracle Enterprise Manager (GC), RMAN, RAC, Data Guard, ASM, TSM, SCP/SFTP, Shareplex, Erwin 4.0, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, Bugzilla, Visual Source Safe. Oracle Database Administrator IBM May 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed and implemented high availability solutions such as Data Guard and Real Application Clusters (RAC with 3 nodes) on Linux Platforms.  • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC) and performed Upgrades from 10g to 11g version.  • Formulated and monitor policies, procedures and standards relating to database management propose and implement enhancements in order to improve the performance and reliability of the system.  • Administering of databases including Development of Database Policies and Procedures, Security Administration, Documentation and Maintenance,  • Designing of databases including Physical Disk Layout and Sizing, Database layout and growth management, and Backup and Recovery Planning  • Implementation of databases including Installation and Configuration, Initialization and Data Loading, Backup configuration and scheduling, and Disaster Recovery Testing  • Daily Operations including Tuning, Error Monitoring, Space usage and monitoring, Performance Monitoring, Patching and Upgrading, identification and resolution of hardware, software and database problems/outages.  • Intensively used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune the requirements of the resources based on the ongoing performance.  • 24x7 coverage and response to systems alerts during after-hour periods. Specific database performance issues, error messages or service problems.  • Performed the applications/database's migrations and upgrades from AIX/Solaris to Redhat Linux platforms as a cost effective measure.  • Upgraded from oracle database 9i to 10g and installed new 11g  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, Toad, and Enterprise Manager  • Worked on Databases cloning from prod to development servers  • Performed Database tuning using Statspack-AWR and ADDM  • Performed SQL Tuning using explain plan, TKPROF with SQL trace and SQL Tuning Advisor.  • Installed Oracle Patch (O'Patch) as needed including upgraded SunGard banner versions for consistency.  Environment: Oracle 10g, Sql Navigator, SQL Plus, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, Data Guard, RAC, Solaris, ERWIN, IBM AIX 5.1 Education MS in Computer Science & Information Technology Sacred Heart University Skills LINUX (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), PL/SQL (4 years), RMAN (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Platforms Linux (Red Hart Enterprise Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux)  Programming Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, C, Java  RDMS Oracle 11g/10g  Tools Golden Gate, EXP/IMP, EXPDP/IMPDP (DATA PUMP), RMAN, SQL, Loader, SQL Developer, Toad, OEM, DBCA, DBUA  Tuning Tools TKPROF, Statspack, Sql Trace, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL, Tuning Advisors