Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Day to Day Import Fontana, CA To be able to utilize my science background and I.T skills in a fast-paced environment and contribute to its goals and objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Day to Day Import - Gardena, CA March 2018 to Present • Microsoft SQL Server Administration  • Oracle Database Administration (Single Instance /RAC).  • Oracle Data guard Implementation and Administration for Disaster Recovery.  • Oracle Database 12c setup on AWS EC2 instance.  • Oracle Database backup and restore using AWS S3 Bucket.  • Data Migration using Oracle Golden Gate studio to replicate data from Oracle Database Instances.  • SQL Query Tuning to improve response time to fetch data from the database.  • Microsoft SQL Server Clustering for High Availability.  • Microsoft Active Directory Administration to maintain user information and access to the application system.  • Window Server Administration.  • Linux Administration Oracle Database Administrator Hyundai HATA - Fountain Valley, CA December 2017 to February 2018 • Oracle RAC database Administration: using SRVCTL to manage the database and services and CRSCTL command for cluster services, backup using RMAN for full and differential and BI-weekly restore, oracle upgrade from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.1 using Optach and DBUA utility, oracle performance tuning using AWR and ADDM.  • MS SQL administration using idera, microsoft management studio and sql profiler.  • Oracle database migration using RMAN and export utility(expdp)  • Oracle Solaris Administration  • Window Server Administration (Active Directory, Clustering and DNS) Senior Oracle Database Administrator CRC Credit Bureau Limited - Lagos, NG November 2013 to December 2016 • Oracle database 12c installation and Administration using enterprise cloud and sql command prompt, recovery manager (RMAN) backup and recovery of database using NetBackup, performance tuning using AWR, SQL tuning advisor and ADDM.  • Oracle Dataguard Implementation and administration using Dataguard broker for disaster recovery across geographical site.  • MS SQL administration (Installation, clustering & database design).  • IBM V7000 storage administration using GUI to configure volumes and mapped to server using fiber cable.  • Window server 2008 Administration (Active Directory &DNS).  • Linux Administration.  • Develop standards and guidelines to guide to reduce contention on the database.  • Worked as a part of the project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitation. contract staff Computer Warehouse Group November 2012 to November 2013 RAC/ Database Administrator  • Installation and supporting of RAC Database  • Upgrading of Oracle Database  • Cloning of Oracle Database to a different server Education Masters in Data Analytics National University - San Diego, CA February 2018 B.sc in Physics University of Ibadan November 2009 Igbobi College - Lagos, NG Skills DATABASE (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), CLUSTERING (3 years), SQL (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hameed-ajala-65259732 Additional Information Skills  Window Server 2008 -2012 administration  Window Server Failover clustering administration  SQL Server High Availability (Clustering, Mirroring & Always on) Administration  Linux system administration  Microsoft active directory administration  Microsoft SQL server administration  Oracle Enterprise cloud installation and administration  Oracle Database Administration (Performance tuning, Dataguard & RAC)    PROJECTS HANDLED  CRC Credit Bureau Limited, 2014  • Oracle Dataguard setup for Disaster Recovery at an offsite Location  • Replicating production RAC database to an active standby single instance database.  • Dataguard Administration using Dataguard Broker.  • REDHAT Linux server Administration.  First Pension Custodian Limited, 2013  • Installed Oracle 9i using AIX operating system.  • Cloned Oracle database from production to test server  • Configured RMAN for both production and Test server.