Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (DBA) Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Gaithersburg, MD Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) TEVA Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd - Rockville, MD December 2011 to November 2013 11g Database Design, Implementation and Administration  - Database migration specialist. Completed production migration between 10g and 10g, 10g and 11g, other vendor databases (Sybase, MSSQL, MySQL to Oracle)  - ETL programming with 11g Data-pump and SQL LOADER.  - Create new databases, involving importing and exporting: installing and configure database software for Oracle Application development environment.  - Maintained full responsibility for Oracle 11g logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance.  - Established, designed, tested and implemented backup and recovery solutions including automated daily hot/cold backups depending on criticality of the Database - (RMAN, EXP/IMP PUMP and shell scripts) and database migration.  - Maintaining email security using Cold Fusion  - Working with forms and form validation in Cold Fusion  - Using conditional formatting and looping to create programs for business decisions in Cold Fusion  - Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.  - Maintained full responsibility of performance tuning activities for Oracle database improvement. Tuned database through initialization parameter, SQL statement, and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  - Provided a 24/7 availability and coverage of technical assistance through the use of emails, cell phones, and PDA's for mission critical Databases. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) DMI - Bethesda, MD March 2010 to September 2011 Member of a multidisciplinary consulting company available for short and long term projects.  - 11g Database Design, Implementation and Administration  - Database migration specialist. Completed production migration between 10g and 10g, 10g and 11g, other vendor databases (Sybase, MSSQL, MySQL to Oracle)  - ETL programming with 11g Data-pump and SQL LOADER.  - Oracle RAC Administration  - Create new databases, involving importing and exporting: installing and configure database software for Oracle Application development environment.  - Maintained full responsibility for Oracle 11g logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance.  - Maintained full responsibility of reorganizing and sizing database objects to meet standards and improve performance.  - Maintained full responsibility of handling database server tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, capacity planning and database security.  - Provided a 24/7 availability and coverage of technical assistance through the use of emails, cell phones, and PDA's for mission critical Databases. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) BLUETECH - San Diego, CA February 2009 to December 2009 Collaborated with the system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  • Maintained full responsibility for overall strategic planning and redesigned of databases.  • Maintained an excellent relationship with application developers, and worked with them to address and clarify database requirements.  • Maintained full responsibility of resolving technical and functional issues of the database by enforcing corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management, thus reducing database down time to less than 1%  • Installed, created and configured Oracle 10g and 11g Oracle Databases (Windows and UNIX) platforms using Oracle Database Configuration Assistant or manually by using Oracle Database Dictionary, tablespaces.  • Maintained full responsibility of capacity planning of tablespaces, tables, indexes, and databases, to allow for growth potential.  • Established, designed, tested and implemented backup and recovery solutions including automated daily hot/cold backups depending on criticality of the Database - (RMAN, EXP/IMP PUMP and shell scripts) and database migration.  • Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test, training and production environments.  • Maintained full responsibility of performance tuning activities for Oracle database improvement. Tuned database through initialization parameter, SQL statement, and memory by performing routine checks of the SGA, CPU, logical and physical I/Os and contention.  • Security implementation through basic and advance security techniques like applying recent patches and upgrades, appropriate user grants, permissions and profile management.  • Restructured, tuned tracked, proactively monitored database load, fragmentation, contention, and overall performance for optimal performance of the existing database.  • Maintained full responsibility of monitoring database growth, created objects, administered users and tuned expensive SQL statements using EXPLAIN PLAN and SQL TUNING ADVISOR.    DBMS  Oracle 11g/10g/9i/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS/OPERATING SYSTEMS    - Oracle Database 10g/11g - Linux, UNIX and variants  - Cute FTP TOAD - TCP/IP transport stack  - Microsoft Project SQL - Backup Packages - UNIX System Sun Solaris  - Net8 and Sql*Net Configuration - Internet Explorer  - Microsoft Access - Microsoft Excel - Microsoft PowerPoint  - Microsoft Project - Microsoft Word - Netscape Navigator  - WordPerfect - Oracle Microsoft Project SQL  - Repository Administration Utility  - Windows 95 - Windows 7 - Windows 8  - Windows NT and XP environments - Adobe Acrobat  - Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Java, C++, Visual Basic, PHP & MySQL, Cold Fusion