Junior Oracle Database Administrator Junior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Oracle Database Administrator Paterson, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Oracle Database Administrator Amazon.Com, Inc September 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g database on Linux.  • Using Data Definition Language (DDL) statements to create and modify database objects in the database.  • Using Manipulation Language (DML) statements: Select, Insert, Update, merge into and these SQL quires are combined with; joins, Outer joins, left joins, Right joins, Cross joins, Inner joins.  • Writing complex SQL queries for Extract Transform and Load (ETL) tester.  • Assists application groups with design development that meet current and future business requirements.  • Monitoring, Identifying areas that need to be improved in the database using AWR, ADDM.  • Good at managing and monitoring grants, roles, privileges to users, analyze tables to generate and gathers stats including verify daily backup's logs and alert logs.  • Regular DBA activities like space management, database issues, locking, creating database links, managing user groups, tuning, monitoring the table space and disk usage on the servers.  • Creating Indexes and monitoring performance.  • Performed Backup/Recovery using RMAN.  • In-depth knowledge of Oracle internals and architecture.  • Performs routines reviews of database and System to ensure acceptable levels of performance.  • Documented all Oracle database installations and database operations.    Environment: Oracle 11g, OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, ASM, SQL*Loader, Linux, Windows, SQL, PL/SQL. Oracle Database Administrator United Parcel Service (UPS) June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Create users and privileges with appropriate roles and levels of security, Renaming and relocating log files.  • Worked in data architecture design, Review processes, including planning and monitoring efforts, Reviewing deliverables and communication with management.  • Adding and resizing data files, Redo log files as per requirement.  • Creating database and users, Database space monitoring.  • Creation of Tables, Views, Indexes as per requirement.  • Creating and managing privileges and roles to ensure the application/ Database security.  • Creation users and their profiles.  • Taking Backup of database using logical (Export and Import) and physical (Online and offline) backup using Oracle RMAN.  • Monitoring various database activities like numbers of users, memory usage, hit ratios, alert log files, trace files, archive log files.  • Creation of online and offline backup scripts.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for database performance monitoring, job scheduling, Optimizer statistic etc.  • Using Data Definition Language (DDL) statements to create and modify database objects in the database.  • Extensive Experience in developing database objects using SQL and PL/SQL.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Oracle Enterprise Linux, Windows, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL*Loader, RMAN and PL/SQL. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Melfast Inc January 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performing Installation, Configuration and Administration of Oracle Database 11g environment.  • Configured Administered and Monitored a streams environment using tools like OEM console and apply change on database.  • Exporting and importing data into database using Oracle utilities such as exp/imp and data pump.  • Created and managed table spaces, Monitored the data files space, Resizing and adding new data files.  • Installed and implemented Backup and Recovery procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold and logical Backups plan.  • Installed and Configured Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for backups.  • Managed Oracle Net Configuration-listeners services.  • Based on the thresholds configured, Notifications and Alarms are generated, Actions are executed and gathering performance data for planning, Analysis and Reporting.  • Taking backups on scheduled time and monitoring scheduled Backups.  • Monitoring table spaces usages.  • Management of users, Roles and Privileges.  • Good knowledge of Oracle data dictionary and PL/SQL.  • Monitoring the CPU usage, IO statistics and CPU time to identify any OS level performance killers.    Environment: Oracle 11g, OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, ASM, SQL*Loader, Linux, Windows, SQL, PL/SQL. Education Master's Skills AWS Solution Architect (1 year) Additional Information • Experience in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle 11g Database.  • Oracle Database Administration in a variety of environments like as Oracle Enterprise Linux and Windows.  • Experience in system monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using AWR, ADDM and V$ Views.  • Experience in Backup, Recovery and Restore of the Oracle database using Oracle RMAN utility.  • Experience in Space management, Rollback segments, Undo segments and Capacity planning.  • Used Parameters to Configure, Install and manage instance in Oracle Database 11g.  • Experience in Database Creation, Partitions, Setting up parameters, Table spaces, Index, User Setup, Roles, Security, Storage, Resolving ORA-Errors and network management.  • Monitoring database System and optimal performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Experience in SQL query using Oracle SQLPLUS Utility.  • Experience in Database Auditing, User role and Privileges.  • A professional characterized throughout employment as team player and individual committed to delivering solutions and possessing the ability to apply new IT technologies that translate business needs into a practical reality.  • Effectively Communicates with all levels of technical and non-technical personnel.  • Personal commitment to stay current with latest technology.  • Intermediate knowledge of AWS.