Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Davie, FL Seeking a full time professional position as a Systems Engineer where I can offer my experiences  through commitment, leadership skills, and acquired knowledge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator BBVA Colombia May 2014 to May 2015 Worked as Database Administrator in Oracle 10g, 11g, SqlServer 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012-2014 y IBM DB2.    • Monitored and optimized the performance of the databases.  • Tested queries in production and development environments.  • Planed for backup and recovery of database information.  • Performed tuning and designed/delivery of their data migration projects.  • Maintained archived data. Database Administrator Autogermana BMW Colombia December 2013 to May 2014 Worked as database administrator on SqlServer.    • Monitored and improved the performance of the database.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained data structures and stored procedures  • Tuned queries in production, test, and development environments.  • Administration and management of operating system Windows and networks.  • Supported final user. It Support Analyst San Martin University Fundation February 2011 to December 2013 • Installed and configurated computer systems.  • Administrated and managed the operating system Windows and networks.  • Diagnosed and solved hardware/software faults.  • Guided students with IT problems. Junior Database Administrator Intern BBVA Colombia July 2012 to January 2013 Learned how to administrate database in Oracle, SQLServer and IBM DB2.    • Troubleshoot in development environments.  • Scheduled backups and maintained plans.  • Installed and updated database systems.  • Assigned user privileges within the database environment. Education Bachelor of Science in Systems Engineer San Martin University Fundation - Bogotá, Cundinamarca October 2014 Skills Sql Server (3 years), Technical Support (5 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Windows (8 years), Linux (2 years), Windows Server (3 years), Oracle (3 years), Db2 (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jkmilonf