Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Fonda Consulting LLC Houston, TX An accomplished database administrator (DBA) with 3 years of extensive experience in testing, and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle Enterprise and SQL Server environments. Exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities; proven leader with a highly motivational style, a solid reputation for building and highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions; results-oriented self-starter with an excellent track record for identifying opportunities for accelerated growth; dedicated team player who listens, thrives on collaborating with diversely talented team members, and integrates their divergent thoughts, opinions, and perspectives into meaningful action; energetic, competitive achiever who can manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment, global thinking who is degreed in management and adapt at training, developing, human resources, and coaching team members and clientele. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Fonda Consulting LLC - Houston, TX June 2017 to Present Installed upgraded and maintained production, Oracle 10g and 11g databases in a 24x7 environment.  ? Designed built and performed periodic refreshes of test, development, reporting, and load testing databases.  ? Designed, built and supported a Blackboard production system employing Oracle 11g Data guard on Red hat Linux.  ? Monitored database security and backup strategies. Supported developers in all phases of program development and performance tuning.  ? Installed and performed database administration for several Oracle databases running on Unix and Red hat Linux systems. Oracle Database Administrator Fonda Consulting LLC - Houston, TX December 2016 to July 2017 Provided Oracle DBA support for multiple databases in production, development and test environments for various OLTP databases. Part of a three-member DBA team managing databases. This included 5 production databases and 3test databases with sizes of databases varying from 100 GB to 1 TB.    Responsibilities:  ? Maintained all existing databases and new installations at current and stable production levels.  ? Configured, installing and administrating oracle database systems  ? Interact with My Oracle Support regularly regarding open Service Requests  ? Tuning of SQL queries to troubleshoot and resolve database or application problems encountered by end users.  ? Monitor database health or generate alert log, AWR or ADDR to perform tune up and resolve database performance problem.  ? Proficiency in Disk management and problem resolving techniques with a good understanding of Capacity.  ? Performance tuning of the Oracle databases and SQL queries by analyzing the EXPLAIN PLAN to improve the performance of the database and application end users.  ? Analyzed database performance and tuned database with Oracle and SQL Explain Plans.  ? Plan and install change control, verification of system resources, backup and recovery, disaster planning, performance tuning and troubleshooting  ? Partitioning Table to increase performance and using Advanced Compression.  ? Evaluated database performance for investigation of issues and further resolution for efficiency.  ? Involved in performance tuning and database reorganizations.  ? Upgrades from Oracle 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.4 to 12c. Junior Oracle Database Administrator (Contractual) Fonda Consulting LLC - Greenbelt, MD January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Handling day-to-day activities and resolving tickets using remedy tool.  • Database administration of the Oracle database System.  • Performing Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Performing all the Database Administration activity like space management in database, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases  • Involved in the process of tuning and refining queries of various applications.  • Involved in the process of exploring new areas of Oracle and its products.  • Daily database backup, table space administration, SQL and basic database tuning as part of maintenance activities.  • Maintenance of existing system and provided advanced level support.  • Involved in System study, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Developed back-end Stored Procedures, triggers, functions.  • Worked on import/export and SQL*loader.  • Proficient in OEM tool.  • Have knowledge of RAC, ASM, DATAGAURD. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASES (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), SQL (2 years), RMAN (1 year) Additional Information ? Skilled in designing and implementing complete life cycle client servers and database applications with various development tools and languages.  ? I have a good working experience with security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity; patching, database cloning, dataguard configuration.  ? Experienced in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.  ? Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Plus, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Recovery Manager, and Oracle Secure Backup.  ? User management, creation, monitoring and administration of database users; altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  ? Monitoring & Reorganization of Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  ? Operating Systems - Linux, RHEL 5.4/6, Windows 2003 Server/XP  ? Database Management - OEM 9.2/10G (10.1/10.2), Grid Control (RAC), RAT  ? Databases - Oracle 11g, 10g, SQL Server 2005, 2008  ? Tuning/Monitoring - RAC 11gR1,/R2, RAC 10gR2, Data-Guard 10g/11g, DB Cloning, Standby Databases, RMAN 10g/11g, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK  ? Tools/Utilities - RMAN, OEM Oracle Management Server, SQL *Loader, SQL *Plus, SQL Server, Export/Import, Data Pump, Query Builder, Oracle Streams (which was phased out in my previous environment but i am still open to working with it), PuTTY ; amonst others.