SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - Oralab Incorporated Atlanta Lithonia, GA (5years of combined IT experience)  My main experiences over the last 4 years are in the following areas:  • Data Migration • Database Replication  • Database Performance tuning  • Backup and Recovery  • High Availability Solutions  • Disaster Recovering    TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Experience with SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2 on Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2008r2, ORACLE RDBMS 10g, 11g  • Experience in database Migration and database instance consolidation.  • INSTALLATION SKILLS: MSSQL 2005/2008R2,ORACLE 10g, 11g, 10 WINDOWS ME, NT, 2000, XP, RED HAT LINUX(ENTERPRISE EDITION)  • LANGUAGES: T-SQL, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, LINUX    TOOLS  SQL Server Enterprise Manager, Red gate SQL Backup, SQL Profiler, Net8/Net Manager, Winscp, Data pump, SQL*Loader, SQL*Plus, RMAN, SCP, SSH, GNU, TOAD, MobaXterm, Secure CRT, Putty,    PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS  Microsoft Certified Technology Specialists (MCTS) - SQL Server 2008 Implementation & Maintenance  Oracle Certified Associate (Oracle 11g OCA, Database Administrator). Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Oralab Incorporated Atlanta May 2010 to Present Configured Mirroring(High Safety, High Availability & High performance) in Dev. Environments  • Installed SQL Server Failover clustering to meet customer needs for Development environment, applied patches on different nodes and administered each node.  • Experience working with Transactional Replications.  • Closed any outstanding change tickets.  • Performed Database refresh from production to Test Servers/Disaster Recovery.  • Responsible for backup & recovery policies & perform necessary database backups.  I. Running Backups in different recovery models  II. Restoring backups including PITR    • In charge of weekly database health checks reporting, Performance monitoring & responding to client performance bottlenecks  • Scheduling Maintenance Plans, Alerts, Notifications and creating Operators  • Specialize in the design and implementation of different types of replication models like: Snapshot and Transactional Database Server performance monitoring and tracking.  • Installed, configured, and administered Microsoft SQL Servers and Oracle database  • Created and maintained clear documentation regarding all components of database administration.  • Worked as a team member with other DBA's to ensure 24x7 day a week support of all corporate databases.  • Proficient in Data Conversions, Scrubbing and ETL using SSIS packages.  • Experience in Setup and Administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, Database Privileges, Permissions and Roles, Active Directory, Kerberos SQL Server Database Administrator Pacific Systems Inc September 2008 to February 2010 Maintained and monitored database backup and restore process.  • Used different replication methodologies to select and configure the settings while maintaining the stability of data stream.  • Monitored and maintained database performance and identified/recommended areas that can be improved.  • Effected database performance tuning, analysis and optimization.  • Established and enforced all database standards.  • Analyzed all informational requirements of new or production systems and develops database specifications.  • Reviewed the designed and deployment of data objects from development/staging to production.  • Building database schemas, tables, procedures and managing permissions, Implementing policy based management, Installing and deploying databases  • Monitoring, Automating tasks, Setting up high availability (log shipping, database mirroring etc.), Executing change control Junior Oracle Database Administrator K&D Auto-parts Inc July 2006 to August 2007 Duties Include:  .  • Responded to system alerts and provide problem details to the Senior DBA  • Define the monitoring schedule and create automated jobs for common monitoring tasks  • Created Database Maintenance and Automated Alerts  • ASM Installation and Administration  • Administered database login accounts, groups and roles. Managed permissions of applications within SQL Server  • Performed other duties as assigned by the DBA Manager to deadline.  • Successfully engaged in various DR (Disaster Recovery) efforts for customers.  • Performed Data Loads, data export / imports using tools like SQL*Loader templates. Constantly monitored Trace and Alert files for database status and error logging and took the necessary steps to fix any errors logged  • Configured various logical database structures such as table spaces to store application objects and rollback segments for transaction processing  • Performed necessary database backups according to the strategy in place.  • Moved, transformed, and loaded heterogeneous and homogeneous data into SQL Server databases, as well as export SQL Server data to text file and other database systems  • Database cloning and migration    References are available on request. Education BSc in Engineering o Edo State University Skills SQL Server 2005/2008R2 Administrator, Oracle 10,11g