Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Version Wireless Edison, NJ • 3 years of experience in Database Administration for very large and complex databases in SQL Server in Production, Test, and Development Environments.  • Experience on database design including determining data to be stored, identifying relationship between Entities, design of ER diagram and normalization.  • Knowledge of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Expert on installation, configuration, and upgrading of SQL Server.  • Hands on with T-SQL in constructing triggers, store procedure, user defined functions, indexes and views.  • Experience in MS SQL Server security by enforcing security policy, creating user logins with appropriate roles, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups, moving security between Servers.  • Expert in designing Backup and Restore Strategy that meets RTO and RPO Requirements.  • Experience in managing Alerts, Operators and Jobs through SQL Server Agent  • Proficient in creating maintenance plans for regular database backup and other mission critical activities.  • Experience in monitoring, troubleshooting and resolving SQL Server problems such as database integrity issues, performance issues, Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, and deadlocks), replication issues, log shipping issues, connectivity issues, SQL Server service startup problems, SQL agent job execution problems and security issues.  • Proven experience with Performance Tuning and Optimization using SQL Server native tools and Third party tools like SSMS, System Procs, DMVs, DMFs, MS SQL Profiler, DTA, Activity Monitor, Performance Monitor, DBCC Commands.  • Experience in creating, maintain, and updating of indexes to keep up SQL server performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Version Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Fixed bugs in SQL processes that loads data into the data warehouse.  • Created complex queries to build views for salesforce application that in turn offered a dashboard format for asset Management.  • Reviewed data warehouse jobs and processes to fix missing data.  • Created jobs, stored procedures, views to fix long load times and bugs.  • Engineered process to obtain DB backup from cloud provider, restore it and load translogs to give a near real time DB on servers.  • Created and Maintained replication process from one server to another server.  • Moved entire DB process from one server to another server as business demands requested.  • Documented all jobs, views, store procedures, tasks and replication process.  • Created SSIS packages to restore full backup up every morning and to restore log files for every 30 minutes.  • Created stored procedures to extract data from various files like .xls, .lro, .csv and then insert into tables.  • Worked on many different files source files like Level1, LTS, LRO, Salesforce files.  • Created maintenance plan to update statistics, triggers, and schemas and to take a full backup, differential backup and then scheduled them to run at particular time.  • Performed Performance Tuning in SSIS packages by using Block, Unblock and Row Transformations.  • Managed Package Configurations, Event Handling, User-defined Variables and Logging System on SSIS Packages.  • Implemented and Designed Replication solutions for SQL Server 2012 r2/2014 using Enterprise Manager. SQL Server Database Administrator Sherwin Williams - Columbus, OH January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installing, configuring, administering and securing development, test, and production servers.  • Create and optimize database objects, e.g. Tables, Views, indexes, cursors, stored procedures, functions, CLR code and Triggers.  • Implement data models, database designs, data access and table maintenance codes.  • Administer, maintain, develop and implement policies and procedures for ensuring security and integrity.  • Enrolling and mapping users following company policies and procedures.  • Created roles and grant permissions to users upon proper approval from business.  • Scheduling and automating full/differential/ transactional backups and implementing recovery strategies.  • Configured and monitored database replication as high availability and disaster recovery strategy.  • Supported disaster recovery project planning, testing and implementation.  • Setup and managed Transactional Replication databases and make sure the latency is current.  • Upgrading the SQL Server Databases, Monitoring and Performances tuning.  • Performed migration of databases from SQL 2008/2012 to SQL 2014 after careful analysis of Upgrade Advisor reports.  • Developed reports using SSRS, Crystal Reports with T-SQL, MS Excel and Access.  • Developed automated procedures to produce client data files on schedule using Microsoft Integration Services (SSIS).  • Supported change projects where database objects are designed, reviewed and created as per change requirement and ER Diagrams produced using Erwin tool.  • Proactively checked the SQL Error log and take appropriate action to avoid downtime.  • Assisting development teams with data cleansing, migration and loading in addition to assisting and supporting development teams with reviewing, building, testing and maintaining database structures and SQL scripts.  • Managed space on database servers by proactively forecasting the DB growth.  • Imported/Exported data as per user request using import export wizard and BCP. SQL Database Administrator eCentric Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2014 • Installed SQL server 2012 on windows advanced servers, applied security fixes.  • Involved in Migrating SQL Server 2008 Servers to SQL server 2012.  • Involved in implementing Database recovery models, backup strategies, restore jobs  • Gained knowledge about Database Mirroring, Log Shipping on SQL Server.  • Developing SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks.  • Creating jobs/maintenance plans for Database.  • Expertise in Security Issues such as creation and granting permissions on various Objects.  • Ensuring compliance with company security procedures  • Worked on tickets related to Data Change.  • Involved in Database design, Database standards, and T-SQL code reviews.  • Moved/Copied of Databases from one server to another server using Backup-restore, Attach and detach methods and refreshing Databases in development, QA and stage environments using production backup.  • Experience In creating Databases and objects.  • Experience in creating changes to Database Objects such as stored Procedures, views, triggers, function, table, indexes. Skills MS SQL SERVER (3 years), SQL (3 years), SQL SERVER (3 years), ACCESS (1 year), EXCEL (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:  RDBMS MS SQL [2012, 2014, 2016], MS Access [2010, 2013, 2016].  Programming Languages C++, C#  Web Technologies VB.Net, CSS.  Monitoring Tools SQL Server Profiler and Performance Monitoring  Data Migration SSIS, Import/Export Wizard.  Software MS Office, Adobe Photoshop, MS Excel.  Operating System Windows Server, Windows 10, 8.1, 7, XP Professional