Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - U.S Navy Virginia Beach, VA Technically proficient professional with demonstrated excellence as a Systems Administrator. Strong background with system networks, host based security systems, IAVA's, and Zero Day Exploits. Excels at network troubleshooting, system security, technical support, and server management. Maintained a database of over 50,000 records. Worked closely with business and IT teams. A Team player who is able to relate to people at any level; quickly grasping and adapting to new environments. Secret Security Clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator U.S Navy 2014 to Present Created policies, standards, and procedures, and implemented and configured command system infrastructure of NALCOMIS (Maintenance Management System). Worked closely with Space and Naval Space Warfare Command (SPAWAR) for implementation of new technology with VMWare 11; migrated to virtual environment. Responsible for configuring BIOS and RAID volumes on multiple servers (HP G3, G5, G6, Lenovo W540, and Panasonic CF-54) in addition to OS installations and configuration of application software on a network of over 200 workstations.  ? Established Domain Naming System (DNS) and Hosts file configuration for Secure Socket Layer (SSL) communications network-wide.  ? Improved security and prevented unauthorized network access by using SecureDoc encryption software.  ? Responsible for installation of HBSS (ashore and sea), and ACAS scans. Implementing IAVA's and patches as required in accordance with DoD Regulations.  ? Zero Day Exploit experience, to include Wannacry, reconfiguring Directory Services, and running scans to report compliance up line.  ? Configured and updated DOD CA-2 to CA-3 Certificates across the network.  ? Strong Network configuration background, migrating from network to standalone environments and configurations with the use of Hubs/Switches/Routers. Database Administrator U.S Navy 2013 to Present Responsible for data analysis and trend interpretation in order to develop statistical process control methods in compliance with aviation information and readiness reporting requirements. Utilized AV3M Maintenance Reporting Summaries to report information to Type Wing Commanders.  ? Oversight for 200+ staff members for accessibility/permissions on Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS). Efforts resulted in improvement of work order initiation, processing, and NAMP compliance.  ? Collaborated with Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) for management of Automated Logistics Environment (ALE), updating system versions, installing software patches, point releases, and transmitting feedback to NAVAIR.  ? Accountable for daily updates, to include operations, accounting for supply documents and assets, and migration from ashore to carrier-deployed Aircraft reporting environment.  ? Complied monthly analytical summaries for review at the Senior leadership level, for corrosion, parts usage, manpower, and cannibalizations monitoring. Logs & Records Supervisor U.S Navy 2013 to Present Responsible for tracking and analyzing 50,000+ components (multiple platforms) - achieved grade of 6% above Commander Naval Air Forces (CNAF) average. Effectively manage 280+ pieces of support equipment electronic and paper records. Won Achievement Medal for achieving zero discrepancies in programs managed during CNAF Inspection. Successfully trained over thirteen employees - Logs and Records, Aircraft Accounting, correspondence, and Technical Directive compliance.  ? Improved overall efficiency, productivity and lowered number of late reports and lost historical data by revamping Aircraft Inventory Readiness and Reporting program from paper to fully electronic reporting.  ? Oversaw the initial buildup of 9 Aircraft, to include over 500 components per aircraft, in the CMS Database, including Historical Entries, Component Life Cycles, Records of Rework, and Inspection baselines.  ? Responsible for leading Work Center in maintenance driven tasking, and scheduling of recurring and unscheduled maintenance inspections in CMMS database.  ? Drafted, reviewed, and submitted correspondence for Fleet dissemination.  ? Reviewed over 500+ Technical Directives, verifying fleet aircraft applicability monthly, leading to zero overflown inspections and configuration updates.  ? Familiar with Quality Assurance processes of auditing and correction of maintenance malpractices and promulgating resolutions to prevent defect reoccurrences. Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Computerized Maintenance Management (5 years), Customer Service Skills (6 years), Data Analysis (5 years), Database Administration (4 years), Database Management (5 years), System Administration (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jared-snyder-094080151/ Military Service Branch: U.S Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 August 2012 to Present Aviation Maintenance Administrationmen familiar with CMMS operation and management, along with server administration and network security. Commendations: Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (2)  Navy Unit Commendation Medal  Good Conduct Medal Certifications/Licenses United States Military Apprenticeship Computer Operator