Administrator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator - Lowe's Hickory, NC Work Experience Administrator Lowe's - Mooresville, NC 2014 to Present Engineering - Oracle/SQL Server  • Ensure performance of database for application users  • Assists calls from vendors; responds as appropriate and/or escalate to appropriate hierarchy.  • Analyzed and troubleshoot OEM grid agents on both Production and Development environment.  • Troubleshoot CommVault backup on both Production and Development environment.  • Analyzes, responds, and troubleshoot Oracle/SQL databases via Incidents ticket. Database Administrator Lowe's - Maiden, NC 2014 to Present September 2014  Operations Support Tech  • Monitor and support Unix, Linux, OSX, network monitoring, disk management and trouble tickets  • Analyzed and resolves hardware/software issues such as job aborts, network and operational  discrepancies.  • Assists in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting TSM backup and restore.  • Analyzes, responds, and manages facility environmental alert tickets.  • Assists calls from vendors; responds as appropriate and/or escalate to proper team. Technical Support Lowe's - Mooresville, NC 2013 to July 2013 March 2014  IT Support desk - Hardware  • Served as Tier 2 support for hardware and software troubleshooting for stores  • Use Linux to shell into the switches to check and correct configuration problems  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware/Mobility issues  • Use Linux scripts troubleshooting, and use of error logs to better resolve system issues  • Use Genesis (Unix) application support in Order Management, POS, and other issues  • Command daily scripts in Unix environment to help troubleshoot user's issue since support was via Phone. member Lowe's - Wilkesboro, NC 2012 to July 2012 of multiple teams supporting all aspects of IT for Lowe's  • Assist stores with issues in Genesis (Unix) application in OMGR, sales/returns, and other issues  • Handle Customer Facing issues in a timely and efficient manner  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues.  • Stay current with system information, changes and updates  • Track and route problems and requests and document resolutions in trouble ticket.    Sport4 Automotive, Boone, N.C. January 2012 - June 2013  Web design and Network Support  • Setup and maintained of backup systems and schedules.  • Updated and Maintained website (Sport4automotive.com).  • Setup of new computers, software, email accounts.  • Assisted with IT-related issues (hardware, operating system, software).  • Trained staff on technology where necessary. Education business State - Hickory, NC 2009 to August 2009 Skills UNIX (1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Computer Skills: Microsoft Office, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Indesign, FinalCut Pro X, Imovie, Remedy,  MySql, Remedy, Espresso, Web design, Webex, Visual Studio-2012, Window XP, Window Vista, Window  7, Mac OS X, Unix Apple iOS (iPad &iPhone), Remote Desktop and the Internet    Computer Languages: C++, Java, C#, Python, Apple Script, PHP, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Basic, power shell  and HTML