Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Fiat Chrysler Automotive Auburn Hills, MI A Certified Oracle Database Administrator with a track record of implementing database services geared at optimizing RDBMS functionality and productivity across heterogeneous environments. With over 6 plus years' experience in improving and optimizing the performances of Oracle 10g,11g and 12c databases. Successfully demonstrated high skills in accomplishing various oracle environment expectations; database installations and upgrades, troubleshooting, advance backup and recovery operations, performance tuning, enforcing database security procedures, and performing other related database services. Heavy hand-on experience in  • Overall 6+ years of experience as a Oracle Database Administrator providing 24/7 support for both production and development Oracle databases on various platforms. Currently seeking a position to work as Oracle Database Administrator.  • Experience in Installation, Setup and configuration of Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g databases on Linux, HP-Unix, SunOS, AIX and Windows Servers.  • Good experience in Real Application Cluster (RAC) and have successfully completed projects on Oracle RAC and Single Instance databases.  • Implemented DATA GUARD for high availability/disaster recovery.  • Worked on Golden Gate issues (Uni-directional & Bi-directional).  • Database administration on Oracle databases version (10g, 11g, and 12c) as well as Oracle Virtual Machine(OVM)  • Establishing and maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures.  • Database and application proactive level tuning and monitoring and Performance tuning using OEM/Grid Control/Manually.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle 12C, 11g, 10g, Standby Databases for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Troubleshooting and resolving oracle environment issues and providing timely interventions: slow running queries.  • Extensive and advance knowledge on RMAN backup and recovery operations.  • Performing frequent refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN, and DATAPUMP EXPDP and IMPDP utilities.  • Some exposure to migration from 10g to 11gR2, 11gR2 to 12 and from non RAC to RAC environment.  • Applying CPU/PSU patches using the OPatch utility.  • Installing and managing Automatic Storage Management environment (ASM) on single instances and on RAC environments.  • In building DR (disaster recovery): - standby databases (physical and logical) on UNIX, LINUX, and Window platforms for Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC and Active Dataguard Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Fiat Chrysler Automotive - Auburn Hills, MI December 2017 to Present Project Description: Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (FCA) is an international automotive group. The Company is engaged in designing, engineering, manufacturing, distributing and selling vehicles, components and production systems. To maintain the data the company uses more than 800 databases and over 400 servers on various platforms like Linux, SunOS, HP-Unix, AIX and Windows Servers with advanced technologies such as Oracle RAC, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Exadata and OEM etc..,.    Responsibilities:  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing  • Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump Upgraded Oracle RDBMS from 10g to 11g. Installed Oracle 12c for prototyping and testing  • Installed and configured Grid monitoring tool for Oracle 11g Database  • Installed Golden Gate software in test and dev instances and Configured Golden gate on production servers  • Clone databases from Production to lower environments  • Implementation of robust backup and recovery strategies  • Apply Oracle patches for various bugs and quarterly security patches to both primary and standby database  • Planned and Implemented Disaster Recovery (DR) and High Availability using RAC, and Data Guard  • Implemented different Partition methodologies to improve performance and manageability  • Create blackouts and templates in OEM and migrated databases from Non ASM TO ASM  • Worked with Sys Admins for better and faster SAN purchases and proper allocations of LUNS to maximize throughput - Raid strategies.  • Worked on optimizing various SQL queries by creating index, reverse-key index, gathering table stats in fixed intervals, archiving old/unused data from larger tables and using hint, and changing DB parameters  • Developed scripts to create table with storage clause, view, materialized views, external table, index, sequence, synonyms and grant privileges  • Participated in requirements gathering meetings with customer while building out new database environments  • Worked with developer group to review, test and install Oracle recommended patches to fix Oracle  • Applications issues/bugs  • Provided 24x7on call support for the production and development databases  • Maintained documentation of all database environments Oracle Database Administrator Kaiser Permanente - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2015 to December 2016 Project Description: Kaiser Permanente provides healthcare to more than 11 million members and is one of the largest healthcare providers in the United States. The company uses Oracle Databases to keep Patients data, hospital records, financial records etc..,. There are more than 600 Production databases and over 250 Production servers on various platforms like Linux, SunOS, HP-Unix, AIX and Windows Servers with advanced features such as Oracle RAC, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Exadata and OEM etc..,.    Responsibilities:  • Provided 24*7 support for all production databases.  • Administering Oracle 12c,11g & 10g Single Instance / RAC Production environments on Linux, HP-Unix, SunOS, AIX and Windows servers.  • Installation, Upgrade and Configuration of Oracle RAC databases (10g and 11gR2).  • Worked on multiple RAC & Single Instance database issues.  • Created and managed ASM instance and ASM disk groups.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating database from NON-ASM to ASM  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups add/remove disks, mirroring and compatibility  • Administered, and monitored different environments using OEM console.  • Deployed OEM agents and configuring database entries and monitoring of the databases using OEM 12c.  • Create and manage OEM jobs, alerts and notifications  • Worked on Installation, setup and configuration of DataGuard.  • Building and maintaining Oracle Standby databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and Physical Standby Data Guard for disaster recovery.  • Experience in setting up DR solutions using RMAN scripts for Data Guard standby solution.  • Apply SCN-based Incremental backup to sync standby database after loss of Archivelogs on primary database.  • Audit database performance using ADDM reports, AWR snapshot and diagnostic SQL scripts. Identify and tune the. ad-hoc queries  • Performance Tuning and optimizing SQL Query using OEM, gathering stats, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, ASH and SQL Profiles.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Scheduled jobs in crontab including RMAN backup, memory maintenance and other security jobs.  • Handled Administration, Backup & Recovery using Recovery Manager (RMAN) tool.  • Created and Managed users, tablespaces, data files and archive log  • Export and import of database objects using Data pump.  • Worked on Uni-Direction and Bi-Direction Golden Gate setup.  • Worked on resolving different issues in Golden Gate.  • Worked on decommission of database and services which are no more required.  • Worked on Multitenant databases  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU)  • Working on tickets and resolve the issues with in SLA.  • Provided on call rotation and off hours support to production databases.  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, OEM 12c/11g, RAC, ASM, DataGuard, GoldenGate, AIX, HP-Unix, SunOS, Linux, Windows Server 2012/2008/2003, SQL, Putty, SQL Developer, TOAD. Oracle Database Administrator Cognizant Technology Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2013 to October 2015 Project Description: AstraZeneca is one of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies. Backed by a strong research base and extensive manufacturing of effective medicines that make a real difference for patients in important areas of healthcare. To keep this data they have more than 700 Oracle databases on Over 400 servers which includes UAT and Production database with advanced features such as Oracle RAC, DataGuard, Exadata and OEM etc..,.    Responsibilities:  • Provided first and second level database support for all the production and development databases.  • Installation of OEM 12c agents binaries on all Production and Development servers.  • Worked on upgrading OEM from 10g to 12c. By replacing Agent10g with Agent12c.  • Setting up OEM alerts for database issues.  • Monitored different databases and servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c.  • Administering Oracle 12c,11g & 10g Single Instance / RAC on Linux, HP-Unix, SunOS, AIX and Windows servers.  • Good experience with Oracle ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • Created Tablespaces, Users and database objects  • Responsible for database activities such as User management, space management, database security management.  • Created Users, assigned Privileges and Roles.  • Decommission the account of users which are no longer in use.  • Involved in checking and managing tablespace growth, monitoring the datafiles.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Performed incremental backups using RMAN with recovery catalog database.  • Scheduling daily, weekly Backup and Recovery procedures for production, non- production databases using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRONTAB using RMAN and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Exported data from old systems and import into new databases using DataPump utilities EXPDP and IMPDP  • Performing logical backups using DataPump (expdp and impdp).  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as RAC Services, tablespace sizes, Server disk space etc..,.  • Start/Stop of RAC/Single Instance databases for scheduled activities.  • Monitor alert logs for database errors.  • Created tickets, prioritized and escalated issues using Remedy and ServiceNow based on SLAs  • Decommission of database which is no longer in use.  • Involved in applying CPU and PSU patches for Oracle Server  Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, OEM 12c/11g, RAC, ASM, DataGuard, GoldenGate, AIX, HP-Unix, SunOS, Linux, Windows Server 2012/2008/2003, SQL, Putty, SQL Developer, TOAD Education GSS Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to October 2013 Skills DATABASE (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), SQL (3 years), AIX (3 years), LINUX (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Database Oracle Database 12c, 11g, 10g  Oracle Products Real Application Cluster(RAC), Data guard, Golden Gate, Automatic Storage Management(ASM), OEM  Operating System Linux, AIX, HP-Unix, SunOS and Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012,2016  Languages SQL  Tools OEM 12c, 11g, 10g, RMAN, Datapump, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, TOAD Service Now, Remedy, MS Office