SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator NTT Data Services September 2014 to July 2016 NTT Data Services is a global IT innovator delivering services and solutions to the clients around the world. The company provides consulting, managed services, projects, outsourcing and cloud-based solutions to mid-sized and large enterprises in major industries. Jr. SQL Server Database Administrator | Intern Dex Media April 2013 to July 2014 Dex Media is a leading provider of marketing solutions for local businesses. Through their Dex One and Super Media Marketing Consultants, they collaborate with local businesses across the nation to help them achieve success. Database Engine Tuning Advisor, and DMV's 2014 to 2014 Responsibilities:  • Experience in Installation, Upgrades, Configuration, and Administering SQL Server 2012/2014.  • Responsible for organization's servers, databases, and objects security.  • T-SQL Development skills including Designing Database, Stored Procedures, Indexes, Views, Joins, and Triggers.  • Helped developers by optimizing T-SQL query performance using SQL Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, and DMV's to keep up the high performance.  • Database Refreshing and performed Integrity checks using DBCC utilities.  • Created Maintenance plans, and scheduled database tasks using SSMS tool.  • Achieved minimal downtime during unplanned downtime by working late nights being with team.  • Helped organization in scheduling Backups and Restore in a timely manner making sure there was no data loss.  • Experience with Deployment, BCP and participated in Migration.  • Designed and implemented High Availability Techniques such as Database Replication (especially Transactional replication), Database Mirroring, and Log Shipping.  • Experience with Database Partitioning, Compression, Shrinking and Transparent Data Encryption(TDE).  • Experience with deploying SSIS packages and SSRS, created several reports using Visual Studio.  • Knowledge on MS Access tool designing databases, creating forms and reports.  • Knowledge on High Availability Technique AlwaysOn Availability Group and setting up domain server. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL December 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering BGS Institute of Technology June 2014 Skills .NET (1 year), Database (3 years), Database Engine (1 year), MICROSOFT ACCESS (1 year), SQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: SQL, MongoDB, HTML, CSS, Java.    Operating Systems: Windows server 2008/2012, Windows 7/10, Linux.  Tools and Applications: SSMS, SSIS, SSRS, PerfMon, Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SSDT, Microsoft Visual Studio, MS access, TFS, IDERA & BMC Remedy Ticketing Tool, Redgate, VMWare, Eclipse IDE.