Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Laurel, MD Expert in 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g 12c Database Administration  Expert in 10g and 11gR2 and 12c Real Application Cluster (RAC) on ASM  Expert in Oracle Database Design  Expert in Data Guard Administration  Expert in Data Warehousing  Expert in Grid Control Administration  Expert in Performance and SQL Tuning  Expert in RMAN Backup and Recovery  Expert in Disaster Recovery  Expert in PLSQL  Expert in Database Migration, Upgrade and Patch Application  Lead and Project Management  Oracle DBA Instructor Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator xfinity/ comcast - Arlington, VA November 2016 to Present • Design and implement new state of art RAC database on Oracle 11g and 12c  • Install, configured and Managed Oracle 11gR2, and 12c multiple 2 node RAC database.  • Manage several 2 nodes RAC database on Linux.  • Managed 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure i.e. ASM, CLUSTERWARE  • All RAC databases managed are on ASM storage.  • Managed RAC database on Production, Test and Development databases.  • 24/7 database support.  • Managed RAC database using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and Grid Control  • Application of CPU and PSU patch on RAC database in rolling manner.  • Configure and setup Oracle 11gR2 and 12c Data Guard.  • Managed Data Guard using Data Guard broker.  • Automation of Data Guard log monitoring process between the Primary and Standby.  • Creation and management of Oracle table partitions in a data warehouse environment.  • Design aProvide technical expertise and knowledge leadership in the design, implementation and maintenance of relational database management systemnd implemented Oracle backup strategy for multiple databases senior and lead oracle database Architect and adm Hanover, PA September 2016 to September 2016 • Oracle technical and database lead  • Design and implement new state of art RAC database on Oracle 10g and 11g  • Managed Oracle 10g 11 node RAC on Linux  • Install, Configured and Managed Oracle 11gR2, 9 node RAC database  • Manage several 2 nodes RAC database on Linux  • Add and removed nodes from 10g and 11g RAC cluster  • Managed 11gR2 Grid Infrastructure i.e. ASM, CLUSTERWARE  • Upgrade of oracle 10g 11 node cluster to 11gR2  • Upgrade of several 2 node RAC from 10g to 11gR2  • Migrated 16 Terabytes database from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Managed Terabytes of data in an Oracle Data Warehouse  • All RAC databases managed are on ASM storage.  • Managed RAC database on Production, Test and Development database.  • Managed RAC database using CRSCTL, SRVCTL and Grid Control  • Application of CPU critical patch on RAC database in rolling manner.  • Configure and setup Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard.  • Managed Data Guard using Data Guard broker.  • Troubleshoot and resolved log gap in Data Guard Configuration  • Design and implemented Oracle backup strategy for multiple databases  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Oracle Recovery Catalog to backup the databases  • Upgrade single instance databases from 10g to 11gR2.  • Performed various performance goal oriented database tuning.  • Use explain plan, AWR, ADDM various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  • Tuned various materialized views.  • Tuned various slow running query  • Performed instance tuning, memory tuning query tuning and complete database tuning.  • Resolved various complex issues with the database.  • Develop and enforce database related policies, standards, naming conventions, operating procedures and best practices. Develop a strategic plan for the database development that supports the organizations  operational requirements.  • Developed and managed PLSQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages used by the database instance.  • Documented Database structure, changes, problems, issues for future reference. Database Administrator Aeropostale Inc - New York, NY May 2013 to 2014 • Partnered with project management teams on development of scope and timelines.  • Oracle technical and database lead  • Design and implement new state of art RAC database on Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Design and implement new state of art RAC database architecture on Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Design and implement Oracle backup strategy for multiple databases  • Upgrade Oracle databases from various versions to new versions.  • Provide technical expertise and knowledge leadership in the design, implementation and maintenance of relational database management system  • Performed various performance goal oriented database tuning.  • Develop and enforce database related policies, standards, naming conventions, operating procedures and best practices. Develop a strategic plan for the database development that supports the organizations  operational requirements  • Documented Database structure, changes, problems, issues for future referenceDesign and implemented OraImplemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) and Oracle Recovery Catalog to backup the databasescle backup strategy for multiple databases  • Performed database restore and recovery of terabytes of data on a RAC database  • Use explain plan, AWR, ADDM various Oracle Advisors to tune the database  • Tuned various materialized viewsTuned various slow running query    August 2014 toSeptember 2016 Education Associate Skills Coding (Less than 1 year), Data conversion (Less than 1 year), Data extraction (Less than 1 year), Database (4 years), Linux (2 years), Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Database, MYSQL, DB2, Sql Server, Sql Dba Additional Information Skills  • Database analysis  • Database administration  • Analytical problem solving  • Coding data  • Data conversion and migration  • Microsoft SQL  • Information systems management  • Structured query language (SQL) expert  • UNIX/LINUX  • Analytics and problem resolution    • Data extraction  • Database servers  • Capacity and scalability planning  • Proficiency in TCP/IP protocols  • Optimizing and performance tuning  • GUI and tools  • Strategic planning and review  • Data generation tools  • Oral and written communications