Information Security Analyst / Database Admin Information Security Analyst / <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin Information Security Analyst / Database Admin - HP • Strong analytical, skills  • Good in documentation skills.  • Worked closely with other support teams including DBAs, Developers, System Admins, and Network admins to complete various assignments.  • Work with Oracle my support to resolve security incidents.  • Quick in learning new tasks  • Excellent communication skills, .  • Experience in monitoring and maintaining database security and Auditing. Work Experience Information Security Analyst / Database Admin HP - Raleigh, NC November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Provision and de-provison access to Oracle databases,  • Ensure compliance with existing IT security policies are met and develop new policies specific to Oracle and SQL Server Database  • Create, drop, alter, grant and revoke accounts, roles, privileges and security labels to users  • Provisioning and de-provisioning database access through Services Now Request and Incidents for users and services, using tools like Identity Manager and SQL Developer  • Working closely with customers and end users through emails, conference calls and Skype in identifying and resolving database access related issues.  • Actively working with DBA teams in developing Remediation policy and process to meet the company's security standard.  • Working with other teams on getting more processes into automation tool such as the termination process.  • Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  • Work with DBAs to identify and resolve complex database issues.  • Reports daily databases status on all the various environments in the SDLC.  • Actively working with other teams in centralizing and standardizing accounts across all database platforms Oracle Database Administrator CVS - Columbia, MD January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:    • Maintains contacts with QA auditors and prepares responses to audit reports.  • Receives and creates Service Now Tickets and Work requests to responsible support groups for database access related issues.  • Working in collaboration with other DBAs to identify and resolve complex database issues.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Implements and enforces security for all Databases.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC in 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance. And perform reviews on the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards are being adhered to.  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • SQL tuning and Application Performance monitoring.  • Responsible for tuning of long running query's by creating B-Tree and BITMAP indexes.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Oracle Grid Control Management Server Installation  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures for performance testing and future 10g production implementation  • Upgrade databases from Oracle 10g to 11g, Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Security patches for PCI compliances and also one-off patches for bug fixes Oracle Database Administrator IP Soft - NY October 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Implements and enforces security for all Databases.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC in 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Puts standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance. And perform reviews on the design and code frequently to ensure the site standards are being adhered to.  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Assists with impact analysis of any changes made to the database objects.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Done migration of non ASM database to ASM database.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • SQL tuning and Application Performance monitoring.  • Responsible for tuning of long running query's by creating B-Tree and BITMAP indexes.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Enforces and maintains database constraints to ensure integrity of the database.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Performance Tuning i.e., Tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  • Oracle Grid Control Management Server Installation  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures for performance testing and future 10g production implementation  • Upgrade databases from Oracle 10g to 11g, Oracle 11g to 12c.  • Security patches for PCI compliances and also one-off patches for bug fixes  • Implemented DATA GUARD (Standby) for disaster recovery (DR) purpose and also fail-over and switch-over processes.  • Verifying, troubleshooting and fixing data corruptions  • Clone databases for development and testing from production.  • Setting up Golden Gate replication  • Using RAT(Real Application Testing) to Capture production work load and replay in a test system and SPA(SQL performance Analyzer) - to identify performance divergence between workloads on source and target platforms.  • Worked as a member of production DBA team in perfect coordination with seniors and team members. Education Bachelors in Social Sciences in Social Sciences University of Buea Cameroon Skills MS SQL SERVER (1 year), Oracle (4 years), RMAN (3 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills    Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g, and 12c), SQL server (2008 and 2012), Teradata, DB2, Sybase and Shared Folder access.  Service Now, IGC SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, SQL Developer, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, Putty, OEM Grid, RMAN, Exp/Imp Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA,