Sr. Mongo Database Administrator Sr. Mongo <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Mongo Database Administrator - Pearson Denver, CO • 5 years of professional work experience in Mongo Database Administration, Oracle Database Administration, Database Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Relational Database Management systems for Business solutions  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms  • Over 2+ years of experience in MongoDB (versions 2.x, 3.0.0, 3.0.5 and 3.2x) installation, configuration and administration  • Automating tasks with own scripts and open-source tools for performance tuning and system monitoring  • Configured LVM snapshots, OPS manager backups for MongoDB systems  • Used Mongo DB inbuilt tools and quick access shell commands  • Strong experience in supporting development and production databases  • Implemented High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g/11g R2 RAC, Standby Database Data Guard and Replication  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN  • Experience on TOAD and ERWIN  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, MySQL, and ORACLE  • Extensive knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests with oracle support  • Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs  • Extensive experience with JavaScript, Ruby and Python in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments Work Experience Sr. Mongo Database Administrator Pearson - Denver, CO February 2015 to Present Description:  Pearson, is an Online teaching portal and student with content management and text books. Pearson mission is to dramatically improve the quality and efficiency of Education in developing and managing episodic programs in partnership with leading Educational organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Used multiple read Concern level options to make sure a level of isolation for application reads.  • Applied write Concern for level of acknowledgement while MongoDB write operations and to avoid Rollbacks.  • Configured to read data from secondary's to reduce load on primary in replica set environment.  • Considering storage optimization for small documents.  • Used document references to query data from multiple collections.  • Backup and restore operations using MMS/OPS manager.  • Installation of MongoDB RPM's and Tarballs and preparing YAML config files.  • Performed Data migration between multiple environments using mongodump and mongorestore commands.  • Configuring and resizing Oplog window based on working set and replication between nodes.  • Evaluating the Indexing strategies to support queries and sort documents using Index keys.  • Enabled journaling across all mongo instances for auto recovery of data after unexpected shutdown.  • Good knowledge on MMAPV1 storage engine and wired tiger storage engine.  • Creation of user defined role and modifying user access by updating roles.  • Granting collection-level access control to specific collections.  • Implemented write concern to make sure data replicated majority of nodes.  • Enabled read concern for data consistency while reading data.  • Configured Read Preference to read data from secondary for reporting jobs.  Environment: MongoDB, MMS, OPS manager, Wired Tiger, MMAPv1, mongo stat, mongo top, mongo files, Ruby, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Data guard, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Sr. Database Administrator Merrill Corporation - Saint Paul, MN September 2013 to January 2015 Description:  Description Merrill Corporation is the innovator in technology-enabled platforms for content sharing, regulated communications and compliance services. Our solutions unlock productivity in navigating your most complex content and communication requirements. Merrill Corporation combines deep subject matter expertise with secure, precise tools and analytics to seamlessly connect with speed, accuracy and confidence.  The raw data will be coming from various sources and dumped directly into MongoDB through batch runs. After that, the data is updated into Shaded cluster and ad-hoc queries can be run to get any form of data.  Responsibilities:  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters on Linux and Windows environment  • Database management for scheduling, tuning, taking backups using on premise MMS monitoring and backup solution.  • Point in time Backup and recovery in MongoDB using MMS. Data modeling for data from RDBMS to and MongoDB for optimal reads and writes.  • Responsible for managing MongoDB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Troubleshooting of different versions of Mongo database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios and restoring roll backs to avoid loss of Data.  • Upgraded Mongo systems from 2.6 to 3.0.5. Also involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  • Worked with Gridfs collections to store large size documents and enabled sharding with range based sharding keys.  • Worked on Mongodb database design and indexing techniques. Good knowledge on MongoDB write concern majority.  • Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set. Configured hidden members in replicaset.  • Installed and configured MongoDB for an enterprise application to analyze the big data requirements.  • Configured replication and high availability for MongoDB instances  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Good knowledge on creating documents in Mongo database.  Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL * Plus, RAC, RMAN, MongoDB, Sharding, TOAD, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows/RHEL. Oracle Production Database Support Essar Global Fund Limited - Palm Coast, FL July 2012 to September 2013 Description:    Essar Global Fund Limited is an investment fund managed by its investment manager, Essar Capital Limited. The Fund is a global investor, controlling a number of world-class assets diversified across the core sectors of Energy, Metals & Mining, Infrastructure (comprising ports and EPC businesses) and Services (primarily comprising shipping and BPO businesses)  Responsibilities:  • Worked on project to move from standalone servers to RAC  • Build Oracle DBA in the Database Management Services group (DMS), which supports and maintains the database infrastructure  • Build physical Standby Data Guard.  • Practiced DR by performing switchover and failover using data broker.  • Supporting Production and Development databases in 24x7 Environments  • Database environments Installation, upgradation, Migration, Patching, Maintaining of all Oracle versions 8i, 9i, 10g and Oracle 11r2 and • Operating systems on clustered/shared HP-UX UNIX, Linux and Windows servers  • 200 corporate databases in production, acceptance, development and training environments.  • Work in conjunction with application DBAs to develop and maintain the application database.  • Configuration of Oracle Data guard in Oracle 10g environment, using 11g/12c Grid Control.  • Migration of Oracle database 10g to 11R2.  • Configuration and testing of RMAN, with implementation to production.  • Migration includes the migration from Windows to Linux using Transportable tablespaces.  • Performance tuning and reorganization of Oracle Financials database.  • Use of AWR and Statspack tools to diagnose performance issues with Oracle Application  • Provided Automated Storage Management (ASM) technical assessment document.  • Extensive experience with RAID and ASM configuration.  • Automation of Oracle Restart Configuration for the instances under the ASM configuration, part of the Oracle High Availability Services configuration.  • Configuration and installation of VM Ware in Oracle 10g and Oracle 11gR2 environment.  • Worked on SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle Agents connections to Oracles OEM Grid Control.  • Daily use of Oracle Grid Control.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10gR1, 10gR2, 11016, 11R2 on HP Itanium HP-UX UNIX servers.  • All work completely documented.  • Perform daily database administration as required.  Environment: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, RAC, Toad for Oracle v.9.0.1.8 PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Windows/RHEL. Oracle DBA AutoZone - Chicago, IL January 2012 to July 2012 Description:    AutoZone is the nation's leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories with more than 4,400 stores in the US, Puerto Rico, and Mexico. Each store carries an extensive line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured hard parts, maintenance items and accessories.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Clustered databases.  • Installed standalone Databases.  • Helped other teams with client installation.  • Supporting Production and Development databases in 24x7 Environments.  • Tuning by Statspack/AWR collecting various hourly Snapshots statistics and differentiating  • Refresh of development/test/QA databases from Production backup using Data pumps.  • Proactively Monitoring alerts, assigning to right queues, resolving in time based on SLA.  • Written RMAN shell scripts to purge out old archive logs and backups.  • Cloning and managing Duplicate/Standby on databases using RMAN.  • Recovering the databases using RMAN.  • Managing Physical structure of Oracle database like Data files, Redo log files, Control files.  • Maintaining security and integrity of database systems.  • Monitoring and maintaining database availability and resources.  • Taking Backups of databases using Logical (Export & Import) and Physical (Offline and Online) backups.  • Installing, maintaining and monitoring the database software products, including technical advice and support to the applications Development and Maintenance staffs if required.  • Refresh/Cloning of Database for development and testing purpose.  • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g.  • Worked with Standby Database (Data Guard) setup and configuration using data broker.  • Used EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at database level or tablespace level and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  • Provided DBA and programming support for all internal and client based Oracle implementations.  Environment: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, RAC, Toad for Oracle v.9.0.1.8 PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Data Pump, SQL*Loader, Windows/RHEL. Education Bachelors of Technology in Information Technology Sree Nidhi Institute of Science & Tech Skills , Denver, CO (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Oracle Tools  TOAD, RMAN, OEM, TOAD, SQL*Loader, DATAPUMP, Export/Import    Mongo Tools  Mongocheff, MongoVue, Robomongo    Programming Languages  SQL, PL/SQL, BASH shell    Hardware/Storage  HP MSA 5000, EMC, VERITAS Net Backup, Tivoli Storage Manager    Operating Systems  Windows Server 2003 / 2008, Linux, -UX, AIX, SUN Solaris    Tuning Tools  MMS, mongotop, mongoperf, mongostat, EXPLAINPLAN, OPS Manager, TKPROOF, STATSPACK