Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Miami-Dade County Public Schools Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Miami-Dade County Public Schools - Miami, FL January 2014 to Present • Migrated OCR and VOTING disks to newer disks by adding newer disks from SAN and dropping the old disks by using ASM's native rebalancing feature.  • Installation of ASMLIB rpm packages. Initialize the asmlib using oracleasm init command. Portioning the disks using fdisk/dd command.  • Installing and configuring Grid Infrastructure & Database software. (Troubleshooting using cluvfy & handling common issues that arise during integration of the whole - bugs, network issues, configuration files issues, OCR issue, deinstallation & cleanup of Clusterware)  • Refresh/Cloning of Database and applications for development and testing purpose.  • Performing Backup/Restore of all the Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Performed migration of the oracle databases whose database sizes vary from 300 to 500GB from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c using Exp/Imp and Expdp/Impdp.  • Implementing Physical and Logical Standby setups Data guard Configurations.  • Set up Active Dataguard Configurations for oracle database for thirty databases whose size varies from 2TB to 5TB on a 3 node RAC.  • Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB and automated the process through crontab.  • Implemented Oracle Patches CPU & PSU on the Compliance databases Device a plan to patch them.  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK reports and AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility.  • Oracle Database Upgrades 10g to 11g, 11g and 11gr2 to 12c.  • Migrating and consolidation of 11g databases into 12c in both QA and Production environments.  • Installation and consolidation of 12c multitenant database's in QA and Test environments. Container and Pluggable database administration and cloning.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Monitoring space, wait events, locks and long operations running on the database  • Monitoring the session waits for the database performance and resolving the performance issues.  • Monitoring the database for growth and added space to the table spaces as per demand.  • Upgrades, patching, and off-hours maintenance and change control execution in production 24/7 environments and hosting facilities using Remote desktop connection or Putty in conjunction with RSA -VPN.  • Applied quarterly PSU Patches Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using Exp/Imp.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g RAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. SQL Database Administrator/DBA McNeil Technologies - Springfield, VA July 2013 to Present Administered production and development servers running MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2008R2 and MS SQL Server 2005.  ? Installed and Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2012 and 2008R2 managed in development, test and production environment following ERD Database Design.  ? Installed, Config & Maintained Database High-Availability/Recovery Solution of Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication & Clustering & Concepts on Always On  ? Installed, Configured & Administered Business Intelligence (BI) tools; Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis Services (SSAS) & Report Services (SSRS).  ? Managed security of Reports and Report Server, Developed Ad-hoc Reports  ? Upgraded Databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2005/2008 R2, from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2/ 2012  ? Migrated Databases from Oracle Databases to SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012, and MySQL Databases to SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Applied Service Pack & HOT Fixes on SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008R2 and 2012  ? Applied Patches on Windows Server 2003 Enterprise Edition  ? Worked on many data modeling projects. Created and managed E-R Diagram Data Modeling tools. Used Toad Data Modeler  ? Experienced in creating, modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views; Developed, Maintenance Plans & Monitoring  ? Experienced on database monitoring, performance tuning and Query Optimization & monitoring SQL Server Error Log, space usage and solution  ? Scheduled and maintained new and existing jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification, database statistics, rebuild or reorganize indexes.  ? Created notification if there is any failure, error, warning or disk issue.  ? Wrote T-SQL, Trigger, Stored-Procedures and assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures and Triggers.  ? Exported & Imported data from Flat file, Excel file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP  ? Working experience in OLTP, OLAP databases, Warehouse data modeling.  ? Exported & Imported data to/from Oracle, My-SQL, and Access & SQL Server  ? Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup & Disaster Recovery & Backup strategy for production & development environment.  ? Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery, Restored Database from backup  ? Managed security by creating Groups, Logins & users with proper authentication & grant appropriate permission on Server - Database - Object level.  ? Concepts & Knowledge on public cloud tool of MS Azure Technologies.  ? Concepts & Knowledge on PowerShell Technologies.  ? Attended weekly/monthly meetings with other DBA, Project Manager, Dev. and Test Team regarding project status, deadline, technical issues & solution. Oracle Developer / Database Admin HSBC - Bangalore, Karnataka August 2011 to December 2013 Environment: Oracle Exadata, 11g/10g Red Hat Linux, SQL, PL/SQL, ERWIN, ER/studio UNIX, Toad  Responsibilities  • Involved in Creation of tables, Partitioning tables, Join conditions, correlated sub queries, and nested queries, views for the business application development.  • Installing, configuring and administering ORACLE 11g on Linux and Windows environments.  • Key member in analysis and implementing of Oracle 11g Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects.  • Worked closely with senior Oracle Corporation staff in addressing ongoing issues encountered as a result of running complex high-throughput applications on a relatively immature platform.  • Worked in development support for Oracle based systems and Unix based server environments.  • Perform capacity Planning required to create and maintain database environments.  • Performed database Logical backups using export, import and Data pump.  • Performed database Recovery using physical, logical and RMAN backups.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  • Developed Recovery procedures that are applied for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure.  • Worked with Erwin, ER/Studio, Data Warehousing, Extract Transform and Load (ETL), Oracle Warehouse Builder, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Applied high priority, security patches downloaded for Meta link.  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes and monitoring their growth rate.  • Worked on sequences, functions, synonyms, indexes, triggers, packages, stored procedures, roles and granting privileges on OLTP server.  • Created temporary tables and developed SQL*Loader control files to load the legacy data into the temporary tables.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus programs required to retrieve data from the Data repository using cursors and exception handling.  • Involved in writing SQL queries (Sub queries and Join conditions), PL/SQL programming.  • Used the advanced features of PL/SQL like collections, nested table, array & Dynamic SQL.  • Monitored regularly whether primary and standby databases are in synchronized and clearing the backed up archive log files after confirming that they are applied on the standby database.  • Developing Hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures.  • Monitored the database objects growth, managing the extents growth and de-fragmenting the objects, which are running out of maximum extents. Monitoring the excessive fragmentation of table spaces and taking remedial steps.  • Monitoring Growth of tables and undertaking necessary re-organization of database as and when required.  • Monitoring Scheduled jobs of the daily activities for the performance of all the databases.  • Performed Data loads using SQL loader utilities.  • Performing all the Database Administration activity like space management in database, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases.  • Prepare the documents of the process and knowledge transferring about the project to the new team members.  • Collecting the statistics using Explain Plan and TKPROF, studying the report.txt during performance slowdowns. Collecting the statistics of tables and indexes by analyzing for cost based optimizer mode.  • Contact to the development team to solve the issues with the new enhancement releases. Education FIU College of Education - Miami, FL March 2012 to December 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:    Tunning Tools:  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.    Tools and Utilites:  RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump,, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer.    RDBMS:  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Operating Systems:  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise    SKILLS SUMMARY    • Excellent experience in managing large-scale OLTP databases 5+TB size in HA and DR setup.  • Managed 11+ TB Oracle 10g & 11g databases in Data warehousing environment.  • Starting/Shutting down the RAC databases and Creating and Relocating RAC database services to instances.  • Switchover and Failover RAC database with Data guard Broker.  • Implementation of RAC using ASM on 3 Nodes.  • Monitoring of cluster ware files i.e., OCR files & Voting Disk files.  • Monitoring the ASM instances on the multiple nodes and adding the disk to the disk group when required.  • Monitoring the Database health check and growth with script.  • Experience migration/consolidation of databases using Oracle 12c multitenant.  • Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures and methods like Data Guard & Standby Database.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Executed and implemented user helpdesk tickets of various issues via REMEDY database from creating user accounts, read-only accounts on a database & table down to assisting them with logging into the database. Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Data Migrations.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  Oracle Database performance-tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE. Applying patches under UNIX platform.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Tablespace & Data file creation and Maintenance by Adding and Resizing data file if needed  • Keeping the databases up to date with respect to Latest PSU's and very comfortable in applying patches.  • Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning, user access control.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.