ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - CHAVERAN INSTITUE OF TECHNOLOGY Alexandria, VA ? Have solid knowledge on Oracle Database Administration 11g and 12c.  ? Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring.  ? Data Security, Backup & Recovery (RMAN & Data Pump).  ? Oracle Data Guard Standby/ Failover Administration.  ? Oracle ASM Administration / Installation.  ? Oracle Forms and Reports Development.  ? Oracle Advance Security DBA (OSA)  ? Great knowledge developing Database-Back End Application & Web Solutions.  ? Great experience using SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise management, SQL PLUS and SQL  Tuning.  ? Migration and Administration of Databases in a cloud environment.  ? Application and database development.  ? Require limited assistance from team members and manager to perform tasks and support  project efforts.  ? Oracle Patching and Patch research.  ? Great knowledge of Oracle Tools and Utilities.  ? Have strong Linux scripting (shell) knowledge.  ? Knowledge of data quality, data management, security and data testing strategies and practices  ? Strong working knowledge of server hardware and OS technologies including Linux and  Windows.  ? Experience with SSH and its configuration and VPN services.  ? Great experience with on premises and AWS Oracle server environments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CHAVERAN INSTITUE OF TECHNOLOGY January 2018 to Present • Created new databases, involving importing and exporting: installing and configuring database software for Oracle Application development environment.  • Created AWR reports for the senior DBAs and performed tuning based on their recommendations given to improve the efficiency of the database servers.  • Handled database sever tuning, application tuning, maintaining documentation, capacity planning and database security.  • Involved in all phases of database development from needs assessment to quality assurance, design and support.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures of databases in Red Hat Linux environment: implemented backup and recovery procedures and IT department manual.  • Supported Oracle developers. Performed database tuning, created database reorganization procedures, scripted databases alerts and monitored scripts.  • Create and execute scripts.  • Provided development and design assistance to development and other application support teams. Database Developer MICRO ALERT - Borksburg November 2016 to December 2017 • Identify bottlenecks and bugs, and devise solutions to mitigate and address these issues.  • Develop web based software using C# and maintained the databases on Maria DB.  • Managed database remodeling and interface development during upgrades to the latest version of the Maria DB application.  • Read data models, create and implemented database scripts for our on-premises environment. Build deploy DB scripts in deployment, QA, staging and production environments.  • Assisted other Product Development and IT organizations.  • Assisting clients with disaster recovery tryouts.  • Assisted the Database developers and project managers in the software development life cycle.  • Perform on-site support when required. JUNIOR APPLICATION DBA HAHN & HAHN INC March 2016 to October 2017 Contributed in the development and maintenance of IP2008 software suit.  • Maintaining client documentation including database topology, connection procedures, and special instructions.  • Able to work on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Supported the Maria DB database.  • Coordinated activities with supervisor and other DBA's.  • Use Team Foundation Services to collaborate and control codebase of our projects. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (5 years), ORACLE (4 years), SQL (5 years), VPN (2 years), Oracle Dba (4 years), Sql Dba (4 years), DBA (4 years), MYSQL, Sql Database, Oracle Database, Rman Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/danny-kedem-amenigy-68a177b3 Additional Information SKILL SET  • Have solid knowledge on Oracle Database Administration 11g and 12c.  • Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring.  • Data Security, Backup & Recovery (RMAN & Data Pump).  • Oracle Data Guard Standby/ Failover Administration.  • Oracle ASM Administration / Installation.  • Oracle Forms and Reports Development.  • Great knowledge developing Database-Back End Application & Web Solutions.  • Great experience using SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise management, SQL PLUS and SQL Tuning.  • Migration and Administration of Databases in a cloud environment.  • Application and database development.  • Require limited assistance from team members and manager to perform tasks and support project efforts.  • Oracle Patching and Patch research.  • Great knowledge of Oracle Tools and Utilities.  • Have strong Linux scripting (shell) knowledge.  • Knowledge of data quality, data management, security and data testing strategies and practices  • Strong working knowledge of server hardware and OS technologies including Linux and Windows.  • Experience with SSH and its configuration and VPN services.  • Great experience with on premises and AWS Oracle server environments.