Oracle/SQLServer Database Manager Oracle/SQLServer <span class="hl">Database</span> Manager Oracle/SQLServer Database Manager - Virginia Dept. of Transportation Chesterfield, VA ? Exceptionally skilled professional with over 27 years of IT related experience in building, operating, managing and supporting diverse IT infrastructures with a direct focus on targeting strategic business priorities.    ? Highly skilled trainer in areas of database development, data modeling concepts & design and database administration.    ? Highly successful in the management of multiple management areas with a focus on service management as aligned with ITIL principles.    ? A principled change agent that believes in consensus building, productivity, accountability with an innate ability to "socialize" objectives amongst differing stakeholders.    ? A respected leader that strives to inspire by example promoting teamwork, knowledge sharing, positive re-enforce, continuous recognition and a deep understanding of emotional intelligence needed to lead people of diverse backgrounds, abilities, motivations and characteristics. Work Experience Oracle/SQLServer Database Manager Virginia Dept. of Transportation - Richmond, VA January 2017 to Present Leads a team of 6 Oracle DBAs and 3 SQLServer DBASs to support VDOT's IT database infrastructure footprint  ? Support the monthly and quartering patching of Oracle and SQLServer databases.  ? Support the AGILE methodologies in alignment of VDOT's business priorities.  ? Manage & coordinate the migration of 200+ SQLServer databases from 2008 to 2014  ? Manage the consolidation of oracle instances to leverage oracle license procurement  ? Implemented a documentation process that enhanced optimal cross-training of DBAs to preferred dependency  ? Maintained the proper usage of Cloud control 13c for management, monitoring and alerting.  ? Coordination of resource usage/tracking/availability.    ? Maintain standards and documentation for databases  ? Creation of hardening standards to ensure database compliance accordingly to established requirements.  ? Created a database documentation library in share point as a DBA knowledge base.  ? Ensure use of KANBAN ticketing process as means of tracking database support throughout the agency.  ? Ensured the proper management of oracle licensing and usage with VDOT's IT department.  ? Ensured the proper management and usage of database tools ( SQLDeveloper & Toad)  ? Renegotiated oracle licensing to support strategic business objectives  ? Implemented robust database monitoring and alerting using Cloud control 13C  ? Migrated 11 application/ database environments to new hardware. Oracle Development Manager VA Dept. of Transportation - Richmond, VA June 2016 to January 2017 Led a team of eight developers in support of VDOT's strategic initiatives.  ? Ensured that the team actively supported full lifecycle development using AGILE methodologies  ? Created and documented PL/SQL development standards and pushed the implementation throughout the team.  ? Created code-review procedures to ensure ample validation and cross-training  ? Created a lunch & learn programs to support targeted training for new and seasoned professionals.  ? Setup, implemented and abided by standard change control procedures for moving code up-the-stack.  ? Provide advanced technical expertise in designing and developing software applications.  ? Supported the resource staffing of agile sprint teams  ? Coordination of resource usage/tracking/availability within VDOT.  ? Employed KANBAN methodology in support of VDOT's continuous improvement efforts  ? Performed resource estimations in support of project budgeting  ? Ensured that the team maintained the State's aggressive ticket resolution requirements  ? Increased the overall performance and data integrity of the State GIS data.  ? Set up plans for deliverables based on release deadlines  ? Fixed and tuned erroneous jobs to allow for the successful processing of data in the State's linear referencing system from 32% data integrity to 98% data integrity.  ? Accelerated GIS publishing by reducing turnaround time from 6 months to 2 weeks. Senior Database Administrator/Architect Bank of America - Charlotte, NC November 2014 to June 2016 Served as technical lead and design specialist of critical upstream system for migration/rewrite to leverage new technology and sunset of aging infrastructure components.  ? Designed database architecture to support application design, which would address needs of the application. Including: high availability, redundancy, scalability, performance and data integrity  ? Implemented partitioning solution to support data pruning of unneeded data.  ? Performed necessary performance tuning & troubleshooting of issues including application code, database design, system integration, architecture and new technology remediation.  ? Created database upgrade process to support multiple on-going agile sprint initiatives and still maintain continuous improvement during system design.  ? Designed a DEPOSITS system which ingests 6-8 billion dollars daily.  ? Reduction of key-entry personnel by 800%  ? Reduction and decommission of 124 web/application servers    ? Trained/cross-trained key personnel to ensure necessary coverage and required system support implementation.  ? Created support documentation designed to troubleshoot and remediate issues involving downtime, maintenance and problem analysis.  ? Maintained continuous communication with on-shore/off-shore support to ensure adequate transition of key attributes within the architecture.  ? Trained development personnel on designing and coding advanced SQL procedures, functions and packages. Senior Database Administrator Ally Financial - Charlotte, NC July 2013 to November 2014 Served as senior oracle DBA in support of all company initiates as it related to database design & setup, management, administration, training and documentation.  ? Setup and management of the Oracle Exadata Appliance (half rack)  ? Performed necessary patching and upgrades of oracle databases throughout the infrastructure.  ? Management & support of standalone and RAC'd databases  ? Lead technical resource in ensuring the migration of data & databases to new data center.  ? Lead documentation agent to ensure documentation of new and repeatable processes were created and maintained.  ? Evaluated and tested new database technologies. (HCC, golden gate)  ? Supported the transition of database from 10g to 11G  ? Trained & mentored oracle DBAs  ? Created architectural documents supporting and database architecture & outlining of business processes.  ? Migrated 30+ databases from 10g to 11g  ? Migrated 75 database servers to new data center.  ? Created a database repository for all database documents to be leveraged by team. Education Executive Masters of Information Systems in Information Systems Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA May 2018 Bachelors of Arts, in Computer Science in Computer Science Bluffton College - Bluffton, OH Skills Database (10+ years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise    ? Strategic Analysis  ? Application Development  ? System Performance & Analysis  ? Team Leadership and Coaching  ? Training and Mentoring of IT professionals  ? Resource Management  ? Contract Negotiation & Management  ? Project Planning and Management  ? Database Performance and Tuning  ? System Design  ? Change Mgmt. & Process Improvement  ? Multi-system Integration  ? Data center Migration  ? Strategic Thinking  ? Complex Problem Resolution  ? Resource Management  ? Agile/KANBAN full lifecycle development  ? Operational Management