Database Developer <span class="hl">Database</span> Developer Hesperia, CA I’m a strategic-minded IT professional with extensive experience designing, coding, testing and supporting next-generation database solutions. I assure compliance with regulatory standards (i.e. HIPAA, FERPA, PCI, etc) as well as utilization of best practices. Demonstrated knowledge researching and analyzing problems and finding positive solutions through use of teamwork, collaboration and communication. Combat veteran with 20 years of service in the U.S. Army, U.S. Army Reserve and California Army National Guard. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer INLAND EMPIRE HEALTH PLAN - Rancho Cucamonga, CA April 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Works with project managers and business owners to design and build data solutions. Participates in architecture and code reviews to insure data solutions comply with coding and data governance standards. Participates in lean events to improve existing processes. Participates in scrum events to prioritize tasks based upon business needs. Advised managers on potential security and compliance issues.     Accomplishments  • Lead developer on a major project to replace existing claims processing system.  • Helped establish architecture and code review process to standardize coding practices and insure HIPAA compliance  • Revised HR database to improve functionality Database Administrator/Developer Fontana Unified School District - Fontana, CA April 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities  Installed, updated and maintained databases. Managed database permissions. Implemented best practices to secure databases. Provides tier 2 and 3 application support to student information system (Q/Zangle), cafeteria system (MealsPlus) and other key systems. Designed and built automates processes to send data to different systems securely using SFTP protocol. Monitored databases for performance and security issues. Run user testing. Documented processes.     Accomplishments  • Implemented Team Foundation Server to manage code and database objects.  • Built several automated processes using SSIS to send student data securely to vendors such as Blackboard, Scholastic and Oars.  • Built ETL server to better track, monitor and manage data being sent outside FUSD’s firewall.  • Built a variety of SSRS reports. Most notably a drill down report showing outstanding lunch balances by school, grade and then student.   • Built interface to provide National School Lunch Program data to EDM dashboards.  • Using Q’s data and import functionality, I built mass import SQL Developer TRL Systems - Rancho Cucamonga, CA July 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities  Designed and maintained databases. Managed database permissions. Designed and built ETL processes to synchronize CRM system with accounting and inventory systems. Run user testing. Documents processes.    Accomplishments  • Designed and built a process that monitored inventory levels and notified warehouse personal when high usage items needed to be restocked.   • Designed and built process that notified managers of inventory that had been sitting in the warehouse for a significant period.   • Designed and built a variety of reports for managers showing the profitability of projects and service calls. Data Analyst GreenDot Corp. - Pasadena, CA January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities  Worked with business leaders, analysts and fraud investigators to build data solutions that detected risky credit card behavior. Implemented real time reporting solutions to provide business leaders with a real time view of the credit card activity. Designed and built secure data transfers. Advised business leaders of new trends in risky credit card transactions. Insured compliance with PCI and data governance policies.     Accomplishments  • Designed and built the Green Dot’s foreign transaction monitoring system that detected risky credit card purchases and then flagged the account to be deactivated. This system brought Green Dot into compliance with Federal Reserve policies to have appropriate risk controls in place.  • Designed and built Green Dot’s government fraud system that looked for risky credit card transactions in correlation with a deposit from the U.S. Treasury. This system allowed fraud investigators to recover several hundred thousand dollars in fraudulent federal benefits.   • Designed and built process to send disputed transaction data via SFTP protocol to the FCC and underwriting banks. This was share data with authorized partners. Education BS in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Pomona, CA 2010 to 2013 Skills Sql Server (6 years), SSRS (6 years), SSIS (6 years), ETL (6 years), Normalization (6 years), SDLC (6 years), Agile\Scrum (1 year), OLAP\OLTP (6 years), Team Foundation Server (3 years) Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: Chief Warrant Officer 3 June 1991 to August 2011