SQL Database Admin/Analyst SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> Admin/Analyst SQL Database Admin/Analyst - United Parcel Service Louisville, KY Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience SQL Database Admin/Analyst United Parcel Service - Louisville, KY March 2017 to Present Accomplishments:  • Part of the DBA team providing On Call production support to the clients.  • Responsible for ensuring uptime of all database servers through monitoring tools.  • Worked in troubleshooting connectivity issues raised by Application users.  • Updating with latest service packs and security patches.  • Installed, configured and administered SQL server 2016, and migrated data from SQL server 2012/2008 to 2016.  • Installation of SQL Server 2016 on Standalone Servers and Cluster nodes.  • Applying Service packs and Patches on standalone servers & cluster nodes.  • Configured and Managed Database High Availability solutions: Replication, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, and Clustering and Always On availability.  • Configured, monitored and troubleshoot SQL Server mirroring between two data centers.  • Created documentations of installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, maintenance plans and database security parameters, disaster recovery (DR).  • Assisted with administering and maintaining the enterprise's production and development databases.  • Supported database back-up and recovery procedures for the enterprise's databases.  • Assisted in development of database management system support activities.  • Supported the utilization of database management system software and tools to monitor performance.  • Assisted with installation, configuration and deployment of software programs and patches to ensure software tools are maintained to meet business requirements.  • Provided on-call support and coverage to ensure continuity of business operations.  • Raised issues as appropriate to support effective resolutions.  • Assisted with applications reviews to identify needs and to implement data improvements. SQL Database Administrator Ventois - Westborough, MA March 2016 to January 2017 Accomplishments:  • Developed administrative tasks of SQL Server for performing daily Backups and Recovery procedures.  • Administered SQL Server by creation of user logins, groups with appropriate roles, monitored the user accounts, and granted the privileges to users and groups.  • Configured Database Maintenance Plans for Backups, Re-indexing, and Reorganization of Indexes, Cleanup History, and Update Statistics.  • Administered Regular Database Backups, Restoration, Performance tuning, backup processes.  • Provided Database Support for various production applications in resolving complex issues.  • Involved in Disaster Recovery procedures, and Contingency plans. Testing and implementing procedures.  • Engaged in setting up Database Security and maintain accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins and Roles and assigning object level permissions.  • Created the maintenance plan for SQL Server database optimization and integrity checks for production servers.  • Dropped and recreated the indexes on tables for performance improvements. Used Index tuning wizard for Tuning of indexes. Created Clustered and Non-Clustered indexes on tables.  • Wrote T-SQL statements using DML and DDL for retrieval of data.  • Performed DBCC utilities and fixed data corruption in application databases.  • Configured SQL Servers with appropriate settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory issues.  • Involved in replication setup, configuration and maintenance in Transactional Replication. SQL DBA ITC Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to October 2014 Accomplishments:  • Installed and configured MSSQL 2008.  • Successfully migrated from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 on Production and Development environment.  • Implemented stand by servers using log shipping for high availability and improved performance.  • Performed database backup, recovery, disaster recovery procedures and troubleshooting.  • Successfully implemented database mirroring between primary server and mirror server in Production.  • Managed the production and development databases for performance tuning, capacity planning and SQL Server clustering and database security configuration.  • Involved in managing security for users by creating logins.  • Managed logins and users, including permissions and restrictions, for MS SQL Server.  • Dropped and recreated the indexes on tables for performance improvements. Used Index tuning wizard for Tuning of indexes.  • Performed performance tuning on the slow running queries and optimizing the databases.  • Managed the Security creating Users, Groups and Roles in SQL Server.  • Managed the Failover Cluster Manager to ensure High Availability (HA).  • Used clustering for the high availability environment.  • Archived and backed up data on daily and weekly basis.  • Evaluated database performance and performed maintenance duties such as tuning, backup, restoration and disaster recovery. Education Master's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of New Haven - West Haven, CT Bachelors of Technology in Technology JNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh