MySQL Database Administrator MySQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MySQL Database Administrator - Behavioral Health Network, Inc Hadley, MA • Advanced administration and Database development with MySQL.  • Optimize MySQL performance  • Improve Database monitoring  • Assist developers with query tuning and schema design  • Troubleshoot database-related application performance issues  • Ensure security of all MySQL instances  • Implement, document and maintain database roles and security  • Provide On-call support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MySQL Database Administrator Behavioral Health Network, Inc - Amherst, MA September 2015 to Present • Managed MySQL administration.  • Replication with several slaves  • Configured and maintained database server and processes  • Ability to performance tune as needed  • Experience in Service Catalog Ticketing  • Experience with Percona Xtrabackup. Database Analyst MySQL Amego Inc - Attleboro, MA August 2013 to July 2015 • Configured and maintained database server and processes.  • Run performance tune as needed.  • Assisted with sizing, query optimization, installations, backup and recovery,  upgrades and security.  • Resolved trouble tickets and change requests to ensure high quality service.  • Reported to a senior DBA for recommendations for improved performance  and reliability of RDBMS and underlying operating systems. Contractor's Assistant Judge Rotenburg Center - Canton, MA January 2013 to August 2013 • Performed advanced database performance monitoring and tuning.    • Managed and maintained all production and non-production Windows SQL  Server 2008R2/2012/2014 and databases and their hosted servers  • Performed MySQL installation, new databases design, configuration, backup,  recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, and tuning and data in- tegrity  • Monitored MySQL servers to optimize their performance.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication.  • Experience with managing database audit events and audit records Education B.S. in Building Construction Technology in Economics University of Massachusetts Amherst - Amherst, MA Skills Excellent verbal and written communication skills (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), RDBMS (1 year), Scripting (Less than 1 year), solutions (Less than 1 year), Percona Xtrabackup (3 years), Replication (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator Present MySQL 5.6 Database Administrator Present Additional Information SKILLS  • Knowledge in Linux/RedHat environments  • Scripting knowledge  • Practical working knowledge of Javascript  • Maintain smooth operation of RDBMS systems  • Ability to manage complex issues and develop solutions  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills