Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MBA Engineering Management Aiken, SC A motivated Information Technology graduate with 2 years of nuclear construction experience. Able to work in fast paced, high stress environments in order to efficiently accomplish tasks before deadlines. Has effectively planned, created and executed multiple database trainings. Has strong analytical skills in data mining, interests include but aren’t limited to system design, systems analysis and data processing. Has been a part of teams working in both the constructability side and the mechanical side of construction projects at a nuclear site. Has proven to be an effective leader, capable of managing teams of people to accomplish any mission in an efficient manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator CB&I Avera Mox Services - Aiken, SC June 2017 to Present Develops, maintains, and executes complex database programs for data extraction and reporting. Provide technical support for construction efforts, includes: drafting, planning, configuration and implementation. Perform statistical analysis using SQL, VBA and data mining tools. Troubleshooting and writing SQL code (stored procedures, views, indexes, and tables). Analyze information to determine, recommend and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system and validating project process in the field. Computer Engineer Intern CB&I Avera Mox Services - Aiken, SC May 2016 to August 2016 Design and develop software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design. Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system capabilities and requirements. Prepare reports and correspondence concerning project specifications, activities and status. Database Support Intern DeKalb County Information Technology Department - Decatur, GA May 2015 to August 2015 Used business rule discovery tools to identify data with inconsistent, missing, incomplete, duplicative, or incorrect values. Created automated processes for repetitive tasks where available. Logged all work completed or assigned to responsible parties and following up to ensure completion through the ticketing system. Education Master of Business Administration in Engineering Management Southern New Hampshire University - Hooksett, NH February 2017 to Present Skills JavaScript, JGRASP, C++, SQL, Visio, SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Office Suite, XHTML, Python, TSQL (Triggers, Procedures, Views), HTML, PHP, and CSS (3 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Excel, Data Analysis, Data Entry, ETL, Sql Database, Oracle Database Publications PREDICTING IMDB SCORE: AN APPLICATION OF DECISION TREES http://programme.exordo.com/sedsi2017/delegates/presentation/108/ 2017-02 The purpose of this project is to identify film attributes that influence the Internet Movie Database (IMDb) rating of a movie. Internet Movie Database or IMDb, is a searchable database that has a plethora of data about movies and various entertainment programs and the IMDb rating can be used to measure the success of a movie. The goal was to show that a film’s cast and crew social media popularity has a large impact on the IMDb rating of said film. This was done using a data mining tool called Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). The Decision Tree algorithm was applied to the dataset and it became apparent which attributes had the biggest influence on the IMDb rating. This project will provide valuable information that will help when making a movie watching decision. Additional Information Reference upon request