RCM Report Analyst RCM Report Analyst Harrisburg, NC Diligent Data Analyst with over 5 years of experience. Seeking a fulltime opportunity to leverage my diverse skills and experience in data mining and analysis into the open data analyst position at your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RCM Report Analyst Colonial Healthcare - Fort Mill, SC December 2016 to August 2017 Gather, organize, analyze, and report operational and sales revenue cycle data. Select and combine data for end of the month financial reporting from different EMR's such as Greenway Health, Success EHS, Athena Health, Cerner, and eClinicalWorks. Research, compile, assimilate, and prepare confidential and sensitive documents as well as performing ad hoc duties as assigned. Compare and contrast fee schedules and procedure codes. Database Administrator American Lantern Press - Fort Mill, SC June 2015 to November 2016 Worked with various data sources to provide both broad and detailed analytics and reports. Helped maintain data integrity for all customer and order data. Provided assistance and troubleshooting to employees with CRM software (Multipub) and data questions/issues. Database Analyst American Lantern Press - Fort Mill, SC June 2013 to June 2015 Cleaned data, removing invalid and irrelevant information. Synced tracking information for shipping with the CRM. Provided reporting on promotions and sales to aid in future business decisions. Handled data pulls on expired subscriptions. Fulfillment Clerk American Lantern Press - Fort Mill, SC September 2012 to June 2013 Handle the noting of customer accounts for activities and inquiries. Sorted and organized shipping list via Microsoft Excel and visual basics. Helped manage inventory of products. Light product and package assembly. Education Associate in Business Administration ECPI University - Charlotte, NC 2006 to 2008 Skills Excel (10+ years), MySQL (2 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Ecommerce (1 year), Data Analysis (8 years), Administrative Assistant (10+ years), Logistics (6 years) Links http://enthusiastmai.weebly.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/mai-vang-b6aa66126/