Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Marriott Vacations Worldwide Work Experience Database Administrator Marriott Vacations Worldwide - Lakeland, FL March 2016 to Present • Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development oracle 12c/11g databases on Red Hat Linux 6.0 and oracle enterprise Linux 6.0  • Experience with large databases (5.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.  • Administration and supporting of Oracle RAC 11g/12c Databases ranging from 100GB to 60TB.  • Involved in Installation, upgradation, configuration and troubleshooting GoldenGate 11G/12C software.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of GoldenGate sessions at Database level and GGSCI level and investigate replication failures using LogDump utility.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Managing database security.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Installed and configured Oracle (10g&11g R2) databases on Linux 5, HP-Unix 11.X.  • Migrated the database from existing Oracle 10g to Oracle 11g and Upgradation of database (from 10.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.2)  • Applied Critical Patch Updates and Patch Set Update (CPU/PSU) on various platforms using Oracle Universal Installer and OPatch Utility.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Have touch-point calls with offshore team and make sure all issues happen in off business hours are addressed with sense of urgency.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces  • Implemented Disaster Recovery database 10g/11g Data Guard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode using LGWR ASYNC mode.  • Monitored and optimized database performance using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid control.  • Performed database backups with RMAN incremental and cumulative backups by registering 10g/11g databases in recovery catalog.  • Performed complete and incomplete database recovery, data file and table space point in time (TSPITR) recoveries using RMAN and user managed backups.  • SQL query tuning using reports generated by tools like StatsPack, TKPROF and SQL*Trace and Explain Plan  • Performed database tuning using Explain plan, Stats Pack, TKPROF, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor, SQL planned management tools and AWR (automatic workload repository), ADDM (automatic database diagnostic monitor) and ASH reports and performed database tuning based on the recommendations suggested by ADDM reports.  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL.  • Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents.    Environment: Oracle 12c/11g/10g, Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, DataPump. Oracle Database Administrator Bank of Oklahoma - Tulsa, OK March 2014 to February 2016 • Installation of Oracle 11g database in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Refresh development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with scheduled jobs (Cron Job).  • Responsible for creating RMAN catalog Database and Registering the Databases in Catalog Database.  • Experience in using 11g features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, and ADDM.  • partitioned large tables to increase performance.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, Indexing  • Performance tuning and diagnosing DBMS and individual Production databases, organized various migration review meetings with the application team to discuss the migration strategy based on their requirements.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning oracle contention and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g, 11g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Preparation of High-Level & Low-Level Design documents.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, Linux, Solaris, TOAD, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ASH, ADDM, DataPump Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Dbms, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Oracle tools, Replication, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Unix/linux, Ux, Hp-ux, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Oracle Dba, DBA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems  AIX, HP-ux, Solaris, Enterprise Linux red hat.    RDBMS  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Tools and Utilities:  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, WinSCP  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Cloud control, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    • Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Ability to handle multiple projects with deadlines to meet SLAs and have good coordination skills with management, development teams, vendors and systems administrators.  • Experience in Disaster Recovery (DR) Setup, DR simulation and DR Drill.  • Worked extensively on Oracle Tools like OEM, Cloud Control 12c and Monitoring through 11g grid control/OEM. Proficient in shell scripting.  • Designed strategic and tactical solutions for database capacity planning, scheduled database refreshes, backups and formulated recovery processes using RMAN, Data Pump, HOT/Cold methods, Export/Import and Database Cloning.  • Knowledge on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) administration, ASMCMD.  • Responsible for analyzing and tuning the performance of bad applications queries using Stats Pack, AWR and ADDM and well versed with utilities such as Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace and Auto trace.  • Expertise experience in Installing and maintaining Oracle grid control application  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Also responsible for well functioning of the database by Checking and Applying Patches, Upgradations there by making the database software up-to-date. Upgraded databases from 10g and 11g to 12c.  • Worked extensively on Oracle Migrations. Migrated database from Windows to Linux, HP-UX to AIX.  • Proficient in using Recovery manager (RMAN), Flash-Back Technology, Automatic Storage Manager (ASM) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Manager (ADDM).  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Cloned Database from Production to Test and Development.  • Exporting and Importing of dumps using expdp and impdp.  • Experience in Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, AWR report, 12c OEM Grid Monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  • Database security using Oracle Security Features (roles, privileges), Transparent data encryption, DBMS CRYPTO, etc  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge in administering ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.