Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - PNC Bank I am an accomplished senior Oracle Database Administrator with over 8 years of experience with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Installation/Configuration, Creation, Database Design, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. I am an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator PNC Bank - Greenbelt, MD March 2016 to Present • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A's (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing, & performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events & took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test & into production environments.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage & memory for the databases.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query. Database Administrator Wal-mart Inc - Washington, DC March 2014 to March 2016 • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on single instance on Unix/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes ranging from 100GB to 59TB).  • Implemented a backup and recovery policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and DataPump.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development & implementation.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle DataPump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and LINUX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments.  • Maintaining Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • I Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g, 12c  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB).  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database. Database Administrator Dynamic Technology System (DST), Inc - Greenbelt, MD January 2011 to March 2014 • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM files system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Part of the on-call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support.  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role.  • Performed daily, monthly and annual SAP reports for trend analysis and projection planning to support various functions in helping them understand P&L's.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw SAP installation, implementation, monitoring, maintenance, data exportation, and reporting.  • Considered reoccurring problems within the structure of a business, brainstorm potential solutions and implemented software changes.  • Maintained systems by running scans and re-configuring software as needed.  • Responsible for ensuring that all applications and networks run in accordance with business practices.  • Presented project plans for approval prior to starting the implementation process. Education Government Technical High School Bamenda University of Yaounde Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql