SENIOR DATABASE ANALYST SENIOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> ANALYST SENIOR DATABASE ANALYST - CVS HEALTH, AZ Dallas, TX Highly dedicated Database Administrator who has vast experience and understanding of managing enterprise databases with strong verbal and written communication skills seeking challenging position with an innovative and fast-growing organization Work Experience SENIOR DATABASE ANALYST CVS HEALTH, AZ June 2016 to Present • Led the Migration project of SQL Serves 2005- SQL 2014, 2008 - 2016 and decommissioning of legacy servers that saved my company over 10 million dollars in licensing cost.  • Primarily responsible for the administration and maintenance of 115 enterprise SQL instances and over 1000 critical databases.  • Built new SQL Servers and Implemented Always-On, Mirroring and MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active), Multi Node Cluster up to 4 Nodes with over 500 mission critical databases.  • Developed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies and automating processes/jobs and error reporting.  • Performed acceptance testing to verify that database changes perform without adverse consequences.  • Estimated storage requirements and growth.  • Participated in designing, testing and implementing an enterprise Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Worked with application development and support teams to resolve database service requests and incidents within agreed upon SLAs  • Adhered to Change Control Procedures and worked with Change and Incidents management tools  • Led and completed various projects in a timely manner, like uninstalling vulnerabilities on multiple Servers, Service pack updates & security patches on over 2000 Servers, third party applications upgrades, setting up monitoring on all SQL Servers to, TLS remediation, SQL security audits and eradication of SQL accounts on all 2000 plus SQL Servers e.t.c. DATABASE ENGINEER SHAMROCK FOODS, AZ May 2014 to June 2016 • Migration of Production Databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL 2012 and SQL third party tools.  • Production and development change control management for data base components.  • Conducted research and collaborated with vendor if necessary for upgrades/migrations.  • Managing SQL AZURE databases and coming up with the best tier to meet business needs.  • Database Migration from legacy servers to newer versions & SQL Server upgrades.  • Researched, reviewed and recommended for preventive maintenance.  • Set up security and access profiles and procedures for database system administrators.  • Complied with standard security-related procedures and best practices and conformity to company policy.  • Handled Logical Data and Index partitioning for large tables in SQL Server 2005 and 2008R2.  • Provided & managed support to Environment of more than 800 Database Servers (4TBs)  • Configured and managed multi transactional replication in a production environment.  • Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases (Production, Dev., Test and Staging)  • Proactive and active performance monitoring and tuning of production databases  • Provided on call support as needed to support operations of critical databases in a 24 X 7 environment DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SOUTHLINK - Dallas, TX March 2012 to April 2014 • Provided & managed support to Environment of 10 Database Servers. Expertise in MSSQL SERVER Database Administration.  • Managed multi transactional replication chain on a production database.  • Suggested, developed & implemented Scaling out solution with Data partitioning.  • Managed security by defining roles and rights.  • Handled Fine Tuning Operating System in-coordination with Server and  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning. Education Bachelor's Skills Sql server, Sql server 2000, Replication, Sql, Clustering, Solarwinds, Optimization, Performance tuning Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILL SUMMARY  • Bachelors in computer science with 6 plus years SQL Server DBA experience  • Production Support, Migrate/Upgrade, Install, Develop and Design Experience with SQL server 2000-2016 including AlwaysOn, Clustering, Mirroring and Replication.  • Worked with third party tools like Litespeed, ddboost, idera, solarwinds, hpsm, Cherwell e.t.c, Idera, fog light and SQL and system monitoring  • Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in instance tuning and SQL optimization.