SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator Fairfax, VA Microsoft Certified SQL Database Administrator with over 5 years of experience in Database Administration and Development for very large and complex databases in SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, databases. . An enthusiastic individual with extensive experience in Data Analysis, Data manipulation, Data Extraction, Research and Reporting in different formats and from various sources. Trained in AWS Cloud Administration. Assist organizations with identifying use-cases for adoption of Amazon Web Services and best practice implementations.    Status: U.S citizen, eligible for clearance   • Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities • Clustering and server consolidation. Troubleshooting production issues and raising high availability. Experience in database migrations   • Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Troubleshooting • Data center servers and handling 1.4 TB databases • Experience in developing ETL programming using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and T-SQL writing stored procedures • Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Database Monitoring tools and Application support   • Data transformation services and Bulk Loads with SSIS and BULK INSERT ETL operations • Production Support for 24x7 including Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations • Working knowledge in Integration Services (SSIS), Reporting Services (SSRS) and Clustering • Worked with Dynamic SQL, Global Temporary Tables. Created materialized views, Inline Views & normal views where business requirements needed   • Logical and physical database modeling with Toad data modeler and ERWIN tools • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Bureau of Indian Affairs - Washington, DC June 2016 to January 2019 • Administer MS SQL Server 2016 in both Clustered and Non-Clustered Development, Test and Production environment and provide information and solutions for various groups such as Developer, QA, DA, Client, Users. Monitor Server and database performance using SQL Server native tool such as PerfMon, Profiler, DTA, Activity Monitor, DBCC, Execution Plan, DMV, Extended Events • Extensive knowledge and experience in T-SQL to create and manage database objects such as Keys, Constraints, Trigger, Synonyms, Functions, Stored-Procedures, temp table, table variable, CTE etc. Work on Schema and comparison using Visual Studio/Native SQL queries. Knowledge and experience on Powershell Scripting • Create and implement backup strategy, Configure and maintain HA/DR solutions such as logshipping, mirroring, Clustering, AlwaysOn and replication (snapshot and transactional) • Troubleshooting server/ database slowness and query optimization when required. Use DBCC and DMV to check database conditions, fix database corruption, rebuild indexes and current activities of the server. Maintain and Troubleshoot day to day database security, created custom database and application roles as required • Worked on all phases of data warehouse development lifecycle, from gathering requirements to testing, implementation, and support, data warehouse star Scheme • Exceptional background in analysis, design, development, customization, and implementation and testing of software applications and products • Implement and manage scheduled jobs to collect different activities such as database health, file growth, disk space, locking, blocking and deadlocking, Agent Job Failure, unexpected growth of TempDB and Transaction Log. Applying SP, Hot Fixes and CU on cluster, standalone and mirror environment. Implement table partitioning for large table to address space issues and performance.  • Plan and maintain step by step documentation, upgraded SQL Server 2000/2005/2008R2 to 2008R2/ 2012/2014/2016 and migrated data from MS Access/Oracle databases into MS SQL Server 2008R2/2012 • Work on data modeling projects from end to end including generating scripts for objects, and Creating E-R Diagrams • Install, configure and administer SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Develop and deploy DBA reports and client reports (drill down, matrix, parameter report) • Upgrade SSIS package from older version to newer version. Load, transport and move data from flat file, Excel, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, OLEDB Data Sources to SQL Server and vice versa using export/import, BCP and SSIS. Experience in Job creation, scheduling and troubleshooting job failure. Create proxy account and execute SSIS package for Proxy use    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012 R2, 2008 R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, ASP, ASP.net, PostgreSQL, PHP, AD (Active Directory) SQL Database Administrator Department of Education - Washington, DC February 2014 to May 2016 • Designed database and implemented multiple systems using MS SQL Server. Responsible for MS SQL Server configuration, tuning and providing 24x7 dedicated support to all Production, development and clustered servers • Designed and implemented using Amazon (AWS), Azure RDS with PostgreSQL • Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration • Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used Dynamic Management Views performance dashboard, Mirroring, database snapshots & tracking Performance Counters • Recovered databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.  • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).  • Expert in implementing the snapshot isolation and DDL triggers.  • Rebuilt/monitored the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Performed index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases • Implemented data partitioning, Error Handling through TRY-CATCH-THROW statement, Common Table Expression (CTE) • Performed installation of SQL Enterprise 2012 SP1 CU 5 64bit version on Windows 2012 Sp1 Clusters (HP servers in enterprise Data Centers)    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012 R2, 2008 R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, ASP, ASP.net, PHP, AD (Active Directory) Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in International Relations George Mason University Skills Sql Server, Sql Dba, MYSQL