Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - FDA Laurel, MD Mr. Rico Tcheizeig Mayowo is an accomplished Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 8 years of experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Backup & Recovery, Cloning, Replication, and Security Implementations. He is also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. He possesses exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. Proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator FDA - White Oak, MD June 2015 to Present • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively.  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB)  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD)  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Part of the on call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Database Administrator Bank of America - Washington, DC April 2010 to June 2015 • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution  time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation and configuration for Linux environments.  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update(CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education Montgomery College Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Data replication, Disaster recovery, Rman, Etl, Informatica, Ab initio, Scripting, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL