Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - VECTREN Hyattsville, MD Work Experience Database Administrator VECTREN - Evansville, IN February 2016 to Present • Installed, Configured, Setup, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11gR1&R2, 12c Physical and Logical Standby databases for Test, Development and Production for various home-developed applications Such as Portfolio Management Systems and vendor applications like SAP Business solutions  • Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12 databases of 2.0 TB 4 Node production 10g and 11g RAC databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  • Migrate to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB of applications that otherwise have their own instances and qualify to be PDBs.  • Upgrade Databases from 11g to 12c with physical standby DBs in place  • Generated and analyzed AWR reports, ASH reports, ADDM reports, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF trace files to identify root cause of SQL performance issues and Utilize SPM SQL Baselines, SQL Profiles, SQL Access Advisor and SQL Tuning Advisor for troubleshooting and to provide tuning recommendations to application teams.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting Golden Gate Replication issues  • Extensively used Oracle 11gR2 features - Real Application Testing, automatic SGA tuning, enhanced RMAN with Flash Recovery Area, Block Change Tracking, Oracle Data Pump, big file tablespaces, new OEM Grid Control, SQL Performance Analyzer, Database Replay, SQL Plan Management and others  • Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Working with Application Development team to address any issues they encounter and provide support and resolution action plan  • Used Oracle Exadata in performing OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) to optimize inserts to the database as well as OLAP (Online Analytic processing) to optimize and process heavy duty query and also to see the trends and analysis of these queries.  • Involved in Client-Server environment configuration using TNSnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.    • MSSQL SERVER work    • Experience in managing and monitoring, SQL Server databases 2008,2012,2014 and 2016  • Downloaded, Installed, Authenticated and monitor MSSQL SERVER as well as the Database  • Created Databases  • Created user and granted them password and privileges using SSMS OR T-SQL  • Implemented Backups ranging from full, differential and transactional backups  • Recovered databases using the FULL SIMPLE and Bulk Logged Recovery models using transaction logs  • Troubleshoot performance of the database using tools like SQL PROFILE, TASK MANAGER, DYNAMIC MANAGEMENT VIEWS as well as Database Engine Tuning Advisor and extended events.  • Use the DBCC Package for monitoring and general troubleshooting of sql server environment  • Implementing security, from logins authentications granting of Roles, Permission on user and databases  • Implemented Advance encryption at the COLUMN LEVEL, Transparent Data encryption as well, as Always on encrypted Features. Also implemented DYNAMIC DATA MASKING  • Use of database mail  • Use of sql server argent for automation  • Migration upgrade and patched MS SQL SERVERS databases using Backups from either a lower version or higher using the SERVERS MIGRATION ARGENT  • Attached and detached, import export as well as copy of database  • Migration from oracle to sql server databases  • PATCHED instances of sql server, I applied the service packs, security packs and cumulative updates  • Ensuring high availability and Disaster Recovery through mirroring, replication, log shipping clustering and ALWAYSON Availability groups.  • Architectural Configuring and monitoring database log shipping job for high availability and disaster recovery  • Architectural Configuring and monitoring database mirroring  • Architectural configuration of replication  • Monitoring the different type of replication that is snapshot, transactional peer to peer and merge replication  • Experience in configuring clustering  Active - active cluster  Active passive cluster  • Implemented service SSIS for data integrity in an OLAP DATA WAREHOUSE environment  • SSAS for DATA ANALYSES and SSRS for Reporting purpose using the SSDT. Oracle Database Administrator CARESOURCE - Dayton, OH November 2012 to February 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2 and 11gR1 databases.  • Automated routine DBA tasks such as exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full, backup and recovery activities and resync RMAN catalog by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors and reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC).  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 11g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored, troubleshooted and tuned long running jobs closely with the application development team using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD, AWR, ADDM reports and Dynamic performance views at peak load.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility, Datapump and conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database such as configuring, managing and troubleshooting log gap issues.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2. Education YEAR START in YEAR END UNIVERSITY OF DOUALA September 2008 to January 2010 BACHELORS UNIVERSITY OF DOUALA September 2005 to January 2007 Skills Data migration, Database administration, Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Postgresql, Replication, Sql, Rman, Etl, Mongodb, Backups, Nas, Network attached storage, Data replication, Enterprise storage, Storage area networks, Ocr, DBA, Oracle Dba, RAC, Sql Dba, Ssis, Sybase Additional Information Skills Summary    • Experience in managing and monitoring, ORACLE, PostgreSQL. 9.6 and SQL Server Databases  • Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances.  • Good communication and cooperation skills with an aptitude to learn quickly, take responsibility, work under pressure.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, HVR, Goldengate, Materialized views and Oracle Streams.  • Configured and monitored a 3 nodes 11g RAC database and worked with customer for different RAC related issues: [hang check timer, split brain, RAC recovery, OCR corruptions, Node Eviction, Voting disk loss & so on].  • Configure Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional  Replication using Oracle 12c and 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating Systems with sizes up to 11 TB.  • Experience in Installation, configuration and administration of Oracle Databases 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c versions.  • Experience in Upgrading and migrating Oracle 10g and 11g single Instances and RAC Databases to 12c using DBUA and manual scripts.  • Quarterly Applied Database Patches such as PSU patches, One-Off patches and CPU patches using Opatch utility.  • Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and recovery using RMAN (full and incremental). Implementation of Flashback Technology.  • Used EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at database level or tablespace level and also to accomplish table level and full database de-fragmentation.  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing ASM and proficiency in using ASMCMD and ASMLIB  • Experience in managing and monitoring, PostgreSQL 9.6 and SQL Server databases 2008,2012,2014 and 2016  • Worked actively in configuring and maintaining Oracle Physical Standby/Active Data Guard Database oracle 11g on RHEL.  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.  • Extensive experience in installing and implementing OEM and TOAD for database management and performance monitoring.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) /Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Experience in Database Design (Physical and Logical Database Design) and Normalization.  • Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  • Automated many common tasks using crontab including Backups, refreshes, blocking sessions, database health check, tablespace threshold,  • Migrated databases and database objects from ORACLE DB to MongoDB and Exadata servers for high availability and performance improvement.  • Migrate to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB of applications that otherwise have their own instances and qualify to be PDBs.