Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Snr Oracle Database Administrator Washington, DC I am an accomplished Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 9 years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, cloning, replication, security implementations, high availability and disaster recovery solutions. He is also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. He has exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational skills. Proven leader with a motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and developing innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully prioritize and manage multiple projects and perform effectively under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Department of Commerce - Alexandria, VA June 2014 to Present ·        Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  ·        Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  ·        Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively.  ·        Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.   ·        Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers.  ·        Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  ·        Installed and administered Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (DATA GUARD).  ·        Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate 12c on Unix/Linux platform for Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  ·        Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  ·        Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  ·        Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.   ·        Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  ·        Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  ·        Installed 12c OEM Cloud Control for monitoring; periodically reorganized and resized database objects, created table Partitions, Materialized Views, and indexes, yielding a 35% performance boost.  ·        Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  ·        Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PL/SQL. Database Administrator Crewits LLC - Washington, DC April 2010 to June 2014 ·        Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  ·        System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  ·        Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  ·        Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  ·        Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  ·        Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  ·        Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  ·        Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  ·        Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  ·        Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  ·        Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  ·        Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  ·        Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education Associate Oracle University Associate Oracle University BSc in Banking & Finance Lagos State Polytechnic Skills Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL, Sql Dba Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  Installation, configuration, capacity planning  Performance Monitoring & Tuning  Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration  Database Security & Patching    Oracle RAC, ASM & Grid control  Oracle Data guard  Oracle Golden Gate  Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor, Alert Log, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor,  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5  • Database design & Data modeling    • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Database security using TDE, Data masking, Patching, data redaction  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader, Transportable Tablespaces (TTS)