Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Chantilly, VA • Over 3 years of experience as a Database Administrator primarily in designing, implementing and support for Oracle databases.  • Experience as Oracle Database Administrator in very large Production Environments with Database Implementation on Linux, UNIX, and Sun Solaris AIX, and Windows 2003/2008 server.  • Established and wrote the Database Administrators Procedures document for the IT department. This document outlines all standards for the DBA Group including installing/upgrading Oracle, creating databases, DBA tools, administration and monitoring, naming standards, policies, practices and procedures.  • Implementation of Oracle Backup and Recovery strategies using RMAN (recovery manager) and creating RMAN scripts. Cloning of Databases using RMAN.  • Experience Primary administrator over Windows 2000 and 2003 cluster servers including SQL Server 2000/2005/2008.  • Developed UNIX Shell scripts with SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 to provide automated auditing of enterprise environment.  • Experience in SQL Tuning and Database Tuning for Very Large Databases (VLDBs) and OLAP and OLTP.  • Experience working with Data Guard, Flashback (table/version query), Data pump, RAC, Data Guard and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 10g), including the grid and monitoring controls.  • Tuning experience using SQL LOADER, EXPLAIN PLAN, AUTOTRACE, TKPROF and STATSPACK utility.  • RDBMS patches applied on Test, Development and Production instances according to the requirement.  • Technical database design and Management of Database activities and Resource capacity management.  • Database Design, Creation of various database objects like Tables, Object types, Views, Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Package, Sequences, Synonyms, Snapshots.  • Coordinating with Developers and users connecting to different databases, setting policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security, backup & Recovery, SQLs coding guide lines etc.  • Experience working with Data Guard, Flashback (table/version query), Data pump, ASM, RAC, and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 10g), including the grid and monitoring control.  • Successfully resolving SQL Server problems which involves in-depth knowledge of SQL Server architecture, connectivity, replication, DTS, backup/restore, database corruption, security, programming etc  • Practical solutions to problem solving with creative ideas identify patterns, linkages and underlying situations, documentation, consider customer needs in evaluation of solution.  • True team player; maintain client/customer relationship by providing timely, superior quality products and services: understanding of client/customer needs, opportunities and satisfaction criteria.  • Experience in managing and working through the Oracle's TAR escalation process using Metal ink.  • Maintaining data integrity and tune database for optimum performance and availability and excellent in troubleshooting Oracle Database issues  • Change Requirements Servicing, Bug Fixes, Testing and Integration and releases of the enhanced programs.    Technical Skills  Databases: Oracle (10g, 11g and 9i/8i), OEM, MS SQL Server and MS  Oracle Products: SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Forms 6i, Reports 6i, SQL Loader  Tools: OEM, RMAN, Export, Import, Data pump, Tkprof, STATSPACK, ASM, AWR, ADDM, TOAD7.6, Visual Studio, Rational Rose, ERWIN, Toad, Grid Control(10g), Symantec13,MicromueNetcool/BMCPatrol, SAM, SAN, NAS, Lilo, Vpn client, FTP, FSTP etc  Operating System: Red Hat Linux, UNIX, SUN Solaris, MS-DOS, Win NT, Win 2000,  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C and C++  Applications: OracleApplicationsR11i.5.9, 11i, 5.10.2, Patching, Cloning, DBRefresh Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Oracle Utilities (Import / Export) SQL*Loader and 10g Data Pump Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Client Integrated Standard Banking System January 2012 to January 2014 Integrated Standard Banking System is total bank mechanization software product developed by Tata Consultancy Services and deployed at more than 25 banks and 1250 branches. It uses Oracle RDBMS, C, Forms 4.5 & Pro*C and runs on different flavors of UNIX. It comprises of core package consisting of modules for transaction processing with add-on modules like ATM, Tele-banking and Multi Branch Banking. It deals with banking functionalities like Deposits, Flexi-Deposits, ATM, Clearing, Transaction Processing, Debit card interface etc. ISBS caters to Front End and Back End office operations with facilities for exhaustive Reports Generation and Reports for viewing and analyzing the bank financial status. It caters to the needs of the leading financial institutions in USA like Bank of America, Bank of the Commonwealth, Commerce bank, and High Lands Union Bank.  Role & Responsibilities:    ? Installation of production and test Oracle Database Servers 9i/10g/11g  ? Monitoring and troubleshooting of the database backup and recovery  ? Up gradation of oracle database, Configuration of listeners, tnsnames and UNIX environment for oracle work group server databases on production sites.  ? Demonstrate strong working experience of database administration, backup and recovery, modeling, tuning, monitoring.  ? Monitoring and management of various database components (logical & physical) like table spaces, segments (tables, index, rollback), User creation and enforcing security using privileges and roles.  ? Experience in Manage Escalations and coordinate with interfacing teams  ? Optimization and fine-tuning the database by planning storage requirements, building indexes and altering storage clauses for tables and indexes.  ? Maintenance of the Production Servers (up to 30GB in size) and carrying out future enhancements as per client requirements.  ? Monitoring of Databases by Space management and ORA errors and resolving according to that requirement.  ? Taking the backup of database regularly, management Redo log files, control files and monitoring data file.  ? Conversion of database from file system to Oracle RDBMS using tools like SQL Loader and UNIX shell and Perl scripting to automate the process.  ? Experience in SQL Tuning for Very Large Databases (VLDP) and VLTP systems.  ? Experience in RAC, Data Guard and Oracle Enterprise manager Grid Controle  ? Experience in Flashback recovery by deleting the some database objects in database.    Environment: Red Hat UNIX, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Forms 3.0/ 4.5/ 6i, SQL Server 8/7/6.5, PL/SQL, SQL.FSTP, Putty  Project 2 Oracle Database Administrator Client NII Holding (VA) January 2011 to December 2011 Warehouse Management System (WMS), It is used to automate the storing and retrieval of parts for leading Multinational clients. The system performs all the warehouse activities like Goods-registration, Pallet Picking, Cycle count, Return Material assessment, and generation of the reports. It allows for maintenance of the client's stock and control of their inventory through computer linkage, called EDI, which provides for information management.  Role & Responsibilities  ? Provide database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  ? Creating database, table spaces and Monitored table spaces & their growth and took proper actions  ? Taking backup of the database regularly (hot and cold backup using logical backup  Physical and using Recovery manager)  ? Clone/Refresh of production databases to testing and training environments  ? Maintaining System security, defining of roles, profiles  ? Tracing the alert. log file for "ORA" messages, Monitoring database to ensure smooth functioning of database  ? Performance tuning & monitoring of the database using Stats Pack, Tk prof, Explain Plan  ? Coming up with custom-tailored backup/restore and disaster recovery plans for production servers  ? Managed disk-space allocation for table spaces and user objects at physical level  ? on Server  ? Providing consultation on SQL Server to our development teams.  ? Experience in RAC and Data Guard like stand by database and physical database..  ? Change Requirements Servicing, Bug Fixes, Testing and Integration and releases of the enhanced programs  ? Automated data loading scripts using shell scripts, cron jobs and dbms_job  ? Interacted with Oracle support for resolving various optimization techniques.  ? Monitored the database:  * Tables and indexes  * Table spaces and data files  * User roles ( database security)  * Integrity constraints, fragmentation    Environment: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 6.5, Toad, Unix, Aix, Sun Solaris, Windows NT, MS Access Education Certificate in Database Administration Northern Virginia College M.S. in Computer science Institute of Advanced Studies in Education Deemed University Rajasthan