Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Corpus Christi, TX ? Configured and maintained physical / active Data guard for Oracle Disaster Recovery and Performed switchover/switchback from primary database to standby database for testing purposes whenever required.  ? Migrated large number of databases (File System to File system and file system to ASM) from 11g to 12c versions and implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases.  ? Designed and implemented Backup and Recovery strategies using RMAN (full and incremental), Point in Time, Media Recovery, and Datapump (Expdp/ Impdp) for logical database objects. Used crontab to automate some of them without any manual intervention.  ? Installed, configured and troubleshooted oracle GoldenGate (11gR3 and 12c) for data Replication across same or different platforms for business continuity and data protection. Automated Monitored of heart beat and goldengate processes.  ? Remote administration and support of production and development Databases sizing 10TB.  ? Configured and Supported customers on different RAC related issue like split brain, rebooting of faulty nodes, OCR related issues and huge pages setup  ? Experience in Identifying performance bottlenecks on high volume transaction systems. Analyze SQL statements and design indexes to improve response of queries.  ? Installed, cloned and refreshed Oracle Databases 10g, 11g and 12c versions (Single instances and RAC) using run Installer, RMAN, datapump, SQL Plus, SQL Developer, TOAD and OEM 12c.  ? Upgraded Databases in patch set Level using CPU (Critical Patch Updates) patches, PSU (Patch Set Updates) patches and One-Off Patches and in version Level (10g to 11g) and (11g to 12c) as per recommendations.  ? Involved in each phase of life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development and production support activities.  ? Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM).  ? Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  ? Good Knowledge in installation, upgrade and configuration of MS SQL Servers (2012 thru 2014) and databases in clustered and non-clustered environments.  ? Manage SQL server databases through multiple product lifecycle environments, from development to mission-critical production systems.  ? Works closely with developers, support and QA teams to design and optimize all DB environments.  ? Prepares scripts to automate administration tasks.  ? Performs advanced database administration activities including; installation, configuration, monitoring, space management, database backup and recovery, and may design disaster recovery procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Copper Mobile - Dallas, TX February 2016 to Present Maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN.  ? Monitored scheduled backup procedures and Database refreshes (from prod to DEV or TEST on daily basis using crontab.  ? Created and monitored user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Wait Events, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports, Explain Plan, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  ? Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  ? Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  ? Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  ? Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes, identifying the join methods (Nested/Hash/Merge join/Sort merge join) between the row sources for tables, to improve the performance of SQL statements.  ? Addressed developers/testers requests to clone production databases for the purposes of testing using RMAN.  ? Configured and Monitored a 3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Ensured load balancing by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts for reports.  ? Performed database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments. And performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files.  ? Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and active Data Guard for faster Disaster Recovery.  ? Installed and Configured OEM grid control for maintenance administering the databases.  ? Used Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA) for upgrading Oracle11gR2 to the latest Oracle 12c and applied patches (CPU&PSU) as required using the Opatch utility.  ? Cloning 11g and 12c databases using RMAN duplication (with and without backup).  ? Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  ? Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  ? Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  ? Performing housekeeping tasks like checking log and trace files. Oracle Database Administrator Walgreen Company - Deerfield, IL March 2012 to January 2016 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.3, Oracle 12.1.0.2 databases on Linux and AIX platforms. Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to a 2 Nodes RAC 11g database with ASM file system on AIX platform.  ? Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Automated through crontab the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient database backup, refreshes and cloning using RMAN and datapump by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB and automated the process through crontab.  ? Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  ? Installed ASM environment, migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM and Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g and 12c RAC databases.  ? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Installed, configured and maintained Enterprise Manager Cloud Control to monitor and manage Exadata and regular databases and application servers.  ? Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables. And Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Configuring Data Guard to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery for enterprise data.  ? Ran Scripts for Health Check on Exadata Storage Servers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Network and Cybersecurity in process University of Maryland University College (UMUC), College Park Bachelor's degree in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Yaounde 1 Yaounde Associate Degree in Cybersecurity in English and French Central Texas College - Killeen, TX Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses OCA 12C Present