Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - NatWest Markets Stamford, CT Well-rounded Database Architect with 7.5 years of experience and significant knowledge in Oracle, Sybase and Microsoft SQL server databases. Offering experience crafting infrastructures in Insurance and Finance industries. Adept in Oracle database creation, upgrade and maintenance. Work Experience Database Administrator NatWest Markets - Stamford, CT January 2018 to Present • Database creation and decommission in Oracle, Sybase and SQL server Platforms  • Perform Ready for Business checks for Database estate  • Perform Disaster Recovery Test twice a year  • Analyze and fix business incidents using ITIL process  • Troubleshoot Sybase replication issues  • Perform database and object level restore and backup  • Perform user creation, deletion and grant roles and permissions  • Monitor and fix job failures running from Autosys, Crontab and SQL scheduler  • Perform data archival requests  • Perform Audit requests for SOX, EY and internal  • Monitoring database growth and capacity planning  • Provide support for storage migration projects  • Identify and resolve orbit risks in the environment  • Drafting Standard Operating Procedure for the environment  • Perform weekend maintenance activities Database Administrator General Reinsurance Corporation - Stamford, CT February 2015 to December 2017 • Performed database upgrade from Oracle version 10g, 11g to version 12cR2.  • Carried out daily health check of all production Databases.  • Monitoring database growth and capacity planning.  • Performing Re-Org. Activity on fragmented tables.  • Handling Critical Oracle DBA Issues maintaining SLA.  • Perform DB audit on monthly basis to have databases compliant.  • Documentation of all major activities to Share with team.  • Extensively used Oracle Support for resolving technical issues.  • Performing Archival Activities on monthly basis.  • Managing and configuring and troubleshooting OEM and agent related issues.  • Maintenance of Production databases of our client.  • Performing monthly releases on schedule.  • Job Monitoring and Job Fixing on autosys and cron jobs. Database Administrator The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc February 2012 to January 2015 • Carried out daily health check of all production Databases.  • Monitoring database growth and capacity planning.  • Performing Re-Org. Activity on fragmented tables.  • Handling Critical Oracle DBA Issues maintaining SLA.  • Perform DB audit on monthly basis to have databases compliant.  • Documentation of all major activities to Share with team.  • Extensively used Oracle Support for resolving technical issues.  • Performing Archival Activities on monthly basis.  • Managing and configuring and troubleshooting OEM and agent related issues.  • Maintenance of Production databases of our client.  • Performing monthly releases on schedule.  • Job Monitoring and Job Fixing on autosys and cron jobs. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science ANNA UNIVERSITY - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2011 Skills Database administration, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Itil, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Scripting, Maintenance, Documentation, Drafting Additional Information Skills  • Database administration of Oracle, Sybase and Microsoft SQL Server  • Solid technical proficiency in Oracle database creation, upgrade and maintenance  • Shell scripting  • Hands-on Windows, Linux, Solaris Operating Systems knowledge    • Experiences in documentation and drafting Standard Operating Procedures for the environment  • Hands-on ITIL practices for IT service management (ITSM)  • Good presentation, interpersonal, and written skills  • Demonstrated strong judgment and decision-making ability