Administrator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator - MedStar Health I am an accomplished, energetic achiever Senior DBA Administrator.  Professional experiences span over 8 years with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Monitoring & Tuning, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server, TOAD, OEM. I possess excellent written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. Work Experience Administrator MedStar Health - Baltimore, MD July 2016 to Present • Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  • Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using Opatch utility to instal, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  • Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users. Database Administrator Bank of America - Washington, DC December 2011 to June 2016 • Implemented a backup and recovery strategy policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and Datapump  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on Unix/Linux on a Microsoft server 2008, 2012.  • General database administration task like installation of Oracle 10g and 11g, creation of users and roles, managing tablespaces, and ensuring database functionality.  • Generating Standard Operating procedures (SOPs) to ease operational support  • Highly skilled in SQL, Sqlplus including DML, DDL, and writing quieres.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  • Specialize in one way and multi way replication between oracle DBs using GoldenGate and Oracle Streams  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL and Talend Administration Suite.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw Oracle 5 node RAC installation and configuration on Linux servers. Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c databases.  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database  • Performing Database maintenance and upgrades which include patching, cloning and migration.  • Created and managed pluggable databases in the multitenant container database of the Oracle 12c architecture  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Configure and manage Cloud Watch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization.  • Tuning poor running SQLs using the EXPLAIN PLAN, HINTS and SQL Tuning Advisor.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Disaster recovery, Rman, Data replication, Scripting, Database security, Data Guard, Golden Gate, Patching, SQL Tuning, Data Pump, Data Migration, Red Hat Linux, Database Administration, Performance Tuning Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  • Installation, configuration, capacity planning  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning  • Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration  • Database Security & Patching    • Oracle ASM & Grid control  • Oracle Data guard  • Oracle Golden Gate  • Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation  • Database Cloning    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS    • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA,  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor.  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 20012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5    • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Database security  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL Loader