SQL Server database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server database Administrator - Providence Solutions I am seeking a position as SQL Server Database Administrator. I have over 6 years of experience with SQL Server. My core experiences are in the areas Data Migration, Database Performance tuning, Backup and Recovery, Database Security, Database maintenance, Indexing, SSRS, Integration Services (SSIS), database development, SQL server Azure, AlwaysOn availability groups, replication, database mirroring and log shipping. Work Experience SQL Server database Administrator Providence Solutions January 2013 to Present • Implemented Security Management policy including creating and managing roles, users, logins and granting rights.  • Monitored and maintained database performance using System monitor, event viewer, SQL profiler, database tuning adviser.  • Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008R2/2012 and applied upgrades including Service Packs and hot fixes on production.  • Analyzed the physical model and employed best practices in creating a complete schema including tables, relationships, stored procedures, and views, clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Developed Backup strategies and Recovery solutions.  • Migration of On premises databases to SQL Server Azure.  • Assisting with capacity planning and storage space management.  • Provided 24 x 7 business critical production server environments support (on-call).  • Monitored and maintained database performance using System monitor, event viewer, SQL profiler, database tuning adviser.  • Developing and writing TSQL, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions.  • Experience with monitoring and troubleshooting 24x7 operations.  • Installed and configured SQL server 2008R2,2012 and 2014 in various environments.  • Performing Data Import and Export Operations using SSIS.  • Performance Tuning using SQL Profiler and Database Engine tuning advisor.  • Provided database Development support including query analysis and optimization.  • Creating and Implementing Databases, Tables, Schemas, Indexes, and Constraints. Oracle Database Administrator Sure Launch Resources Ltd August 2011 to December 2013 • Installed, configured and maintained Oracle 11g Real Application Cluster (RAC) / ASM on Redhat Enterprise Linux 5.x boxes.  • Diagnosed and resolved a high number of Windows and OSX issues on laptops and tablets  • General DBA daily jobs such as disk usage monitoring, table/index rebuild, and reorganization as needed. Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • Implemented Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 12c for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Worked with latest 12c/11g features Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring, and Recycle Bin.  • Monitored of database for growth and performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 12c/11g environments.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Lagos Bachelor of Science in Dove Technology University of Lagos Skills Sql Dba