Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - RKKORANTENG CONSULTING Silver Spring, MD Over 5 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with hands on experience in database installation, configuration, production support, upgrades, patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, space management, database security, cloning, migration, shell scripting and documentation. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator RKKORANTENG CONSULTING - Bowie, MD January 2018 to Present • Created tablespaces, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins on oracle, SQL Server, MSSQL and DB2.  • Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts, created clone databases, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My Oracle Support)  • Replicated tables from SQL server to Oracle using HVR  • Create oracle databases (11gR2, 12c) using both the DBCA & Database scripts.  • Production support for Oracle database 11g/12c and SQL SERVER 2014.  • Implemented auditing such as standard, value-based and fine-grained for data security.  • Implemented TDE and Network Encryption as advanced security measure for data protection and integrity.  • Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to Multi Node RAC, add an instance to existing RAC and upgrade Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.  • Installed and configured 3 nodes oracle 11gR2 RAC on ASM and NFS file systems for production environment.  • Data migration between databases using export/import utility, data pump and transportable tablespaces.  • Worked extensively on Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, SQL and PL/SQL tuning, Net backup, RAID, RAW Devices  • Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  • Implemented shell-scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.  • Created Physical Standby databases and switch to snapshot standby databases for application testing.  • Applied Critical Patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bugfixes on database products.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Created and managed PL/SQL packages, procedures, triggers, functions, Indexes and Collections to implement business logic using SQL developer and SQL navigator.  • Analyzing schema of databases created to collect statistics using the DBMS STATS package.  • Experience working on 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature. Oracle Database Administrator DEUTSCHE BANK May 2013 to November 2017 • Backed up and recovered/Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2 and 11g.  • Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3, SunOS 5.8 & HP-UX B.11.11.  • Create recover catalog to keep my backup information longer than the control files will do.  • Scheduling Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRONTAB using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Encrypted critical tablespaces using TDE (Transparent Data Encryption)  • Tuned Databases and SQL Statements using OEM, AWR, ADDM, ASH, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, SQL TUNING ADVISOR, EXPLAIN PLAN  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying CPU, PSU and One-off Patches using "run Installer" and perl based utility "patch".  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes using RMAN utility, Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature, Datapump and conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 12c.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Created Physical Standby databases, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually when required.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration and monitoring. Education Master's in International Howard University - District of Columbia War Memorial, DC January 2008 to May 2009 Skills Data modeling, Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Security administration, Data replication, Hp-ux, Ux, Solaris, Sql Dba, Postgresql, ETL, DBA, Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, RAC, Sybase Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database 12C SQL Fundamentals Oracle certified Associate June 2018 to Present Additional Information SKILLS    Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MS SQL SERVER 2014, MYSQL, DB2    Operating Systems: HP-UX, RHEL, Sun SOLARIS, Linux Enterprise Server, Windows 2012, EXADATA,    Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR.    Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL.  Utilities: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, GOLDENGATE, HVR    Email: sergesnya@yahoo.fr  Phone: 240-413-3105  Serge Nya-Wandja    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, SQL*DEVELOPER, TOAD for tuning and monitoring purposes.  • Enforced Security Administration, system monitoring by adding and removing users, configuring quotas, auditing, TDE, network and database encryption.  • Good exposure in Configuring and managing Single instance (10g, 11g, 12c), Oracle Real Application Clusters(RAC) and Automatic Storage Management(ASM) on UNIX/LINUX, AIX and Windows environments.  • worked as a team member for 24*7 support with on call rotation in PROD, QAT and DEV environments  • Good experience in applying Critical Patch Update(CPU) for security and Patch Set Update(PSU) for security and bug fixes using OPatch utility.  • Expertise in upgrading and migrating single instance databases to multinode 10g, 11g and 12c RAC environments for high availability and load balancing using dbca.  • Migrated databases ranging from 200GB to 10TB to different platforms using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature and Goldengate  • Participated in Strategic Planning, Logical and Physical Data Modeling & Application Tuning.  • Experience in Oracle Flashback Technology to recover logical corruptions and Performance Tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc) by using tools/utilities such as AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, Autotrace, TKPROF.  • Excellent in Hot/Cold Backup with or without catalog, full backup, incremental, cumulative backups, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Extensive knowledge with OLTP and OLAP systems.  • Data loading using external tables, SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP.  • Installed, configured and maintained Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g Single Instance and RAC servers for disaster recovery and data protection purpose  • Experience in Oracle Exadata, SQL SERVER, DB2, MYSQL, ODM (oracle data mining)  • Experience in configuring and using data replication tools across Heterogeneous platforms such as HVR and Goldengate  • A very good team player, self-motivated, dedicated in any work environment and excellent in documentation.