Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Fairview Health Services New Brighton, MN With over 8 years of IT and related experience coupled with years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c database administration. Worked on very large production databases performing various DBA roles. Experience across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, Solaris, UNIX, AIX and Windows) in production, development and test environments.  Enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail. Possess excellent leadership ability and creative problem-solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as great communication /documentation skills. Strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems and possess well-honed ability to adapt and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and challenging work environment. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Fairview Health Services - Edina, MN October 2014 to Present • Administered and supported development of Oracle 11g databases by installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle server, creating databases, objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Implemented backup procedures using RMAN and Data pump utility for Oracle databases and test regularly in conjunction with Operations.  • Maintained 24*7 Availability by implementing standard processes and troubleshooting live issues within defined tight SLA times.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, table partitions, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Performed batch jobs using crontab utility.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing and other security related task including transparent data encryption.  • Troubleshoot Database Performance issues using OEM, AWR, ADDM and ASH.  • Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as TDE and Data Masking  • Performed migrations, clones and upgrades of banner systems and deployed monthly security patches and updates.  • Resolved locking issues, inconsistencies and assisted in batch processes.  • Redesigned table and index partitioning strategies, using HINTS to improve the query Performance.  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Monitor AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Good knowledge in setting parameter files (both Pfile & Spfile) and automated the processes using CRONTAB.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Documentation. Oracle Database Administrator Costco - Issaquah, WA January 2010 to September 2014 • Identified root cause of Oracle errors and provided solutions to resolve errors. Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK & SQL Trace  • Monitored bugs from alert log, audit logs and trace files.  • Used DDL statements to CREATE and ALTER within a dynamic SQL script to create schemas, Synonyms and Roles. Extensive use of SELECT statements for reporting.  • Troubleshoot application related problems with developers and system administrators  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes.  • Performed data transfer using Export/Import and Data Pump.  • Provided capacity planning, tuning and administration support to application development efforts. Goals achieved ranged from I/O minimization, improved hit ratios, contention reduction, high database availability etc.  • Designed, tested, implemented and documented database migration procedures involving the use of the export/import and migration utilities.  • Used Tablespace Manager, Oracle Expert and STATSPACK to monitor performance bottlenecks, database response time, instance workload and operating system resource usage.  • Installed and configured of Oracle database 9i (9.2.0.4), 10g (10.2.0.1) and 11g (11.2.0.1.0) on various OS platforms like Linux, and Windows NT, 2000.  • Conducted performance tuning of application and database, identified and resolved contention, defined and implemented a backup recovery policy, and day-to-day monitoring of the production database.  • Applied Oracle quarterly patches of the current PSU version to non-RAC and RAC configured databases.  • Performed data and metadata transfer from legacy servers to newly installed servers using Data Pump.  • Implemented Oracle Database advanced security practices such as Virtual Database Privacy, TDE and Data Masking.  • 24x7 remote support and on call Database support using RSA-VPN.  • Configured and managed standby databases using Data Guard.  • Performed SQL tuning using tools such as SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Trace, ASH, AWR, and Explain Plan.  • Built and configured RMAN Recovery Catalog for Backup and Recovery strategy.  • Cloned production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN and Grid Control.  • Performed administrative activities like user creation and administration, profiles, privileges and roles administration, space and schema management.  • Work with developers to diagnose Database related application problems, provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and application issues.  • Experience in applying patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches as per the oracle recommendations. Education MSc Ghent University September 2011 to September 2013 BS in Environmental Science University of Buea October 2007 to October 2010 Skills Database, Database design, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Html, Scripting, Sdlc, Rdbms, Oem, Performance tuning, DBA, Oracle Dba, RAC, Sql Dba, Oracle Database, Sql Database, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses Oracle 12c SQL Fundamentals June 2019 to Present CCNA Routing and Switching December 2018 to December 2021