Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Saint Paul, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Deluxe Corporation - Shoreview, MN November 2017 to Present • Install, upgrade, and patch Oracle Grid Infrastructure and Oracle database enterprise and standard editions.  • Applied both PSU and CPU patches using the Opatch utility patches on all the databases.  • Upgraded databases from 11.1.0.7, 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.03 and to the new 12c.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments  • instances.  • Install and configured a unidirectional Oracle Goldengate 11g.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database  triggers. Also applied TDE (wallet).  • Maintain and develop UNIX shell scripts to manage and monitor the environment.  • Perform and ensure database backups, restores, and recoveries using RMAN.  • Configure and maintain standby database with Data Guard.  • Involved in Installing, Configuring and Administration of Oracle 10g/11g RAC on ASM.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import  utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Manage database space using ASM and filesystems.  • Perform capacity planning at the instance, operating system, and storage levels.  • Monitor database performance using Grid Control and SQL scripts.  • Tune all Oracle instance components including SQL and PL/SQL.  • Troubleshoot service problems, determine the root cause, and provide resolutions.  • Implement migrations of Oracle schema objects.  • Provide guidance on good database design and implementation practices to Developers.  • Worked with SQL Server team  • Assisted in migrating data from Oracle RDBMS to SQL Server.  • Implemented SQL Server Security and object permission like creation of users, configuring permissions database authentication modes and assigning roles of users. Oracle Database Administrator Target Corporation - Brooklyn Park, MN August 2014 to October 2017 Responsible for configuring Dataguard physical and standby database setup for high  availability.  • and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free, space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall  maintenance of the databases.  • Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  • Responsible for performance monitoring, database tuning, identification and correction of performance bottlenecks.  • Perform database server software installations, upgrades, and patch management as required.  • Refresh and restore tables and schemas.  • Create reports to monitor database information (including statistics on schemas, tables, indexes, and space usage) and user activity ( database access, login failures, application  usage, and password changes).  • Work closely with Product Development teams and provide feedback to improve product  quality.  • Develop administration automation and monitoring scripts as needed.  • Develop and maintain Standard Operating Procedures/documentation. Oracle Database Administrator BestBuy Corporate - Richfield, MN May 2011 to June 2014 Created, installed, upgraded, configured and maintained the Oracle database  environment.  • Partitioned tables using suitable methodologies to improve performance and manageability.  • High-speed movement of data and metadata using Data Pump expdp and impdp.  • Implemented Oracle database advanced security practices such as TDE, and Data  Masking.  • Administered database user security by managing privileges, roles and profiles.  • Monitored and tuned performance of database instances using OEM and SQL Developer.  • Worked with developers on constructing effective PL/SQL programs and test packages.  • Performed Point-in-time recovery (PITR), database refreshes, as well as database  recovery.  • Tuned databases using recommendations from the advisory framework, explain plan and SQL tuning advisor.  • Planned and scheduled backup/restore strategies following company SLA and recovery  time objectives (RTO) using RMAN.  • Supported application developers in planning, load analysis, and backup and recovery of data.  • Maintained up-to-date documentation of all Oracle environments. Education Certified Associate Indian Hills Community College - Ottumwa, IA June 2011 Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Replication, Sql, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Ux, Rdbms, Hp-ux, Documenting, Oem, Optimization, Loader