Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Austin, TX Well-rounded DBA with 06 years of experience in full development life cycle. Expertise in database administration include Installation, configuration, patch installation and upgrades, performance tuning, database backup and recovery, security, database optimization, data migration, RAC, ASM, Data guard and Golden Gate, SQL server, and Exadata. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator COTIVITI - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to August 2019 24/7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.  ? Proactive Performance monitoring and tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, STATSPACK, ESTIMATE, ANALYSE, EXPLAINPLAN, HINTS, SQLTRACE, TKPROF and DBV and gathered DBMS statistics.  ? Using TCP/IP Protocol Configured SQL*Net files on server/client machines and resolved client connectivity issues.  ? Data Refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup test, development environments using SAN level storage mirroring: Gold image copy and cloning.  ? Managed ASM storage, Prepare, Add, remove ASM disks. Tuning of I/O on ASM based databases. Troubleshoot ASM crashes & memory issues.  ? Management of schema objects, partitioning of tables & indexes and performing SQL Loader jobs for loading data from flat files (ETL).  ? Worked on setting up Physical Standby Data Guard environment for Prod & non-prod databases.  ? Handled High volume production databases around 7TB size along with Physical standby databases.  ? Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like RAC, DATA GUARD.  ? RAC- Administration and Troubleshooting of 03 Nodes cluster on Oracle 11gR2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Migrate OCR files to ASM. Trouble-shoot Resource related issues. Cluster-wide Resource management such as create resource plan, Service configuration, parallel instance group, Application Isolation. Stress testing, benchmarking of clustered database.  ? Experience working with SQL, PLSQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  ? Successful in installation, maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases. Oracle Database Administrator UNICA - Waltham, MA July 2013 to May 2016 Performed Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  ? Install and configure block change tracking to work with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  ? Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  ? Involved in the installation and configuration of two node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL platform.  ? Involved in team effort to evaluation of Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  ? Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  ? Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management, rollback management, transaction management and security administration like creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles.  ? Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  ? Performed incremental backups using Recovery Manager (RMAN). Created recovery catalog, performed complete and incomplete recovery using RMAN.  Database Refreshing - Replication from production to testing using Expdp/Impdp. Education Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Yaounde Associate Degree in Logistics and Transport in Logistics and Transport University of Douala Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Postgresql