Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Humana Inc Louisville, KY Over 6 years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator and have complete life cycle knowledge including Installation. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions in both production support and development across a full SDLC. Some areas of expertise include Performance tuning, Backup and Recovery, Dataguard, RAC, Golden Gate, Database Security, Database Upgrades and Patching, Database Refreshes and Database Migrations across different platforms. From time to time I've also Provided a 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.    In addition, I have Good communication, documentation and cooperation skills with an aptitude to learn quickly, take responsibility, work under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Humana Inc - Louisville, KY March 2016 to Present • Installed, Configured, Setup, Maintained and Supported Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database on Test, Development and Production environments for various home-developed applications like Portfolio Management Systems and vendor applications such as SAP Business solutions  • Configured Oracle Golden Gate 11g and 12c for multiple databases as well as Monitoring and Troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12c databases of at least 2.0 TB, 3 Node production 11g RAC databases using OEM 12c for Alert Monitoring and Notification  • Experience with SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, bash and shell scripting.  • Migrated to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB of applications that otherwise have their own instances and qualify to be PDBs.  • Troubleshooted and resolved slowness or performance issues with extensive investigation using OEM or scripts and later follow-up with respective application teams with RCA and proposed solutions.  • Configure Dataguard and Broker for administration of seamless switchovers.  • Upgraded DBs from 11g to 12c with physical standby DBs in place and applied upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases  • Analyzed and Utilized AWR, ASH and ADDM reports, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL Baselines, SQL Profiles and SQL Tuning Advisor to troubleshoot and provide tuning recommendations to the application team.  • Refreshed Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis using the datapump utility.  • Day-to-day usage of Oracle 11gR2 features - Real Application Testing, automatic SGA tuning, enhanced RMAN with Flash Recovery Area, Block Change Tracking, Flashback Database, compression techniques and several others  • Usage of enhanced 12c New features like - Real Application Testing, Table and partition recovery using RMAN, Invisible columns, DDL Logging.  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Working with Application Development team to address any issues they encounter and provide support and resolution action plan. Managed all indexing, debugging optimization and performance tuning using SQL Profile and SQL server Agent.  • Involved in data integration by identifying the information needs within and across functional areas of an enterprise database upgrade and migration with SQL Export Utility.  • Configured and administered SQL Clusters (Active/Passive, Active/Active) Database mirroring, Replication and Log shipping. Oracle Database Administrator Mayo Clinic - Waukon, IA June 2013 to February 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduled and monitored Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRONTAB using RMAN utility.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.1 database on Linux platform. And Successfully performed some migrations from Oracle 11g and 12c to RAC Databases.  • Used to run scripts for space management of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as well and when required.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch". Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Scripting, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Cisco, Hp-ux, Vpn, Rdbms, Loader, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems HP-UX 11.x. Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.x, 6.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 2010, 2012  RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, MySQL  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Software/Applications/Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC and Cisco VPN Client  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import