Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Valmont Industries Chester, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Valmont Industries - Omaha, NE July 2017 to Present • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Linux and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented oracle 11g active standby database for test database environment.  • Implemented oracle 12c flexi ASM for pre-prod environment.  • Utilized rman recover table functionality and created proof of concepts for our pre-prod environment.  • Installed, Configured Oracle 12c Goldengate on Oracle 12c Database.  • Implemented OEM 12c Repository database, OEM 12c Agent and golden gate plugin Installations.  • Extensive Experience with Change Board Meetings and Change Control Management for all database changes.  • Providing database administrative support and 24x7 on call support for production, development oracle 12c/11g databases on Red Hat Linux 5.0 and oracle enterprise Linux 5.5  • Experience with large databases (1.5 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.  • Performed installation, configuration and maintenance of oracle 11g/12c, 11g RAC databases.  • Experience in configuring oracle 10g, 11g Real application cluster (RAC) (2 and 3 nodes) using clusterware and automatic storage management (ASM).  • Performed migration of oracle 10g/11g non RAC single instance to RAC database instances.  • Experience with 11g cluster maintenance using CRSCTL command.  • Experience in using SRVCTL command for Oracle 11g RAC database.  • Implemented Disaster Recovery database 10g/11g and 12C Data Guard on physical standby database in maximum performance mode using LGWR ASYNC mode.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Applied PSU Patches (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Used Oracle 11g/12c AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and performance tuning.  • Backup of Database (Making Backup Schedules depending upon Business Strategy: Daily Backup, weekly Backup etc.)  • Proactive performance monitoring, and capacity planning for future database and server growth using OEM.  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Resolved data integration issues.  • Solid discipline in providing end-users timely updates on their problems. Installing server software.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  Migrated VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 2TB and redesigned the RMAN backup Strategy.  • Export/Import, Data pump, Transportable tablespaces to migrate databases from one database to another.  • Migrated data to a new ASM Disk group to improve the IO performance of the database. Oracle Database Administrator American Home Patient - Nashville, TN March 2014 to July 2017 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2 and 12c.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNSnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Applied security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using runInstaller and opatch.  • Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Strong experience in creating Packages, Stored Procedures and Functions, Database Triggers.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including: Backups, exports and imports, archiving old records and verification of such processes.  • Extensively implemented Data pump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 12c,11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data Pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.    MS SQL SEVER EXPRIENCE  Responsibilities:  • Administration of large databases in SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014 and 201  • Implement and enforces security for all of the SQL Server Databases.  • Configured SQL Server Agent-Events, Jobs, Alerts, maintenance plans, Database Mail and Operators.  • Solved problems related to database/Server performance issues like slow running queries, blocking and high CPU Utilization.  • Implemented SQL Server Security and object permission like creation of users, configuring permissions database authentication modes and assigning roles of users.  • Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environmen  • Created and managed databases across Development and Production instances using SQL Server Management Studio Education Bachelor's Skills Database administrator, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Rman, Backups, Aix, Linux, Shell scripts, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Project support, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  • Hard working professional with over 5 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. Some key areas of specialization include installation and configuration, production support, project support, upgrades and patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, capacity planning, database security, cloning, migration and documentation.  • Highly experienced in online and offline Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting using AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL tuning advisor, explain plan.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM.  • Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  • Oracle GoldenGate experience with Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle GoldenGate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database servers and ensure data synchronization.  • Hands on experience on Security.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "run Installer" and "opatch" utility.  • Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Data Migrations.  • Experience in doing upgrades including maintenance & monitoring implementation.  • Extensive knowledge in UNIX platforms includes HP, SOLARIS, AIX, and LINUX.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems  HP-UX, Sun Solaris, AIX, RHEL and Windows.    RDBMS  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Languages  SQL, PL/SQL    Tools  EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import    SQL SEVER EXPIRIENCE    Two years plus experience MS SQL Server, 2012,2014 and 2016    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Database Tools  Azure Monitor, Toad, Putty, NX client, Sql Server Management Studio, Cisco Automatic workload Automation    Operating Systems  MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX