Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Metropol Tech Parkville, MD Accomplished Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with over five years' experience with expertise in data security, performance tuning, crisis management, and high availability. Use latest Oracle database technologies to increase reliability, maximize productivity in a fast-paced environment, and introduce system efficiencies supporting next-generation database solutions in oracle database enterprise. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Metropol Tech - Laurel, MD September 2015 to Present Supports large production databases; play a supporting-lead role in enterprise-wide database optimization and instance and resource monitoring. Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries. Worked actively on 11g and 12c databases using features such as AWR, ADDM, and ASH for performance statistics collection, and finetuning database wait events. Provide on-call support for enterprise databases. Migrate an eleven-terabyte production database from 11gR2 stand-alone to a 2 node RAC on 12c.  Key Responsibilities:  • Manage biweekly optimization meetings with enterprise user groups to address and resolve performance-related issues with a high degree of success.  • Responsible for developing documentation for encrypting all databases in TEST, DEV, and Production environment  • Managed the creation of appropriate user profiles and implemented strong password authentication policy to enhance database security.  • Implements, Troubleshoots and resolved Database encryption issues (data at rest and data in motion).  • Installed 11.2.0.4 and upgraded databases from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  • Upgraded oracle databases from 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g using both manual method and DBUA.  • Works with security team to resolve vulnerability findings resulting from database vulnerability assessments scans.  • Experience setting up Database Access Control (Multi-factor Authentication or Two-factor Authentication).  • Preforms Schema, Table, Database refresh using Data Pump utility.  • Securing stored data using Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Performed RMAN backups (Full, Incremental and Cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard  • Improved performance in daily transactions by identifying and reorganizing index on major tables.  • Creating & managing database structures, Storage Allocations, and database access for added security.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Prepare/update technical documentation including for the following: operational manual, backup/recovery, database maintenance, patching.  • Migration of oracle 10g and 11g databases from HP-UX to AIX servers using Data pump, RMAN and Golden Gate  • Experience in configuring Oracle network, RMAN, Recovery Catalog, and Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL scripts and instance. Used stats pack report, AWR report, ADDM advisors, auto trace and execution plan.  • Responsible for the design, development, implementation and maintenance of enterprise database management systems.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM), configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database for high availability  • Proactively work on capacity planning in terms of memory and disk usage, establishing benchmarks for business and technical performance.  • Performed SQL tuning with reports generated from SQL Trace, ASH, Explain Plan  • Installed, configured and managed multiple 11GR2 2/4 node RAC for maximum availability.  • Accomplished a successful migration of VLDB multi-terabyte databases around 10TB using DATAPUMP  • Configure Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) on Oracle 12c (Data level encryption).  • Preforms Schema, Table, Database refresh using Data Pump utility.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing various High Availability systems, Real Application Clusters (RAC), oracle Enterprise Manager, Golden Gate and Data Guard  • Apply quarterly Oracle PSU patch to both CDB and PDB databases using data patch.  • Planned and implemented Oracle 11g, 12c Standby Databases (Data Guard) for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR).    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Unix, Linux, AIX 6 and 7. Oracle Database Administrator Aronson Tech - Rockville, MD December 2013 to August 2015 Set up new databases and provided all database-related support for the production as well as test databases for different markets. Performed space estimation and calculation, application installation, performance/memory tuning, server/ database monitoring, configuration, and troubleshooting. Provided design input and interacted with the design team on the best database practices. Evaluated server/instance architecture, hardware, system specifications, and capacity planning. Managed, trained, and mentored staffs.    Key Responsibilities:  • Installation of oracle 11g and 12c databases in development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • On-Call 24x7 production support and Performance Monitoring on Development and Production Environment.  • Executing Database Platform Migration. Solaris to Unix and AIX to UNIX  • Database Network Encryptions and TDE Encryptions  • Extensively use of Datapump, conventional export/import, and SQL loader utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Performed periodic cloning/Refresh of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate and Datapump.  • Database Monitoring Using Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (OEM) and Command line.  • Performing Database Performance Tuning in Production, Development, and Test Environments using AWR, ADDM, Utlstat, scripts, Statspack and Dynamic Performance Views to Monitor System Statistics and wait events,  • Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Managing database security.  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes to improve performance and effective space management.  • Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient Backup and recovery by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0 and to 12.1.0  • Applied PSU Patches as a part of maintenance activity.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Unix, Linux and Windows Education Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College December 2012 Bachelor of Science in Accounting in DBA Workshops University of Abuja December 2005 Skills DATABASE (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), SQL (4 years), AIX (4 years), LINUX (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, C, Pro*C, Forms, Perl and UNIX Shell Scripting.  Platforms: UNIX (Sun Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, Red Hat Linux), Windows and DOS  Database: Oracle Database 10g, 11g, 12c, SQL Server 2012/14.Performance tuning Tools- OEM, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, ASH  Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), DBCA, Data Pump, RMAN, DBUA, SFTP, TCP/IP, Grid Control, Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN), Recovery Catalog, Automated Workload Repository (AWR), ADRCI, Data Pump, Real Application Clusters (RAC), Unix Shell Scripting, Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  RDBMS: Oracle10g 11g Releases 1 and 2, 12c  Tools: SQL*Plus, EM, Grid Control, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Tracing, Explain-Plan, ASM Grid Control, AWR, Scheduler, PL/SQL, Crontab, Data Pump, Shell Scripting, ASH, TOAD, SQL Developer, IBM Clear Case/Quest.  Community Integration    • UMUC Residential Life Para-professional Staff, Summer 2011  • UMUC Collegiate Entrepreneur Organization, Fall 2011  • UMUC Club Soccer. Fall 2