Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cardinal Health Dublin, OH ;    A dedicated database administrator with 7 years of experience on very large- scale OLTP and OLAP databases management, software installation and configuration, database migration across multiple platforms, upgrade and patching, shell scripting, backup and recovery, Dataguard, job scheduling, oracle Goldengate, database cloning and refreshes, data security, performance tuning and and good exposure on cross platform migrations from Oracle to PostgreSQL.  I am also a self-motivated person always willing to learn new technologies, a very good team player able to adapt easily in any work environment and excellent in communication and documentation    ? Created Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security.  ? Worked on Creation of table spaces, data files, roles, redo logs, rollback segments, stored procedures and Triggers.  ? Experience in Upgrade from oracle 10g to 11g and 12c. Migration of oracle database from red hat Linux, Window platform to Linux on development, integration and production environment using Oracle Data Migration Assistant, Transportable tablespaces.  ? Responsible in configuring Integrated Extract (to support Compressed table extraction) and Co-ordinated replicate after upgrading Golden Gate to 12.1  ? Experience in full life cycle of database administration. Worked both as a Development and Production Support DBA on a 24x7 Basis. Willing to work beyond regular hours.  ? Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for Disaster Recovery configuration.  ? Monitored physical I/O and Proper sizing of rollback segments.  ? Optimized SQL using explain plan, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze the execution plan and tune the statements.  ? Installed and configured 4 nodes server-side load balancing RAC (Real Application Clusters) databases on HP UNIX and Linux with ASM (Automatic Storage Management) and Data Guard.  ? Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem-solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  ? Migrate to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB of applications that otherwise have their own instances and qualify to be PDBs.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve slowness or performance issues with extensive investigation and follow-up with respective application teams with RCA and proposed solutions.  ? Responsible for RMAN backups, and improvement to backup with incremental backup by adding block change tracking feature of Oracle 11gR2. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH April 2016 to Present DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running Linux Database sizes range from 400GB to 6TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  ? Experienced in Golden Gate Installation and Configuration for database replication purpose, replicate, manager and extract  ? Supported 200 databases including RAC production database, a Data warehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10.2.0.1 to 12.2  ? Supported both ON-PREM and CLOUD databases using AWS sql access.  ? Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  ? Implemented Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis as per development and test servers.  ? Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11gRAC (Real Application Clusters) with AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) reports and ASH (Active Session History).  ? Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  ? Implemented backup and recovery procedures (Cold/Hot backups, RMAN Incremental backups & Import/Export or datapump.  ? Database cloning using RMAN hot backup and manually.  ? Strong experience in Space and User Management, standby setup, Backup & recovery.  ? Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  ? Scheduled database maintenance tasks such as tables/indexes analysis, index rebuild, materialized views refresh and db exports using OEM, crontab, one automation  ? Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  ? Managed Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  ? Created and Managed Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  ? Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), TOAD and SQL Developer.  ? Implemented transparent data encryption for encrypting user data with oracle wallet.  ? Managed all indexing, debugging, optimization and performance tuning using SQL Profile, and SQL Server Agent.  ? Involved in Data Integration by identifying the information needs within and across functional areas of an enterprise database upgrade and Migration with SQL server Export Utility.  ? Configured and administered SQL Clusters (Active/Passive, Active/Active), Database Mirroring, Replication and Log shipping.  ? Tuning auto vacuum parameters to ensure up to date table stats and reclaim space consumed by dead tuples as well as reducing bloating.  ? Configured pg_bouncer for connection pooling.  ? Migrated data from oracle to PostgreSQL.  ? Configured and support PostgreSQL  ? Hands on experience on restoration techniques on PostgreSQL like pg_restore and (PITR) Point in Time Recovery. Performed BACKUPS, and RESTORE, Compressed (gzip) BACKUPS, Database or Schema REFRESHES.  ? Configured streaming replication (including cascading replication). I have configured a REPLICATION between MASTER and SLAVE and monitoring On-Going REPLICATION.  ? Performing BASIC TASKS such as OBJECTS such as, creating roles, granting privileges, creating schemas, tables and tablespaces in Postgres. Oracle Database Administrator Fresenius Medical Care - Lexington, MA January 2012 to April 2016 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on Linux platforms.  ? Involve in migration from oracle to PostgreSQL  ? Configure and support PostgreSQL database.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12 oracle cloud control  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Backup/Recovery - Write Rman Backup script as required. Restore backupset to Local server from Tape. Recover database to point-in-time on different host. Restore tables from Old backup.  ? Applied in-place/out-of-place PSU Patch in 11R2. Install bug fix patch.  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 11.2.0.3 to 12.1  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Detected corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  ? Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server  ? Document and communicate changes to the OLTP, OLAP systems and data warehouse teams, including Data Modeling, ETL and Database teams  ? Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  ? Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  ? Implemented security through virtual private database and value-based auditing.  ? Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centers.  ? Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements  ? Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA.  ? Perform production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  ? Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  ? Conducted Backup and Restore of Databases and Schedule Maintenance plans to perform regular Backups.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Made optimal use of METALINK (Oracle Support) in resolving the TARS (SR).  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Education B.A in General and Applied Linguistics in General and Applied Linguistics University of Yaoundé Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Rman, Vpn, Hp-ux, Cisco, Rdbms, Scripting, Loader Additional Information Technical Skills;    Operating Systems HP-UX 11.x. Sun Solaris 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.x, 6.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 2010, 2012  RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g, MS SQL(2016, 2017), PostgresSQL9.0- 9.5  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting.  Tools TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, and ADDM. Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC and Cisco VPN Client  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import