Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - CMA Consulting Services Albany, NY I have over 6 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator with a complete life cycle knowledge including Development, Test, UAT and Production support. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g database versions where duties included production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patch management, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning and security management.  • Good Knowledge and hands on experience on Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG issues.  • Experience with implementation of Oracle Advance security (transparent data encryption, data redaction, data masking) and Wallet Manager.  • Expertise in Migration and upgrades of Oracle databases.  • Experienced in applying patches including Patch sets and CPU/PSU, One-Off patches on oracle Databases using OPatch Utility.  • Planning, scheduling and managing Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups with data pump using (expdp/Impdp utility). Installation, implementation and managing RMAN.  • Performance Tuning of test and production database, monitoring system. Tuning and diagnosing of database performance by query Optimization and trace facility Monitoring users, free spaces, table spaces and indexes  • Proficient in installation and working with Data Guard for production system in case of disaster recovery, maintained primary and standby databases; and Data Guard Broker.  • Experienced in system Monitoring with tools like Oracle Enterprise Managers (OEMs), and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, gathering statistics using Stats pack, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  • Proficient in maintenance of Production, Testing, Development, RAC, Standby databases/ Data guard for OLTP and DATAWAREHOUSE environments.  • Proficient in flashback technology and other features such as log miner and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Expertise in performing Hot and cold backups with and without RMAN. Automated RMAN scripts using cronjob to perform daily backups.  • Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN. Expert in performing manual recovery, using RMAN with and without a recovery catalogue.  • Performed Data Archiving whenever required for moving data to a separate storage device.  • Experienced in Space Management, Resource management and Capacity Planning. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator CMA Consulting Services - Latham, NY March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Monitoring and troubleshooting database performance, space usage management, maintaining backup jobs (export and rman backups) and management of all targets using Oracle Enterprise Manager 13c Cloud Control.  • Installation of oracle software 12.2, database upgrades from 12.1 to 12.2 and application of one-off patch to the 12.1 Oracle home.  • Schema Refresh and data migration from Production database to lower environments.  • Managing, planning and scheduling of backup and recovery strategies (RMAN and Logical backup using data pump) across the SDLC.  • Maintenance of Production, UAT, Training, QA, Development database; configured on 2 node RAC, Standby databases/ Data guard for OLTP environments.  • Implementation of database security through user management by grating roles, privileges, assigning profiles and troubleshooting user connectivity issues.  • Performance tuning and analysis using AWR, ADDM, ASH, explain plan, and sql tuning advisor.  • Working with the DEV team on releases by applying the Database changes. Oracle Database Administrator PFIZER - Groton, CT January 2015 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Configured databases using scripts and dbua, maintained Oracle 11g and 12c databases on Linux OS and Upgraded from Oracle versions 11g to 12c and applied PSU patches.  • Database refreshes, Table refreshes and schema refreshes using Data pump expdp/impdp utility. RMAN Duplicate and cloning using HOT and COLD backups.  • Planning Backup/Recovery Strategies using RMAN, scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups with Export/Import Utility (Data Pump) and Transportable Table spaces.  • Designed, developed, and implemented database security management, monitoring methods, and performance tuning. Provided technical support for all application administrators and users.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored oracle databases using automatic workload repository (AWR), Explain Plan, automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM), Active Session History (ASH) and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for maintaining and managing of 2 node RAC on Linux in 11g database.  • Implemented Data Guard for disaster recovery, created and physical standby databases in 11g for production database.  • Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting Golden Gate 12c software.  • Work closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas, users and granting roles and privileges for security as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production using data pump. Oracle Database Administrator COSTCO - Seattle, WA August 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed oracle software, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11g R2 on Linux OS and Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g database versions.  • Involved in checking and managing tablespace growth, monitoring the data file growth and extents.  • Involved in export and import of database objects to copy them from one database to another & for backup the tables using data pump.  • Responsible for continuous Monitoring of CPU usage, I/O contention, memory paging and identify the resource and performance bottleneck and reorganization for ensuring performance.  • Collecting performance statistics using Stats pack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and analyzing by ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor)  • Refresh/Cloning of Database from production environment to test environment.  • Setup & test backup on databases. Writing RMAN scripts embedded in shell scripts. Recover full database by applying archive and redo logs. Duplicate database using RMAN on remote host.  • Monitoring and maintenance activities which include checking alert logs, space management, undo management, gathering database statistics, database locking issues, scheduling of jobs in crontab. Used OEM on 11g databases.  • User management includes, create/alter users, granted roles, and assigned resource profile; assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups. Auditing database objects for DML operation.  • Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using ADDM, Explain Plan, and SQL tuning advisor.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) with crontab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Provided 24X7 support for production, test and development databases. Education Bachelor of Science in Food Science and Technology in Food Science and Technology Imo State University Owerri August 2006 Skills Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Linux, Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate February 2019 to Present Oracle Database 12c Administration