Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - M&T Bank Auburn, NY, 13021, US Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator M&T Bank - Buffalo, NY June 2016 to Present Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, Automatic Workload  Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor  (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High  availability configuration.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Golden gate for replication.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining  backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate  backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Upgraded Oracle 10g database version to 11g and 11g to 12 c version  • Provided database related services to their development & QA environments.  • Good experience of Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Server) on different  nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  • Upgraded various databases from 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and minor version upgrades  • Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 2-node RAC  • Configured Offline and Online Disaster recovery sites to maximize the database availability  Applied Oracle Patches (CPU/PSUs and One-off patches)  • Strong skills in SQL* PLUS, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH),  • Import/Export Server Manager. Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g  RAC environment for production database.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are  appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test  environments.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL  replication too.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity  involved in Oracle Streams.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with EMC Storage for managing data in SAN.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM  console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of 11g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintained data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster  recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Data Migration as part of enterprise data warehouse project.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them  using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing  Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump  import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query  tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using  GRID, Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listner, AGENT Tuning using  explain plan, SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization  parameters.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3  database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best  hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using  OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/, VMS, Sun Solaris, AWS, Windows Server 2016-2017, Red Hat  Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Keybank - Cleveland, OH July 2014 to June 2016 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX  platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  10g Grid Control.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High  availability configuration.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing  Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump  import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using  OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage  area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster  recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC  database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing  UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node  RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Netbackup, Rman, Veritas, Vba, Java, Loader, Oem, Emc Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Database: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c    Operating Systems: Windows 2014, 2016, RHEL (RedHat Linux), UNIX, Solaris    Database Languages & Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*PLUS, SQL* LOADER, VBA, JAVA,  SQL, SQL*Loader, Database Links Utilities, RMAN, OAM, OEM,  EXP, IMP, expdp, impdp, TOAD, SQL*Loader, EMC, Veritas  NetBackup