Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - NBTY, Inc. Long Island Brooklyn, NY ? Six plus years of experience in Database Administration and Developer for very complex and large databases in SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012 and 2008 R2.  ? Expertise in Database Administration on Production Server with server configuration, patch, upgrade, maintain and migrate databases.  ? Expertise and proficiency in SQL Server Replication with Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations.  ? Administering SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies.  ? Experience with High Availability solution such as Cluster, Replication, Mirroring, AlwaysOn and Log Shipping.  ? Worked on upgrading various version of SQL Server from lower to higher.  ? Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and analysis index.  ? Experience in working on Database Monitoring tools and Application support.  ? Strong experience in mentoring team members and writing documentation.  ? Designed data Partitioning solutions for tables and indexes.  ? Strong Experience in creating jobs, Alerts and Scheduling SSIS Packages.  ? Experience in maintenance plans to perform index de-fragmentation, reorganize index, rebuild index, and update the index statistics.  ? Expertise in troubleshooting SQL issues by using SQL Tools, execution plans, Trace, statistics, index tuning.  ? Experience in using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and optimizing the queries, tracing long running queries and deadlocks. Work Experience Database Administrator NBTY, Inc. Long Island April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Installed, configured patched SQL Server 2016 in all environments.  ? Migrated database SQL server 2012 to SQL Server 2016 in Microsoft Windows Server 2016 Enterprise Edition  ? Configured and maintained AlwaysOn Availability Groups as High Availability and Disaster Recovery Solution on SQL Server 2016.  ? Managed user permission by adding them in AD and user tables.  ? Implemented and managed Transactional replication. Also, created notifications and alerts for replication jobs and out of sync issues.  ? Monitoring and rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Monitor databases for block, deadlock, resource utilization by sessions, and captured long running queries.  ? Worked extensively on performance Tuning using native tools like SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, DBCC, Stored Procedures, and DMVs.  ? Configured and maintained maintenance plan for incremental backup plan for all databases.  ? Monitored SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and deadlocks.  ? Implemented the TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for some production databases for security purpose. Database Administrator Crius Energy, CT August 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Upgraded SQL server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2008, and 2012 in development, test and production environment  ? Installed and administered Two-Node cluster Active/Passive on Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.  ? Experience in Using DMVs, Performance Dashboard, and tracking Performance Counters.  ? Monitor, reorganize or rebuild indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Recovered databases from disaster and performed Point-In-Time Recovery.  ? Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  ? Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  ? Extensively worked on Dynamic Management Views (DMV) in SQL Server 2008R2 & 2012 and checked Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS.  ? Optimized query performance using execution plans.  ? Monitoring SQL server performance using SQL Profiler to find performance and deadlocks.  ? Extensively worked on Data Partitioning in SQL Server 2008. Database Administrator Principal MCD Inc - New York, NY January 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Installed, configured SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2012 in all environments.  ? Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008 R2.  ? Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan using SQL Server Maintenance Plan.  ? Experienced in configuring log Shipping and Mirroring for SQL Server 2008 R2.  ? Troubleshoot performance problems by performance tuning, optimization, Data Integrity and statistic by using SQL Profiler, PerfMon.  ? Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  ? Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS.  ? Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  ? Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures and triggers.  ? Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  ? Configured Database mail and alerts.  ? Involved in capacity planning and monitoring data/log files size, growth and disk space.    Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008 R2/2012/1016 Windows 10  Database: MS SQL Server 2016/2012/2008R2  Languages: T-SQL  Other Tools: SharePoint 2010, Remedy Ticketing System, JIRA.  Knowledge: Amazon Web Services (AWS)  MS Office: Word, Excel, Access, Outlook and PowerPoint. Education Master's in Information System and Technologies TSUE September 2010 to July 2012 Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Windows 10, Windows server 2008, Windows server 2008 r2