Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Atlanta, GA 8+ years of professional experience as Oracle Database Administrator having good experience in Database Administration, Database Installation, Upgradation, Migration, Patching, Performance Tuning, RAC installation and Maintenance, setting up and Configuring Data Guard, performing all kinds of backups and recoveries, Cloning Databases, Automated RMAN backups, replicated using Golden Gate, Advanced Security, Auditing and Production Support on 10g/11g/12c. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC February 2019 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Production Problem tickets on daily basis using PAC2000  • Worked on non-prod problem tickets on daily basis using Jira  • Performed deployments on lower level environments with golden gate  • Configured Targets and used OEM 12c/13c to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Perform Golden Gate12c replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  • Replication of data using Oracle Golden gate.  • Used buddy files to make changes to golden gate replication during deployment  • Used golden gate monitor to monitor and create blackouts on supplemental logging during deployments  • Using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 12c/13c), Autosys on daily basis for observing the performance of the production database and actively working on performance and space management issues and accordingly providing on-fly solutions to make database healthy and running.  • Database and Oracle Query performance tuning using OEM 12c/13c, AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain Plan,10046,10053.  • Troubleshooting expdp/impdp errors on windows environment.  • Creating and managing database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Refreshing of databases using Data Pump Export and Import utilities (expdp/impdp)  • Configuring Service names and Edition names using rapper script when required.  • Performed tasks like recompile objects, Permission changes and basic dba tasks using rapper script  • Use of tools like OEM 12c,13c, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, ASH, AWR and ADDM reports to proactively monitor performance. Backup procedures using RMAN.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL Performance tuning and Application Tuning using various tools like TKPROF,10046,10053.  • Used ORACLE SQL DEVELOPER for creating PL/SQL (trigger, sequence, stored procedure).  • Used Toad and putty manager for the daily tasks  • Managing and providing 24X7 supports for various versions of databases.    Environment: Exadata, PAC2000, Jira, golden gate monitor, Autosys, Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c,13c, Grid Control, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Shell Scripting, ASM, RAC, Golden Gate 12c, Data Guard, data pump, putty manager, Toad 12.3,windows Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Equifax - Alpharetta, GA October 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12C in QA and Prod environments  • Cross Platform Database Migration from AIX standalone to 3 node RAC machines on Linux  • Planning and implementing DR & high availability solutions using Oracle 12c Standby Database, Oracle Data guard, 11g/12c RAC.  • Resolved RAC 11g/12c Contention wait types (gc blocks lost, gc buffer busy, grant 2-way).  • Monitored DR (Data Guard) implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  • Expertise in configuring Active Data guard, Snapshot standby and troubleshooting issues and configuring Service Level Agreements for query's accessing standby databases  • Configured Targets and used OEM 12c/13c to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Cloned databases using RMAN Utility.  • Installing new DBMS versions and applying patches, maintenance fixes supplied by the DBMS vendor.  • Performed Golden Gate12c replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  • Replication of data using Oracle Golden gate and configured Active-Active replication.  • Setup replication of data using oracle golden gate uni-directional for metric collection  • Used credential store and wallet along with golden gate  • Creation of Materialized views and partitioned the database tables to improve reporting performance.  • Creating and dropping of Users, granting and revoking privileges/roles to users as and when required.  • Using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM 12c/13c) on daily basis for observing the performance of the production database and actively working on performance and space management issues and accordingly providing on-fly solutions to make database healthy and running.  • Database and Oracle Query performance tuning using OEM 12c/13c, AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain Plan,10046,10053.  • Troubleshooting expdp/impdp errors in a RAC environment, configuring storage accordingly.  • Creating and managing database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Refreshing of databases using Data Pump Export and Import utilities (expdp/impdp) along with dblinks.  • Implemented backup/recover strategies using hot backup, cold backup using RMAN and Export/Import utilities and Wrote Shell Scripting for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  • Implemented Data Guard Broker and performed various operations like Switchover, Stop and Start MRP  • Conducted analysis and feasibility studies for development of Oracle Exadata solutions.  • Doing cross platform migration using Export/Import from AIX to Linux server.  • Experience using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) for ETL purposes.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for SQL* NET connectivity.  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting database problems such as errors and bugs, performance problems, runaway processes, connectivity problems, poor SQL statements, etc.  • Performing day-to-day activities of Production database such as monitoring its growth and performance and performed maintenance tasks, rebuilding indexes, gathering statistics, refreshing materialized views etc.  • Daily incremental backups and weekly cumulative backups using RMAN.  • Performed SQL tuning, System tuning, Database and Instance tuning by analysing root causes.  • Data partitioning & tuning queries on large Oracle RAC databases.  • Monitoring the instance statistics and tuning the database to improve performance.  • Use of tools like OEM 12c,13c, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, ASH, AWR and ADDM reports to proactively monitor performance. Backup procedures using RMAN.  • Worked on Advance Security Transparent Data encryption (TDE) 12c and installed Database vault server and database firewall and protected realms.  • Developed table structures, PL*SQL stored procedures and database triggers to implement business rules.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL Performance tuning and Application Tuning using various tools like TKPROF,10046,10053.  • Used ORACLE SQL DEVELOPER for creating PL/SQL (trigger, sequence, stored procedure).  • Managing and providing 24X7 supports for various versions of databases.    Environment: Oracle11gR2,12C, Linux 6.3 AIX - 6.1, Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c,13c, Grid Control, OEL, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Shell Scripting, ASM, RAC, Golden Gate 12c, Data Guard. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Starbucks - Seattle, WA September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12C in QA and Prod environments  • Cross Platform Datacentre Migration and Setting up/Installation and configuration of 11.2.0.4 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices, 11g and 12c CRS.  • Installed and implemented 11gR2 3 node RAC with Data Guard/DG broker.  • Planning and implementing DR & high availability solutions using Oracle 11g Standby Database, Oracle Data guard, 10g/11g RAC.  • Resolved RAC 11g/12c Contention wait types (gc blocks lost, gc buffer busy, grant 2-way).  • Monitored DR (Data Guard) implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  • Expertise in configuring Active Data guard, Snapshot standby and troubleshooting issues and configuring Service Level Agreements for query's accessing standby databases  • Configured Targets and used OEM to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Autosys for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Cloned databases using RMAN Utility.  • Installing new DBMS versions and applying patches, maintenance fixes supplied by the DBMS vendor.  • Performed Golden Gate replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  • Replication of data using Oracle Golden gate and configured Active-Active replication.  • Creation of Materialized views and partitioned the database tables to improve reporting performance.  • Creating and dropping of Users, granting and revoking privileges/roles to users as and when required.  • Using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis for observing the performance of the production database and actively working on performance and space management issues and accordingly providing on-fly solutions to make database healthy and running.  • Database and Oracle Query performance tuning using OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain Plan,10046,10053.  • Troubleshooting expdp/impdp errors in a RAC environment, configuring storage accordingly.  • Creating and managing database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Refreshing of databases using Data Pump Export and Import utilities (expdp/impdp).  • Implemented backup/recover strategies using hotbackup, coldbackups using RMAN and Export/Import utilities and Wrote Shell Scripting for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  • Configured 11g R2 and 12c RAC Data Guard and Experience ensuring the high availability, integrity of databases & database designing and assisted in integration of Exadata applications into current IT actionable events and solutions.  • Adding a new node to RAC cluster and installed Oracle RDBMS software on new node of cluster and Created ASM volume using ASMCA and created ACFS for Golden Gate 12c.  • Implemented Data Guard Broker and performed various operations like Switchover, Stop and Start MRP  • Conducted analysis and feasibility studies for development of Oracle Exadata solutions.  • Experience using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) for ETL purposes.  • Doing cross platform migration using Export/Import from Sun Solaris to Linux server.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for SQL* NET connectivity.  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting database problems such as errors and bugs, performance problems, runaway processes, connectivity problems, poor SQL statements, etc.  • Performing day-to-day activities of Production database such as monitoring its growth and performance and performed maintenance tasks, rebuilding indexes, gathering statistics, refreshing materialized views etc.  • Daily incremental backups and weekly cumulative backups using RMAN.  • Performed SQL tuning, System tuning, Database and Instance tuning by analysing root causes.  • Data partitioning & tuning queries on large Oracle RAC databases.  • Monitoring the instance statistics and tuning the database to improve performance.  • Use of tools like OEM, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, ASH , AWR and ADDM reports to proactively monitor performance. Backup procedures using RMAN.  • Worked on Advance Security Transparent Data encryption (TDE) 12c and installed Database vault server and database firewall and protected realms.  • Developed table structures, PL*SQL stored procedures and database triggers to implement business rules.  • Developed custom Forms and Reports as per client requirements and making them web enabled using Oracle Reports builder 6i and Oracle Forms builder 6i respectively.  • Using Oracle developer Database tools to write triggers and procedures, Function.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL Performance tuning and Application Tuning using various tools like TKPROF,10046,10053.  • Used ORACLE sql DEVELOPER for creating PL/SQL (trigger, sequence, stored procedure).  • Managing and providing 24X7 supports for various versions of databases.  • Performed on-call technical support to minimize the impact of system disruptions.  Environment: Oracle 10g,11gR2,12C, Linux 6.3 AIX - 6.1, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, OEL, Sun Solaris, HP-UX, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Autosys, Shell Scripting, TOAD, ASM, RAC, Golden Gate, Data Guard. Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Bank of New York - Brooklyn, NY May 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring Grid Infrastructure & Database software. (Troubleshooting & handling common issues that arise during integration of the whole - bugs, network issues, configuration files issues, OCR issue, de-installation & cleanup of Cluster ware).  • Installation of 11.2.0.3 RAC (4 node) from the Scratch and the maintenance of the high available Databases.  • Worked on RAC and ASM, building and supporting 11GR2 / 12C RAC clusters using ASM storage.  • Applied patches on Oracle 11gR2/12c Cluster ware and RAC databases.  • Migrated OCR and VOTING disks to newer disks by adding newer disks from SAN and dropping the old disks by using ASM's native rebalancing feature.  • Set up Active Data guard Configurations for oracle database 11.2.0.3 for thirty databases whose size varies from 2TB to 5TB on a 3 node RAC.  • Setup physical standby's (DATAGUARD) for several Databases (via OEM as well).  • Configuring storage cell disks and Grid Disks on Exadata cell servers.  • Monitored & performed Exadata Cell storage server administration tasks using Cellcli & Dcli utility  • Migrated databases from non-Exadata servers to the Exadata Database Machine using the RMAN 11g duplicate standby and using Rconfig method.  • Created and monitored Physical standby databases on maximum protection, performance mode using Data guard for Disaster Recovery and performing production databases Maintenance.  • Implemented Physical and Logical Standby Setups Data guard Configurations.  • Configured Oracle data-guard (ADG) for Oracle Disaster recovery on standalone databases using11g ACTIVE DUPLICATION.  • Applied PSU quarterly on 11g/12c GRID & RDBMS homes and Up-gradation of 11g/12c databases  • Performed migration of the oracle databases whose database sizes vary from 750 GB to 1.5TB from Oracle 11.2.0.3/11.2.0.4 to Oracle 12.1.0.2 using Expdp/Impdp.  • Performed cross platform migration with minimal downtime of databases from Solaris 11g to RHEL 6.7 12C using Golden Gate.  • Worked on Oracle Golden gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate Extract and Replicate files and used Defgen utility to create definition files in Golden gate  • Zero Downtime Migration to Oracle Exadata with Oracle GoldenGate11g/12c  • Experience using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) for ETL purposes along with goldengate.  • Documented and logged errors in GOLDENGATE11G/12C environment and worked on OLTP Compression  • Extensively used Log dump utility and define utility for resolving issues in GoldenGate11g/12c  • Extensively used data pump for migrating data between platforms  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security to implement Transparent Data Encryption at table space, table and column levels and configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Monitoring and performance enhancement using session Tracing, Stats pack and CPU utilization.  • Monitoring databases and setting alerts using Oracle Grid Control/Enterprise Manager.  • Planning, implementing and validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 11gR2(11.2.0.4) & 12c upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and working on proof of concept for Oracle 11g upgrades.  • Working closely with clients, business analysts, server administrators, systems programmers, and application developers to define and resolve information flow and content issues helping to transform business requirements into environment specific databases.  • Setup the standby via OEM cloud control 12c for several databases.  • Modified PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages to transfer the data from the lower environments to the Production database.  • Designed/ Developed/Modified Business Rules to accept inputs and validate the input through defined set of rules and generate the output using PL/SQL procedures.  • Created Dynamic SQL queries to retrieve large amounts of data, which run with optimal performance and easy maintainability.  • Extensively used Global Temporary Tables for data processing both staging and session based.  • Used the advanced features of PL/SQL like collections, nested table, array & Dynamic SQL.  • Closely Worked with Oracle support in identifying some long-standing issues. Also, extensively used oracle Metal ink.  • Developed RMAN Cold Backup Script to take backups automatically every week for about 200 databases vary in size from 200GB to 2TB.  • worked on DSE installations and upgrades (major and minor) whenever necessary Tables, index rebuilding, moving objects etc.  • Involved in MRA (Mirror Replication Activator) set-up activity. Solving the MRA problems.  • Security and Transaction Log Management  • Replication Server Monitoring  • Handling of Autosys failures and its analysis.  • Involved in production rollouts and required on daily basis.  • Involved in server builds and setting up of autosys jobs and DBA scripts  • Interpreting Show plan to study performance of queries  • Using DBCC to check database consistency and fix any error.    Environment: Oracle /11g/12c, REDHAT Linux 5.6., AIX 5.,6., Unix 9., Oracle Grid Control RMAN, RAC, DATAGUARD, Goldengate11g, Data guard including DG Broker setup, OPATCH, Oracle Advanced Security, OEM 12c,Sysbase,SQL Developer, Exadata,ODI Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Optum health consultant - Medford, MA February 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Research and apply Oracle-supplied patches to the Oracle software of each OS.  • Respond to data related alerts and escalations, and work to come up with strategic solutions to recurring problems.  • Assist in monitoring, altering, performance tuning, and diagnosing issues for key production database and other environments.  • Provide ongoing database 12C technical support for RDS, EC2 instances on AWS, environment.  • Enact backup/Recovery strategies for all database versions.  • Using Microsoft SQL Server 2014 for database backups/recovery.  • Managing Oracle 12C in an Active dataguard/ASM setup.  • Data movements using export/import tools: DATA PUMP, EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Supporting the DevOps team to implement new solutions in preparation for conversion release to improve production environment.  • Develop and enforce both database and OS-level security policies for data protection by applying Oracle quarterly security patches (PSU)  • Research and document backup/recovery procedure for PROD and lower environments.  • Day to day use of applications tools like SharePoint, Service Now, outlook, slack, skype.  • Day to day activity on real time Oracle production environment in UNIX / Linux / Windows.  • Enact Oracle Performance & Tuning (Hands-on knowledge on Performance Tuning & optimization).  • Day to day management of databases using EM7.  • Implementing/managing Data Guard - Logical & Physical Standby.  • Good exposure on working Oracle RAC - Real Application Cluster.  • Database sizes range from 2TB to 5TB in AWS environments.  • Work with system administrators, developers and tester in a pre-production and production environment.  • Daily Responsible for Configuration Management, Change Management, Systems Availability Monitoring, Incident and Problem Management related to End Users activities.  • Co-ordination with Onsite and offshore team.  • Working closely with the management and other teams in achieving the organizational goal.  • Capacity planning based on growth.  • Project planning and documentation by gathering information, estimation and documentation.  • Provide regular project/task status updates to the teams, team lead and Managers as required.  • Escalate problems as per team guidelines to Team Leaders and/or managers.  • Coordinate daily activities with teams, and engage collaboratively with analysts, engineers, application developers, and system administrators throughout the lifecycle of major projects, from planning to production, including needs assessment and requirements gathering, via tech-test environments.  • Good communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work with team members and independently.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x and 5.x, AIX 5.2, OEM, Sybase, STATSPACK, EXPLAINPLAN, IBM Data stage, SQL Server 2005,aws Oracle Database Administrator Apps associates Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle 3 node RAC for high availability.  • Involved in change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Worked extensively on monitoring 10g/11g Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  • Involved in Migrating applications from single instance databases to Exadata  • Maintained 10g/11g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues.  • Having good experience in Migrating Single Instance database to RAC Environment & Exadata  • Patching of Exadata Cell Storage servers  • Performed upgradation of databases on Exadata environment  • Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas.  • Performed Migration of databases 10g on Hp - Unix to Oracle 11gR2 on Linux.  • Experience in Creating Physical Design Data Models using Erwin Tool.  • Generation of DDL scripts using Erwin Tools.  • Created, monitoring database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links  • Wrote scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also, wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  • Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  • Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, ASH , AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  • Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  • Involved in 24x7 production database maintenance and on-call support.  • Conducted time-to-time analysis and monitoring of the software and hardware requirements and act accordingly  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, RAC on Sun Solaris, Linux, Exadata, RMAN, Data Guard, Golden-Gate 11g, OBIEE, Toad, OEM, ASM. Oracle Database Administrator AXIS BANK - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design, document, implement, and maintain all backup, recovery including disaster recovery procedures.  • Involved in implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g RAC, Standby Database Data Guard, Replication.  • Configured Oracle Data guard (ADG) for Oracle Disaster recovery on standalone databases using11g Active Duplication. Setup backup procedures for various PRODUCTION databases based upon SLA.  • Created physical standby database (for disaster recovery) from hot backup of primary database.  • Resolved gaps between primary and standby databases (Gap Resolution).  • Responsible for purging and archiving the production databases.  • Creating Tables, indexes, & triggers to assist developers.  • Experienced in switching primary database to standby and standby to primary during regular maintenances of catalogue databases and DR databases.  • Involved in 24x7 Oracle Production Database Administration.  • Involved in installation, configuration and support of Oracle 11g RAC.  • Detected locks and resolving in-doubt transactions manually. Tuned oracle SQL statement by tracing.  • Write monitoring/health check scripts to alert team of database uptime/downtime status, sizing issues, which ensured availability 99.98% of the time.  • Took Full/Incremental backups using ORACLE Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Applied various patches on regular basis to oracle software homes.  • Refreshed PROD, DEV, UAT databases using Data pump, RMAN, Transportable Tablespaces etc.  • Developed Shell Scripts and SQL scripts to carry out routine checks on databases and perform various tasks on the database.  • Refresh/Cloning of Database and applications for development and testing purpose.  • Involved in Upgrade/Migration of the oracle databases from Oracle 9i to Oracle 10g.  • Performing Backup/Recovery of all the Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Applied necessary Patches during installation and in up-gradation of databases on Oracle 11g database versions.  • Extensive Experience with Change Control Management for all database changes. Scripts for Health Check of Databases.  • Reading Alert Logs and User Trace Files and Diagnosing the Problem.    Environment: Oracle 9i,10.2.0.2,11.1.0.7, Maestro 7.0, HP service desk, SQL Server 2000/2005, OEM 10g grid, SQL*Loader, Windows XP, IBM AIX 5.3. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Encryption, Rman, Scripting, Storage management, Oem Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g, Oracle 12c, 11g/10g Real Application Cluster (RAC), ASM, MySQL, 9.0/10.0, AIX 5.1, 5.2, SQL SERVER 2008/2012  Oracle Products  Oracle Real Application Cluster 12c/11g/10g, Golden Gate, Data Guard, Import and Export, Data pump, OEM, Oracle Wallet Management, Automatic Storage Management, Recovery Manager, Oracle 10g/11g/12c (Grid Control), Oracle EXADATA, RMAN, Oracle Wallet, Transparent Data Encryption,ODI.    Operating System Oracle Linux, HP UNIX 11i, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, AIX 6.1, Sun Solaris 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, Windows XP/2003/2008  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, Unix shell scripting, python  Tools & Utilities  SQL Trace and SQL tuning Advisory, stats pack, SQL* plus, ADDM, DBCA, Log Miner, TKPROF, AWR, ASH, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer, DB Artisan Putty