Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Cigna-Dental Colorado Springs, CO I’m a Database Administrator with extensive technical skills and knowledge in RDBMS and Open Source Technologies and I count 6+ years of experience in the field. I’m Mostly ORACLE but possess also 2 years of experience in SQL Server and PostgreSQL database administration. I support complete life cycle from Dev., Test, QAT and production. Worked on Oracle 12c, 11g and 10g versions involving database administration, production support, projects support installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, cloning, space management and security. I’m currently enroll in an AWS online course in order to be more valuable to my future employers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Cigna-Dental - Sunrise, FL April 2016 to Present Worked extensively in Performance Tuning at various levels including instance tuning, Query tuning, Database performance tuning. Experienced in performing Database related activities using GRID,  Multitenant Architecture, OEM, Data Pump, SRVCTL, RMAN, SQL*Loader, datapump, Export, Import, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, SVRMGR, SQL*Net/Net8, Listener, AGENT Tuning using explain plan,  SQL Trace, AWR, ADDM, SGA tuning, Statspack and tuning of initialization parameters.  • Good experience of Installation and configuration of RAC (Real Application Server) on different  nodes with ASM (automatic storage management).  • Upgraded various databases from 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and minor version upgrades  • Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 2-node RAC  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, Automatic Workload Repository  (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data Guard feature for High  availability configuration.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle Golden gate for replication.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and  maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Configured Offline and Online Disaster recovery sites to maximized the database availability Applied  Oracle Patches (CPU/PSUs and One-off patches)  • Strong skills in SQL* PLUS, PL/SQL, SQL* Loader, UNIX Shell scripts (KSH and CSH),  • Import/Export Server Manager. Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC  environment for production database.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are  appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements    1  fognotgb@gmail.com  (276) 336-1771    • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication  too.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved  in Oracle Streams.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of Golden Gate sessions at OS level, Database level and GGSCI  level and investigate replication failures using ggserr.log, report files and Log Dump utility.  • Performed Zero Downtime migrations from Non Exadata machines to Exadata machines using Oracle  Golden Gate and Dataguard.  • Developed Shell scripts, SQL & PL/SQL scripts for monitoring Golden Gate processes and their stats  running on 60+ servers from one single database repository  • Monitoring and maintaining 2/3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication  too.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved  in Oracle Streams.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware  configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle  11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL  Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM  (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality  of the databases.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM.    2  fognotgb@gmail.com  (276) 336-1771 Oracle Database Administrator Caresource - Dayton, OH March 2013 to April 2016 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.1 database on HP-UX  • platform.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall  • maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun  • Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle  11gR2.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle  11gR2.  • Perform RMAN operations (Incremental Backups). Helped developer to install  • Oracle Client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to Oracle database through ODBC, JDBC.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM reports.  • Database tuning, Application Tuning & performance monitoring. Fine tuning  • Initialization parameters, I/O, Memory and Operating System kernel parameters.  • Monitored the production Oracle alert logs for database errors and data issues.  • Used EXPORT/IMPORT to do table level and full database defragmentation  • Managed RAC Linux servers running Oracle in cluster environments.  • Performed patching of Oracle databases with latest patches from Oracle.  • Install and configure block change tracking to work with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant  necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases  and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM  (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area  Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster  recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented  recovery strategies.    3  fognotgb@gmail.com  (276) 336-1771    • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality  of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX  scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC  (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 10.2.0.5, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of DSCHANG CAMEROON Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Ux, Hp-ux, Rman, Veritas, Vpn, Rdbms, Cisco, Loader, Emc Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate February 2019 to Present Oracle Certified Associate 12C Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 9, 10, AIX 5.3, 6.1, RHEL 5.x, 6.x,  Operating Systems  Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 2012    RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g    TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and  Tools ADDM. Toad, Putty, WinSCP, Remote Desktop Connection,  VNC, and Cisco VPN Client.  SQL*Plus, SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real  Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, EMC,  Utilities  Database Links Utilities, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump,  Export, Import, Netca, DBUA, DBCA, Veritas.