Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Quest Technologies IT professional with over 5 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I have hands on experience in database installation, and configuration, production and project support, upgrades and patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery, database security, database refreshes, database migration, Dataguard, RAC and Oracle Golden Gate, Oracle EXADATA, SQL Servar, Oracle SAP and AWS. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Quest Technologies - Marlboro, MA February 2017 to Present • Experience in Replication of Data bases using Oracle Streams and Logical Standby.  • Worked with Data Architect on dimensional modeling to optimize the already existing data-warehouse database using STAR Schema.  • Experience Manage and Architect the oracle SOA Web Services.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Monitoring Day-Day Backups, Log's and recovering them as per the requirement. Utilized LOG MINER Technology and applied Application Database Transactions on other Databases.  • Developed Shell scripts, SQL & PL/SQL scripts for monitoring GoldenGate processes and their stats running on 60+ servers from one single database repository providing table level granularity with end-to-end replication.  • Experience in Troubleshoot and tune Oracle e-Business and Non-ERP Oracle Databases.  • Worked with different middleware & IDM teams to resolve their issues from the database side.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 12.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Performed Oracle Schema level and Table level data migrations using Datapump EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Configuring and scheduling of Oracle database backup using RMAN.  • Performed data loads from flat files into an Oracle database using SQL*Loader.  • Monitoring of tablespaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using OEM, ASH/AWR/ADDM, EXPLAINPLAN and TKPROF tools.  • Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Securefiles, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Setting up of Oracle and Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security  • Implemented Dataguard / Standby (with FAL), performed switchover/failover.  • Patched Oracle databases using OPatch utility.  • Responsible to improve the performance by Using the Hints, Indexes, Explain Plan  • Performance tuning of SQL statements using STATSPACK, TKPROF, Explain Plan and SQL Trace  • Setup and documented GoldenGate replication on 10g and 11g for support team.  • Worked with RAC implementation team. Added nodes.  • Tablespace management including, adding/resize data files, allocated quotas to user and managed disk space  • Help writing database triggers, packages, procedures, functions, utilities for application development.  • Implemented backup strategies using hot/cold, exp/imp used on the business req.  • Cloning databases using scripts as well as RMAN and performed Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented disaster recovery system, using RMAN and custom written shell scripts. Create and maintain Oracle Data Guard configuration  • Experienced working on non-prod databases which are resided on Virtual Machines. Oracle Database Administrator Honor Health - Phoenix, AZ February 2014 to January 2017 • Worked in an environment comprising 200+ databases with the largest databases of size about 5 TB.  • Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.  • Implemented 11g Database compression feature for Development and test Instances to reduce the size of databases which help the client to save huge disk space.  • Performing DR switchover and failover operations.  • Syncing of DR databases with the Primary Database for any archival gaps.  • Applied PSU and CPU Patches as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client -Server environment using TNS, LISTNER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Used Data pump for exporting and importing tables, schemas and table spaces.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks like space management, rectified locking problems, managed quotas etc., configured network components like TNSNAMES, Names Server, Connection Manager.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using Oracle Data Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.  • Worked with application developers to address and clarify data requirements to resolve technical and functional issues.  • Enforced corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management.  • Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing Education Bachelor of Science in Management Science University Of Abuja Abuja Skills Database, Oracle, Replication, Sql, Backups, Disaster recovery, Clustering, Erp, Load balancing, Rman, Security administration, Veritas, E-business, Security, Soa, Web services, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Ux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, TOAD  • Enforced Security Administration, system monitoring by adding and removing users, configuring quotas, auditing, and analyzing security problems.  • Wrote scripts notifying DBAs on the status, performance, space availability and admin users password expiration of the database.  • Expert knowledge in installing oracle database server on SOLARIS, HP-UX, AIX, WINDOWS 2012, LINUX and migration of oracle server from 10g to 11g and 12c.  • Expertise in migrating single instance databases to multimode 10g, 11g R1, R2 and 12c RAC environments for high availability and load balancing.  • Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and testing  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  • Good experience in applying Patch set update (PSU) and Critical Patch Update (CPU Patches) on Databases.  • Good experience in Oracle Clustering services (CRS), VERITAS Cluster Services (Quick I/O file systems) and High Availability features. Extensive Knowledge of 10g and 11g ASM.  • Recommend changes to increase efficiency, minimize operating expense or improve accuracy and timeliness of application systems. Performed complete multi-master replication with updateable Materialized views.  • Actively participated in interaction with users, team lead, DBAs and technical manager to fully understand the requirements of the system.  • Proactive monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, AWR, ADDM, and 12c OEM Cloud control Monitoring.  • Experience in Troubleshoot and tune Oracle e-Business and Non-ERP Oracle Databases.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Experienced in maintaining large Production, UAT, IST and DEV environments.  • 24/7 support for Production databases and responsible for round-the-clock database operations. Offered solutions for Production/Development of database applications and ensured customer satisfaction as the prior important.  • Strong experience in Oracle DBA tasks like Installation, creation, maintenance, performance tuning, problem identification, resolution and migration in production and development environments.  • Expertise in installing, configuring and maintaining Standalone and RAC databases on various platforms.  • Create new Oracle databases using DBCA or database scripts. Creating new ASM disk group or raw devices for RAC DBs.  • Experience Manage and Architect the oracle SOA Web Services.  • Proficiency using Flash-Back Recovery, Automatic Storage Manager (ASM) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Manager (ADDM).  • Tuned the database at various levels such as Application Tuning, Memory Tuning, SQL Tuning and Database Contention, I/O Tuning, Capacity planning by using tkprof, Explain Plan, SQL Trace, UTLSTAT, Stats Pack, AWR and ADDM.  • Developed database monitoring/health check alert scripts for database uptime/downtime status, and sizing issues using grid control (OEM)  • Performed manual recovery using archived logs, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental and cumulative backups.  • Experience in Cloning the process of copying an existing Oracle installation to a different location and updating the copied bits to work in the new environmen.  • Experience in Exadata High availability, SCALABILITY, HIGH PERFORMANCE.  • Experience in Oracle SAP Enviroment /BRTOOLS for Backup & Recovery, BRArchive, BRRestore.