Sr. SQL Database Administrator Sr. SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SQL Database Administrator - Subway Milford, CT • 8 Years of extensive experience in Information Technology as an SQL Server DBA (SQL server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016) in Production, Development and Test Environments under UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Extensive experience in installing, configuring and performance tuning of SQL server 2016,2014,2012,2008/R2/2005)  • Extensive experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration for SQL Server in Clustered and non clustered Environment.  • Extensive experience in disaster recovery and high availability SQL server solutions, using Always-on High-Availability groups, SQL server clustering, Mirroring, Log shipping, and replication.  • Extensive experience in space allocation, database migrations and database security.  • Extensive experience in Capacity planning, Performance Tuning, Disaster Recovery and troubleshooting.  • Extensive experience in SQL server performance tuning and performing root cause analysis.  • Dynamics administration experience which includes upgradation and patching.  • Configuring and maintaining Dynamics AX administrative tasks such as (User Management, Configuration, and Deployment).  • Highly experience in configuring Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) synchronous and asynchronous-commit mode.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production.  • Created Snap shot, Transactional, Peer to Peer Review Replications and Log shipping, Mirroring for different customers.  • Extensive experience in backup and restore procedures.  • Extensive experience Configuring, Implementing and maintaining Database mirroring synchronous/asynchronous.  • Extensive experience in implementing replication using different replication models (Snapshot, Merge, and transactional) with different topologies.  • Perform Microsoft Dynamics AX Compliance Center configuration, administration and maintenance.  • Installing and Configuring of Enterprise Portal.  • Backup and restore VLDB databases using Veritas Net backup, Litespeed, Legato and Tivoli.  • Configured High availability groups using SQL 2012.  • Having Knowledge of SQL and Cluster configuration.  • Extensive experience in multiple instances on single Database, share memory, design and implementation.  • Extensive experience in creation and maintained of Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  • Extensive experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Sql Loader, Shell scripting, Cron Jobs, Database Monitoring tools and application support.  • Strong background of Business Intelligence in MS SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 with SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.  • Excellent T-SQL Developer skills including Stored Procedures, Indexed Views, User Defined Functions, Triggers, and Distributed Transactions.  • Extensive experience on migration of data using BCP Utility, Bulk insert, SSIS and DTS packages, Import/Export wizard and copy database wizard.  • Created Linked Servers for OLEDB Data Source and Native Data Source.  • Knowledge with SSIS Data Profiling and Data Quality Services (DQS).  • Experience in design and implement processes for deploying, managing and extracting data for reporting using Crystal Reports, SQL Reporting Services SSRS.  • Extensive experience in controlling the user privileges, monitoring the security and Audit issues.  • Created logins using different security models like Windows, Standard and certificate authentications.  • Highly experienced in creating Jobs, Schedules and Alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Strong Communication and Time Management skills and excellent team player.  • Ability to adapt quickly to changing environments. Work Experience Sr. SQL Database Administrator Subway - Milford, CT June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performance Tuning of the SQL Server (in OLTP, Production and Development environments) including the usage of Performance Monitor and Profiler Trace to monitor the Memory, CPU and Disk usage, the private bytes of each process, the trend in the Available Bytes, Context Switches/sec, Page Faults, growth of Tempdb, Cache-Hit ratio, disk reads and writes, Avg. Disk Wait Times, Transactions/sec, Growth and Shrinkage of databases and other counters, and use Index Tuning Wizard to create proper indexes. Identified the performance bottlenecks like CPU, Memory, I/O and tuned and improved the overall performance of the server for many clients.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • Experience on installing, configuring, Managing and Monitoring of all SQL server with Service packs, Cumulative updates and hot fixes. Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application.  • Tuning of SQL Server Memory structures and troubleshooting the existing issues with Buffer Pool and Paging.  • Extensive experience in SQL Server Performance tuning and performing root cause analysis.  • Experience in PAL (using power shell script)  • Highly experience in creating performance dash board reports.  • Monitor and troubleshoot ETL, BCP, SSIS and Application Jobs and other tools.  • Installed SQL Server Clusters in Active\Active and Active/Passive Topology.  • Monitoring of SQL Server 2008r2, 2012, 2014 and 2016.  • Install, configure and Deploy SharePoint Services and Team Foundation Servers.  • Monitor Microsoft SQL Server activity on a proactive basis and tune the system for optimal performance  • 24 X 7 Production Database On Call Support.  • Troubleshoot Blocking and Deadlocking issues by making appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels and the types of locks being held; avoiding keeping transactions open for long durations, breaking large transactions to smaller ones.  • Upgraded the existing Servers from SQL Server 2008 to SQL 2012 and 2014.  • Create and manage SSIS packages.  • Monitor and tune both server and databases using DBCC, Server configurations options (sp_configure) and Database options (sp_dboption). Contributed to automation of many daily administrative activities like backups, thresholds, monitoring server resources and proactive problem diagnosis.  • Manage and maintain database changes in Development, QA, Staging and Production.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Worked extensively on Data scrubbing and masking for restored databases.  • Created security policies for SOX and PCI environments.  • Configured and wrote SQL scripts for automated deployments.  • Creating Replication, database Mirroring and Always-on for different Applications.    Environment: Server 2008r2,2012,2014 on Windows 2008 R2 and 2012, .Net, Java, Oracle, 9i,10g and 11g, Remedy, Dynamics CRM and AX, Redgate, Share Point, SSRS and SSIS. SQL Database Administrator CenturyLink - Monroe, LA October 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 in multiple database environments.  • Applied Service Packs & assisted Infrastructure Engineering team to install and configure SQL Server in a Clustered (Failover) Environment.  • Implemented and managed Always ON availability groups for 3 replicas.  • Managed over 1000+ MS SQL Server with high volume of data and Maintained 55 mission critical applications.  • Implemented and migrated databases to SQL Server 2014 version.  • Handled Performance Tuning and Optimization with strong analytical and troubleshooting skills for quick issue resolution in large-scale production environments located globally.  • Detected and troubleshot VM related CPU, memory, I/O, disk space and other resource contention using VM vSphere tools, Event Viewer and System Console operation monitoring tools.  • Responsible for the issues related to Database Integrity, Blocking, Dead Locking issue, Replication.  • Responsible for installation, configuration and Patching of SQL Server 2016/2014/2012.  • Worked on Priority 1 and 2 Critical Incidents to meet the Response and Resolution Service Level Agreements (SLA). Responsible for over 200 SQL instances globally.  • Responsible for Security issues related to logins, users and application roles and linked Servers.  • Scripted the Database Consistency Checks (DBCC), scheduled the scripts to run daily and weekly basis.  • Performed access validation for new servers, transitioned, and transformed server.  • Worked on SQL Development to write and troubleshoot SQL Code, and Designed by using database objects like Triggers, stored procedures, functions, tables, views and Constraints.  • Worked on data Extraction from various sources like SQL Server 2012/2014, CVS, Oracle, Teradata, Excel and Text file from Client servers and through FTP.  • Developed, deployed and managed SSIS Packages for new ETL Processes and upgraded the existing DTS packages to SSIS for the on-going Processes.  • Performed routine tasks like disk space check, Consistency checks, looking for slow/long running queries, hung jobs.  • Developed a standard build for SQL Server with complete pre-installation, steps for installing, post-installation activities and best practices to improve the overall performance.  • Worked on backups, restores, recovery models, database shrink operations.  • Maintained and supported internal database repository and managed the service and application creation/deletion, and associations with SQL server instances.  • Maintained database integrity of all vendor and in-house databases.  • Generated reports from the cubes by connecting to Analysis server from SSRS.  • Worked among Technical Architects and Database analysts for the Design of total tables required for efficient Report Design. Database mirroring, Replication.  • Worked in cooperation with System Administrators for configuration of Windows failover cluster and implemented SQL Server Always On.    Environment: SQL Server 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, TSQL, VMware vSphere Client, Windows Server 2008R2, 2012, Argent Monitor, SSIS, SSRS. SQL Database Administrator CDW - Vernon Hills, IL August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Production DBA with primary database comprising of SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005  • Performed side by side migration and followed both pre and post checklist for database migration  • Migrated SQL Server Databases from SQL Server 2005/2008 to 2008R2/2012/2014/2016 on working hours as well as weekends  • Installed SQL server 2016/2014/2012 instances on VMware server  • Expert in using VMWARE Server  • Migrated all databases and servers from San Ramon data center to San Antonio data center  • Working knowledge of Double Take SQL migration tool  • Migrated SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012  • Resolved all migration related issues after the databases migration and created database maintenance plan for the performance of SQL Server which covers Database Integrity Checks, Update Statistics, and Re-indexing  • Implemented best practices for Database Monitoring, Backups and Restores  • Used Lite speed backup tool for database backups and restores  • Configured linked servers to enable the SQL Server Database Engine to execute commands against OLE DB data sources of the instance of SQL Server  • Used SQL Azure extensively for database needs in various applications  • Import data from different data source to create Power BI reports and dashboards  • Created Power BI Visualizations and Dashboards as per the requirements  • Design and develop SSIS packages, store procedures, configuration files, tables, views, and functions; implement best practices to maintain optimal performance  • Used various Transformations in SSIS Dataflow, Control Flow using for Loop Containers and Fuzzy Lookups  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency  • Wrote ad-hoc T-SQL queries for data analyzing, research, unit testing and identifying and resolving bugs  • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA)  • Planned and Implemented AlwaysON availability groups for 3 replicas  • Documented and managed AlwaysON availability groups  • Involved in designing cloud deployment strategies that mitigate risk while meeting infrastructure  • Responsible for designing and implementing cloud -based solutions  • Planned and Implemented SQL Server in Microsoft Azure and Cloud based systems  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS cloud servers  • Created AWS Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for instance RDP/SSH logon, worked with teams to lock down security groups  • Implemented Database Mirroring with high-performance and high-safety mode  • Configured and maintained Log Shipping for DR environment  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional on basis of business specification  • Created Users, Logins, Roles and granted appropriate permissions  • Performed SQL DBA activities on mission critical SQL Databases on which SAP ECC 6.0 was hosted  • Maintained SOX compliance  • Provided 24/7 support for Production environment    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Windows Server 2012R2/2012/2008 R2/2008/2003, AlwaysON, Microsoft AZURE, AWS, IDERA Diagnostic Manager, Lite Speed Backup Tool, VMWARE. SQL Database Administrator Mindtree - IN January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008, 2008 R2 and maintained 100 servers.  • Migrated Stored Procedures from 2000 to SQL Server 2005 to refer to Dynamic Management Views.  • Suggested Disk Capacity, Processors and Memory based on the Capacity planning.  • Analyzed database growths for Capacity Planning, Normalized the data for efficient performance and Partitioned data into multiple Files and File groups.  • Implemented backup and retention strategies based on business policies.  • Designed Disaster recovery process.  • Designed new security system to organize all the security requirements.  • Responsible for data integrity, user security, daily monitoring for production and non-production systems.  • Expert in implementation and administration of Oracle 11g/10g HA/DR architecture using RAC and Data guard.  • Extensive experience in Oracle 11g RAC and ASM installation and configuration on Linux and UNIX.  • Technical Consultation for the entire database related items.  • Created email alerts with the reports of daily backups, maintenance jobs and security checks.  • Created database snapshots before a deployment to ensure the changes are rolled back without compromising the time of availability in case of errors.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data guard and Active Data guard feature for High availability configuration in RAC environment. Performed the Switchover, Switchback and Failure tests of the primary and physical standby and verified the successful catching up of standby with the primary DB.    Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2008 R2/2012, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, DB2, DTS, Erwin, Cluster Environments, Red Gate, TFS, Spotlight. SQL Database Administrator Agiliance India Pvt Ltd July 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2005.  • Performed backups, DBCC utilities, updated index statistics, monitored database and disk space.  • Managed the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2005  • Worked on migration and maintenance of data using various utilities like DTS, EXPORT, IMPORT and ATTACH/DETACH Data Migration tools.  • Created & maintained databases, users, Logins, tables, indexes, stored procedures, roles, permissions and other schema objects.  • Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find performance, dead locks, blockings and Capturing long running SQL queries for fine-tuning SQL statements that better result in efficient SQL statements processing.  • Scheduled the backups for Databases and Transaction log. Performed restoration operations.  • To set up SQL Server configuration settings.  • Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Responsible for Stored Procedures optimization, Performance tuning & index tuning.  • Provided necessary data validation checks against the data entry.  • Frequently ran DBCC checks to maintain consistency.  • Used Performance monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries and enhance the performance of database servers. Skills Access 97, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Microsoft project, Sharepoint, Ssrs, T-sql, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Scom, Solarwinds, Tivoli, Tsm, .net, Visual studio, C# Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases MS SQL Server 2016/2012/2008R2/2008/2005, 2000/7.0, Oracle, MYSQL, MS Office Access 97/2000/2003  Languages T-SQL, C, C++, C#, vb.net, JAVA, ASP.NET, Visual studio 2005/ 2003, XML  Technologies VB.NET, .NET FRAMEWORK, ASP.NET, Microsoft Office Suite  Tools  Active X, IIS, MTS, Lite speed, Spotlight, Visual Studio 2003/2005, VSS, Visio 2003, Office Visio 2007, SharePoint Designer 2007, Erwin 4.0, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, SCOM, Tivoli TSM, SolarWinds    Operating System Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012, Windows 95/98/XP/Vista/7  Others Microsoft office, Microsoft Project