DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Consolidated Data Storage, Atlanta G.A Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Consolidated Data Storage, Atlanta G.A June 2016 to Present • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, backup and recovery in a fast pace environment.  • Manage the production and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning,  • Database security configuration and administration.  • Use SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, and optimization of SQL Server and SQL code.  • Develop and modify stored procedures, queries, triggers, views, indexes, and functions to handle business rules, history data and audit analysis.  • Resolved the issues in conflicts between target database and auxiliary database.  • Troubleshoot databases.  • Monitor and optimize the performance of the databases.  • Performs all other duties as assigned.  • Installed Red hat linux from 5/6 on vmware workstation.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g and 12c  • Upgraded oracle database from Oracle 11.2.0.1 to 12.1.0.1  • Created users, roles, and granted permissions  • Created database using database configuration assistant.  • Created and replaced datapump directory.  • Grant, read, write to datapump directory.  • Run datapump export.  • Oracle Data Backup and Cloning and upgrade.  • Oracle Database/Production support.  • Performance Tuning and Capacity Monitoring.  • Data Security, Backup and recovery.  • SQL Tuning in an oracle environment.  • checking alert logs using adrci.  • Performed backups and recovery using Rman.  • Performed cloning using Rman duplicate.  • installed Red hat linux and configured it for oracle installation.  • Troubleshooting and performing root cause analysis of problems and recommend solutions to resolve it.  • Oversee data load and monitor load balancing with tools.  • Monitor tablespace sizes using toad and resize as needed.  • Write queries using toad and SQL developer.  • Ensure compliance with companiesstandard, policies and procedures.  • Performance tuning and patching.  • Creating controlfiles, redo logs, tablespaces.  • Use data pump to migrate data from one database to another and for database refresh. INTERN STAVANGA LLC July 2014 to May 2016 • Provide exceptional customer service while responding to phone, e-mail and online requests for technical support  • Track and monitor all support cases to ensure timely resolution and follow-up  • Clearly identify, document, and find solutions for customer issues and product problems  • Escalate critical customer situations to the appropriate level of management and engineering expertise  • Communicate technical issues and solutions to the engineering, QA, sales, and support teams as well as to the Customer base  • Contribute to documentation and knowledgebase article library. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Replication, Sql, Clustering, Vmware, Rman, Rdbms, Cloning, Excellent communication skills, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, ETL Additional Information Areas of Strength:I am a DBA who has been supporting database applications for over two years. I have been able to effectively manage critical databases spread across multiple servers in Production, Development, staging & test environments.  My core experience areas are:  Oracle/SQL ServerInstallation and ImplementationPerformance Tuning  Database SecurityOracle Database Upgrades/Patches Replication  Data MigrationOracledatabase backup & RecoveryDatabase Management Database Cloning    TECHNICAL SKILLS  RDBMS: SQL 2005, SQL 2008, SQL 2012, SQL 2014, SQL 2016, SQL 2017.  Replication, Enterprise Environment, Tuning, SQL Profiler, Clustering, Reporting Services.    MONITORING TOOLS:SQL developer, Toad for Oracle, ServiceNow.    TOOLS: SQL Sentry, Toad for oracle, SQL developer, linux5/6, linux7, windows, filezilla, mobaXterm, putty, Enterprise Manager, oracle 10g/11g, oracle1 12C, VMware workstation 12, RMAN, netca, dbca    PERSONAL QUALITIES:  • Strong motivational skills.  • Excellent Communication skills in both verbal and written.  • Ability to produce the best result during pressure situation.  • Ability to work in team as well as individual.  • Understands team standards and procedures for the technology platform