ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - INTRALOT Lanham, MD Over 5 years of comprehensive experience in Administering database solutions that improve business efficiency, utilizing strong background in Information Technology Management of 10g, 11g and 12c oracle databases. Have extensive experience in Datapump, Dataguard, GoldenGate in RAC environments, among other Oracle Application and platforms such as Sun SOLARIS, HP UNIX, RHE Linux and Windows SQL Server to provide data security, hardware support and system stability. Able to perform upgrades, patch maintenance, and integration on oracle database environments to improve timeliness of reports, analyzing inventory, and cost reduction. Also very experienced with the AWS environment and services like IAM, EC2 and EBS, RDS, Amazon Redshift, VPC configuration, DMS, Elasticache and DynamoDB. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR INTRALOT - Duluth, GA November 2015 to Present Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.  ? Worked on Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)  ? Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  ? Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  ? Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  ? Creating physical databases with multiple table spaces from logical and physical data model  ? Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g and 12c Enterprise manager to monitor and report the Database health for over 500+ databases  ? Upgraded databases from 9i to 10g, 10g to 11g, 11g to 12c and minor version upgrades  ? Setting up High Availability Oracle GoldenGate systems on Oracle 11gR2 RAC environments.  ? Upgraded 10g and 11g Standalone databases to 11g and 12c 2-node RAC respectively  ? Installation and creation of 11g databases for Testing & Development on both IBM-AIX and Linux environment in OLTP, Decision Support System Data Warehousing environment.  ? SQL tuning - AWR history of sql execution, index recommendations, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Real Time SQL Monitoring, Interpret Execution plans, Re-write more efficient SQLs.  ? Data Refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup test, development environments using SAN level storage mirroring: Gold image copy and cloning.  ? Handled High volume production databases around 25 TB size along with Physical standby databases  ? Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like RAC, DATA GUARD, GRID CONTROL and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning Advisor, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF, DBV.  ? Performed Data file recovery from logical and physical block corruptions  ? Good understanding and Implementation expertise in RAC, ASM, Data Guard like remedy change and user tickets, frequently communicate effectively with technical and non-technical customers.  ? Experience on Cluster management, event management, application management, connection management, storage management, load balancing and availability. Continuous monitoring of performance during peak and non-peak loads using AWR reports, ASH, ADDM and Optimization SQL code using SQL Trace, tkrpof, Explain plan.  ? Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  ? Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Implemented Range, List, Hash and various Sub Partitions, Create and schedule refresh for materialized views.  ? Work with Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) which provides high speed, parallel, bulk data and metadata movement of Oracle database contents.  ? Management of schema objects, partitioning of tables & indexes and performing SQL*Loader jobs for loading data from flat files (ETL) and Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  ? Monitoring growth of tables and undertaking necessary re-organization of database, capacity planning.  ? Designed the logical and physical database structure and involved in Logical, Physical data modeling.  ? Provide support to developers to enhance their SQL, PL/SQL code and responsible for setting up of new user accounts, schema Deployments and related user administrative tasks.  ? Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/ VMS, Sun Solaris, AIX, Windows Server 2012, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR SUNTRUST BANK - Richmond, VA October 2013 to October 2015 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Creating Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Data Replication.  • Working with optimizer Hints and Explain Plan for estimating performance and to generate optimal solutions.  • Worked on building and rolling out new 12c databases for test/dev/qa environments.  • Implemented oracle 12c active standby database for test database environment  • Handled my group of 4 people in all and lead them for getting best results  • Installed GoldenGate software in Test and dev instances  • Performance Tuning for Optimized results using Explain-Plan, SQL-Trace, STATS PACK reports and AWR Reports. Provided recommendations using ADDM reports. Analyzed the trace files Using TKPROF utility.  • Hands on experience in troubleshooting RAC environment, using srvctl.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2Node RAC on IBM-AIX in log and 11gR2 using Veritas clusterserver.  • Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinating with Oracle support to resolve them in timely manner.  • Performed various tasks like Administering RAC using SRVCTL, Adding nodes and instances, Administering Storage Components, Parameter Management, and Configuring High Availability Features for RAC.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM along with homespun scripts.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Worked on SQL tuning using SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Profiler and SQL Optimizer.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle databases environments (10/11g), upgrades, patching for security vulnerabilities (CPU and PSU).  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Worked on setting up and managing EBS volumes.  • Designed AMI images of EC2 instances by employing AWS CLI and GUI.  • Managed infrastructure development on AWS by employing services such as EC2 and cloud front.  • Managed AWS storage systems such as S3, Glacier and EFS.  • Migrating databases to the cloud.  • Configuring VPC  • Worked with some AWS services such as SQS, SNS, SWF, Elastic Transcoder, Kinesis  • Configured VPC, Cloud front, Route 53, API Gateway.  • Tuned databases and instances in the cloud using tools such as cloud watch.  • Generated key pairs for EC2 instances.  • Created and worked with databases such as RDS, Elasticache, Amazon redshift, DynamoDB.  • Configured read replicas, multi AZ, cross regional replication for disaster recovery and high performance.    Environment: Oracle 11g/11g RAC/10g, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM.  AWS services: IAM, EBS, EC2, RDS, Amazon Redshift, Elasticache, DynamoDB. Education BACHELORS OF SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF BAMENDA Skills DATABASES (4 years), DATABASE (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), PL/SQL (4 years), REPLICATION (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, and STATSPACK.  ? Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  ? Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 10g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  ? Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine-tuning those SQL's for better performance.  ? Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler.  ? Experience in using 10g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 10g Grid Monitoring. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  ? Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  ? Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  ? Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  ? UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.  ? Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  ? Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  ? Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10g Automatic Storage Management (ASM) required to fulfill the storage needs.  ? High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  ? Install, configure and upgrade to Oracle 12c; consolidate multiple databases into multi-tenant database containers; evaluate and implement latest database technology and new Oracle 12c features.  ? Perform database monitoring and tuning to ensure databases run at peak performance; troubleshooting production performance issues.  ? Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  ? Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  ? Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  ? Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  ? Expertise in setting up and managing EBS volumes.  ? Designed AMI images of EC2 instances by employing AWS CLI and GUI.  ? Infrastructure development on AWS by employing services such as EC2 and cloud front.  ? Managed AWS storage systems such as S3, Glacier and EFS.    Operating Systems  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x.  Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10.  AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1  RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.  Windows 95/98/NT/2000.    RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c  Tools  TKProf, Explain Plan, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL Tuning Advisor, ASMCMD (asm command line), SRVCTL, CRSCTL, Toad 10.6 and Toad 12.5, Putty, OEM 11g database control and OEM 12c GRID control, WinSCP, FileZilla, VNC, Team Viewer, Cisco VPN Client, Remote Desktop Connection & PowerShell.    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump export/import & Export/Import utilities.    Languages SQL, PL/SQL & UNIX Shell Scripting  Databases RDS, DynamoDB, Amazon Redshift, Elasticache