Database Analyst <span class="hl">Database</span> Analyst Database Analyst - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC Oracle Certified Associate (OCA) with more than 6+ years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator (DBA), Delivering technical knowledge in Production & Project Support, Application Customization, Performance Tuning, Backup & Recovery, Security and More.  A good team player with excellent interpersonal skills, with the ability to coordinate multiple activities, determine and analyze problems and implement corrective actions. Work Experience Database Analyst Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2019 to Present * Maintenance and administration of Informatica across WIMT group in 24/7 production environments.  * Provides production support for technical issues and initiatives related to applications, systems, databases and reporting  * Troubleshoots and resolve issues and restores services or data impacted  * Evaluates service level agreement criteria; identify gaps in current technology processes and recommends changes to assure OLAs/SLAs can be supported.  * Organize issues and prioritize in a fast-paced environment with hard deadlines  * Drive multiple complex production issues simultaneously using a wide range of skills  * Interact effectively with a variety of internal and external partners including distributed systems, infrastructure, architecture, and software vendors  * Partner with business and other technology teams on issue identification and resolution, problem solving, and planning  * Assesses changes for risk to production systems and assures quality, security and compliance requirements are met for supported areas via accepted change control processes  * Assist with the creation, maintenance, and testing of the business continuation plan  * Ability to make independent judgment decisions while working in a fast-paced and results-driven environment  * Ability to prioritize work, meet deadlines, achieve goals, and work under pressure in a dynamic and complex environment  * Strong analytical skills and ability to solve complex technical problems  * Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills  * Strong analytical skills with high attention to detail and accuracy  * Experience with production support and operations of large-scale data environments  * Strong skills in all data related subjects like data modelling, SQL, Data Analysis, Database space management, Data Masking, Database Monitoring  * Have thorough understanding of batch job processing, job automation tools like Autosys and provide batch job improvement solutions  * Experience in Informatica products upgrades/patches in a multi-node environment  * Experience working with and guiding offshore teams  * Flexibility to frequently be on call beyond normal working hours  * Good understanding of project/support processes/procedures (EACO, PAC2000, JIRA)  * Experience with version control tools and deployment tools such as Jenkins, Artifactory, and uDeploy  * Knowledge and understanding of data governance challenges and approaches metadata, data quality, and data stewardship  * Intermediate Microsoft Office skills  * Knowledge of Financial institution's wealth, trust and brokerage  * Superior critical thinking skills, fast learner and ability to take on new challenges as needed  * Experience with Risk and Regulatory efforts like remediating software vulnerabilities and certificates  * Experience with shell scripting experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator TIAA- CREF - Charlotte, NC February 2015 to March 2019 * Installation and configuration of 10g,11g,12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL) and Windows server 2008, 2012.  * Installation and configuration of 12c Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on Windows and Unix platforms.  * Upgraded multiple Standalone and RAC databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  * Upgrading Golden Gate from v11 to 12c and Expertise on Oracle Golden Gate and be able to configure Golden Gate  * Used Log dump utility, Defgen utility in Golden Gate environment and Installed Goldengate in dev, test, prod environment  * Worked New Features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  * Experience in troubleshooting RAC databases and engaging with application team for gaining performance enhancements for application in clustered environment.  * Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU (Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  * Supported in Performing Golden Gate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  * Troubleshooting Golden Gate using GGSERR.LOG and logdump utility.  * Replication Using Golden Gate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  * Responsible for Installation and upgrading of Golden Gate 11.2.1.0.1 to Golden Gate (v12) 12.1.2.0.0.  * Implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automated scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  * Duplicating Tablespaces and Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  * Involved in data center migrating large size database in multiple platform.  * Expertise in Active Data Guard, Snapshot using Data guard Broker (DGMGRL) and RMAN.  * Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  * Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  * Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  * Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  * Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11g RAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  * Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  * Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  * Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  * Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  * Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  * Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  * Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  * Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  * Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes. Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  * Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  * Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth  * Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  * Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  * Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  * Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  * Handled Chained Rows and Row migration and solved the database performance issues.  * Implement and enforce security for all the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  * Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors' recommendations.  * Outline standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  * Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third-party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  * Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  * Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster. Oracle Database Administrator Honor Health - Phoenix, AZ May 2013 to February 2015 * Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  * Performed disk and disk group management in ASM while installing 11gR2 RAC.  * Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  * Ensured that oracle database systems operate securely and efficiently.  * Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  * Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.  * Worked extensively on monitoring grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding  * Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  * Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  * Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.  * Assisted with application development in the corporate-wide SQL server database administration and developed database architectures, coding standards and security assurance policy procedures.  * Evaluated and recommendation of DBA tools and performed system implementations and upgrades minimize business impact.  * Implement multi-node SQL Server SDLC environment to support integrated data sources and data warehouses.  * Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and Perl based utility "Opatch".  * Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 12c) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  * Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Data pump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 12c.  * Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as required.  * Perform database tuning (OS/DB Level) and performance optimization - resolve database issues; integrity, performance, security, connectivity, blocking and deadlocking.  * Provide monthly analytical Oracle reports (AWR, ASH, ADDM etc..) to provide expert level support Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science College of Technology (University of Yaoundé) December 2011 Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, ORACLE, DBA, Sql Dba, PL SQL, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses OCA Oracle Database 12c: Administration Present Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    ? Experienced in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Expert in implementing High Availability solutions with Oracle 11g RAC, Oracle Data Guard and replication using Streams.  ? Proficient in database concepts with rich experience in database design, development and management.  ? Excellent knowledge of Oracle architecture, Golden Gate architecture, SQL Performance tuning, SQLT and eager to explore any unknowns.  ? Good working knowledge of troubleshooting Infrastructure issues related to Oracle database server such as memory, CPU, I/O, Disk etc.  ? Working knowledge of technologies such as Oracle Real Application Cluster, Oracle Golden Gate, and Oracle Http Servers.  ? Hands-on experience working as Production DBA, working knowledge on SLA metrics, Remedy system and worked with Oracle Support.  ? Experience in Upgrade from oracle 10g to 11g and Migration of oracle database from red hat Linux, Window platform to Linux on development, integration and production environment using Oracle Data Migration Assistant.  ? Migrating Oracle databases to Oracle Database Exadata Cloud Service  ? Highly experienced in Oracle 11g, 10gAutomatic Storage Management (ASM).  ? High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  ? Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  ? Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  ? Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  ? Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.  ? Implementing 10g Data guard with one physical database.  ? Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases).  ? Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman  ? repository provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  ? Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purpose.  ? Experience in Implementation of High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g &11g RAC, Physical Standby Databases (Data Guard)  ? Experience with supporting the Production Database with complete lifecycle including Installations, Upgrade, Patching, Cloning, Backup/Recovery, High Availability including Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) and Data Guard. Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  ? Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  ? Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  ? Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  ? Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  ? Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  ? Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.