SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - Health Care Service Corporation Plano, TX • 8 years and 7 Months of IT experience in SQL Server Database Administration on Insurance, Retail, Manufacturing Insurance, and Telecom domains  • Worked on Agile and ITIL processes for different clients and able to succeed everywhere.  • Experienced in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2016 on standalone and clustered environments with standards and best practice.  • Over 3 years of experience on latest versions like SQL Server 2014 and SQL server 2016 with hands on experience on new features  • Expert Level skills in providing 24x7 support in Production, Preview and Development environment.  • Expert in support for DBMS system  • Proficient in build and manage SQL Server in Azure Iaas environment.  • Expert in Backup and recovery implementing various solutions depending on environment ,cost involved and attain Maximum RPO and RTO for various Tier applications including Tier 1  • Expert in data refresh and SQL server security procedures.  • Experience in handling tools like Veritas NetBackup, TDP, TSM,Litespeed and Commvault  • Strong in SQL, T-SQL and queries for day to day Administration tasks  • Proficient in developing Stored procedures, views and queries for Complex logics  • Have experience in handling more sensitive and high volume of databases.  • Expertise in Performance Tuning, Index Tuning Wizard, Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Query Optimization, Client/Server connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities, DMVs and DMFs  • Expert in Query Performance Tuning analyse execution plans, Data Archival, Blocks and Deadlocks troubleshooting  • Expert in monitoring SQL Server Performance using SQL Profiler, Extended Events, Index Tuning Wizard, Performance dashboard, Windows Performance Monitor, DMVs and DMFs  • Experienced in SQL performance bottleneck analysis tools like SQL Nexus, PAL Analysis and DiskSpd.  • Expert in designing disaster recovery model for corporate databases.  • Expert in utilizing different Monitoring tools like SCOM, Foglight, SolarWinds and IDERA including third party tools.  • Implementing and administering database replication between SQL Server databases as well as dissimilar databases.  • Experience in MS SQL Server client/server connectivity, query optimization, replication, mirroring, back-up/recovery, running Database Consistency Checks using DBCC commands.  • Worked extensively in clustered environment (active / passive) to further increase scalability and stability of business-critical systems.  • Solid experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including AlwaysOn Availability Group, Log shipping, Replication and Windows clustering  • Expert in configuring and troubleshoot Mirroring  • Setup and troubleshoot Transactional Replication and Snapshot replication.  • Monitored the size of the transaction log. Managed databases on multiple disks using disk mirroring and RAID technology.  • Experienced in design of ETL, DTS Packages and SSIS Packages for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Aggregate, Data Conversion, OLEDB Command and Email the resulted data.  • Experience in design and develop different types of Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Experience and Strong Skills SQL Server 2016 new features like Stretch Database and distributed AG  • Proficient in Windows 32 bit and Windows 64-bit Server Operating systems with administrative skills  • Experience in PowerShell scripts to automate daily tasks and achieve efficient administration  • Expert in creating Load balancer configuration in Azure Iaas with PowerShell  • Strong Leadership Managerial skills, Multitasking, energetic, self-starter, quick learner and a team player.  • Good communication and written skills and can handle multiple projects simultaneously.  • Worked 24 x 7 for production support with multiple SQL Instances.    TECHNICHAL SKILLS  Microsoft Technologies SQL SERVER 2000 to 2016, Windows 2003 to Windows 2012 R2  Languages T-SQL, PowerShell  Database SQL Server 2016/2012/2008/2005, Netezza  SQL Monitoring Tools Foglight, Idera, SolarWinds and SCOM Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Health Care Service Corporation May 2019 to Present Environment: SQL Server 2008/2012/2014/2016, Windows Server 2012, Foglight  Description: Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company (HCSC), is the largest customer-owned health insurer in the nation and the fourth largest overall. Operating through our Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans in Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas  Responsibilities  • Database Design and Creation: Analyse and perform database physical design, partitioning, clustering ,DDL into source code and also deploy source from data modeller  • Capacity Planning and Partitioning: Obtain requirements for CPU, Memory and Disk for database server by performing load and performance test. Determine and implement partition ,archival and purge for historical data  • Backup and Recovery: Design Backup and Recovery strategy for the required Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO). Work with backup team to implement the backup using TSM and Litespeed tools  • Query or DDL Development: Obtain requirements and develop query for the stored procedure, trigger or view. Test in SQL Management Studio or SQL compare tool to verify results to meet the initial requirements  • Performance and Query tuning: Use SQL Server Profiler, Extended events, Dynamic views, and third party tools like solarwinds, Redgate, to analyse performance and benchmark CPU, Memory and Disk I/O, recommend or add Indexes, modify queries to improve performance  • Data Replication: Determine solution and perform data replication methods like Snapshot replication, Merge replication and Transactional replication as per the data flow need for various applications. Use Replication Monitor for finding the status and troubleshoot issues in replication in terms of latency or errors  • Data Replication: Determine solution and perform data replication methods like Snapshot replication, Merge replication and Transactional replication as per the data flow need for various applications. Use Replication Monitor for finding the status and troubleshoot issues in replication in terms of latency or errors  • Data correction and DML Issues: Obtain description of the data issue, Identify table(s), column(s) and record(s) that have the data issue. Perform data correction or DML bug fix to correct the data issue  • Database Security: Determine and perform authentication model for database server, define and deploy user defined roles with least required access for each application, manage user defined roles providing access to required objects and schemas  • Maintenance and Integrity check: Determine criteria for frequency and time for database maintenance like Index rebuild Index reorganize and Statistics update. Develop, deploy and automate scripts using SQL Server agent for maintenance tasks. Perform database integrity check to maintain the consistency of database on weekly/monthly basis  • Database and Operating system upgrades: Perform database version upgrades and support database on OS upgrades, determine and work with other teams or vendor to troubleshoot reported problem after upgrade.  • Meetings and Trainings: Attend stand-up meetings to discuss the tasks or projects handled on daily basis, road blocks and help needed, attend regular meetings for projects handling to obtain requirements from the customers and provide status for ongoing work. Participate in trainings and workshop to update the skills SQL Database Administrator Ardent Mills LLC September 2015 to May 2019 Environment: SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, Windows Server 2012, Windows Azure, SCOM and SolarWinds  Description:  Ardent Mills is North America's leading flour supplier and grain innovator. With more than 40 community flour mills and blending facilities throughout the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico  Responsibilities:  • Migration of database from On Premise server to Microsoft Azure Servers  • Responsible for Installation, Configuration and Administration of MS SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 on windows 2012R2 Servers  • Implemented SQL Server in Iaas in Windows Azure  • Responsible for General Database Administration ( Database size more than 500 GB)  • Perform backup and restore using Commvault tool  • Performance bottleneck analysis, SQL queries optimization and fine tuning  • Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks and slowness issues  • Analyse and optimize CPU and Memory for SQL Server  • Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of database to rebuild indexes.  • Troubleshooting Log shipping issues  • Developed Database Backup Scripts and automated the process with VBScript and PowerShell.  • Responsible for SQL Server security and access to users in the environment  • Creating and maintaining logins, users and Permissions.  • Developed automated daily weekly, monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, duplication verification, database integrity, indexing and statistic updates.  • Created standard operated procedures and work instructions for SQL server install upgrade and patching.  • Perform troubleshooting on deadlock and blocking issues  • Setup Linked Server, which allows access to the distributed, queries against OLE DB data sources for EXCEL and Text files and running the Batch Processes.  • Administered, maintained, and monitored 56 Production SQL Server 2008/2012/2014 Databases.  • Setup Always On availability groups for Tier 1 applications  • Setup snapshots, merge and transactional replication between servers and troubleshoot and monitor publishers, distributers, subscribers.  • Made Estimates for Database, table size growth and prepared the reports for the day-to-day as well as weekly/monthly purposes  • Develop, test and implement SSRS reports and SSIS packages.  • Develop, implement and test Disaster Recovery plans  • Vendor coordination for solution and bug fixes  • Monitor SQL Server status and Performance metrics using SCOM and SolarWinds tool SQL Server Database Administrator 99 Cents Only Stores January 2014 to September 2015 Environment: SQL Server 2008R2/2012, Windows Server 2008, VM, NetBackup(Veritas), TSM, IDERA and SolarWinds    Description:  99 Cents Only Stores is an American price-point retailer chain based in Commerce, California. Previously, the store offered all products at 99¢ or less. Most products are now priced at "99.99¢ or less, but certain products are sold at higher price points". Founded by David Gold on February 28, 1969, most of the stores are located in Southern California, with others in Nevada, Texas and Arizona.  Responsibilities:  • SQL Server Setup 2008,2008R2,2012 Installation and Version Upgrade.  • Perform and Monitor daily tasks such as Backups & Restores, maintenance jobs, handling developers requests and user's permissions etc.  • Ran diagnostics as required for poor performing queries, blocked processes and hung jobs.  • Responsible to Monitor and troubleshooting replication and Log Shipping.  • Managing Active, Passive Cluster environment as a High availability solution.  • Export/Import data from other data sources like flat files using SSIS/DTS packages.  • Setup Database Security and maintain accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins and Roles and assigning object level permissions.  • Manage Disk space, Memory, and User Connections.  • Schedule and monitor maintenance activities including database consistency checks and index fragmentation.  • Extensively work on Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler, DMVs to tune the databases, servers and query tuning.  • Schedule weekly jobs and Maintenance tasks for better performance.  • Configure Database Maintenance Plans for Backups, Re-indexing, and Reorganization of Indexes, Clean-up History, and Update Statistics.  • Migration of Databases from one server to another using attach and detach database tasks.  • Identify I/O and memory bottle necks, blocking and deadlocks caused by complex queries using SQL Server Activity monitor/profiler, Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and handling them by implementing better Query Execution plans.  • Rebuilding indexes with different fill factors and updating statistics.  • Setup Linked Server, which allows access to the distributed, queries against OLE DB data sources for EXCEL and Text files and running the Batch Processes.  • Used Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views, TSQL Scripting for complex business logic.  • Extensively used Joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables from different databases.  • Optimized the database by creating various clustered, non-clustered indexes and indexed views.  • Recover System and User databases from suspect mode, sizing Temp database.  • Experienced in developing, maintaining and deploying complex SSIS packages. Implemented ETL for large datasets.  • Responsible for managing and improving database performance and stability.  • Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find the performance and dead locks.  • Experienced in using Linked Servers  • Made Estimates for Database, table size growth and prepared the reports for the day-to-day as well as weekly/monthly purposes  • Managed Netezza database on start-up, shutdown, backup and restore tasks SQL Server Database Administrator Tata Global Beverages - UK August 2012 to January 2014 Description:  Tata Global Beverages Limited is an Indian multinational non-alcoholic beverages company headquartered in Kolkata, West Bengal, India and a subsidiary of the Tata Group  Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, Windows Server 2003/2008, VM and Veritas  Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, Monitored, Troubleshooting SQL server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005 on VMware and Standby Environments  • Handling an enterprise level setup for the client and management, Log shipping, clustering and client issues regarding infrastructure including security etc.  • Assisted developers in various problem resolutions, debugging and optimization of SQL queries and stored procedures, including connectivity, code efficiency and communication issues.  • Deploying the database builds using and CCM tool.  • Migrating Databases from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008,2008R2  • Disaster Recovery Planning, Implementation and Mock Drill.  • Implemented new strategy for Disaster Recovery in log shipping  • Updating with latest service packs and security patches.  • Administered Regular Database Backups, Restoration, Performance tuning, backup processes.  • Implementation of SQL Principle, Securable, Permission, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Worked extensively in Query analyser and profiler for tuning queries using variables for characteristics and query costs  • Provided Database Support for various production applications in resolving complex issues.  • Involved in Disaster Recovery procedures, and Contingency plans. Testing and implementing procedures.  • Worked closely with clients, business analysts, systems programmers, and application developers to define and resolve information flow and content issues.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Configure Linked Servers between different Production Servers for getting data from different Instances.  • Exported and imported data from text files and Excel to SQL Server using bulk insert and BCP utility.  • Used DBCC commands to check the database consistency.  • Support for very large SQL Server databases with 24x7 limited downtime availability.  • Created daily reports and console for monitoring in VBScript    Project: Lexmark International Inc, KY, USA SQL Server Database Administrator Lexmark International, Inc - Lexington, KY January 2011 to August 2012 Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2, Windows Server 2003/2008, VM and Veritas  Responsibilities:  • SQL Server Setup 2008,2008R2 Installation and Version Upgrade.  • Perform and Monitor daily tasks such as Backups & Restores, maintenance jobs, handling developers requests and user's permissions etc.  • Ran diagnostics as required looking for poor performing queries, blocked processes and hung jobs.  • Setup, Maintain and troubleshoot Database Mirroring  • Responsible to Monitor and troubleshooting replication and Log Shipping.  • Managing Active Passive Cluster environment as a High availability solution.  • Export/Import data from other data sources like flat files using SSIS/DTS packages.  • Setup Database Security and maintain accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins and Roles and assigning object level permissions.  • Manage Disk space, Memory, and User Connections.  • Schedule and monitor maintenance activities including database consistency checks and index fragmentation.  • Extensively work on Performance Monitor, SQL  • Profiler, DMVs to tune the databases, servers and query tuning.  • Schedule weekly jobs and Maintenance tasks for better performance.  • Configure Database Maintenance Plans for Backups, Re-indexing, and Reorganization of Indexes, Clean-up History, and Update Statistics.  • Relocation of Databases from one server to another using attach and detach database tasks.  • Identify the I/O and memory bottle necks, blocking and deadlocks caused by complex queries using SQL Server Activity monitor/profiler, Dynamic Management Views (DMV) and handling them by implementing better Query Execution plans.  • Rebuilding indexes with different fill factors and updating statistics.  • Setup Linked Server, which allows access to the distributed, queries against OLE DB data sources for EXCEL and Text files and running the Batch Processes.  • Setup Database mail configuration, operators and alerts  • Used Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views, TSQL Scripting for complex business logic.  • Extensively used Joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple tables from different databases.  • Optimized the database by creating various clustered, non-clustered indexes and indexed views.  • Recover System and User databases from suspect mode, sizing Temp database Skills Etl, R2, Windows 2003 Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 2003-2012 R2,  ETL Tool SSIS  New technology Learning PowerBI reporting