ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - Priority Health Grand Rapids, MI Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Priority Health - Grand Rapids, MI April 2017 to Present Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 12c two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Enabled Flashback for database to create restore points and supporting DDL changes  ? Used Oracle database vault and proactively protecting application data, Created Oracle Wallet, Enabling Transparent Data Encryption, Automatic Login Enabled for Transparent Data Encryption, Setting and Resetting the Master Key, Adding and Removing Salt from an Encrypted Columns, created encrypted tablespaces and backup wallet and master keys to tapes  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases  ? Implemented replication on databases using Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.  ? Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  ? Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  ? Installation, configuration and maintenance of Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  ? Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  ? Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  ? Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  ? Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  ? Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA March 2014 to April 2017 Implemented proactive monitoring using SQL Trace, TKPROF and EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Windows environments.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  ? Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed Data refresh activities using the export datapump utility.  ? Applied PSU Patches on 11g & 12c databases as part of maintenance activity.  ? Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  ? Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system.  ? Used TOAD for database management.  ? Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  ? Worked on SQL server environment, scheduling backup jobs  ? Used the Task manager to troubleshoot SQL Server resource contention Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2012, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, OLTP, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, PL/SQL, SQL, STORED PROCEDURE, AIX, LINUX, SOLARIS, UNIX, UX, DISASTER RECOVERY, RMAN, BACKUPS, HP-UX Additional Information Professional Skills  ? 5 years + of experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing, implementing Databases, Web development and Application development.  ? Hands on experience in Oracle 11g/12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation)  ? Excellent Experience in installing and maintaining Oracle Dataguard to implement physical Standby Databases for Disaster Recovery.  ? Installed and Configured the Golden Gate software and created manager, extract, replicate trail files and tested the data is flowing from source to target database.  ? Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN), traditional Export/ Import, Export/Import Datapump, conventional Hot/Cold Backups, PITR, TSPITR.  ? Worked extensively on Cloning /Duplicate of databases using RMAN.  ? Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, 11g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts.  ? Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc.  ? Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  ? Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  ? Upgrading and Migration of databases to higher version and other platforms using manual method, traditional Export/Import, datapump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  ? Experience in coding SQL, PL/SQL package, function, stored procedure, triggers, and materialized view for Oracle database.  ? Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  ? Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /Nocatalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  ? Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, User Management, Tablespace management, maintenance of Oracle Database.  ? Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.  ? Experience in Monitoring and Tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  ? Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  ? Ability to detect and troubleshoot SQL Server related CPU, memory, I/O, disk space and other resource contention.  ? Knowledge in SQL server backups, restores and recovery processes.  ? Ability to manage SQL server users and resources.  ? Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication, documentation and interpersonal  skills.    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c. MS Sql Server 2012-2016  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader.    Exp/Imp/Data Pump/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Toad, Putty, Winscp, Sql Developer, Sql Server Management Studio, TKPROF, MobaXterm, Cisco Automatic workload Automation, OEM 12c, RMAN, OLTP    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Other skills RAC, GOLDEN GATE, DATA GUARD, SSIS, PL/SQL, Upgrades and Patches