Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Posh Lane Transport Services Fort Worth, TX Around 4 years of extensive database administration and over 8 years of general IT experience including 5 years signal experience with the US Army. Seeking for a position as a security/ cyber security analyst in an organization where my years of experience IT professional can be utilized towards achieving the organizational and personal professional growth    Key Competence  * Thorough knowledge in maintaining database including database security, Capacity monitoring and performance tuning (I/O, Memory & SQL Tuning etc.) using Statspack, Explain plan, Analyze, ADDM, AWR Report and so on. Gathering and analyzing AWR report for troubleshooting purposes.  * 4 years experience conducting risk assessments and collaborate with clients and colleagues in order to provide recommendations and guidelines on network security and operations enhancements  * 2 years experience managing Real Application Cluster RAC including 11g RAC.  * Experienced in writing SQL for creating views, functions, stored procedures, creation of database etc. Maintaining database confidentiality through access control and user privileges.  * Excellent knowledge of SQL*Plus, SQL*Net, SQL*Loader, Enterprise Manager & Performance Tuning Pack  * Worked with other team members on various dba projects including installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g t0 11g)  * Extensive knowledge on database backup/recovery strategy (RMAN, Export/Import & Datapump), Capacity Planning, Replication (Streams) standby databases, Oracle configuration management, Database Cloning, Refresh, and patch management  * Documentation of the work assigned in the environment and stored for the future use.  * Strong emphasis on organization and documentations. Excellent interpersonal and strong communication skills (including Presentations). Customer-service oriented attitude and self motivated, dedicated in any work environment. Work Experience Database Administrator Posh Lane Transport Services June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  * Administering and maintaining the company's databases including daily monitoring and performance analysis using Statspack, ADDM, AWR Report and so on. Gathering and analyzing AWR report for troubleshooting purposes.  * Working with other IT professionals for database designs and reviews; troubleshooting database issues, and deploying timely fixes; maintaining regular and proactive database patches, updates and performance enhancement.  * Drafting technical manuals, including installations and operation and incident response plans in order to enhance security documentations  * Enhancing SQL statements performance using Explain Plan and Oracle optimizer hints  * Ability to manage high availability solution centers using Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) with several nodes.  * Creating database that meet the constantly changing requirement and need of the company and clients.  * Configuring the Oracle Network environment including Oracle Net Services and Listeners, configuring and managing oracle network.  * Developing Unix shell scripts and SQL scripts to carry out routine checks on databases. This include checking if the Listener is running, optimal running of all databases, Unix error messages, disk space availability etc.  * Installing, patching, maintaining and upgrading all Oracle software (10g t0 11g) using DBCA; Performance tuning of all Oracle Instance components and assisting the application developers in testing and implementation stages of the application tuning.  * Performing constant and occasional database backup and recovery using RMAN, Data pump Import and Export utility, multiplexing the Control file etc. Using RMAN to clone database.  * Managing and securing the database by using appropriate proper authorization schemes, roles and privileges  * Modifying database structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements, cloning development databases for testing and training.  * Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any hitches and unusual situations. Database Developer UPS - Doraville, GA November 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities  * Installed, configured, and created databases as needed by the Production unit and Industrial Engineering regarding production and drivers payday output.  * Participated in the design and implementation of new ORION technology to determine drivers dispatch plan.  * Configured and maintained Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) at tablespace level to ensure data integrity.  * Participated actively in meetings with staff and users, demonstrated ability to interpret user needs by preparing thorough summaries and recommendations  * Troubleshot and resolved issues with database functionality.  * Performed technical adjustments and installed technical updates to system.  * Maintained, analyzed, evaluated and updated database integrity and security settings.  * Maintained detailed accounting of users and security access to system software.  * Audited, modified, and amended data in systems. Monitored and reports on system usage.  * Provided configuration management of INIT.ORA parameters/  * Performed 'sanity' test to determine if a new release is "stable" enough for consideration to be deployed into production system  * Reviewed reports/logs/dumps and other data to recommend corrective actions to maintain database performance and efficiency  * Provided weekly status reports to Management Technical Production Assistant Ceridian Inc - Atlanta, GA December 2006 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  * Set up bundle for customers with various subsidiaries and/or branches who would want their payroll sent to various branches.  * Provided computer help desk support via telephone communications with end-users.  * Worked closely with system users to ensure information system strategies are aligned with Business plan and needs.  * Responsible for creating tracking records, keeping track of processed payrolls and sending such information to the major customers on a daily, weekly and bi-weekly basis.  * Resolved any payroll irregularities through various applications such as the Response PlusNet (RPN), Output Distributions, etc.  * Responsible for processing quitter tapes and the onward transmission of necessary information both to the customer and the new company.  * Worked closely with system users to ensure information system strategies are aligned with Business plan and needs.  * Used the Output Distributions to determine the payrolls due in, due out and processed on a daily basis.  * Responsible for the report of any issues to the Manager through daily ProSummary report, nightly production log, etc. Education Masters of Science in Cyber Security Tech University of Maryland May 2018 to May 2020 Bachelor of Science Kennesaw State University May 2012 COIN Consultancy and Training Institute - Dunwoody, GA 2011 CCNA Southern State Polytechnic University - Marietta, GA 2010 Skills Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Ksh, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Rman, Perl, Scripting, T-sql, Rdbms, Erwin, Loader, Oem Additional Information Skill Set    RDBMS Oracle 11g/10g/9i/, Oracle 10g  LANGUAGES SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, C, VB, UNIX Shell Scripting, Ksh, bash and Perl Scripting.  SOFTWARES, APPLICATIONS & TOOLS  DBCA, DBUA, WinScp, OEM (GC), RMAN, ASM, VCS, SQL*PLUS, SQL*LOADER, EXP, IMP, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), TOAD, Erwin, TOAD, Data Modeler, SQL TRACE, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.