Oracle Database administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle Database administrator - Corp Spectrum Health Grand Rapids, MI Oracle Database administrator  • 5+ experience with full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning,  database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle and  SQL-server databases.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data  pump utilities and manually  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high  availability.  • Good communication and cooperation skills with an aptitude to learn quickly, take responsibility, work  under pressure.  • Migrating and consolidation of 11g databases into 12c in both QA and Production environments.  • Installation and consolidation of 12c multitenant database's in QA and Test environments. Container and  pluggable database administration and cloning.  • Experience on Data Replication using Snapshot, Materialized views, import/export and Oracle Goldengate.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working with the application development team and analyzing  objects created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating  Systems with sizes up to 11 TB.  • Experience in the Upgrade of Oracle Databases in patch set Level and in version Level (9i to 10g), (10g to  11g) and (11g to 12c).  • Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and  One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations.  • Experience in configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c physical & logical standby database.  • Expertise in Disaster Recovery Planning and high availability solutions by performing switchover and  failover operations in Data Guard.  • Experience in creating and managing Single Instance databases and RAC primary and standby databases  under various business critical environments.  • Good hands-on experience in High Availability solutions with Oracle 10g, 11g RAC, Physical and Logical  Standby Databases (Data Guard) and Replication using Oracle Streams, GoldenGate.  • Good hands-on experience in configuration of Oracle 10g R2, 12c OEM Grid Control to monitor database.  • Good hands-on experience applying recommended Upgrade Patches as well as CPU/SPU and PSU patches  to the standalone and RAC databases. Design development, system integration phase, quality assurance  phase, development and production support activities.  • Gathering and updating project materials, completing budgeting, farecasting, project documentation,  business flows, and lessons learned documents.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of  backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring  users, etc. Preparation of High Level & Low-Level Design documents.  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Provide and implement performance tuning recommendations of all components in Exadata database  machine.  • Advise, provide guidance and develop Disaster Recovery strategies for the Exadata Database machine.  • Solid skills to configure Exadata to meet company internal security requirement.  Microsoft Server Database administrator  • 3+ years working as a database administrator with Microsoft Server.  • Implemented the SQL Login Security for developers and users.  • Experienced writing Perl to run on both Linux and Windows environments.  • Installation SQL Server 2008 /2005 on Windows 2003, applied service packs and security fixes.  • Created Database and Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults,  User Defined data types and functions.  • Addressed the Replication Issues. Created new replications, DTS packages to maintain high availability of  the data between the servers.  • Implemented the SQL Login Security for developers and users.  • Knowledge of High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options for SQL Server  • Professional and highly motivated, having over 3+ years of DBA and production work experience in the  software industry withMySQL(4.x,5,x) and SQL Server 2000/2005.  • Experience of Database Administration, design, development, maintenance and production support of  relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySql Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Have successfully managed high availability of production systems for Corporate Sectors and Individual  Organizations as MySql DBA.  • Strong MySql and SQL Server skills but also significant general system administration skills on UNIX/HP  Open VMS, Linux and Windows environment. Proficient writing shell scripts as well as knowledge in  general systems administration tasks.  • Expertise with Shell Script, PHP backend, C# application integrations & development.  • Experience in the administration of Web based Internet/Intranet Client/Server multi-tire distributed  application, major in database technologies in Consulting, Sales & Finance, Telecom, Quality & Standards  domains.  • Experienced in Database optimization and developing stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Joins, Views,  Cursors and SQL on databases: MySQL, Oracle10g, OMWB tool.  • Working cross-functionally with our engineers and analytics professionals to optimize queries, fix  performance bottlenecks, improve existing schemas and design new ones.  PostgreSQL Database administrator  • 3+ years working as a database administrator with PostgreSQL  • Installing and Configuring PostgreSQL from source or packages on Linux machines.  • Expert Level SQL, PL/pgSQL, including stored procedures, functions, triggers, and views.  • Ability to efficiently write database code without compromising data quality, privacy or security.  • Knowledge of database design principles, query optimization, index management, integrity checks,  statistics and isolation levels  • Hand-on experience on performance tuning/ index maintenance and backup and restoring PostgreSqL  database on a regular basis.  • Experience with Data warehouse concepts and designs.  • Installing / Configuring PostgreSQL from source or packages on Linux machines.  • Experience designing database structures, indexes, views, partitioning and data rollup strategies, federation,  and stored procedures.  • Data migration while upgrading database versions.  • Extensive experience with Warm Standby (PostgreSQL 8.x and earlier), and Hot Standby (PostgreSQL (9.x  and greater).  • Maintaining custom vacuum strategies for high volume databases.  • Performed heavy query and database design analysis for multiple SQL Server databases to improve  performance.  • Experience with Ora2pg, a tool for migrating databases from Oracle to PostgreSQL.  • Use of the Git Version Control System for code repositories.  • Built master to warm standby failover scripts on Amazon EC2 cloud servers and PostgreSQL 8.4.  • Utilized the Amazon EC2 API Developer Tools to interface with cloud server management.  • Programing various scripts to load data into a database and process it from various sources, (XML, CSV,  JSON, API data feeds, Database dumps).  • Experienced writing Perl to run on both Linux and Windows environments.  • Knowledge of fault detection and resolution processes.  • Ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues.  • Configured PostgreSQL databases to replicate across multiple sites using RepMgr and streaming  replication.  • Linked database security controls to external authorization sources to provide row-level security. Work Experience Oracle Database administrator Corp Spectrum Health - Grand Rapids, MI August 2016 to Present Installation of oracle 11g and 12c databases in production, development and test environments depending  on project requirements. Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Oracle HA Stack: Install, Configure, Setup, Maintain and Support Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c RAC, Physical and Logical Standby database for test, Development and Production for various home-developed  applications.  • Configured and Managing Oracle 11gR2 Data Guard (Active Physical Standby on 2 nodes RAC).  • Design and Maintaining Physical standby maintenance (Switch over -using Data Guard Broker).  • Installed and currently Managing Oracle 12c Grid Control (OEM) for monitoring Production, Active Data  Guard (DG Broker), Stage and Dev systems.  • Involve in 24x7 on-call support for 12 databases of 2.0 TB 4 Node production 10g and 11g RAC databases  using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification.  • Upgrade DBs from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1. Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMANT Granting required privileges to users.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application  using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 10G to 12c.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning, user  access control.  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data guard and Active Data guard  feature for High availability configuration in RAC environment.  • Setup notifications (various levels for Cluster activities, tablespace utilizations, Listener alerts) using OEM  • Monitored and trouble shooted database issues with OEM grid control.  • Built physical standby using RMAN Active duplication method as well for Disaster recovery site  • Performed database recovery using GRP (Guarantee Restore Point)  • Comfortable in using ASM for creating disk groups, adding additional storage (DISKS) and troubleshooting ASM issues. Setup the unidirectional replication on oracle 11g databases using  Goldengate.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting the gaps between source and target databases configured with GoldenGate.  • Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Responsible for Maintenance and Support of multi-terabyte databases in production, testing and development environments. (Sun Solaris, Linux Red hat)  • Successfully installed Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) including; Grid infrastructure (Clusterware  and ASM) and Oracle rdbms software on a 3 nodes RAC architecture in development and UAT running.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using Data Guard with physical standby  effectively configured and used Data Guard Broker utility.  • Configured 12c Oracle grid infrastructures & Oracle database software to meet the current needs and upgraded as required to meet the expansion needs of the company.  • Performed logical backups using Export/Import and Data Pump  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote  database using distributed database feature.  • Experience in Capacity Planning, Space Management, Database Upgrades / Migration Data Extraction  • Performance Tuning of SQL statements and Database Tuning using tools like Explain plan, TKPROF, SQL  Analyze, UTLBSTAT, UTLESTAT, STATSPACK, ADDM, AWR reports etc.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization  • First hands-on experiences in software and firmware maintenance of both the Database and Storage servers  in the Exadata database machine including upgrades and patching Oracle Database Administrator Truven Health Analytics - Ann Arbor, MI June 2014 to July 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Worked on disaster recovery of Exadata Data Guard physical standby Failover/switchover/loss of service  /rebuild/corruption/loss of datafile testing.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running  Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick  Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Part of a team to install and maintain ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working with the application development team and analyzing  objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data  pump utilities and manually  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client-Server environment.  • using TNSnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Applied security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU) and One-off Patch) using runInstaller and opatch.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump  Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free  space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases. Administered databases of various sizes from 500GB to 6TB.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover  using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database through Database Tuning - Tuning  Applications, Tuning Instance, and Tuning Disk Usage. Debugging SQL tuning  • Plan for contingency, disaster management that includes standby databases, data guard and cloning/refresh  of the databases.  • Working on Exadata X2, X3 and X6 machines which included Half Rack and Full Rack Education B.S in Civil Engineering University of Maryland - College Park, MD 2014 Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Rman, Backups, Hp-ux, Database management system, Scripting, Ftp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Database Management System  Operating Systems:  • Proficient in Sun Solaris, Linux, Unix, HP-UX, IBM AIX, and Window.  Databases:  • Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, Exadata, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL database, Exadata AWS.  Language:  • SQL, PL/SQL, T/SQL, PL/pgSQL, Using Scripting.  Tools:  • RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, FTP, WINSCP, EXP, IMP, Data Pump, TOAD, SPM, SQLT,  OSWATCHER, SQL*Plus, Grid Control, DBCA, Data Guard, TKPROF, Golden Gate, EMC Storage,  NET Backups, PgAdmin.