SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - ADP Roseland, NJ ? CERTIFIED SQL Database administrator with 8+ years of IT Experience in Database Administration and Development for very large and complex databases in Microsoft SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008 R2 / 2008 / 2005 / 2000 in Development, Test and Production Environments on various business domains like Health and Manufacturing.  ? Extensively worked on installing, configuring, optimizing and managing different versions SQL Server 2005, 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017 updating with latest hot fixes and service packs as per CIS Standards.  ? Expert in Migrating from SQL server 2005 to 2008/2008R2 and 2008/2008R2 to 2012, 2014,2016 and 2017 by using In-Place upgrade process as well as side-by-side upgrade process and documented the Upgrade Process.  ? Proficiency and expertise in SQL Server Backup/Recovery, Disaster recovery planning and Security Management.  ? Implemented best practices for instance and database level security to safeguard the sensitive data  ? Good exposure with SQL Server High Availability Always ON Availability Groups, DB mirroring, log shipping and clustering.  ? Hands on experience on SQL SERVER 2016 new features like query store, IN memory OLTP and database stretching to azure platform.  ? Experience in supporting Very Large Database (VLDB) more than 2 to 4 TB and troubleshooting problems.  ? Good understanding in implementing different types of Replication Models such as Transactional, Snapshot.  ? Created effective Backup and Recovery plan by Transactional Log and Full Database Backups and utilized to recover data in point in time in case of disaster of server.  ? Expertise in implementation of security models, Database authentication modes, creation of logins, granting permissions and assigning roles to users on databases.  ? Very good experience at Extended events, Data Compression, Resource , Performance Data Collector. Wait statistics.  ? Hands on Experience in Creating tables, views, triggers, stored procedures and functions using SQL (Structured Query Language). Hands on experience in data (table) partitioning.  ? Extensively worked on Locks, Deadlocks, Handling Isolation Level and Concurrency Effects, Detect CPU, I/O, Memory Bottlenecks.  ? Expertise in Monitoring Event Viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  ? Expert in Monitoring, Optimization, Performance tuning of SQL Server databases using DMVs, Activity Monitor, SQL Profiler, DB Tuning wizard and third-party tools.  ? Expertise in reading and understanding execution plan and fixing the query to execute with low cost.  ? Experience in using Native tools like SQL Server Profiler, extended events, Database Tuning Advisor, Perfmon and third-party tools like IDERA.  ? Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and index Analysis.  ? Experience in using DMV and dynamic management functions for finding out long running queries.  ? Developed and monitored multi task SQL Server Integrating Services (SSIS) packages and DTS.  ? Expertise in performing data transformations between servers using BCP, SSIS, and bulk insert.  ? Exquisite skills in SSMS-Creating and scheduling jobs, alerts and operators with SQL Server Agent, handling Backup/Recovery of databases, Linked Servers, Database Maintenance Planning.  ? Expert in Troubleshooting, resolving issues on databases and applications to match SLAs and providing training to users  ? Expert in Documentation of SQL Server system and database operations, technical specifications, functional specifications, best practices, policies and procedures.  ? Provided pre and post deployment support for all the releases  ? Excellent analytical, Interpersonal and communication skills, fast learner, hardworking and versatile team player.  ? Ability and experience to work on multiple projects and eager to learn new things. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator ADP - Roseland, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Maintaining production databases, performing periodic patch upgrades and reviewing existing policies and procedures and suggesting suitable changes if necessary.  ? Implemented Always on availability groups and Log shipping for disaster recovery.  ? Data refresh activities from prod environment to Dev environment and fixing orphan users.  ? Migrated on-premise SQL databases to AZURE Portal.  ? Created SQL Database on azure based on DTU or pool based as per client's requirements.  ? Monitored Azure databases on weekly basis to cut costs on DTU basis.  ? Outstanding grasp of ITIL principle and process.  ? Resolved business issue and complaints in accordance with appropriate professional standards.  ? Implemented Database integrity checks, update statistics and reindexing.  ? Experienced in using tools like Extended events, windows performance monitor and performance counters for monitoring and tuning the SQL Server Performance, IDERA Diagnostic manager.  ? Managed Production environment for High Availability and implemented Always ON availability group with three replicas for reporting and backup.  ? Developed database and database objects as per client requirements  ? Worked on setting up and managing Snapshot and Transactional Replication.  ? Involved in Monitoring Performance of different production servers.  ? Resolving performance related issues to Blocking, Deadlocks and long running queries  ? Worked extensively with Execution plan and Index Tuning Wizard for performance bottlenecks  ? Involved in Migration MS SQL Server 2008 to MS SQL Server 2012  ? Interacted with concern application team in fixing the problems when ever needed.  ? Monitoring and scheduled jobs on production and staging environment.  ? Configure SQL / DB MAIL for sending server / database alerts:  ? Responsible in Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance issues.  ? Used the query store and Execution Plan to improve the optimization of the T-SQL code.  ? Performance tuning of SQL queries and stored procedures using query store and extended events and Index Tuning Wizard  ? Provided 24 x 7 Production support for the database and application issues.    Environment: SQL Server 2017/206/2014/2012/2008 R2, SQL extended events, Clustering, Always on, Log Shipping, Windows 2008 R2/2003/2000, Commvault, IDERA mgmt. SQL Database Administrator LITTLE FUSE - Chicago, IL May 2015 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Installation and Configuring MSSQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012 on Dev, Test and Production boxes.  ? Handling Problem Management to provide the permanent resolution to the frequently repeating issues and customer raised Problem Records.  ? Extensive hands on experience Service Pack deployment on both stand alone and cluster environment with respect to latest patches level.  ? Provide support for database administration, database migrations and disaster recovery solutions for production databases.  ? Data refresh activities from prod environment to Dev environment and fixing orphan users  ? Implementation of SQL logins, roles and authentication modes as part of security policies for various categories of users.  ? Scheduled Full and Transactional log backups for the user defined and system databases using the Database Maintenance Plan Wizard  ? Troubleshooting of data maintenance issues and Linked server issues  ? Attending CAB and TAB meeting on weekly basis to get the approvals for scheduled changes.  ? Perform business analysis, technical analysis, systems design, application software programming.  ? Involved in end to end transition process from onsite team to support base line    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008, Oracle 11g/10g, .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, C#.Net, Asp.Net2.0, JavaScript, SSIS, SSRS, VSS, Windows 2000, Windows 2003 Server, MS TFS, MS-Access, SPSS, Erwin, Visio Professional, TFS SQL Database Administrator EMPIRE DATA SYSTEMS ALLENTOWN PA - Allentown, PA January 2011 to April 2015 Responsibilities  ? Installed, Configured and Administered SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008 Servers in Production, QA, Pre-Prod and Dev environments.  ? Restoring databases on dev\preprod\test server as per requirements.  ? Experience with dealing log file full or temp tempdb issues.  ? Daily support, troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization and tuning of server and SQL server environments across entire system.  ? Implemented Transactional Replication for different applications and managed replication and database modifications for replicated objects.  ? Monitoring the servers using Idera third party software and backups using Commvault.  ? Ticketing systems like Resolve for Change Request, Sales Force, BMC Remedy etc.,  ? Deployed SSIS packages and worked on Reporting services.  ? Created logins and Roles with appropriate permissions for temporary and permanent access requests.  ? Scheduling the Backups and performing the restoration. Support for huge Databases.  ? Provided 24/7 on-call support on rotation basis for production database.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005, Idera Diagnostic, SQL Lite Speed, Red Gate SQL Compare, Visual Studio 2010/2005 and Windows Server 2008/2003 Education Bachelor's Skills .net (7 years), Analyzer (Less than 1 year), Bcp (Less than 1 year), Bi (Less than 1 year), Bmc (4 years), Bmc patrol (Less than 1 year), Database (8 years), Erwin (2 years), Microsoft ssrs (2 years), Microsoft windows (2 years), Ms sql server (8 years), Oracle (2 years), Remedy (4 years), shipping (1 year), Sql (8 years), Sql server (8 years), Ssrs (2 years), T-sql (1 year), Visio (2 years), Windows 2000 (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, .Net, SQL, T-SQL.  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2017,2016,2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005, 2000, MS Access. Oracle 12c.  BI Tools SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), INFORMATICA, SQL Server DTS, SSRS, OBIEE  Other Tools Microsoft Visual Source Safe, IDERA, Red gate, Fog light, Sentry, BMC, BMC PATROL, Remedy Ticketing tool,  Data Modeling Tool Erwin, Microsoft Visio 2007  SQL Server Tools:  SQL server Management Studio, SQL server Query Analyzer, SQL server mail service, DBCC, DTS, BCP, SQL server profiler, Event Viewer, and Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Server Agent, SSRS Log Shipping, T-SQL, DDL, SQLCMD, BIDS, Triggers    Operating System Windows 2016, 2012, 2008, 2003, 2000 Advanced Server, Windows 2000 data center, Windows NT, Windows 95/98/2000 XP.