Sr Database Administrator Sr <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Database Administrator - TJX Companies Chicago, IL • Oracle DBA offering more than 7+ years of Oracle Database maintenance and support experience in Oracle software installations, backup and recovery, software patch installations, up gradation, Security Additional experience in application systems monitoring and support, Oracle systems performance tuning, Database tuning, query tuning and troubleshooting, with an emphasis on support. Developed a highly acclaimed reputation for resolving user service requests and incidents  • Over four years of experience in Unix shell scripting  • Developed/customized UNIX shell scripts to automate routine DBA tasks.  • Oracle 10g certified Database Administrator with Wide exposure to Oracle 10g and Solid understanding of its Architecture  • Experience in Oracle 11g/12c new features and Oracle 10g Real Application Clusters(RAC)  • Expertise in configuring Data Guard for data availability, data protection, and disaster recovery solution for enterprise databases  • Configured and Maintained Oracle RMAN Backups,  • Worked as a SQL developer ,Skilled in optimizing SQL, PL/SQL queries  • Experience in Logical and Physical Databases design including both OLTP and OLAP.  • Implemented 9i features like UNDO table spaces, Resumable space management, Segment space management, Redefining Tables  • Worked on 10g features like Data pump, Flash-Back Recovery, AWR, ASM, ADDM, Grid Monitoring.  • Reorganized databases to avoid disk rotation for maximum performance  • Creation of new database links and materialized views and setting up of database jobs for their refreshment  • Installing and upgrading oracle database on UNIX ,windows platforms, experience in managing physical structure storage and security  • Used different v$ views to study the database activities taking care of SQL*Net related problems like listeners and connect strings  • Database tuning: Optimize database performance by analyzing objects, generating statistics, creating indexes and views  • Database Performance Tuning using SQL_TRACE, TKPROF, Explain plan, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM and Proactive Monitoring, identifying areas that need to be improved in the application and database using Stats pack, AWR, ADDM and 10g OEM Grid Monitoring  • Configured Oracle Shared Server Configuration(MTS) architecture for optimum usage of system resources  • Configured Multithreaded Server and balanced the shared server processes and dispatchers  • Experience in OEM, TOAD, Data Migrations using export/import, benchmarking using load testing tools.  • Expertise performing archiving and purging of partitions  • Backup and Disaster Recovery: Implemented robust backup strategy with hot, cold & Oracle exp/imp utility using UNIX shell scripts, RMAN backups. Evaluated disaster recovery options and implemented business continuity plans.  • As a senior dba worked on multipule database like MySql,Sybase and sql server  • Worked with tools like DTS, SQL * Loader, export/import,, Log Miner  • Ability to function successfully in a highly stressful, 24x7 mission critical environment  • Team player, excellent performer in a fast-paced environment. Self-motivated, quick learner and proactive. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Database Administrator TJX Companies - Framingham, MA September 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installation and configuration of Oracle 11gR2 RAC (4node) using oracle Clusterware and ASM  • Worked on import/export, export data pump/import data pump and SQL- loader.  • HP-UX Platform migration to Oracle Linux 6.3 Using RMAN Transportable table space  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold, Logical backup plans.  • Installing and configuring RMAN and Flash Recovery. Cloning databases using RMAN as well as scripts.  • Devised and implemented backup strategies for hot, cold, export and RMAN using shell scripting.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, EMC (Time finder and SRDF), RAW Devices.  • UNIX shell scripting in csh , ksh to be controlled from Crontab.  • Downsizing and defragmenting the Very Large Databases by export / import, cloning those using RMAN duplicate features and then upgrading them to Oracle 10g.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, explain plan.  • Implemented Initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate  • DML and DDL Replication: Difference and configuration  • Golden gate Heterogeneous replication using Log miner utility  • Configured and Administered STREAMS and GOLDEN GATE.  • Standby Database (Data Guard) setup and configuration.  • Logical backup using Data pump and Import/export.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Statistics and Reporting: various Golden Gate commands like STATS/LAG,RANGE to check the performance of various processes  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with EMC Storage for managing data in SAN.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 10g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.    Environment: Oracle 11gR2,11gR1.10gR2, AIX, RHEL,OEL Database Engineeer-III T - Mobile , WA July 2017 to August 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installation and configuration of Oracle 11gR2 & 12c RAC (4node) using oracle Clusterware and ASM  • Worked on import/export, export data pump/import data pump and SQL- loader.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold, Logical backup plans.  • Installing and configuring RMAN and Flash Recovery. Cloning databases using RMAN as well as scripts.  • Devised and implemented backup strategies for hot, cold, export and RMAN using shell scripting.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup, EMC (Time finder and SRDF), RAW Devices.  • UNIX shell scripting in csh , ksh to be controlled from Crontab.  • Downsizing and defragmenting the Very Large Databases by export / import, cloning those using RMAN duplicate features and then upgrading them to Oracle 12c.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, explain plan.  • Implemented Initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in Golden Gate  • DML and DDL Replication: Difference and configuration  • Golden gate Heterogeneous replication using Log miner utility  • Configured and Administered STREAMS and GOLDEN GATE.  • Standby Database (Data Guard) setup and configuration.  • Logical backup using Data pump and Import/export.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts.  • Statistics and Reporting: various Golden Gate commands like STATS/LAG,RANGE to check the performance of various processes  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with EMC Storage for managing data in SAN.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 10g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  Environment: Oracle 11gR2,12c, Goldengate 12c RHEL Database Administrator, Environment Support Pfizer - Hightstown, NJ July 2015 to June 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Installation of Oracle 11.1.0.7. on Oracle Linux  • Install, Upgrade and configure Oracle database for various 32-bit and 64- bit platforms like HP-UX, Solaris - SUN SPARC & Oracle Linux Intel  • Involved in Design and implementation of oracle 10g Dataguard both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  • Use of Data Guard Manager, 9i and 10g Data Encryption.  • Carry general administration tasks using tools like OEM and Toad.  • Implemented and maintained streams for synchronization of data at various sites.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery jobs.  • Create & Managing Database Structure, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges. Created multiple Raid levels using volume manager.  • Applying Patches to 10g/11g on Oracle database.  • Used shell scripting to automate all RMAN jobs.  • Migrating data using RMAN transportable tablespace  • Daily monitoring of database instances. The daily monitoring included checking for fragmentation, tablespace spacing, log files, and the space availability for archiving Files, checking the backups etc.  • Rebuilding the indexes  • Analyzing the Database and Schema Tables.  • Monitoring the Database health Checks.  • Monitoring the tablespace and table growth  • Preparing implementation plans for production releases and Database reorganization  • Performing the Database reorganization  • Creating the Table partitions.  • Install in the application specific data build release patches.  • Install the all Revitas software patches.  • Creating the new environments for new releases.  • SQL tuning  • Performed scheduling UC4 for scheduling jobs.  • Configuring oracle enterprise manager 10g GRID, for monitoring and maintenance of 10g, 9i databases  Environment: Oracle 10G, 11g & HPUX Database Administrator, Environment Support Telephonica O2 Germany - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Managing Control files, Table spaces  • Daily monitoring of database instances. The daily monitoring included checking for fragmentation, tablespace spacing, log files, and the space availability for archiving Files, checking the backups etc.  • Rebuilding the indexes  • Analyzing the Database and Schema Tables.  • Monitoring the Database health Checks.  • Monitoring the tablespace and table growth  • Preparing implementation plans for production releases and Database reorganization  • Performing the Database reorganization  • Creating the Table partitions.  • Install in the application specific data build release patches.  • Install the all Comverse software patches  • Creating the new environments for new releases.  • SQL tuning.  • Completely eliminated space errors by implementing proactive space monitoring and effective space allocation  • Greatly improved performance in daily transforms by identifying and reorganizing indexes on major tables  • As a Sr. Database Administrator, I am Responsible for administration of 100 development and testing Oracle databases  • Storage Management Managing Space, Table spaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary.  • Installed Oracle 10g Enterprise Manager (OEM) (Grid Control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on databases.  • Designing the security and database access strategies using tools like ESM.  Environment: Oracle 10G, 11g & HPUX Database Administrator Aristos - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed upgrade/migrations of databases 9i to 10g and 10g to 11g.  • Worked on import/export, export data pump/import data pump and SQL- loader.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold, Logical backup plans.  • Installing and configuring RMAN and Flash Recovery. Cloning databases using RMAN as well as scripts.  • Devised and implemented backup strategies for hot, cold, export and RMAN using shell scripting.  • Downsizing and defragmenting the Very Large Databases by export / import, cloning those using RMAN duplicate features and then upgrading them to Oracle 10g.  • GoldenGate replication implementation  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database using STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, explain plan.  • Used SQL server for ecommerce apps.  • Configured Streams to capture propagate, apply changes in multiple databases.  • Worked on Automatic Storage Management (ASM) with EMC Storage for managing data in SAN.  • Configured, administered, and monitored a Streams environment using various tools like OEM console.  • Installation, maintenance and tuning of Oracle 10g RAC databases including ASM and CRS.  • Set up, configured and maintained oracle data guard (primary and standby databases) to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Data Migration as part of enterprise data warehouse project.  • Used shell scripting for automation of job Scripts, for Startup and Shutdown, Health Check of Databases, Analyzing of Tables and Rebuilding of Indexes.  • Data Modeling, Database Design and Creation using ER-Win, Visio.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting of Database Replication issues using Shareplex and golden gate, dealt with conflict resolution and performance issues.  • Load balancing, Databases/Schema/Table Re-Organization for faster performance using export/import & Move procedures. Data Refresh in Test and Integration Databases using Transportable Table spaces.  • Storage Management Managing Space, Table spaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary.  • Installed Oracle 10g Enterprise Manager (OEM) (Grid Control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on databases.  • Designing the security and database access strategies using tools like ESM.  Environment: Win2K, Linux, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10G, MS-SQL Server 2000, MS-SQL Server 2005, sybase Database Administrator Diageo USA - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2012 to December 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Managing Control files, Table spaces  • Daily monitoring of database instances. The daily monitoring included checking for fragmentation, tablespace spacing, log files, and the space availability for archiving Files, checking the backups etc.  • Storage Management Managing Space, Table spaces, Segments and Extents, Rollback Segments & Data Dictionary.  • Installed Oracle 10g Enterprise Manager (OEM) (Grid Control) for diagnosing and monitoring performance related problems and configured with Application servers on databases.  • Designing the security and database access strategies using tools like ESM.  • Rebuilding the indexes  • Analyzing the Database and Schema Tables.  • Monitoring the Database health Checks.  • Monitoring the tablespace and table growth  • Preparing the capacity planning for Database  • Creating and deleting the users in the Database as per Application Requirements.  • Creating the Table partitions.  • Implementing and maintaining database security (create and maintain users, roles and assign privileges)  • Implementation of daily, weekly, and monthly DBA checklists for each environment.  • Monitored the production Oracle alert logs for database errors and system resource availability and responded to system memory and data issues.  • Implement the automated Hot Backup scripts for the Daily full backup created in Korn Shell.    Environment: Win2K, Linux, Oracle 9i, Oracle 10G, MS-SQL Server 2000, MS-SQL Server 2005, sybase Education Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana