Database Management Specialist <span class="hl">Database</span> Management Specialist Database Management Specialist - US COAST GUARD Annandale, VA Looking for a challenging position as Database Administrator in a stable fast-paced environment who likes challenges, new ideas, and utilizing professional expertise to achieve advance career through sincerity and being responsible to duty.    Quick Summary of Skills:    ? US Citizen, over 9 years of experience as a SQL server DBA  ? A DBA who is analytical, detail oriented, and knows how to troubleshoot problems for different Microsoft products like SQL Server and Windows Operating System related problems  ? Depth Knowledge in Database Administration for large and complex databases using SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, 2005 and 2000.  ? Hands-On working experience in managing large databases including routine tasks like monitoring and troubleshooting database instance, databases, health check, space, memory, CPU, jobs, backup/recovery, SSIS package related tasks.  ? HA and DR: Log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Clustering and Always On High availability  ? Strong technical background includes performing business analysis, writing documentation and specifications, T-SQL, stored procedures, triggers, functions, SSIS and DTS.  ? Migration SQL Server from 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012  ? Application supported for database: Auto Auction, Retail Order, Product Pricing, HR, Payroll, Contracts, SharePoint Work Experience Database Management Specialist US COAST GUARD - Kearneysvillie, WA, 25430, US August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Performed system health check mainly by index management, log review and disc space maintenance.  ? Trouble shooting different system issues.  ? Managed users account properly and professionally by creating, deactivating while not in used, allowing least permission to users and password expiration management.  ? Maintained System security by following business requirement and Government rules. All systems were updated for proper audit event implementation as per DISA STIGs rules.  ? Implemented DISA STIGs for SQL Server 2008R2, SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014.  ? Experienced with TDE Encryption method.  ? Experienced in KANBAN Methodology.  ? Performed Disaster Recovery (DR) practices in the Stage Servers and Production servers for both Mirroring and Log shipping in two different Systems.  ? Created different jobs as needed for perfect operation of the system.  ? Resolved customer's problems following business procedure CGFIXIT ticketing system.  ? Deployed DACPAC and TSQL codes in Stage and Production Servers  ? Developed a co-operative attitude for every one of the team, which is gradually grew by participating in integration readiness review (IRR) before Stage deployment and Production readiness review (PRR) before production deployment by Developers, Tester, AA and DBA.  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2 database instances  ? Managed Development, Stage, and Production environment of SQL Server Database Server instances Database Administrator Amazon - Seattle, WA December 2012 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2012, and 2008 R2 database instances  ? Managed development, test, and production environment of SQL Server Database Server instances  ? Database Upgraded: Upgraded from SQL Server 2000 & 2005 to 2008 R2 and 2012  ? Database Migrated: Migrated from SQL Server to SQL Server, MS Access Databases into SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, Oracle 10gR2Databases to SQL Server 2008 R2, and MySQL 5.6.1 Databases to SQL Server 2012  ? Patch Management: Applied SP (Service Pack) and HOT Fixes on SQL Server database instances - standalone and HA environment (Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication and Clustering Database Servers)  ? Database Monitoring: Proactively monitored Database Servers, data files, log files, disk space, Agent jobs, error logs, sessions and connections and performed troubleshooting as needed  ? Backup/Recovery: Created backup strategy for dev, test, and production databases based on business requirements, SLA, setup jobs and alerts  ? Performed Database refresh in test environment for testing purposes, and POINT-IN-TIME recovery to Recovered Databases and transactions  ? Used DBCC and DMV for different purposes like monitoring servers, jobs, performance tuning, recovery database  ? Created, Modified, and Managed Indexes (Clustered/Non-Clustered, Simple and Composite) - Reorganize and Rebuild indexes  ? Deployed Databases and TSQL codes in Test, Training, and Production.  ? Performance Tuning: Worked on performance tuning to improve performance for different applications, SQL/TSQL, servers and databases using different tools such as Query Execution plan, Database Tuning Advisor, Perfmon, and third party tools SolarWinds  ? Database High Availability: Configured and Managed Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replications and Fail-Over Clustering  ? Security Management: Managed Server, Database, table, column level security, TDE (Transparent Data Encryption), securing data using views, users permissions as needed  ? Report Development: Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Deployed and Managed reports and report security  ? Worked on data modeling projects for new applications and re-engineering existing applications  ? Used Toad modeler for Data modeling projects, and code versioning, generated codes for deployment  ? Implemented Backward &Forward Engineering technique whenever needed  ? Applications supported: Application supported for database Auto Auction, Retail Order, Product Pricing, HR, Payroll, Contracts, SharePoint Agent jobs Patch Management 2012 to 2014 Applied SP (Service Pack) and HOT Fixes on SQL Server database instances - standalone and HA environment (Log Shipping and Mirroring Database Servers)  ? Database Monitoring: Proactively monitored Database Servers, data files, log files, disk space, Agent jobs, error logs, sessions and connections and performed troubleshooting as needed  ? Backup/Recovery: Created backup strategy for Dev, Stage, and Production databases based on business requirements, SLA, setup jobs and alerts  ? Performed Database refresh in Dev environment for testing purposes, and POINT-IN-TIME recovery to Recovered Databases and transactions  ? Used DBCC and DMV for different purposes like monitoring servers, jobs, performance tuning, recovery database  ? Created, Modified, and Managed Indexes (Clustered/Non-Clustered, Simple and Composite) - Reorganize and Rebuild indexes  ? Performance Tuning: Worked on performance tuning to improve performance for different applications, SQL/TSQL, servers and databases using different local tools such as Query Execution plan, Database Tuning Advisor and Perfmon.  ? Database High Availability: Configured and Managed Database Mirroring and Log Shipping.  ? Migration SQL Server from 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 Database Administrator National Archives Record and Administrations - College Park, MD April 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2 in development, test, and production environment  ? Upgraded/Migrated SQL Server 2000 and 2005 to 2008 R2 in testing and production environment  ? Migrated MS Access 2007 databases into MS SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Migrated My-SQL 5.1.23 databases to SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2005  ? Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) - 2008 R2  ? Developed Report using Report Builder 3.0, BIDS (Business Intelligence Development Studio)  ? Deployed reports and managed security for reports and reporting server  ? Configured and Managed HA/DR solutions like Replications, Log Shipping and Mirroring  ? Monitored and troubleshooting Replications, Log Shipping and Mirroring  ? Applied SP (Service Pack) on SQL Server Instances  ? Worked on different Performance related issues and fixing the problems like Query tuning, server tuning, ETL process improvement as well  ? Wrote T-SQL and Stored-Procedures scripts  ? Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file, Oracle, My-SQL, and Access to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP  ? Scheduled jobs, setup alerts, thresholds, and critical alerts for different routine and important tasks like backup, monitoring database health, disk space, memory, Jobs, backup verification  ? Developed Maintenance Plans for database monitoring and maintenance related tasks  ? Worked on data modeling projects for new applications and re-engineering existing applications  ? Used Toad modeler for Data modeling projects, and code versioning, generated codes for deployment  ? Implemented Backward &Forward Engineering technique whenever needed Education M.S. Cranfield Engineering University Skills DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2019 to December 2022 MCSA Present