Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Dallas, TX Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Indiana State Department of Health - Indianapolis, IN June 2018 to June 2019 • Supported Oracle Applications and databases like installation, and upgrading software.  • Troubleshoot and resolved various priority database performance in business-critical production databases and applications.  • Administration of Oracle 12c/11g databases.  • Administer and Monitor Space Management in Production and lower production environments.  • Data Migrations using oracle toad.  • Used Unix Shell scripts for backups, export and import of database  • Automated monitoring to send notifications for management and concerned team using the scripts.  • Applying standard procedures and documentation of the process.  • Worked with Oracle Support for troubleshooting of technical issues.  • Maintain data security by creating views, DB owners/users and granting/revoking permissions and roles.  • Created Excel sheets for users for reporting purposes.  • Worked with controllers on data quality issues.  • Recreated issues in Application for trouble shooting purposes.  • Executed SQL scripts to implement changes according to the requirements.  • Update/created documentations for future usage.  • Created incidents tickets for tracking purposes.  • Monitoring and managing the database environments.24x7 database production support.  • Regular application and database refresh activities.  • Performed application deployments from DEV to PROD on windows servers.  • Performed Manual clones of both database and applications.  • Creating users and adding responsibilities through front-end.  • Troubleshooting concurrent manager issues.  • Frequent health checkups of application and database tier.  • Created, unlocked, expired user accounts on both application and database end.  • implemented data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Data pump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • ran scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases. Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  • implemented Oracle Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle database.  • Worked on oracle patches using OPatch utility.  • Coordinating Backup and Recovery operations over all databases, ensuring 100% recoverability.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON-tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Implemented Recovery Strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.  • Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances. Performed disk and disk group management in ASM while installing 11gR2 RAC. Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Ensured that oracle database systems operates securely and efficiently. Enabled value-based auditing and Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "run Installer" and Perl based utility "Opatch".  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2. Database Security Engineer (Security Project) Apple - Sunnyvale, CA January 2018 to June 2018 • Responsible for developing documentation for encrypting all databases in TEST, DEV, and Production environment.  • Troubleshooted and resolved Database encryption issues (data at rest and data in motion).  • Experience setting up Database Access Control (Multi-factor Authentication or Two-factor Authentication).  • Created users with the least privilege access in O.S and databases.  • Experience working on various projects to secure more data.  • Recommended and implemented high level data security processes and policies.  • Extensive Understanding in setting up, deployment, configuration and access management.  • Excellent communication skills working with a variety of cross-functional teams to drive projects to completion.  • Experience mentoring and leading DBA's (any escalations)  • help with the overall security and compliance surrounding Data Services efforts.  • Worked in a team and created customized applications that identifies PII, PCI etc information, stores data, and other encryption appliances to monitor data access, controlling and monitoring area access management, multi-factor authentications and data classifications.  • Monitored and assisted the DBA's in the group to make sure they are working towards the group goals and help resolve any pending issues.  • Communicated with end clients to identify various encrypted data to facilitate data monitoring and data access control. Oracle Database Administrator Indoo Books - Jersey City, NJ September 2014 to November 2017 • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, and test staging purposes on RHEL Linux environments.  • Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  • Configured and administered unidirectional replication on Oracle Golden Gate Databases, create database objects in operational data store and maintaining them in Golden Gate.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Oracle HA Stack: Install, Configure, Setup, Maintain and Support Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, 12c, Physical and Logical Standby database for Test, Development and Production for various custom applications like Portfolio Management Systems and vendor applications like SAP Business solutions  • Involved in 24x7 on-call support for two Node production 10g and 11g RAC databases using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  • Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT, and Granting required privileges to users.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim patches on all the databases using opatch, migration of Databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.1  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge data centers.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of two node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Experience with service now and remedy ticketing systems.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments and Oracle OLTP.  • Experience with PeopleSoft, OEB Application server.  • I configured both unidirectional and Bi-directional replication.  • Configure the various Parameters files for the GoldenGate processes.  • Assisted system administrators to apply an OS patch to both the OGG source host and the target servers by providing the sequence of steps required before and after applying patch.  • Troubleshoot and resolved various Lag time issues.  • Configured Manager Process.  • Troubleshooting typical Oracle GoldenGate technical problems such as unique key violation / long transaction abend by using GGSCI / Log dump / discard file analysis etc.  • Performance Tuning Oracle GoldenGate in high data volume environments.  • Installing and configuring Oracle GoldenGate heterogeneous environments.  • I installed the Golden Gate Software. Oracle Database Administrator CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA March 2012 to August 2014 • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, STATSPACK, SQL Trace, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Linux environments.  • Applied upgrade, maintenance, and interim (opatch) patches, RDBMS patches, security patches for improving security and functionality of the databases on 10g, 11g, and 12c.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, and UNIX shell scripts.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge data centers.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues, taking the RMAN full, incremental and cumulative backups.  • Good hands on performance tuning related issues with experience in query analyzing and performance tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow and consuming high resources.  • Worked on converting bigfile to small file tablespace for very large data Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes on tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert logs, and efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Exposure to MySQL database, SQL Server 2012 11.0  • Cross platform migration from Oracle to MySQL  • Experience with service now and remedy ticketing systems. Education Associates in Nursing in Ohio American Healthcare Ins Western Governors University Skills Data retrieval, Database administration, Database administrator, Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Sql queries, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Hp-ux, Rman, Sql Server, MYSQL, Sql Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, Ssis, Sql Dba Additional Information Skills and Summary    Over 6 years' of applied experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I possess complete life cycle (SDLC) knowledge including Installation and configuration, database administration, production support, upgrades, performance tuning, cloning, space management, security, patches, migration, backup and recovery, Data Guard, and GoldenGate. I have worked on a Multi Tenant environment and managed Oracle database versions 10g, 11g, and 12c and SQL Servers.    • Experience in Performance Tuning using ASH, ADDM, AWR, Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF and SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL TRACE.  • Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and fine-tuned further.  • Experience in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • High ability to analyze and understand the AWR reports and can fine tune the databases for maximum performance.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical I/O and Memory Usage.  • Troubleshoot and resolve locking and concurrency issues, Excessive parsing, resource bottleneck (including memory and CPU bottlenecks).  • Developed, modified and optimized very complex queries to data retrieval Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, parallel processing and partitioning using techniques Monitoring the CPU, memory usage, I/O contention on servers using top, iostat, SAR, glance, vmstat etc.  • Extensive experience on high availability solutions with Data Guard in Oracle 11g, 12c and replication using Streams.  • Strong Exposure in Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g software installation and configuration (Grid Infrastructure) and partitioning in Linux.  • Exposure in creation on a Multi-tenant RAC database with 2 node cluster and instances using ASM storage.  • Experienced to take backup on Oracle RAC database by using RMAN utility in a CDB (Multi-tenant) environment.  • Experienced to take backup and restore cluster ware storage (Voting Disk, OCR Disk).  • Experienced on performing health checks in Oracle RAC & monitoring Oracle Instance.  • Production support for Oracle database 10g/11g/12c.  • Created RAC Database on Test Hosts refreshed them with the latest snapshot of data from Prod Environment. Recovering the database from Block corruption.  • Proficient in Oracle GoldenGate installation, upgrade, setup, monitoring, performance tuning, and troubleshooting.  • Unidirectional table replication using oracle streams and also performed proof of concept on the replication using oracle Golden Gate.  • Implemented physical standby database for maximum availability using Oracle Data Guard 11g with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C cloud Control.  • Implementing 11g Data guard with one physical database.  • Experience in configuration and administration of Data Guard (Physical/Logical standby Databases).  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch over and fail over purpose.  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  • Experience on RMAN Backup & Recovery in Oracle 12c with CDB & Non CDB environment.  • Expertise in Designing, implementing and managing Backup strategy using Oracle Utility RMAN, Export/Import and Data Pump.  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Hands on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Upgrading and Migrating Databases from lower versions to higher versions.  • Experience in applying oracle security patch set, Patches, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using perl based utility OPatch and run Installer for various bug fixes on database products.  • Experience in database migration by designing and implementing database logical and physical storage structures.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Implemented and configured of Oracle Enterprise manager (OEM) Grid Control 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases, multiple databases and application servers.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Extensively managed Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS Oracle 12c, 11g, and 10g  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools  TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM, Toad, Putty, Win-scp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, LogMeIn and Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import    Environment    RHEL Linux 5.9, HP-UX, 10g, and 11g, Oracle 10g/11g RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, ASM, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, TOAD, ERWIN 7.2, Golden Gate, RAC, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader