Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Bank Of America Cincinnati, OH • Over 6+ years of IT experience, mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including Oracle9i, 10g, 11.2.0.4 & 12.1.0.2 on both Standalone, RAC and RAC Exadata running on X3,x4 & X6s, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2, 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience in translating business requirements into conceptual, logical, and physical data models.  • Experience with ETL tools like Talent and Looker  • Experience in configuring RMAN on both Control file & Recovery Catalog.  • Performance Tuning of database by optimizing SQL and PL/SQL codes and instance  • Used statspack report, AWR report, ADDM, explain plan and Tuning advisor.  • Excellent experience in installation, setup and configuration of Oracle 10g,11g and 12c on Linux both RedHat & OEL, Unoix Flavor like HP-UX & Solaris, Windows and IBM AIX environments  • Proficient at performing major Database Release Upgrade (manually as well as using DBUA) along with applying various PSU patches using OPatch for 10g|11g|12c databases.  • Experience in database cloning, database backup, recovery procedures and security.  • Experience in application Support, SQL Loader, Data pump, Data Guard, Fine Grain Auditing (FGA), performing Flashback, transportable tablespaces.  • Worked on TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) 12C Keystore on Tablespace/Columns  Master Encryption.  • Experience in designing and configuring high-availability systems using DATAGUARD with physical standby. Effectively used DATAGUARD BROKER utility.  • Experience in Tables Partitioning  • Hands on experience in installation and maintenance of enterprise manager 12c and Grid Control 11g and addition of targets for database Monitoring/Performance/Diagnostics purposes.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Tuned various large critical OLTP and OLAP databases using various tools like AWR, STATSPACK, ASH, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, ADDM, and Explain Plan Utilities.  • Experience in the management and implementation of database models, data flow diagrams, database schemas, database scripts, to support a robust data management infrastructure.  • Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents.  • In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  • Experienced in Designing, Installing, Configuring and Maintaining Real Application Cluster (RAC) on Exadata., OCFS, Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and SRVCTL utility. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Bank Of America - Charlotte, NC April 2019 to Present • Migration of Cron jobs to Auto Sys  • Implementation RMAN Jobs & Testing on Autosys  • Comment out Cron Jobs once Jobs In Autosys run successfully  • Work and support many databases running Oracle12.2.0.1 on Exadata environment, running on X6s with the use of Cloud Control 12C & 13C in monitoring.  • Also support DBA applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Manage movement of data between Test. UAT and Production.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from pl/sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 12C.  • Manage RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects including new projects; manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI.  • Upgraded of Exadata from X2 &X3 to X6s  • Implemented Oracle Advanced Security Transparent Data Encryption(TDE) for both 11g Wallet and 12C Keystore for tablespaces, tablespaces & columns  • Upgraded Exadata RAC cluster from Oracle11g (11.2.0.4) to Oracle12c (12.2.0.1)  • Applied Opatch 27626925 to fix optimizer_adaptive issues after upgrade to 12C  • Installed and configured Grid Control 13C Oracle Database Administrator Adesa - Indianapolis, IN December 2017 to March 2019 • Support many Exadata databases running Oracle12.1.0.2 on X6s, Linux 6.9  & Standalones running Oracle11g , 2.0.4 running on Linux 6.7 VMs servers and using Cloud Control 12C for monitoring.  • Provide Oracle DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Constantly refresh from Production to Training, Test and UAT environment.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Upgraded Oracle 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2 on Exadata, running on X6s, Linux 6.9  • Mange RAC databases, instances , ASM and the clusters with the use of ASMCMD, SRVCTL and CRSCTL  • Handle all the aspects including new projects, manage existing databases, performance and tuning, contact for vendors, and internal/external customers.  • Maintain backups.  • Support databases that interface with ODI and SCI applications  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the dynamic performance Views (V$) at peak load of the Databases and checking RAC background processes log files & Trace files to troubleshoot performance  • Apply PSU to all the Oracle databases  • Use shell scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintain the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Part of on call of 24X7 support for all the production and development databases. Oracle Database Administrator IU Health - Indianapolis, IN May 2016 to November 2017 • Supported and managed a 6 Node Exadata on X3 & X4s from Development, Testing, UAT to Production environments.  • Involved in daily database administration on all databases running on Red Hat Linux 6.7,. Database sizes range from 5TB to 10TB (in instaVIN,LiveBlock & Autoniq , SCI & EDW environments).  • Table & schema refreshes using Datapump, expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshed using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and EXPORT/IMPORT data from 9i to 11.2.0.4.  • Created a standby database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planned Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c, oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Configuring administration groups, and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications, in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Worked closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments. Oracle Database Administrator SAIC - Martinsburg, WV June 2015 to April 2016 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 11.2.0.4 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Created logical and physical design installed and upgraded databases.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4 DATA GUARD running on a 4 Node RAC  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases. Oracle Database Administrator HH Greg Inc - Indianapolis, IN May 2012 to May 2015 • Configured. Implemented & Deployed Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4) & Oracle 12C, single instances on Lnux Redhat Solaris  • The work involved overall Maintenance of Oracle Database, Backup, Recovery and other database related activities.  • Taking Backups on scheduled time and Monitoring Scheduled Backups.  • Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Checking of Oracle files for abnormal behaviors.  • Day to day Performance Monitoring and tuning of database.  • Diagnose and Troubleshoot Database Problems and failures  • Involved in the Design (Logical & Physical) of Databases  • Preparing Backup and Recovery Plan.  • Involved in the installation of Oracle 11g(11.2.0.4) on both Solaris and LINUX platforms.  • Creation and maintenance of database.  • Handling day-to-day activities.  • Monitoring of database for growth and performance.  • Defined backup procedures using daily hot backups and weekly cold backup.  • Storage and space management including table spaces and data files.  • Creating Databases and all database objects. Database Designing, Designing Tablespaces and Rollback Segments.  • Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth.  • Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN for the Better performance.  • Ensuring proper online and offline backup. Periodical reading and checking of backups taken. Education Associate of Science Cincinnati State Community College 2014 B. Sc in Commerce Superior Institute June 2008 Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Netbackup, Rman, Hp-ux, Active directory, Middleware, Weblogic, Bea, Bea weblogic, Odi, Emc, Oem Additional Information Technical Skills  Databases 9i,10g, 11g and 12c  Database Tools  And Ticketing    Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DBA Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Statspack/AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, SERVICENOW,IPcenter, Active Directory, SRVCTL CRSCTL.    Operating Systems LINUX ,UNIX (Solaris, AIX,& HP-UX) and WINDOWS  Hardware Solaris, HPUX, Windows, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers Red Hat Linux 6.5,6.7, 6.9 & 7.0  Middleware BEA Weblogic 10.2.3,ODI  Tuning Tools Toad, Oem, Tkprof, Explain Plan, Awr, Addm &Ash  Backup Media Netbackup, Emc and Commvault