Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Fannie Mae Silver Spring, MD Results-driven IT professional with over 10 years of work experience in the field of information technology. Experienced in successfully implementing a broad range of IT solutions as a developer and database administrator across multiple subject areas within Fannie Mae. High attention to detail, strong organizational skills, and effective communication. Experienced at collaborating with multiple teams to drive solutions that meet all requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Fannie Mae - Washington, DC July 2013 to Present • Provide development to production Netezza, Redshift, Redshift Spectrum, and Glue/Hive support for Fannie Mae's Enterprise Data Warehouse and Lake.  • Coordinated with dozens of development teams to successfully deploy the transition to Uniform Mortgage-Backed Securities and Desktop Underwriter.  • Monitor over 600+ databases and baselines through IBM performance portal and Nzadmin tools. Quickly identify root causes of any database environment issues and provide solutions to supporting teams.  • Developed and built Splunk queries on AWS cloud trail index for our Enterprise Data Lake account to retrieve S3 bucket_name, object_key, file_size, tx_date, PutObject, DeleteObject, and ListMultipartUploadParts.  • Played a key role in designing Fannie Mae's enterprise data warehouse architecture on Netezza by pushing the star schemas and providing optimal fact and dimension design. Making the best use of Netezza's Asymmetric Massively Parallel Processing architecture, data slice distribution, and zone maps resulting in faster query times.  • Designed and setup Ranger security policies for accessing data on Hive/HDFS/Atlas/Spectrum. Thoroughly tested and documented all user read, write, and NPI scenarios for accessing data.  • Install and upgrade Splunk Enterprise in multiple environments with base configurations.  • Support multiple application SDLC releases from development to production environments. Releases entail modifications to database objects and adding new features to applications.  • Design onboarding documents for new applications which gather metrics to best create environments that meet stakeholder requirements while at the same time being mindful of the current work load on the host.  • Cross coordinate with multiple teams by understanding their business needs and helping schedule large loads of data (petabytes) so they do not overlap resulting in optimized load times and meeting consumer deadlines.  • Develop database standards and best practices for the team and our customers.  • Create various Splunk step by step guides on setting up configurations, upgrades, and installs within our Fannie Mae architecture for our internal team and future members.  • Create and develop applications to automate repetitive tasks and provide consumers a real time view into environment details. Improved data modeling governance reviews by over 1000% by developing a self-metadata governance tool for data modelers across the company.  • Work with development teams to educate and optimize data load techniques.  • Investigate and resolve various Splunk configuration issues in multiple environments.  • Created custom shell scripts to track query performance and load times. Once an issue is identified they are addressed with business users and developers through training and best practice documents.  • Develop and aggregate reporting metrics to review data usage trends, query times, and database sizes. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Maryland College Park - College Park, MD May 2011 Skills Sql, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Lisp, Php, Python, Regex, Linux, Red hat, Ethernet, Tcp/ip, Networking, Router, Tcp, Firewall, Android, Ios, Java, Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Database, Oracle Dba Additional Information Training:  Data Science Series and Machine Learning 2019  DevOps Engineering on AWS  2019  PostgreSQL Query Performance and Tuning 2018   PostgreSQL Administration 2017  Big Data on AWS 2017  Data Warehousing on AWS 2017   Informatica Data Replicator Boot Camp 2016    Tools:  Aginity, SQL Workbench, Toad for Apache Hadoop, Netezza, Oracle, Visual Studio, NZadmin, MS Office products, MobaXterm, Winscp, Eclipse IDE, Splunk Dashboard, Active Directory, Apache Atlas, ER Studio Architect, Jira, IBM Clear Case, GIT, TortoiseSVN