ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - COPPER MOBILE Riverdale, MD Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR COPPER MOBILE - Dallas, TX December 2016 to Present Development of policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security and archiving.  ? Monitoring and maintaining 2 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  ? Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  ? Database refreshes using export /import and data pump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  ? Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  ? Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Implemented a bi-directional replication from source to target. Monitoring, tuning of the Golden Gate data replication.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? Applied PSU Patches (10G, 11G) as a part of maintenance activity.  ? Extensively used Data pump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  ? Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application using OEM  ? Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  ? Monitoring rollback segment and temporary table space use.  ? Performing database refreshes, migration and performance tuning of PeopleSoft application environments.  ? Setup and maintenance of Physical Standby Database using Data Guard Broker and Data Guard for Disaster Recovery.  ? Daily Health Checkup of all the Databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c.  ? Performed full and incremental backups using RMAN for development and production databases.  ? Schema Refreshing of databases using normal copy method and exp/imp utility.  ? Monitoring the Hit Ratios and tuning the System Global Area (SGA) accordingly.  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator NRG Energy - Houston, TX January 2013 to December 2016 Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  ? Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), TOAD.  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle Bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  ? Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  ? Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  ? Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine-grained Auditing.  ? Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  ? Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centers.  ? Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications. Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  ? Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  ? 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Skills Database administration, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Unix shell, Ux, Backups, Hp-ux, Etl, Informatica, Security Additional Information Areas of Expertise    Database Administration  Knowledge of Oracle  Knowledge of SQL Server  Infrastructure Management  Troubleshooting  Resolving Database Issues  Cold/Hot Backups  Export Dumps  Archive Logs  Data Transfer  User Configuration  User Security  Critical Patch Updates  Database Upgrading  12c Multitenant Databases  Real Application Clusters  Production Support  Rollback Segments  Database Tuning  Standby Databases  Leadership  Golden Gate  Problem Solving  Communication    Computer Competencies    * Databases: Oracle 12c, 11G, 10G,  * Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10, AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1  RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10, Windows 95/98/NT/2000  * Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM  * Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL, UNIX Shell Scripting,  * Utilities: SQL Server Management Studio 2014, 2016, RMAN, OEM 13c, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data Pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer.    SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies. Upgrading and Migration of Oracle database to higher version and other platforms using manual method and traditional Export/Import, data pump & Transportable Tablespace (TTS).  ? Hands on experience with logical backups, Hot/Cold backups, Recovery, and cloning of databases using (RMAN).  ? Disk Space Management involving managing archives, space allocation to various tablespaces and also capacity planning for new applications.  ? Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /No catalog  ? Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  ? Experience in tuning database and memory components for optimal performance using AWR, ADDM and ASH reports.  ? Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 2 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  ? Experience in maintaining Data Guard to provide high availability by implementing physical standby database and snapshot standby and worked with Oracle 11g features, 11g Grid Control.  ? Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc.  ? Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events,  ? Implemented various Partition techniques to achieve availability, performance and manageability of large tables and indexes  ? Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  ? Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.  ? Installing Oracle patches, Migration of database across releases.  ? Expertise in loading data from flat files using external tables, SQL* Loader.  ? ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5  ? Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills.