Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - THE TECH-EDGE GROUP Stone Mountain, GA • Self-motivated and capable of managing multiple priorities and tasks as delegated  • Team player with the ability to work within a collaborative environment.  • Excellent interpersonal skills ability to work with diverse personality types  • Ability to coach the team to reach their highest potential  • Creative and efficient in proposing solution to complex, time-critical problems.  • Ability to deal with multiple projects and deadlines.  Strong analytical and problem solving skills with high attention to detail Work Experience Scrum Master THE TECH-EDGE GROUP August 2014 to Present • Facilitating team scrum events (daily scrum, sprint planning, sprint review, retrospective) and making sure there is full team engagement.  • Helping the product owner manage the product backlog by making sure that user stories are regularly groomed, prioritized by business value and are sprint ready.  • Ensuring teams have clearly defined and enforced Definition of Ready (DOR) & Definition of Done (DOD).  • Identifying and removing impediments to team's works progress.  • Making sure the team's work is visible and progress is radiated to the team and key stakeholders using metrics like burn-down, burn-up and velocity.  • Shielding the team from interruptions and removes obstacles that may impact the delivery of the product.  • Tracks and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress  • Assisting teams with creating an environment that fosters transparency, learning, innovation, quality and speed.  • Helping the organizations solve problems rather than providing solutions. Monitored the pulse and moral of the teams, influencing the team spirit and creating excitement around the deliverable  • Directs and lead development team from project initiation through delivery of final product.  • Prioritizing team member's daily tasks based on deliverables.  • Collaborates with development team to ensure they first understand the customer's requirements and deliverables for each Project and Maintenance Request.  • Tracks and reports status and metrics throughout the project.  • Provides coaching on agile methodologies.  • Supports configuration of management team with software release information  • Provides training sessions from a group level to an individual level.  • Engages with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the of Scrum framework in the organization  • Manages dependencies between other Scrum teams (Scrum of Scrums), third parties, and other non-Agile waterfall teams.  • Environmental transformation to an agile standard SQL Database Administrator THE TECH-EDGE GROUP June 2013 to July 2014 • Experienced with proactive monitoring and troubleshooting of production databases.  • Implemented disaster recovery strategies, perform database backup/recovery and restore  • Planned and implemented enterprise solutions in collaboration with the various IT teams.  • Set up and managed various High Availability and Disaster Recovery Solutions (Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication).  • Maintained, created, and monitored various database processes.  • Ensured database integrity, stability and system availability.  • Monitored relational database to optimize database performance, resource use and physical implementation of database  • Performed DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis.  • Supported production environments and mission critical databases on a 24/7/365 basis including on-call responsibilities.  • Ensured availability of instance and databases via clustering and mirroring.  • Utilized the "Partially contained database" feature of SQL server 2012 to ease migration and database refreshes for clients.  • Set up policies to guide database usage in SQL server 2008r2.  • Performed DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis  • Managed the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity  • Designed, implemented and upgraded SQL Server 2008, 2008r2 and 2012 databases for mission-critical business  • Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues  • Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL Server databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  • Worked with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements. SQL Database Administrator NESTLE NIGERIA PLC February 2010 to July 2011 • Created, administered and maintained SQL server databases (Production, Development, Test and Staging Environment.) for various groups such as Developer, QA and Users.  • Upgraded databases from SQL Server 2008 to 2008R2 and 2012.  • Installed and configured multiple SQL Server instances in production environment.  • Proactively monitored the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Performed, database upgrades and applied software patches to the databases as per application/client requirements.  • Rebuilt and reorganized the table indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Created jobs, alerts, and SQL Mail Agents.  • Experienced in Setting up High Availability solutions like Log shipping, Database Mirroring and Clustering as a part of Disaster Recovery.  • Scheduled full and transactional log backups for the user and created system databases in the production environment using the database maintenance plan wizard.  • Responsible for assigning proper user access and security via permissions to the various database objects such as tables, views, and stored procedures.  • Implemented MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active), Multi Node Cluster for high availability.  • Rewrote and tuned long-running queries to reduce execution time, ease database load and improve scalability.  • Checked Database Consistency/health by using DBCC Commands & DMVs at regular intervals.  • Tested and Implemented procedures to detect poor database performance, collecting required information, and root cause analysis.  • Analyzed slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance.  • Monitored and modified performance using execution plans and Index tuning. Education Bachelor of Science in Economics and Statistics in Economics and Statistics University of Benin Skills Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Software development life cycle, Jira, Rally, Software development, Coaching, Mentoring, Kanban, Agile Scrum, Scrum Master, CSM Certifications/Licenses Professional scrum master Present Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  • Coaching/Mentoring  • Servant Leadership  • Facilitator  • Conflict Resolution  • Emotional Intelligence  • Stakeholder Management  • Relative Sizing/Story Pointing  • Scrum/Kanban/Extreme Programming (XP)  • Agile Manifesto  • Burn down and Burn up charts  • Team Velocity Tracking  • Backlog Refinement  • Scrum Events Facilitation  • Continuous Improvement  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  Process Optimization    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Agile PM Tools: Jira, Rally, Version One, TFS, Rational, Redmine  Software Applications: AWS, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project  Database: MS SQL Server 2008, 2012 and 2014  Operating Systems: Windows Server, UNIX, LINUX, Chrome, Mac OS, Solaris