Framatome / Senior Database administrator & linux administrator Framatome / Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> &amp; linux <span class="hl">administrator</span> Framatome / Senior Database administrator & linux administrator - Richland Richland, WA Work Experience Framatome / Senior Database administrator & linux administrator Richland January 2019 to Present Here at framatome I am a senior database administrator working on both Oracle Linux/Windows and SQL SERVER databases.    ? Installed 11gR2 RAC while performing disk group management in ASM  ? Provided 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment  ? Involved in migrating the current Windows environment to Azure environment  ? Set up backup and recovery plans, also had a proper documentation platform making sure data is secured at all levels.  ? Created Clustered/Non-Clustered Indexes to improve performance of database access.  ? Created and managed databases across Development and Production instances using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Setting up and configuring Database Mirroring in SQL Server 2012.  ? Enhanced performance of databases using optimization techniques-normalization, indexing and Transaction Isolation levels, monitoring logs to ensure the completeness of batch processes, scripts and processes.  ? Supported Application Development team with any database issues, updates or new releases and deadlock issues, best practices in structuring SQL Queries, debugging unexpected SQL results.  ? Monitored health checks of OCR and VOTING DISKS while troubleshooting issues in RAC environment  ? Ensured the secure and efficient operation of Oracle Database Systems  ? Performed daily tasks such as resolving tickets, development support, and collaboration with application tuning  ? Extensively monitored grid control database, error notification configuration, listener installation, and addition to grid control  ? Converted non-RAC single instance to RAC database instances  ? Installation, upgradation, troubleshooting and  ? Created and implemented recovery strategies, and successfully recovered databases using RMAN  ? Utilized RMAN utility to schedule and monitor physical backups in the crontab  ? Created users, groups, roles, profiles, and granted privileges according to job needs  ? Optimized and tuned SQL queries using SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities  ? Used integrity constraints and database triggers to maintain data integrity and security  ? Applied security patches such as Patch set, Critical Patch Updates, and Patch Set Updates  ? Used Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to quickly move a user's tablespace across Oracle databases  ? Implemented data refreshes using RMAN, Datapump, and conventional export/import for Oracle 11g and 10g  ? Installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform  ? Successfully migrated from Oracle 11g to 11gR2 RAC database and 12c non-CDB to pluggable databases  ? Process database change requests, including the creation and modification of databases, tables, views, stored procedures, triggers, jobs, etc. in accordance with change control policies.  ? Analyze problems, anticipate future problem areas and implement solutions.  ? Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility for Oracle 10g,11g and 12C for reorganization of database schemas to improve performance.  ? Worked hand in hand with software developers, system analyst and server admin to deploy packages, procedural codes in production.  ? Share domain and technical expertise, providing technical mentorship and cross-training to other peers and team members.  ? Responsible for the smooth functioning of all ecommerce activities of the organization. Database Administrator M&T - Buffalo, NY January 2013 to November 2018 Here at M&T I worked on oracle, postgresql, mongoDB and AWS.    ? Configuring Postgresql Streaming Replication and Pgpool for load balancing. Managing the monitoring tools for better performance like PgBadger, Kibana.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Postgresql database on different platforms.  ? Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading the Postgresql databases.  ? Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production Postgresql databases within the organization.  ? Implement, configure, and troubleshoot database instances, replication, backup, partitions, storage, and access. Set user privileges within and outside the database environment  ? Migration of Data from Reports generated by various vendors into Postgresql Databases using Postgresql Export/Import Procedures.  ? Manage the Space and Storage of Databases through various Shell Scripts scheduled in the crontab periodically in regular intervals.  ? Experience Migrating data from Oracle to Postgresql using enterprise DB.  ? Extensively investigated and followed-up with application teams, and proposed solutions to resolve slowness and performance issues.  ? Troubleshooting Postgresql database using Explain, explain analyzed.  ? During production hours, resolved lock/latch and resource contention issues  ? Create IAM user accounts and role-based policies for access to AWS services.  ? Perform automated snapshots using CloudWatch rules, create EBS volumes from snapshots  ? Implement and maintain monitors, alarms, and notifications for EC2 instances using CloudWatch.  ? Launching databases via RDS to support web application functionality.  ? Create CloudFormation stacks and templates to provision AWS resources.  ? Setup Ansible environment for configuration management, DynamoDB, Elastic cache and Lambda.  ? Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  ? Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch. Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  ? Configured Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Provided policies to groups using policy generator and set different permissions based on the requirement along with providing ARN (Amazon Resource Name). Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets using AWS Cloud Watch. Monitoring and on-premise AWS resources using Nagios.  ? Creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS. Migrated databases to AWS RDS using different tools such as Data pump, AWS Database migration service. Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  ? Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB Services; to set alarm for Notification or Automated actions, and to monitor logs for better understanding and operation of the system.  ? Designing a backup solutions and Disaster Recovery for RDS database instances.  ? Applied patches (including opatch), upgrades, and maintenance on all databases  ? Utilized production data to refresh development and test instances regularly  ? Installation, upgradation, troubleshooting and configuring of Golden Gate 12c software  ? Configuring Golden Gate Downstream Mining and integrated components for active-passive and active-active replication.  ? Configure Golden High Availability using Oracle DBFS and active Data Guard  ? Provided technical assistance for installation and upgrading of existing Oracle databases.  ? Performed database management functions such as maintenance, access issues and security.  ? Installed and configured Golden Gate to work with JAgent on OEM Golden Gate plugin  ? Monitored and troubleshot Golden Gate replication issues  ? Extensively utilized Oracle 11gR2 features, including Real Application Testing, Enhanced RMAN, Oracle Data Pump, EM Grid Control, and various others on a daily basis, and enhanced features in 12c such as table and partition recovery, DDL Logging, Redo Log Reduction on GTTS  ? Resolved issues involving RAC, OCR, faulty node rebooting, and switched over service relocation  ? Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data  ? Managed the monitoring and troubleshooting of database replication issues  ? Optimized results using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, and STATSPACK to performance tune Oracle Database Objects  ? Collaborated with application development teams to support and resolve any issues encountered  ? Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to perform database monitoring, maintenance, replication processes, and performance tuning  ? Tested and debugged Oracle PL/SQL packages. Skills DATA MODELS, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, RMAN, SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, MONGODB, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTS, SECURITY, OPTIMIZATION, OEM, PERFORMANCE TUNING, AUDITING, ASM, DBA, MYSQL, Sql Database, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba