Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Oracle Database Administrator Oakdale, MN PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  I am a Certified Oracle Database Administrator and IT security expert with 8 years hands on experience in Monitoring and Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Security implementation and Designing of Database, spanning over Oracle versions 10g, 11g and 12c. Well versed in development, test and production environment. I am proven in my ability to maintain the security and operational efficiency of a database, a result - oriented achiever with excellent track record for identifying opportunities that will accelerate the company growth and address emerging needs. Working as part of a team to troubleshoot issues and improve system functionality. Extensive background in customer service and excellence in maintaining positive and professional rapport with the end users. A dedicated team player, who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast paced environments, where accuracy and efficiency are imperative.    DATABASE MANAGEMENT PROFICIENCY  • Database Creation, Configuration, Upgrade, Patching and Migration.  • Backup and Recovery using RMAN, Data Pump, and User - Managed Backups.  • Shell Scripting, Automation and Deploying scripts from Developers.  • High Availability using Flashback and Data Guard.  • Performance Tuning on ASM.  • Experience in generating AWR, ASH, ADDM Reports, Reviewing, and Identify the performance bottleneck from AWR reports, and fixing those queries by working with Application developer.  • Advance Database Security methods, including Triple A's, TDE (Encryption) and Data Masking  • Experience in providing 24x7 support for enterprise mission critical production Database Handling planned, unplanned maintenance, working with Oracle Support.  • Relational Database modeling and Database Design /Creation using OUI, DBCA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Boston Scientific Corporation May 2014 to Present • Performed routine backup operations like User Management, Space Management, capacity planning, ASM disk group management, Backup Administration, Export/Imports, Handling customer requests, performing peak season checks, Data guard issue, and database health check by using recheck Utility.  • Performed database administrator tasks that included developing database scripts for schema tables to be created, dropped, truncated, and data inserted  • Performed periodic needs assessments for system upgrades, prepared documentation for technical problems, systems expansion, upgrades and network topology changes, as well as reported failures and equipment end-of-life (EOL).  • Troubleshoot database performance by using ASH/AWR/ADDM reports. Identify database problem by looking wait events, resource intensive (elapsed time, IO) queries, analyze execution plans and working with Application developers to fine tune resource intensive queries.  • Planned and Scheduled Backup/Recovery Strategy Using OEM, RMAN and Logical Backups (with Export/Import, Data Pump Utilities).  • Applying the CPU/PSU patches for Single Instance, RAC databases and exposure to Exadata.  • Built and maintained Security and integrity Controls in coordination with security team using the VPD, Roles, User privileges, TDE, and Oracle wallets to ensure highly controlled and audited user access.  • Configured Oracle Auditing for Database security  • Identifying problematic SQL code using Oracle dictionary Views, SQL Tuning Advisor, 10046, and 10053 level Tracing tkprof, TOAD and SQL Developer.  • Submitted SRS to Oracle through "My Oracle Support" following up to resolve serious Database issues.  • Monitor different Databases and Application servers using Enterprise Manager.  • Responsible for managing various environments such as PROD/STG/QA/DEV with Database size starting from 300 GB to 5 TB.  • Involved in 24x7 production database maintenance and on-call support.  • Queried Database objects and also use DDLs, DMLs and other SQL commands to access, Create/Insert, modify, and/or delete data/object from databases.  • Good Experience with Database Refresh, Flash-Back Technology and Database cloning with RMAN and manual methods. Oracle Database Administrator Thomson Reuter Corporation January 2010 to March 2014 • Involved in process improvement for database related operation and maintenance issues, communication and management gaps.  • Good Experience in Performance Tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, ASH, AWR and ADDM.  • Responsible for setting and managing User Management, Space Management Granting required privileges to users.  • Installation and Upgrades of production and Non-production database to 11.2.0.4, and some to 12.1.0.2 on Linux (RHEL 7.3) using OFA, DBUA, and OUI (for continued oracle support).  • Created and Configured RMAN Recovery Catalog and Flash Recovery Area (FRA) for Backup/Recovery.  • Troubleshoot database performance by using ASH/AWR reports. Identifying long running queries and resolving it with Application Team.  • Applied security patches (patch set, critical Patch updates (CPU) /Patch set updates (PSU), one-off patch) using "uninstall" and Perl based utility "Patch"  • Setting up RMAN Hot Backups and Export with Expend. Monitoring backup and troubleshooting RMAN backup jobs. Resubmitting jobs which are failed.  • Performed Data Guard switchover/failover as per requirements.  • Performed On-Call DBA on routine basis, managed maintenance week-end support.  • Mirroring, Replication, Index Drop/Create, Database Maintenance, SQL Performance Enhancements, View/SP/Function recompile, Linked Server Management, Transparent Data Encryption.  • Implemented comprehensive alerting system with OEM 12c for RAC and Non RAC database for different environment.  • Restored and Recovered databases from offline, and online and RMAN backup.  • Performed Point in time recovery in situations where backup is corrupted and cannot be used for database recovery.  • Responsible for setting and managing User Management, Space Management Granting required privileges to users.  • Responsible for minimizing downtimes on applications by ensuring the daily backup/export of database and archive logs to disk/tape system.  • Good experience in setting up SQL trace, with OEM, oradebug utility and analyzing the trace files with team members to fix the resource intensive queries. Education Associate in Computer Networking Dunwoody College of Technology MN - Minneapolis, MN Present Associate in Science And Technology in Science And Technology Osun State Polytechnic April 2008 Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, SQL, RMAN, LINUX, RED HAT, SUN, UNIX, R2, OEM, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, DB2, Oracle Database, ETL, MYSQL, Sql Server, Postgresql Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/adeniyi-ogunyemi-333054160 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Software and Operating System used: Unix/Sun SOLARIX, Linux (Red Hat), and Windows.  • Database Tools/Utilities: SQL*Plus, SQL developer, Toad, SQL Tuning Advisor, Data pump, RMAN, Execution plan, Net Manager, Enterprise Manager(OEM) ADRCI, AWR, ADDM, ASH  • Databases: Oracle 11g R1, 11g R2 and 12c