Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Washington, DC I am a hardworking, diligent and extremely meticulous Oracle Database Administrator with over six years of experience. I believe these three characteristics are the most important qualities of a good DBA. Throughout my tenure I have dealt with almost every possible aspect of my field. I have a wealth of knowledge and experience, but most importantly, I am always willing to learn and share my knowledge with others. I also pride myself in taking excellent notes and documenting steps and procedures.  I am a good communicator; am highly personable and amicable, am excellent at juggling multiple tasks and working under pressure. I have worked on projects as a team member and individually. I am resourceful, honest, and respectful, and for these reasons I firmly believe I will be an asset to your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Delta Dental - San Francisco, CA April 2015 to March 2019 Oracle DBA tasks like Installation, creation, maintenance, performance tuning, problem identification, resolution and migration in production, pre-production and development environments Played a lead role in enterprise-wide database optimization and instance and resource monitoring. Perform root cause analysis on failures. Resolve performance tuning related issues, reports, and queries.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Other duties include applying oracle database patches, and creation of databases as per user requirement, creation of database users, monitoring, tuning, troubleshooting, backup and recoveries.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Identify Top SQL that are consuming heavy resources and provide support to the development team in identifying SQL queries that are consuming high resources and interact with the development team to see if these queries can be fine-tuned further.  • Perform SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL.  • Extensively worked on cloud-based databases. Preferably OCI and AWS cloud.  • Migrated traditional Linux environments to AWS/RHEL Linux environment and used auto scaling feature.  • Increasing EBS backed volume storage capacity when the root volume is full using AWS EBS Volume feature.  • Create alarms in CloudWatch service for monitoring cloud servers performance, disk space and CPU utilization.  • Created and deleted IAM accounts in AWS for security purposes and provided access to users per company requirements.  • Migrated different servers to AWS platform  • Managed multiple databases residing on EC2 servers in RDS  • Experience with setting up of databases on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), managing cloud accounts/access, cloud storage container for automated and on-demand backups.  • Created SSH key pairs, created and deleted administrative accounts via OCI console, granted and revoked roles under different groups.  • Worked extensively with network teams to configure VCN's Public and Private IP's Subnets, Dynamic Routing Gateways (DRG), Route Tables, Subnets and Security etc., for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI).  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures.  • Implement Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans.  • Experience in Exadata fresh installs (configuring databases and cell nodes on appropriate servers and running the One Command) exadata re-imaging and general administration of exadata systems.  • Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression, Flash Cache, etc  • Experience with all steps involved in exadata patching and upgrade including but not limited to running downloading the right bundle, patchmgr, running pre-checks, upgrading grid and db nodes etc.  • Extensive experience in performing database and system health checks on (Oracle EXAchk) on exadata.  • Handle all Client Requests, Work closely with Clients for New Projects from Initiation to Production cutover Identify cost saving opportunities & implement innovative DB solutions for clients (collaborate with Infrastructure Delivery team as needed).  • Involved with installation and maintenance of ORACLE 11g RAC/oracle 12cRAC and Standby databases (Oracle DataGuard) for High Availability and Disaster Recovery purpose.  • Good understanding and Implementation expertise in RAC, ASM, Data Guard like remedy change and user tickets, frequently communicate effectively with technical and non-technical customers.  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility for RAC and Non RAC databases & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Responsible for using Flashback query mechanism along with automatic undo management.  • Extensively worked on Oracle Multi-tenant architecture/container/pluggable databases with local and cloud storage options.  • Migrated 10g and 11g databases to 12C and managed them as a container with up to 150 pluggable databases per container.  • Experience with applying patches and upgrades in Multi-tenant environment.  • Extensively used Database Administrative tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*PLUS, SQL Developer.  • Monitor nightly Database backup Jobs and necessary actions for failed backup jobs including script corrections, disk space monitoring and Database availability.  • Installed 12C grid control and Used Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid control 11g/12c for monitoring databases.  • Worked on Active data guard, Fail over and Switch over cases.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading, patching and configuring the Oracle environment.  • Implemented Oracle database backup & recovery solutions using RMAN.  • Extensive uses of Oracle Data pump Exports/Imports utility for moving data among the servers.  • Performed large batch jobs and tuning of SQL queries and database systems.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the users.  • Partitioning and re-organization of table and indexes.  • Performance in daily transforms by identifying and reorganizing indexes on major tables.  • Alert monitoring and Ticketing  • Managed, trained, and mentored staff. Oracle Database Administrator Atlanta, GA September 2012 to March 2015 Set up new databases and provided all database-related support for the production as well as test databases for different markets internationally. Explain Plan and Oracle optimizer hints to enhance performance of SQL statements. Performed the user requirements and troubleshooting activities and resolved connectivity issues. Implemented, administrated, and maintained daily backup.  • Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.  • Supported 50+ databases including RAC production database, and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 11g to 12c.  • Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Linux Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  • Performance tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, and Tuning Contentions) using TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM.  • Experience in Cloning, copying an existing Oracle installation to a different location and updating the copied bits to work in the new environment.  • Database Upgradation, Migrations using traditional way (DBUA, Manual and export/import) as well as non-traditional way (Transportable table spaces).  • Setup New databases on Clustered and Non-clustered environment and Implemented Maximum Availability Architecture using RAC, DATAGUARD and Golden Gate.  • Identified and reduced/ eliminated non-idle wait events such as scattered file read, sequential file read wait event, log file completion, in queue, and buffer latch waits.  • Strong customer facing technical presence with the ability to solve complex problems  • Good knowledge on all incident, change, problem management process & compliance process  • Responsible for installing, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database performance.  • Installed and configured Golden Gate for replication.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting  • Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.  • Responsible in configuring and backing up database using RMAN, Hot backups, Cold backups and Logical backups.  • Worked with Data Pump to take the logical backups of databases.  • Experienced in performing Point-in-Time Recovery.  • Full database, Schema refresh using RMAN, Data Pump and Implemented the Backup strategies using RMAN catalog and non-catalog methods.  • Setting up of Oracle and Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security.  • Alert monitoring and Ticketing.  • Moving data between databases using Data Pump.  • Performed large batch jobs, and tuning of SQL queries and database systems.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Coordinated with developers and users connecting to different databases  • Export and Import Data according to the user's request  • Responsible for tuning the database performance issues like query tuning and memory tuning (SGA tuning) and also partitioned the tables and indexes for better performance. Education Oracle Certified DBA Dowling College Computer & Information Science Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, SQL, RMAN, AIX, LINUX, SOLARIS, SUN, VPN, CISCO, RDBMS, LOADER