MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator - Alfa Insurance Chicago, IL ? Upgrade and migration from SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2 to 2012 and 2016 accordingly.  ? Managing database security settings and configuration.  ? Setting up SQL Server 2012 and 2016 Always-ON Availability Groups for HA and DR purposes.  ? Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities using IDERA Diagnostic Manager.  ? Performing Database refresh using Native backup and SQL Safe.  ? Engaging in different performance tuning and Query optimization processes.  ? Performing frequent health checks for all backups and productions (mission-critical) databases.  ? Administering Sql servers using VMWare vSphere Web client.  ? Using source control to commit Database schema changes  ? Compiling schema changes into nugget packets, using JENKINS.  ? Using octopus to create releases for schema changes and deploying same to the staging environment.  ? Working with developers to improve query execution times and boost performance.  ? Applying windows update and Sql server patches.  ? Using Keepas to store and manage Database, Application username and password.  ? Copying Table data from one Database to another using the import and export Sql server tool.  ? Troubleshooting databases and custom application issues.  ? Configured Linked Servers to enable users execute distributed queries.  ? Attending daily team meeting and scheduled meeting with other ENV.  ? Performing other duties as assigned. Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator Alfa Insurance - Montgomery, AL January 2019 to Present Upgrade and migration from SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2 to 2012 and 2016 accordingly.  ? Managing database security settings and configuration.  ? Setting up SQL Server 2012 and 2016 Always-ON Availability Groups for HA and DR purposes.  ? Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities using IDERA Diagnostic Manager.  ? Performing Database refresh using Native backup and SQL Safe.  ? Engaging in different performance tuning and Query optimization processes.  ? Performing frequent health checks for all backups and productions (mission-critical) databases.  ? Administering Sql servers using VMWare vSphere Web client.  ? Using source control to commit Database schema changes  ? Compiling schema changes into nugget packets, using JENKINS.  ? Using octopus to create releases for schema changes and deploying same to the staging environment.  ? Working with developers to improve query execution times and boost performance.  ? Applying windows update and Sql server patches.  ? Using Keepas to store and manage Database, Application username and password.  ? Copying Table data from one Database to another using the import and export Sql server tool.  ? Troubleshooting databases and custom application issues.  ? Configured Linked Servers to enable users execute distributed queries.  ? Attending daily team meeting and scheduled meeting with other ENV.  ? Performing other duties as assigned. MS SQL Server Database Administrator Fidelity National Financial - Jacksonville, FL June 2018 to November 2018 Providing support in a Migration project from on-premises Sql server database to Microsoft Azure Sql platform.  ? Participating in the administration of Azure SQL Databases.  ? Managing security settings and configuration for on-premises Sql server database.  ? Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities using IDERA Diagnostic Manager.  ? Writing and tuning T-SQL script, creating stored procedures and Views.  ? Participating in root cause analysis of performance issues within the environment as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  ? Generated the weekly report by using SQL Reporting Services.  ? Engaging in different performance tuning and Query optimization processes.  ? Performing other duties as assigned. MS SQL Server Database Administrator TrippleD-Tech LLC - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to May 2018 Participating in SQL Server database systems design and operations.  ? Participating in upgrade and migration efforts for various clients from SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017.  ? Revising current DR and HA strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure.  ? Managing an entire database environment visibility and accountable for every database decision made to upper level management.  ? Utilizing expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration to improve uptime as well as reduce RPO and RTO of business.  ? Standardizing processes for the Infra DB team by creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, index maintenance, etc.  ? Working with developers to improve query execution times and boost performance.  ? Performing Installation of different versions of windows as well as post Installation tasks.  ? Supporting and stabilizing spiral of production environment; leading to business continuity.  ? Participating in the Configuration of various logical database structures such as table spaces to store application objects and rollback segments for transaction processing.  ? Participating in the Configuration of the physical design of the database by implementing a flexible Architecture compliance that suites both OLTP and Data warehouse applications.  ? Performing periodic database maintenance on all databases across all environments.  ? Disk configuration using StarWind Virtual SAN.  ? Providing SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, and table design).  ? Ensuring that all configurations are properly implemented and working based on the client's needs (Resource Governor, Policy based management etc).  ? Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.  ? Managing database security settings and configuration  ? Engaging in different performance tuning and Query optimization processes.  ? Participating in the Configuring of Active Directory and promoting a node to a Domain controller.  ? Mentoring younger DBAs in the team.  ? Implementing SQL Server best Practices for Installing, Configuring, Troubleshooting, Querying, etc. on all Sql server databases across the enterprise.  ? Implementing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server Replication and Mirroring across all Sql database servers in the enterprise.  ? Providing off-hour support for all production databases.  ? Managing a multi-terabyte production clustered system using ACTIVE-PASSIVE and ACTIVE-ACTIVE Clustering.  ? Participating in periodic database rations for lower environments.  ? Writing and tuning T- SQL script, creating stored procedures, views and triggers.  ? Engaging in different project management processes  ? Managing datacentre and setting up various measures to manage the said data including; partitioning, transactional and peer to peer Replication, log shipping, Mirroring and Clustering.  ? Participating in root cause analysis of performance issues within the environment.  ? Participating in Project and SQL Team meetings on a weekly basis.  ? successfully engaging in various DR (Disaster Recover) efforts.  ? Utilizing experience in various virtualization technologies to manage multiple Sql server on Virtual appliances.  ? Performing other duties as assigned. MS SQL Server Database Administrator Africom Technologies - Lagos, NG March 2012 to November 2016 Installation and configuration of Sql server 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014.  ? Working with a team of 8 DBAs supporting in-house SQL Server database systems on various infrastructure projects, improving service level agreements by reducing time to deliver database solutions to business.  ? Responsible for promoting team bonding among members of my team.  ? Troubleshooting issues and carrying out root cause analysis on the issues as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  ? Performing frequent health checks for all backups and productions (mission-critical) databases.  ? Setting up and managing Replication, Database Mirroring and log shipping  ? Building out new clusters to handle mission-critical databases.  ? Participating in on-call rotation with the team.  ? Improving CPU consumption for all critical production database servers by tuning queries, databases, instances, etc.  ? Designing the backups and recovery strategies for SQL Server databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  ? Participating in software upgrades, revisions, patches, and fixes mandated by the vendor.  ? Assisting in the resolution of complex problems in support of production; including on call support.  ? Performing Installation of different versions of windows as well as post Installation tasks  ? Ensuring that the detailed physical design of database and data structures comply with data policies, standards, principles, and meets the established level of service agreements/goals for the system.  ? Proficient in Writing and tuning T-SQL script, creating stored procedures, Views and triggers.  ? Configuring StarWind Virtual SAN disk using the iSCSI Initiator.  ? Maintaining solid technical skills in R/DBMSs, products, utilities, protocols, and techniques.  ? Managing and monitored SLAs for uptime and performance of SQL Server databases.  ? Demonstrated experience in working on root cause analysis for SQL Server database issues.  ? Flexible, adaptable, and able to manage multiple tasks in a dynamic environment.  ? Proactively monitoring the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  ? Project management for Database technical projects.  ? Upgrading client RDBMS to SQL server 2012 and installed Windows server 2012 as well as SQL server 2012 clusters.  ? Implementing SQL Server 2012 and 2014 Always-ON Availability Groups and Listeners for HA and DR purposes.  ? Set up monitoring and alerting for SQL Server Always-ON as well as other SQL Server conditions.  ? Engaging in different performance tuning and Query optimization processes.  ? Supporting production environments and mission critical databases on a 24/7/365 basis including on-call responsibilities.  ? Performing various data migration tasks for mission critical databases.  ? Working with a team of 8 to manage over 2000 databases ranging from 350GB to 2.3TB.  ? Utilizing the "Partially contained database" feature of SQL server 2012 to ease migration and database refreshes for clients.  ? Performing DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis.  ? Participating in the Configuring of Active Directory and promoting a node to a Domain controller.  ? Designing, implemented and upgraded SQL Server 2008, 2008R2 and 2012 databases for mission-critical business  ? Working with BI team and Reporting group in generating the weekly, monthly, and quarterly report by using SQL Reporting Services.  ? Managing the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server Clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity.  ? Troubleshooting databases and custom application issues.  ? Other duties as assigned. Education Economics and Management Institute of Management and Technology 2003 to 2008 Skills Database administration, Database, Ms sql server, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2008, Microsoft sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2012, Replication, Sql, Active directory, Clustering, Itil, Vmware, Splunk, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, T-sql, Data structures, DBA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/franklyn-g-612058142 Additional Information Technical Competencies:    • Installation and Configuration of MS Sql Servers • Microsoft SQL Server 2008 • MS SQL Server 2008R2 • Microsoft SQL Server 2012 • Microsoft SQL Server 2014 • Microsoft SQL Server 2016 • Microsoft SQL Server 2017 • Periodic Database Maintenance • Project Management • Backup and Recovery • Root Cause Analysis • SLA • Technical Skills • System Design • Transaction Processing • Performance Tuning • VMWare Workstation Configuration • StarWind Virtual SAN Configuration • High Availability Solutions • Disaster Recovery • Database Security • Database Mirroring • Log shipping • Clustering • Replication • Always-On Availability Group • On-Call Support • Promoting Team bonding • Sql Server Upgrades/patches • Windows Update • Database Migration • Design Of Database And Data Structures • Manage Multiple Tasks • Software development life cycle • Consolidation Development Database Support • Microsoft T-SQL • Azure SQL Database Administration • Microsoft Windows 7 • Microsoft Windows 8 •Microsoft Windows 10 • Microsoft Windows NT • Microsoft Windows Vista • Microsoft Windows XP• Windows 2008R2 • Windows 2012R2 • Windows Post installation Tasks • Table Design • Table Partitioning • Troubleshooting • ITIL • Active Directory • Data warehousing • Data conversions • Index Maintenance • Capacity Analysis • Capacity Planning • Database Administration • Proactive Monitoring • Change Control • Business Continuity • Redgate SQL source control • Continuous integration with Jenkins • Octopus Deploy • Precise for SQL DBA • IDERA Diagnostic Manager • Cohesity • SqlSafe • LiteSpeed • Keepas • Splunk • App Dynamics • VMWare vSphere Web client • Footprint • JIRA • Highly self-motivated with ability to work independently as well as in a team environment.