Database Administrator (Active TS/SCI) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Active TS/SCI) Oracle Database Administrator Pasadena, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (Active TS/SCI) Na Ali'i - Crystal City, VA June 2018 to Present • Configure and perform data consolidation tasks using Enterprise Data Quality.  • Responsible for 12 application and database servers, which includes: Oracle 10, 11g, 12c; Sql server 2008/2012/2016, administration with SSMS, AWS EC2 instances.  • Sustainment of 62 Delphi applications.   • Experience with databases ranging from 300gb to 1.5TB.   • Database installation on Windows Server 2016 with data ingest using datapump utility.  • Database Administrative tasks are assisted with the following software: Toad, SqlDeveloper, Sql Server Management Tool  • Application installation and configuration on Windows Servers: Master Data Services and web platform.  • Interface with customer to determine problem areas and provide strategic IT solutions.  • Maintenance and upkeep of Oracle Apex Web App, FoiaXpress 10.1, Qlik  • User administration, backup and recovery procedures.  • Improve security posture using STIG on oracle databases.  • Create SOP’s for daily administrative tasks.  • Password Refresh and server patching, coordinated with the System Administrators.  • Perform data migrations from Oracle to Sql Server databases.  • Ticket tracking utilizing BMC Remedy. Database Administrator (Active TS/SCI) Apex / Leidos - Arlington, VA November 2016 to May 2018 •Provide service as a DBA in a 24/7/365 workcenter.   •Monitors 11g databases in a RHEL 6 environment.  •User management services to include monitoring of user privileges through the utilization of DataVault. Also, creation of user accounts and passwords security.  •Utilization of OEM to carry out daily Database Administration tasks such as system monitoring and performance turning.  •Monitor incidents using BMC Remedy IT Service Management.  •Implements and maintains smooth operation and physical design of databases.   •Reviews database design and integration of systems, provides backup and recovery and makes recommendations regarding enhancements and/or improvements and utilization of Flash Recovery Area.   •Monitors and manages backup files by carrying out validation procedures.  •Formulates PP for data migrations and other integrations to take place and utilizes DataPump and SQL Loader to perform task.   •Manages policies, procedures, and standards relating to database management, and monitors transaction activity and utilization.   •Partnering with Application Developers and System Admin to ensure smooth product integrations. Oracle Database Administrator (Active Top Secret Clearance) Department of State - Washington, DC August 2014 to November 2016 •Perform 24x7 on call duties on a rotation basis with the other database administrators   • Performing database tuning by using various tools, like Oracle Enterprise Manager and AWR, ASH reports.   •Monitor the database environment and be able to take proactive corrective action.   •Administering, configuring, performance, recovery, backup(RMAN) and maintenance of the Oracle database environment .  • Implement Hot, Cold and Logical backup plans.  • Creating and managing data files and tablespaces.   • Perform daily operational duties/security for all users of the databases.   • Ensured database security is implemented to safeguard the data.   • Creating and Rebuilding Indexes, Managing Database Security.   • Design, document, implement and maintain all disaster recovery procedures which result in no data loss.   • Establishing user needs and monitoring user access and security.   • Setting up and testing the backup and recovery strategies.   • Perform daily monitor of real time replication as well as detailed report audits.   • Enable database auditing using database audit trail for monthly SOX.  • Install and configure Oracle Server 11g Enterprise Edition; configure Oracle Database Control. Database Administrator Target - Ellicott City, MD August 2010 to August 2014 • 24 X 7 Production Database on Call Support.  • Performance Tuning by creating indexes and analyze the database objects when needed.   •Performance tuning; using ADDM, AWR, SQL Advisor; using Enterprise Manager.   • Install oracle database 10g and 11g for production and non production   • Installed and configured Oracle Enterprise manager (OEM) on Linux platform.   • Worked on Creating, Scheduling & refreshing of Materialized Views/ Snapshots.   • Experience in Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations.   • Provides physical and logical database backup for database recovery to ensure consistency and stability.   •Responsible for the creation and management of users, roles, profiles,and privileges. Education Master's in Nutrition Maryland University of Integrative Health - Laurel, MD 2016 to 2018 Bachelor's in New Media Salisbury University - Salisbury, MD 2006 to 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), SQL (7 years), Linux (5 years), Oracle Dba, DBA, Oracle Database, Sql Server, Rman Certifications/Licenses SQL Present The SQL portion of the OCA has been passed. Security+ February 2017 to February 2020 AWS Technical Professional January 2019 to Present Master Data Services, Data Quality Services July 2019 to Present Windows OS Security August 2019 to Present Cloud Computing Security January 2019 to Present FedVte Additional Information Active Top Secret Clearance with SCI