Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - FBS Consulting Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FBS Consulting November 2012 to Present Plan, Install, configure, manage and troubleshoot Oracle 10g and 11g databases on Linux  • Install database software and perform install/upgrade/patch processes  • Install and configure relevant network components such as listener.ora and tnsnames.ora to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity  • Work cooperatively with developing team to make structural change to the databases  • Implement database security. Create user accounts, grant necessary permissions/roles to the accounts for database access.  • Perform standard and Fine Grained Auditing (FGA) to monitor and ensure database security.  • Use EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and various Oracle Advisors to tune the database.  • Analyze tables and indexes regularly for performance  • Monitor the user sessions and take appropriate actions to kill the inactive sessions  • Regularly monitor Alert Log Files and Trace Files on day-to day basis  • Manage Undo Tablespaces, Online Redo Logs, Control Files and Archived Redo Logs  • Perform RMAN configuration, database backup which includes (hot and cold)and recovery, troubleshoot and resolve related issues  • Use DATAPUMP and Export/Import utilizes to do various levels of data movement and backup  • Apply quarterly CPU patches to different versions of databases  • Upgrade Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set  • Configure and manage Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) using database control  • Create and manage documentation on the configuration and support of the Oracle databases Oracle Database Administrator ITR Partners - London August 2009 to June 2011 Installed and configured Oracle RDBMS on UNIX and Windows environments.  • Expertise in the creation of databases, tablespaces, tables, indexes and other database objects  • Managed security and grants for database users  • Created hot, Cold and RMAN backups and recoveries.  • Applied patches, keeping applications software bug free, and improving data integrity.  • Worked and implemented backup and Recovery Strategy.  • Developed hot, cold and logical backup scripts to automate the backup procedures.  • Responsible for Oracle logical and physical databases design, implementation and maintenance on UNIX.  • Upgraded Oracle 11g databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 using patch set.  • Worked in PL/SQL and SQL tuning tasks, change management, database refreshes  • Tuned various slow running query using optimizer  • System & job monitoring, health-checks to ensure the overall well being of the Database systems, develop, improve and manage reactive and proactive system tools. Research and recommendation of better tools. Education Masters of Science in Occupational Safety and Health Management Middlesex University - London 2010 Bachelor of Science in Microbiology AAUA University 2004 Additional Information Additional Technical Skills  • Database: Oracle 11gR2, Oracle 10g  • DBA Tools: OEM, RMAN, Export/Import, Erwin, DBCA, NETCA  • Operating Systems: UNIX, LINUX, WINDOWS  • ISO 9001 & 14001 TRAINED