Oracle DBA Oracle DBA Oracle DBA - Rowan Companies DBA Over 5 years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. I have worked on various heterogeneous environment to support complete System Development Life Cycle in DEV, TEST, UAT and PROD. I have worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions. Duties include installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, security, Dataguard, RAC and Golden Gate.    • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involving I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, SQL*Trace, and TKPROF.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, and AWR.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid on ASM.  • Extensively managed users, privileges, profiles, schemas using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Configured Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (in Oracle 11g, 10g) for the purpose of monitoring multiple databases and application servers.  • Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new datacenter and Migrated and upgraded single instance database to multiple instance databases using export/import, data pump.  • Configured Dataguard on both standby and primary for failover and switchover.  • Refreshing schema using export/import, creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and cold backups.  • Expert in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Oracle Standby/Dataguard and Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Worked on Setup, configuration and maintained Oracle Data Guard/Active Data Guard to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes.  • Handy in utilizing Data Pump tool for exporting and importing the data between databases.  • Experience in Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)  • Expert in RMAN backups including full, incremental and cumulative.  • Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools.  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies (Range partitioning, List partitioning, Hash partitioning, Composite partitioning) on tables and indexes for high performance.  • Experience in conducting Joint Application Development Sessions with end-users, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) Development and QA teams. Work Experience Oracle DBA Rowan Companies - Longview, TX August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Upgrading standalone and Oracle RAC databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c and Migration of Oracle databases from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12c.  • Generating AWR, ADDM and ASH reports for database issues and daily Health Check Up of the database  • RAC Administration involving managing of instances, ASM, cluster resources and Expertise in replication technologies including Golden Gate.  • Configuration of 11g Data guard for Higher Availability of Tier-I databases along with 11g RAC Scalability, Installation and configuration of Golden Gate for replication and resolve issues to sync Databases.  • Implemented Goldengate integrated replicat and co-ordinated replicat (available from OGG 12c) to improve the performance of data replication to targets.  • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  • Building Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone.  • Working on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  • Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption, also used TDE for Goldengate replication too.  • Build three node RAC standby database for RAC primary database and using RMAN active duplication method.  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Used Data Pump for schema refresh and RMAN for refresh and backing up databases.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c and converted 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.  • Doing the regular activities like monitoring the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, and views.  • Preparation of High Level & Low-Level Design documents. Oracle Database Administrator Barclays - Dallas, TX June 2014 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using DatapumpExport/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c and converted 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Migration of databases from 10g to 11g using export/import and data pump export/import utilities and Performed database refresh activities for business requirement and tuning purposes.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance using (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views in Oracle 11gR2 and 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4. Education Bachelor of Commerce in Business Information System University of Nairobi - Greenbelt, MD Skills Data modeling, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Solaris, Unix, Etl, Informatica, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix shell, Scripting, Erwin, Windows server 2012 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Platforms: Linux 5 to 7, RHEL 8, Windows Server 2012, Solaris (10)  • Database: Oracle 10g to 12c  • Database Tools: Toad for Oracle, SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench  • ETL Tool: Informatica  • Data Modeling Tools: SQL Developer Data Modeler, Erwin, Toad Data Modeler  • Languages: SQL  • Scripting Language: Unix Shell Scripting