Jr. Database Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Database Administrator - Chaveran Inc New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Database Administrator Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD February 2015 to Present • Collaborate with engineering team members in planning, creating and managing databases required for development, testing, training and production usage.  • Install and configure the RDBMS client and server software using industries best practice as needed per environment.  • Provide 24/7 support for all databases including production and non-production environments.  • Perform on going system monitoring activities by performing audits on production systems in order to meet service level agreements.  • Actively performing database health checks by including monitoring logs to forecast potential issues.  • Provide optimal database performance by performing constant SQL and Database tuning.  • Initiate RMAN primarily to perform Hot and Cold Backups on archive and no-archive databases.  • Leverage Data Pump utilities to perform supplemental backup and restore operations.  • Conduct routine backup testing for database restorations and recovery in the event of a disaster.  • Successfully research, plan, test and complete migration of production databases across RDBMS.  • Manage database remodeling and interface development during migration of production databases from MySQL RDBMS to Oracle RDBMS.  • Clone production databases on file system and on ASM.  • Monitor enterprise wide performance to determine necessary adjustments in order to ensure optimal database performance. Database Administrator Intern InfoSource Data Solutions Corp - Highland, MD July 2014 to February 2015 • Obtained productive knowledge on installing new versions of the Oracle and MySQL RDBMS software, planning and implementing backup and recovery of oracle databases, as well as performing ongoing tuning of the database instances.  • Leveraged knowledge of database architecture in order to ensure productive database management.  • Managed database security and data integrity by creating new users, roles, profiles and privileges in development, test and production environments.  • Installed and configured oracle on VM Virtual Box for test and development purposes.  • Created and managed Oracle and MySQL databases in testing and developmental environments.  • Apply oracle patches in lower level environments before implementation in production. Education Bachelor of Science University of Maryland - College Park, MD May 2011 Skills DATABASE (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), RMAN (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • SOFTWARE/APPLICATIONS/UTILITIES: RMAN, OEM, Grid Control and Database Console, Oracle Grid Infrastructure (ASM), Data Pump, SQL Loader, SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench, SQL_TRACE, TKProf, AWR, ADRCI, SSMS    • LANGUAGES: SQL, P/L SQL, Shell, Batch, T-SQL    • RELATIONAL DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: Oracle 12c/11gR2/10g, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server    • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows, Linux/Unix