Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - AT&T Accomplished, Oracle Database Administrator, and IT security expert with 7 years of experience an extensive knowledge in Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Database Design, Security Management and Backup and Recovery. Well-versed in various programming languages and technologies, including Oracle 11g, 12c, 18c, SQL loader, MySQL, and MS SQL server. Collaborative and team-oriented with first-rate oral, written and communication skills with the ability to problem-solve and learn new strategies quickly. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator AT&T - Waldorf, MD October 2015 to Present Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update(CPU/PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Generating Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Oracle Database Administrator FrontPoint Security Solutions LLC - Vienna, VA May 2014 to October 2015 Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.    Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.    Frequently monitor emails in regards to any database issues.  Responsible for quarterly patches, maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test databases.    Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery.    Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using Export/Import scripts.    Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.    Granting roles and privileges to end users.    Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.    Created scripts and scheduled backups in Cron for RMAN database backups and recoveries.    Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) developed by Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)  Logical Volumes layouts, Disk layouts and Capacity planning.  Test backups.  Test recovery by forcing database crashes.  Perform database tuning by reviewing AWR & ADDM reports, implementing SQL profiles and baselines, designing table and index partitioning and coalescing of database objects for faster query performance. Include memory, I/O, contention, and SQL statement tuning. Database Administrator State Farm - Washington, DC April 2012 to May 2014 Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.    Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.    Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.    Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.    Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.    Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.    Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.    Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases.    Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.    Part of the on-call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support.    Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer And Information Sciences in Computer And Information Sciences Ashworth College - Norcross, GA 2018 Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, LINUX, RED HAT, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, DISASTER RECOVERY, RMAN, DATA REPLICATION, ETL, INFORMATICA, AB INITIO, SCRIPTING