Database Administrator II <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Database Administrator II Pepperell, MA Work Experience Database Administrator II Beacon Health Options - Boston, MA 2010 to 2019 Performed Data warehouse security of user access to development and production databases.  • Provided storage and capacity planning of tablespaces as a new project data is added and to facilitate processing of increased amounts of new data to existing Oracle tables.  • Monitored and tuned development and production databases.  • Performed warehouse ETL of data from corporate feeds down to local production database.  • Updated developer software to data warehouses using version control software and ftp tools.  • Supported data warehouse users and assisted with the clear formulation and specification of the organization's data needs.  • OS: UNIX, Windows 7, AIX v7  • Database: Oracle 11g R2, Oracle 10g R2  • Tools: Embarcadero DBArtisan, putty, vi editor, Oracle SQLLoader, Tortoise SVN 1.8.3 version control, Visual Source Safe    Reporting and Data Warehouse Developer  Provided analysis and development of internal and external reports based on end user requests.  • Wrote business requirements, technical requirements and the development of reports using PL|SQL, SQL Plus, Crystal Reports and Business Objects.  • Provided support to BI users and assisted with the clear formulation and specification of the organization's data needs.  • Independent analysis of contract requirements and user needs to prepare documentation of requirements and translation into proper reporting specifications.  • OS: Windows XP Release 10.2.0.4.0 - 64bit Production  • Database: Oracle 10g R2  • Tools: PL|SQL Developer, Crystal Reports XI, MS Excel 2009, Business Objects XI Technical Architect New England Carpenter's Benefits Funds - Wilmington, MA 2009 to 2010 Developed customized Collections Reports using PL|SQL, Eclipse, iReport and Excel on an Oracle 10g RAC database.  • Implemented a Backup and Recovery strategy for the Oracle 10g RAC database using RMAN, ASM and Data Pump.  • Performed rudimentary DBA maintenance and monitoring on an Oracle 10g RAC database and Oracle 10g databases.  • Implemented technical specifications gathering, data analysis and development of Oracle stored procedures, Eclipse source files, and formatted iReport layouts.  • OS: Windows XP Release 10.2.0.4.0 - 64bit Production, Windows 2003 Server  • Database: Oracle 10g R2 RAC 10.2.0.4.0, Oracle 10g R2 10.2.0.4.0, Windows 2003 Server R2  • Tools: PL|SQL Developer, Eclipse, Subversion, Jasper Report, RMAN, ASM, Oracle Data Pump Education Associate in Applied Science in MIS Pikes Peak Community College - Colorado Springs, CO Bachelor of Arts in English Western State College - Gunnison, CO University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA Skills Centura, Ms access, Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, Oracle 9, Rdb, PL/SQL Sql (10+ years), Aix, Unix, Crystal reports, Vb.net, Vb 6, Rman, Cobol, Vax, Vms, Client-server, Excel, Windows xp, Financial reporting Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/paul-h-davis Additional Information SYSTEMS EXPERIENCE    • Applications: Health Care Services, Benefits Funds, Utility Industry, School Administration, Payroll, Financial Reporting  • Tools: Oracle PL|SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Oracle SQL Loader, PLSQL Developer,  RMAN, ASM, Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports XI, Excel, Toad for Oracle  • Operating Systems: UNIX, AIX v7, AIX v6.1, Window 7, Windows XP 64-bit, Windows XP 2007 and 2002, Windows NT 4.0, VMS, DOS  • Databases: Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, Oracle 10g RAC, Oracle 9.x, SQL Base 6.1.2, SQL Base 7.6, MS Access, DEC RDB  • Languages: PL|SQL, VB 6, VB.Net, Centura Team Developer, COBOL  • Hardware: AIX servers, Client-server PCs, VAX