MSSQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MSSQL SERVER <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> MSSQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - HOUSTON_ASTROS BASEBALL CLUB Houston, TX SQL SERVER and Oracle DBA with over 6 years of experience and expertise providing 24/7 support of standalone and clustered environment. Managed Production databases with sizes ranging from small to large (Gigabytes to Terabytes). Performed and Implemented test plans for Disaster Recovery, resolved performance in SQL Server using inbuilt and external tools to solve problems in timely manner through tickets. Proposed and implement backup and recovery strategies. Maintained database security and Encrypt data. I'm proactively involved in testing and supporting of continuous, next-generation database solutions in SQL server and other Server environments to improve system performance and business continuity.    US Green Card Holder Work Experience MSSQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR HOUSTON_ASTROS BASEBALL CLUB February 2019 to Present Run SQL server health check and Implement best practices on Microsoft SQL server databases and servers  • Install new instances of SQL server for staging and development purposes  • Controlling access, permissions and privileges  • Developing, managing and testing backup and recovery plans using both SQL server level backups and VEEAM backups  • Upgrade and migrate from SQL SERVER 2012 to 2017 (in place) and from SQL server 2008 to 2016 (Side by side) Applied security patches  • Perform database refreshes and cloning  • Set up and monitor always on availability groups  • Monitor SQL server performance using extended events and SQL profiler  • Set up SQL Diagnostic Manager (idera) for performance monitoring  • Set up maintenance jobs and alerts  • Troubleshoot and fix performance issues related to slow running applications  • Troubleshoot and reduce complex database and query issues to zero  • Interact with developers, application team and present weekly reports to project manager  • Document all server processes and create documentation showing SQL server Topology MSSQL/ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ACCOUNT CONTROL TECHNOLOGY - Houston, TX September 2018 to February 2019 Implement best practices on Microsoft SQL Server Databases and Servers.  ? Create and Manage Users, Roles and Privileges in both SQL and Oracle Databases  ? Planning and implementation of database backup/restore and disaster recovery  ? Manage indexes to improve performance  ? Schedule jobs using SQL server agent  ? Maintain database security at high priority following company security policies. Update security tables, database auditing and limiting data access to defined groups.  ? Upgrade SQL Server databases to SQL Server 2008 or 2012/2014.  ? Troubleshoot complex database issues  ? Set up transaction log shipping  ? Participate in Project planning MICROSOFT SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR CITIBANK NA - Houston, TX June 2016 to September 2018 Install and configure multiple SQL Server instances.  ? Document processes and procedures.  ? Implement/Support Replication.  ? Test and Implement High Availability solutions  ? Participate in migrations and upgrade  ? Advise on hardware and licensing questions.  ? Ensure appropriate maintenance is in place including backups, index maintenance, consistency checks and statistics.  ? Support SSIS, SSRS, SSAS solutions.  ? Work with Reporting Team.  ? Participate in application upgrades and deployments.  ? Performance tuning.  ? Keep up to date with new releases of Microsoft SQL Server and advise on aspects that pertain to them MICROSOFT SQL SERVER DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MAYO CLINIC - Waukon, IA April 2014 to June 2016 Improve and maintain overall system availability for SQL Server Databases to get  99.95%.  ? Implement HA for all business-critical databases.  ? Implement/or improve database monitoring and capacity management tools globally across all data centers to detect performance issues and prevent potential outages before they occur.  ? Achieve maximum performance gain for overall database performance.  ? Upgrade all SQL Server databases to SQL Server 2008 or 2012/2014.  ? Perform health checks and monitor database server performance.  ? Proactively monitor and tune slow running queries.  ? Administer database security.  ? Implement database maintenance plans.  ? Design and implement data replication strategies.  ? Administer database backups Education Bachelor's Skills Data models, Database, Database design, Sql server, Oracle, Replication, Sql, Backups, Disaster recovery, Clustering, Cms, Project manager, Ssrs, T-sql, Encryption, Rman, Sql azure, Virtualization, Optimization, Security, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba Additional Information SKILLS  ? Results-driven IT personnel with skills in team building and problem-solving with an established reputation for effectively working with diverse groups of people and adaptability to changing environments.  ? Excellent team player, good work ethics, excellent in documentation, Bilingual in English and French, fast learner, ability to multitask, attention to details.  ? Installation and configuration of SQL Server.  ? Oracle Database Backup and Recovery using RMAN, User Managed Backup  ? Replication Models (Snapshot/Transactional/Merge)  ? Clustering Setup, Troubleshooting and Management  ? CMS Reporting-Member enrollment  ? Virtualization  ? SQL Server Upgrade and Database Migration  ? Integration Services (SSIS) and Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Good T-SQL Writing skills  ? Temporal Tables  ? Knowledge of SQL Azure  ? Task Automation  ? SQL Server Backup and Restore using SQL level Backups and External Backup tools  ? Database Security (Creating logins, users, encryption)  ? Translating business requirements into conceptual, logical and physical data models  ? Administering, Managing, Developing and configuring SQL Server database design  ? Performance tuning and query Optimization  ? Production level support for onsite and offshore - On Call 24/7 environment  ? SQL Server Performance tuning, using inbuilt SQL server monitoring tools and external tools  ? High Availability and Disaster recovery Solution-Clustering, Always On, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping  ? Query Store, Import/Export Wizard, SSMS, SQL Profiler, Extended Events, Red-Gate tools, solar winds, VEEAM, Idera  ? Interact with reporting team, developers, application team, Project Manager and other IT team members