Oracle/ Sybase/ MS Sql database administrator Oracle/ Sybase/ MS Sql <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Oracle/ Sybase/ MS Sql database administrator - UBS Bank An Oracle DBA with over 6 years plus of IT experience in Oracle (11gR2, 10gR2) 11gRAC, 10gRAC, installation, upgrade, designing, backup, recovery, migration, performance tuning, PL/SQL, data guard etc. in a variety of environments like UNIX (Solaris, AIX), LINUX and Windows in Production, Test as well as Development databases. SYBASE and SQL server Database support.    Experience Summary    * Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.  * Experienced in using Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to migrate Tablespace across Oracle databases.  * Monitor and maintain system security and Auditing.  * Experience with ORACLE,SYBASE and MS SQL server databases.  * Creating users, granting and revoking privileges. Creating user profile and expiring passwords as assigned.  * Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  * Hands on experience in Performance Tuning and Memory (SGA) Tuning by identifying top Sqls/Sessions and Tuning.  * Gathered database/Objects statistics using DBMS_UTILITY, DBMS_STATS packages and ANALYZE command.  * Efficient in SQL query Optimization using Explain plan, Auto trace, TKPROF, gathering statistics, pinning objects.  * Knowledge on Oracle Support processes for technical requests through Meta link.  * Monitoring & Reorganizing Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.  * Skilled in using tools such as SQL Developer and TOAD.  * Replication (snapshots/materialized views)  * Created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP using customized shell scripts and stepwise.  * Performed FLASHBACK features to handle efficient database recovery.  * Performed tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN.  * Qualified at monitoring SHELL Scripts and using CRONTAB for automatic backups.  * Adept at installation of OEM Database Control, OEM grid control and Deploying Agents  * Experienced with Pluggable databases (CON, EMCON and NONCON).  * In-depth knowledge and understanding of Oracle Database features such as RMAN for backup and recovery, Materialized Views, Export/Import, Data Pump and Data Guard. Working knowledge of Auditing and Database Security.  * Scheduling and Troubleshooting Database performance issues using Statspack, Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM), ASH, SQL Tuning advisor.  * Bulk loads and data migrations (using SQL*Loader, data pump import/export)  * Experienced with Golden Gate.  * Experienced with Data Redaction/Masking and data Encryption  * Expert in RMAN backups including Full, Incremental and Cumulative.  * Excellent knowledge in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN. Experience in applying patches/ patch sets to the databases.  * Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump Import/Export tools. Work Experience Oracle/ Sybase/ MS Sql database administrator UBS Bank - Weehawken, NJ March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Performed logical backups and Restore activities using IMPDP and EXPDP Utilities.  ? Performed Database Deployments on Oracle/Sybase and MS SQL Production Databases.  ? Worked on DATA Migration projects from QA to Production environment and from PROD to QA.  ? Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both TOAD, Oracle 11g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed SQL Dbx utilities.  ? Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  ? Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.  ? Technical documentation of all implementations, monitoring and testing projects for future utilization.  ? Create database Objects as needed and performed tuning activities to enhance greater database performance.  ? Worked closely with Team mates, Developers, Project coordinators and other Technical support teams to ensure efficient Implementation and delivery of projects.  ? Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, using tolls like TOAD for Oracle, SQL Dbx, Interactive SQL and Putty.  ? Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  ? Refresh non-production full/small size database from production database. Gold Copy of database taken, rebuilding Indexes and killing resource consuming sessions as per business requirement.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Supported RAC, Data Guard and Single instance databases.  ? Fully involved in deployments on both PROD and NON-PROD environments using tools like TOAD, MS SQL server 2012, interactive SQL, SQL Dbx and PUTTY on SYBASE,ORACLE, and SQL server Databases.  ? Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  ? Worked on Two major migration projects from DEV, and QA to production.    Environment: Oracle 11g, AWR, DBMS STATS, Data Pump, SQL DBX, TOAD, INTERACTIVE SQL, FileZilla, Putty. Oracle Database Administrator AdvizeX Technologies - Westerville, OH April 2013 to March 2017 • Enabled TDE and Data Redaction/Masking of sensitive data.  • Experienced in Golden Gate configuration.  • Configured Data Guard for Data Protection and Disaster Recovery.  • Backup Oracle DBA for two major projects involving periodic administration, troubleshooting & tuning of 10 Oracle databases (10g & 11g single instances running on both IBM AIX 5.3 & SunOS 5.8)  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Have done upgrade of database version from 10g, 11g and 12c and applying inline and outline patches using DBUA as well as PSU and SPU Patches with OPATCH utility for bug fixes.  • Experienced with Pluggable databases (CON, EMCON and NONCON databases).  • Actively involved in a team of three node RAC configuration for high availability and increase performance  • Creating & Managing Database Structures, Storage Allocations, Table/Index segments, Rollback segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Creating Users and Assigning Roles/Privileges, Expiring User Password, Creating User Profiles.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure Wget, SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Application of Oracle software patches when/where necessary.  • Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts, Worked with Pluggable Databases  • Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 11g database control, oracle 11g Grid Control, oracle 12c Cloud Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQL Developer for Oracle).  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 11g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g expdp/impdp data pump.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Created a stand by database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Backup/Recovery monitoring and reporting using Oracle RMAN  • Technical documentation of all configurations, installations, implementations, monitoring and testing projects for future utilization.  • Work closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Create database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Schema migrations from Development to Production via Tech Test environments.  • Database refresh from Production to Tech Test as needed.    Environment: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 11g, DBMS STATS, Data Pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Lowes Inc - Mooresville, NC March 2011 to February 2013 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Experienced in Database cloning using RMAN and manual creation using Scripts.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using Data Guard feature of Oracle 10g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Creating Users and Assigning Roles/Privileges, Expiring User Password, Creating User Profiles.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.    Environment: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Sun Solaris 10.0, RAC, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, OEM. Jr. Oracle DBA Cox Communication Inc - Atlanta, GA October 2010 to March 2011 Cox Communications carries the complete collection of cable capacity. The company provides basic cable service to more than 6 million customers, including 2.7 million digital cable subscribers and 3 million Internet access subscribers, making it the third-largest US cable company.    Responsibilities:  • Provided Primary architectural and administrative support for new projects  • Installed Oracle 10 and 11g database on LINUX, Red hat 4.x  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Capacity planning and informing storage for next quarter disk space estimate, used tools like EM, Toad, package like dbms space and other criteria defined by DBAs over the time.  • Tuning database pro-actively for future needs, Monitor rate of archive logs generated daily, RMAN backups, alert log  • Troubleshooting error, reading trace file using Tkprof utility etc  • Refresh non production full/small size database from production database. Gold Copy of database taken, resizing down tablespaces and data files, excluding some of the data and truncating tables which are absolute as per business requirement  • Build new database, decommissioning old out of scope database and reclaim space  • Freeing up company's resources from historical database by archiving out old data to tape then removing or shrinking tablespace to high water mark if reasonable, shrinking undo/temp/other existing tablespace if reasonable by analyzing current and past usage from the time they obsolete  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Creating Users and Assigning Roles/Privileges, Expiring User Password, Creating User Profiles.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Performance Tuning i.e., Tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms.  • Oracle Grid Control Management Server Installation  • Installed and configured Oracle 10g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures for performance testing and future 10g production implementation  • Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using exports from 9i database and imported in 10g using Oracle data pumps.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts to perform the above tasks efficiently  • Worked as a member of production DBA team in perfect coordination with seniors and team members.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Sun Solaris, HP-Unix, UNIX, Linux 4.0., RMAN, DBCA, DataGuard, EXPLAIN PLAN, Cloning, OEM, STATSPACK, and TKPROF, Toad, PL/SQL.    Educational level: Bachelor's in Economics and Management.    Course College / University Year Education Economics and Management University of BUEA 2011 Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Ux, Vpn, Rman, Erwin, Cisco, Remedy, Oem, Checkpoint, Loader, Emc Additional Information Technical Skills    Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Shareplex Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, QDesigner, Remedy    Operating Systems MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX), LINUX  Hardware  Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2    Remote Tools Cisco VPN, Checkpoint VPN, Remote Admin, VNC, Remote Desktop