Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - State of Georgia Atlanta, GA IT Professional with over nine years of Information Technology experience including three years as a Scrum Master.  Experience in facilitating co-located, distributed and off-shore teams using various visual platforms.  Experience in Agile/Scrum coaching and servant leadership, capacity planning and risk mitigation, change management and relationship building.  Experience in business analysis, product/project management, or product development.  Experience working with dynamic, highly collaborative teams, requiring close consultation and coordination.  Experience in Agile methodologies: Scrum, SAFe, Kanban and XP.  Experience using leading Scrum/Agile tools: JIRA/Confluence, Visual Studio.  Leading meetings; keeping team members focused and facilitating groups to reach timely consensus.  Committed to continuous improvement through empowerment and servant leadership.  SQL Server Database Administration. Expert in Database Administration, Configuration, Analysis, Tuning, Data Migration and Support of SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014 and 2016.  Data analysis, Data modeling, analyzing End User requirements and specifications.  Knowledge of Unified Modeling Language (UML), including Use Cases, Sequence, Work Flow Diagrams and Activity diagrams.  Analytical, highly versatile, outstanding interpersonal and communication skills; team-oriented individual. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master Georgia Department of Community Supervision - Atlanta, GA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Organize and facilitate Scrum ceremonies and backlog refinement under minimal supervision  Champion Agile software development best practices, acting as a coach to the Scrum teams  Support the Product Owner in grooming and maintaining the product backlog  Track and communicate team status and progress via burnup and burndown charts, as well as other information radiators, to the team, management, and stakeholders ¬ ensuring it accurately reflects current state  Take responsibility for managing dependencies between the Scrum team and others, collaborating within the Scrum Master network ¬ especially with regard to items necessary for product release  Demonstrate sense of urgency and responsiveness to complete work and solve problems, with a strong drive to persevere when faced with ambiguity  Proactively remove or escalate roadblocks to allow team progress  Maintains relevant metrics to help the team monitor their performance  Encourages continual improvement in Engineering practices to improve code quality and delivery  Coordinates timely response and support to production line customer issues, when escalated  Georgia Department of Community Supervision Database Administrator/Scrum Master Trainnee Georgia Department of Community Supervision - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  Scheduled, coordinated, and successfully concluded several backlog grooming and refining sessions in the middle of ongoing sprints to help the product owner to be more prepared prior to upcoming sprints.  Worked with team members to prevent or eliminate any impediments and keep progress continuous by escalating issues and removing outside barriers.  Developed sprint plans, tracked and monitored the status of completion.  Facilitated daily stand-ups, sprint planning, backlog grooming, and retrospective meetings.  Updated the metrics to reflect accurate status of work being completed.  Database administration, database design, configuration, deployment, and data analysis, using Microsoft SQL Server Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). Database Administrator Qimonda, North America - Sandston, VA April 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  Provided ongoing SQL Server 2012/2008 and database environment support, diagnosing problems, troubleshooting, operational and production database support.  Maintained Web servers, Web Applications and Database servers.  Performing Database Administration duties: database backups, data loading, data transfers/Migration, installation & upgrade of database systems.  Planning and implanting Data Center Migration and Migration of Applications, Databases, Web Services and Servers.  Managing SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 Databases in a clustered environment  Responsible for administration of Large SQL Server databases, including SQL Server installation and creation of databases.  Created and monitored the maintenance plan for optimization and integrity check for SQL Server Databases.  Managed and supported servers in multiple Data Centers  Worked on migration and maintenance of data using various utilities like DTS, Import, Export and Detach & Attach Data Movement/Migration tools.  Created regular backups of databases and transaction logs using SQL Server 2012  Involved in creation of Stored Procedures, SSIS Packages, and DTS Packages  Worked with SQL Server 2008/2012/2014 Business Intelligence Development Studio SQL Server Reporting Services and SQL Server Integration Services. Database Administrator Alltel Communications - Mechanicsville, VA April 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  Provided 100% efficiency, backup and recovery, and 24 hour support of all corporate systems running MS SQL Server.  Provided operational and production database support.  Provided on-going database and database environment support, diagnosing problems, troubleshooting, operational and production database support  Configuring database security and granting required Server access and permissions to users based on Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance requirements.  Creating new SQL Servers 2005/2008/2012 databases, configuring database security and granting required access and permissions to users.  Implemented and designed SQL Server 2012 Column Level Data Encryption to encrypt sensitive and mission critical data.  Worked in a SQL Server 2008 Clustered, Replication Environment and SAN environment.  Performed 24/7 on-call duties, troubleshooting production servers, monitoring and performance tuning.  Created Data Sources for SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  Regularly monitored servers, which included Backup Job Monitoring and troubleshooting all the issues on regular basis. Education MS in Computer Networking Technology Virginia Commonwealth University - Midlothian, VA Bachelor of Law in Law University of Buea Skills Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Pl/sql, Sql, Sql server integration services, T-sql, Analysis services, Integration, Mentor, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master, Scrum, CSM, Kanban, Certified Scrum Master Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Agile Expert - Expert in Agile values & principles, train, mentor, coach and facilitate other people in adopting these values.  Coach-Consultant - A coach for the Development Team, Product Owner and Organization(s).  Servant Leader - Lead by example by showing beahviors necessary to make change happen.  Databases - MS SQL Server 2016, 2014/2012/2008/2005, MS Access  Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Services, Analysis Services, SQL Loader.  Languages-T-SQL, MDX, PL/SQL, XML, Windows Scripting.