ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Forestville, MD An experienced professional in Oracle database administration with progressive 5 years. I have worked on platforms such as Linux, Unix, Solaris, Windows. I have handled performance tuning, conducted backups and ensure integrity and security in the database. I have equally worked on test and production environments carrying out DBA activities aimed at ensuring database performance and availability. During this period, I have also been involved in variety of oracle projects such as RAC for High Availability and Scalability, Data guard for disaster recovery, Golden gate for replication, perform updates and quarterly patches when necessary.  I am very flexible, enthusiastic, adaptable to changing environments, proactive and team player with exceptional writing, verbal, analytical, and great in problem solving. Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR City Of Keene - KEENE - Keene, NH August 2017 to June 2019 • Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  • Migration of Oracle databases 11g (11.2.0.4) from one Linux machine to another Linux machine using data pump.  • Applied the Clusterware (GI), Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using opatch.  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases (Non-RAC) from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c. as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features. Also upgraded 11g (11.2.0.3) Databases to 12c (12.1.0.1).  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager) for ZDLRA, and Database Flashback using GRP ( Guaranteed Restore Point ) and Export and Import (Data-pump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Building Oracle Standby databases, both Active Data guard for real-time replication and normal Data guard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  • Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g also called as keystore from 12c and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption.  • Tested disaster recovery with database failover and switchover and as well tested Goldengate replication after that using DBFS filesystem and ACFS.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of three node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Monitoring of the databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (12c) using Oracle Enterprise Manager (12c).  • Setting up replication of databases using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Worked on import/export, export data pump/import data pump and SQL- loader.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures, Implemented Hot, Cold, Logical backup plans.  • Implemented Initial Data Load, Batch/Online replication, Security in GoldenGate.  • Applying PSU / CPU Patches applying Oracle DST Patches on Oracle database.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment and reporting  • Created users, granted roles and privilege management. Maintained user accounts and privileges to maintain application security.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator BARCLAYS - Dallas, TX March 2014 to July 2017 • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Trouble shooting and performance tuning golden gate replications, monitoring scripts for Golden gate in Unix scripting  • Flashback technology of the Install and configure Cloud Control 12c, deploy 12c agents, plug-in installations on the target servers and monitor databases.  • Configure Oracle Advanced Security on 12c databases to implement Transparent Data Encryption at tablespace, table and column levels. Also configured Redaction using OEM's Policy expression builder.  • Implemented Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recycle bin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (10.2.0.2) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes.  • Created tables, views, indexes, constraints and performed rebuilding of indexes  • Monitored sessions and killed blocking session to remove lock on objects.  • Created stored procedures for truncation of tables, enabling and disabling of constraints.  • Created DML triggers to log changes made to application tables.  • Performed Auditing on user activities on request as per organization policies.  • Created and managed database objects like table spaces and managed the size of the table spaces by resizing, adding and dropping the data files. Education Associate Star College - Fairfax, VA 2008 Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Rman, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY    1. Database & Software  Oracle - 10g, 11g and 12c (OLPT and OLAP databases)  2. Operating System  Linux, Unix, Solaris and Window.  3. Oracle Skills  OEM Grid Control, Performance tuning, , Database Security, Migration, Cloning, RMAN, RAC and Non-RAC, ASM DATAGAURD, GOLDENGATE, UPGRADE AND PATCHING (CPU & PSU), AWR, ADDM, ASH, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TRACE, Backup & Recovery, Data Pump & Export/Import, Transportable Table Space, Shell Scripting, SQL, SQL*Loader.