Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - FedEX Fridley, MN Proactive database administrator, with over 7+ years of experience and extensive knowledge in oracle database administration. Proficient in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases operating across AIX, windows and RHEL.  Expertise knowledge in Backup and recovery of Oracle Databases using RMAN. Database configuration and installation, database design and development (SDLC), OEM, performance tuning, Migration, Upgrades and Security implementation. Tablespace reorg activities to improve the performance and to reclaim the unused space, applying patches, patch sets and critical patch updates of Oracle databases. Oracle database replication using Data Guard, and Oracle 12c Cloud Control configuration and monitoring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FedEX - Saint Paul, MN January 2016 to Present • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g and 11g database on UNIX.  • Database Sizing, Tablespace Management and UNDO Tablespace Management, Transaction Management and Security Administration  • Hands on experience in dealing with Database Corruptions issue, Rman Backup, restores and recoveries.  • Experience providing Production Operations support 7x24x365  • Migration of databases from 11g to 12c using export/import and data pump export/import utilities.  • Diagnosis and repair of Physical and Logical Block Corruptions.  • Excellent verbal communication and technical documentation skills  • Hands on experience on Flashback Database.  • Experienced in Design, implementation and generating documentation of Oracle 11g Data Guard on both physical/logical standby databases in high availability mode.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement.  • Scheduling the backups for the database using EM 12C/13C Cloud Control.  • Performed Application Tuning by tuning queries, identifying problematic code, creation of indexes, re-writing queries using an optimized path, creation of materialized Views and Gathering necessary statistics on objects.  • Setup and configuring oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery.  • Application of different recovery procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using Export/Import scripts.  • Experienced in performing Point in time recovery using RMAN.  • Undertaking installation, upgrades, migrations, cloning and patch management of databases and enterprise management software.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Capacity Planning for OLTP environment- Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the existing and new databases.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM reports.  • Configured a 3 node RAC for high availability.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Installation, Configuration and Upgrade of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases using OUI (DBCA, DBUA), and Manually  • Assisted SQL developers to optimize the SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Experience in diagnosis and repair of failures with Data Recovery Advisors.  • Experience in Configuration of Catalog databases Oracle Database Administrator MINCO PRODUCTS Ins - Fridley, MN August 2012 to January 2016 • Successfully Migrated Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances  • Responsibility and accountability for the availability and reliability of all Production Databases.  • Design, develop, deploy, and enhance automation to reliably manage the platform infrastructure.  • Consults with users and vendors in diagnosing and solving all database software and data-related problems.  • Executed daily health checkup which include testing databases and performances of the Oracle Infrastructure.  • Restored and Recovered database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Involved in the support, maintenance and development of critical systems.  • Routine database clean ups, removing old trace files and archived logs.  • Create audit policies for databases using Fine Grain Auditing.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Carrying out design, construction, review and defect analysis activities.  • Responsible for database design and development and Application Tuning  • Creating users, granting privileges /roles, user account unlock and password reset for users.  • Generating the database health check reports using Stats pack, AWR, and ADDM.  • Tablespace monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Completed Oracle database Patching using Opatch utility, and physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Expertise in Migration/Upgrade from 8i/9i to 10g, from 10g to 11g and 12c Multi-tenant.  • Experience in administrating and architecture on OLAP & OLTP databases.  • Good written and verbal communication skills, self-motivated team player and good analytical thinking. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN 2016 to 2020 Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ORACLE FORMS, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DB2, MYSQL, RAC, Rman, Sql Database, Oracle Database, ETL Certifications/Licenses Oracle certified associate March 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills:  • Oracle Database Administration  • Performance Tuning & Capacity Monitoring  • Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation  • Oracle Forms and Reports Development  • Database-Backed Web Solutions  • SQL Tuning in an Oracle Environment  • Standby/Failover Administration  • Database Migration using Data Pump utility.  • Performed database refresh from production to test environment in both RAC and NON RAC environment using RMAN.  • SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, UNIX Shell scripting.  • Oracle Data Guard configuration and Administration.  • SQL Server Management Studio