Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - COX AUTOMOTIVE Atlanta, GA Technical Summary :  Considerable 7 years of experience in IT, skilled as an Oracle Database Administrator; administering, designing, maintaining and supporting next-generation database solutions in Oracle enterprise environments on various platforms. Proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle Data Guard, Golden Gate,Oracle Streams, Migration, Flashback and Recovery, Cloning, Space Management, Database Security and Auditing. Installation and administration of 10g/11g/12c databases, OEM, Grid/Cloud Control, RAC on ASM, Performance Tuning, Up gradation, Migration, Patching, Backup and Recovery, High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration and Patching databases on Linux (OEL/RHEL), Windows (2008, 2003) and UNIX (HP-AIX) platforms.  • Expertise in Installation, configuration and administration of 10g/11g/12cstandalone and RAC databases for OLTP and OLAP environments  • Experience in UNIX shell scripting, Oracle schedular, CRON jobs  • Experience in Resource Management; data files, online redo log files, control files and logical storage structures like tablespaces, segments and extents.  • Good knowledge of configuration of TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTERNER.ORA for SQL*NET connectivity  • Good knowledge and understanding of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodology for designing, analysis, development and Implementation  • Used various Oracle configuration assistants; Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA), Database Upgrade Assistant (DBUA), Network Configuration Assistant (NetCA)   • Proficient in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning as well as SQL Tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, ORAchkand Cluster Interconnect tuning (RAC)  • Very good hands on with STATSPACK, AWR, ASH and ADDM (Real-Time) utilities for database performance diagnostics  • High ability to do database Forensics and Tuning using AWR reports analysis   • Expertise in implementing partitioning methodologies on tables and indexes for high performance  • Good understanding of Dictionary tables and views  • Extensive experience in partitioning and materialize views   • Expertise in implementing High Availability Solutions with Oracle Data Guard (11g and 12c) and Oracle 11g RAC and Golden Gate (11g and 12c) replication to ensure Business Continuity assuring Return on Investment  • Good Knowledge on Veridata for Golden Gate monitoring.  • Experience in using GoldenGate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal impact to online systems  • Implemented Golden Gate replication solutions to facilitate data flow between heterogeneous (SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle) environments.  • Effectively Manage, Monitor and troubleshoot Log Transport and Apply Services in Data Guard and resolved archive gaps  • Good knowledge of FAN, TAF, FCF, AC and Load balancing (Server and Client side) techniques.  • Knowledge in configuring ASM and Administering ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility)   • Install Oracle 11g and 12c with ASM and OCFS2 File systems  • Backup and Recovery issues; OCR, Voting Disk and Oracle Clusterware  • Good knowledge and understanding of Delphix Engine for Backup and Recovery.  • Good experience on Backup and Recovery using RMAN for Hot and cold backups   • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Experienced in Flashback Recovery, Hot/Cold Backup and Cloning/Refresh of databases using RMAN.  • Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches using ”Opatch” Utilities  • Hands on with Migration of RAC and standalone databases from Non ASM to ASM storage.  • Hands on experience on cross platform database migration involving conversion between little and big endian format (Homogeneous/Heterogeneous)  • Experienced in Transactional and Non-Transactional Migration   • Responsible for Datacenter Migration from old Datacenter to new Datacenter and Migrated and upgraded single instance database to multiple instance databases using export/import, data pump.   • Upgrade/Migration of oracle databases from 10g to 11g and 10gRAC to 11gRAC and eventually to 12c  • Experience with loading data from flat files database using SQL* Loader, External Tables  • Extensively worked on Import/Export and Data Pump export/import tools (backup and Object migration)  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing,  • Experienced using TDE to secure Data at rest and Data Masking & Redaction for Data in motion  • Experience working on POC of 12c New Features; CDB & PDB, multiple indexes on column…etc  • Good knowledge and understanding of MS SQL Server and Postgre SQL.  • Exposure to AWS Cloud and EXADATA Database Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator COX AUTOMOTIVE - Atlanta, GA October 2015 to Present Projects and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for providing 24x7 support to Clients across the country.  • Involve in 24x7 on-call support for critical databases using Oracle 12c and 13c Cloud Control for Alert Monitoring and Notification  • Setup standby databases for Data warehouse environment to avoid downtime for business users and reporting during major release activities.  • Operational DBA work includes Working on tickets, resolve backup failures, attend to incident/problem management calls, Team and new Project meetings.  • Proactively monitor, report, troubleshoot, escalate and resolve technical issues with Oracle Databases and associated systems  • Installation, configuration and administration of 10g/11g/12c databases for OLTP and OLAP environments  • Shell scripting to automate monitoring and daily operational procedures and enhance the functionality on need basis.  • Contributed to automation procedures for Database deployment and other housekeeping activities as per Product standards  • Capacity planning of databases for datacenter consolidation project  • Respond and update the team on Oracle SRs and apply recommendations while validating with customer  • Responsible to ensure all the tickets are attended as per SLA and up to customer satisfaction.  • Performance tuning, SQL Tuning and SQL Plan management.  • Provided instance and Server level performance monitoring and tuning for Wait Events, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage using tools like AWR, ADDM, OEM, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL TUNING ADVISORS, SQL TRACE & TKPROF  • Review and analyze relevant database logs and operating system logs  • Apply systems analysis techniques and procedures to identify and resolve database issues  • Documenting processes, standards and methodologies for working with client data and systems in confluence.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • RAC- administration/Troubleshooting of 2/3 Node Cluster on Oracle 10g/11gR2. Configuring Grid Infrastructure, SCAN Listeners on 11gR2. Migrate OCR files to ASM  • Perform DG- Disaster Recovery and Role Transition drills for Production environments as per Audit and compliance.  • Experience in managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC 3 nodes) running on Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Configure Golden Gate for Classic and Integrated capture components for replication  • Performed full and incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies  • Backup and Recovery using Delphix Engine  • Proficient in complete, incomplete recovery of the database, Point in Time Recovery (PITR), and Tablespace Point in Time Recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility  • Data refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup, test, dev environments  • Designed solution for datacenter migration using Oracle HA and DR technologies  • Transactional and No-transactional migration of data from databases/servers  • Upgradation, Cloning and patching 10g, 11g and 12c RAC and Standalone databases.  • Oracle home upgrade and patching for database lifecycle management to adhere with company security and compliance policies  • Used TDE to secure Data at rest and Data Masking & Redaction for Data in motion  • Using TCP/IP Protocol configured SQL*Net files on server /client machines and resolved client connectivity issues. Oracle Database Administrator NRG ENERGY - Houston, TX April 2012 to October 2015 Projects and Responsibilities  • Involved in 24x7 on-call support for databases  • Meet with application team and stakeholders during major releases and upgrades and provide extensive support.  • Created Databases both manually and automatically using DBCA  • Created and managed users granting them necessary privileges, roles, profiles etc  • Monitoring and administration of both primary and standby databases including production; performing daily database administration tasks.  • Contributed towards enhancement of Employee payroll process performance.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database/application  • Troubleshooting of various database Performances Issues by proper analysis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQ database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, OS using AWR,ADDM,ASH,V$SESSION, Explain plan.  • Gave recommendations to developers on SQL, PL/SQL packages.  • Member of Team that configured MAA; Data Guard, Golden Gate and RAC (ASM)  • Perform DG- Disaster Recovery and Role Transition drills for Production environments as per Audit and compliance.  • Backup and Recovery using Hot, Cold and RMAN backups and UNIX scripts.  • Logical Backup (Data pump export/Import)  • RMAN Tablespace Point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Used TDE to secure Data at rest and Data Masking & Redaction for Data in motion. Education Bachelor in law in Management Advancement Program University of Witwatersrand Skills Languages SQL, PL/SQL, shell scripting, C, RDBMS Oracle 10g, 11g,12c Tools and Utilities 10g/11g OEM, 12c GUI Cloud Control, TOAD, SQL Developer, ORAchk, OPatch, AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TKPROF, STATPAK,SQL*Loader, Putty, VNC, , RMAN, Data pump (7 years), Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, 12c, Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Database Technologies Data Guard, Golden Gate, RAC (7 years), Certifications Oracle Database 12c Administrator Certified Associate Oracle Database 12c; SQL Fundamentals Scrum Master Certified (SMC) Workshops Oracle 10g and 11g DBA (7 years), Pl/sql, Sql, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL