Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - United States Department of Defense Germantown, MD Summary: Top Secret /SCI cleared and accomplished Database Administrator (DBA) with 6 years of experience in Oracle Database Installation, Configuration, Management, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modelling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Streams. Exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities; proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions; results-oriented achiever with excellent track record for identifying opportunities for accelerated growth; dedicated team player who listens, thrives on collaborating with diversely talented team members, and integrates their divergent thoughts, opinions, and perspectives into meaningful action; energetic, competitive achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform under pressure in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment; global thinker who is degreed in management and adept at training, developing, human resources, and coaching team members and clients; world traveler, highly experienced working in geographically and culturally diverse settings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator United States Department of Defense - Washington, DC June 2017 to Present • Participating in planning, and designing of new High Availability Databases Infrastructure  • Installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure  System performance and stability.  • Weekly full backup with RMAN.  • Frequently monitor emails in regard to any database issues.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery  Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using  Export/Import scripts.  • Maintains knowledge of and assists in training others in new technologies related to data management. Oracle Database Administrator United States Department of State - Washington, DC April 2013 to June 2017 Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database  Installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure  System performance and stability.  • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Frequently monitor emails in regard to any database issues.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, /maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test  Databases.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery  Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using  Export/Import scripts.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Granting roles and privileges to end users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Cron for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) developed by Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)  • Test backups. Test recovery by forcing database crashes.  • Perform database tuning by reviewing AWR & ADDM reports, implementing SQL profiles and baselines, designing table and index partitioning and coalescing of database objects for faster query performance. Include memory, I/O, contention, and SQL statement tuning. Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting - Greenbelt, MD January 2012 to April 2013 • Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces.  • Executed daily health checkup of production which included testing databases and performances of the Oracle Infrastructure,  • Deployed and implemented Oracle Grid Control (10g and 11g, ) to monitor all databases.  • Database upgrades, resource capacity planning, platform migrations, application consolidations and data center rationalization.  • Maintained database security via unique database roles and object permissions. Resized database files to decrease cloning, backup, and restoring time.  • Executed and provided ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance.  • Migrated data from Oracle 10g R2 database on UNIX to Oracle 11g on a Linux platform.  • Maintained various SLA's including ticket response and resolution time. Education US Department of Defense Language Institute October 2010 to Present Bachelor of Art in International Relations North Carolina A&T State University - Greensboro, NC 2013 Skills Linux (6 years), Oracle 10&11g, Oracle12c (6 years), RMAN. (4 years), SQL (4 years), DBA, Oracle Dba, Oracle Database, Rman, MYSQL Military Service Branch: Army Reserve Service Country: United States Rank: 1LT October 2010 to Present Additional Information ? Active U.S Top Secret Clearance with SCI  ? Experienced in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.  ? In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.  ? Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Loader, SQL, RMAN, PL/SQL and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  ? User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users. Altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  ? Monitoring & Reorganizing Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.  ? Databases Performance Tuning / Maintenance.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  • Operating Systems: Unix, Solaris, Linux- Red Hat Linux 5.4, Red Hat Linux 6, Windows 2000 Server  • RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g & 12c  • Tools/Utilities: RMAN, OEM Oracle Management Server, SQL*Plus, Export/Import, Data Pump, RMAN, AWS, ADDM.  • Languages: HTML, JavaScript, PL/SQL, SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, MySQL.