Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bowie, MD I am proficient in Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c database administration. Proficient in RMAN Backup and recovery, database migration, SQL-Loader, MySQL, MS SQL and Oracle Golden Gate upgrade and patch application. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator ManTech International Corporation - Chantilly, VA December 2018 to Present • Assisted within the TSA Operation Platform Database (TOP) administrator Tier 2 team with performing methodologies for the TSA IMPACT Project  • Utilized PUTTY to perform methodologies and builds for the TSA Operation Platform Database (TOP) applications ensuring that files are properly archived and accessible  • Utilized Remedy IT Service Management System to assign and create incident tickets  • Utilized WebLogic to restart production servers  • Performed smoke tests for the all TSA Operation Platform (TOP) applications ensuring that the application is functional  • Monitored system performance diagnosing software and hardware failures to resolution  • Performed application database configuration, monitoring and tuning  • Maintained oracle critical upgrades and patch management schedules  • Planned and responded to service outages including backup and restoration  • Conducted routine maintenance including problem defect analysis and resolution, space, storage, object management, physical database layout, rollback segment management and temporary space management  • Assisted developers of data exposure services with engagement of the various databases  • Supported logs and alerts, access rights and roles, database instance version control. New IDs, roles, authorizations, audits, locked/unlocked  • Ran scripts on SQL in order to rectify and fix data corruption for TSA Operation Platform (TOP) applications  • Ran scripts on SQL Developer to generate Excel spreadsheets required for the TOPS applications and input information into tables needed for TOP applications  • Executed queries in live production databases upon request  • Executed queries used to created facility security coordinator accounts  • Assisted in conduction integration manager monthly data refresh and update process  • Utilized SharePoint to upload and download assets required for executing methodologies and builds  • Implemented Stop and Start procedure for TSA Operation Platform (TOP) application databases and their supported applications Oracle Database Administrator NewayITSolutions - College Park, MD March 2013 to May 2018 • Performed patching of 11g database  • Installed 12c database software  • Upgraded 11g database to 12c  • Conducted Cold / Hot backups and also defined and set backup and recovery procedures.  • Performed daily Archive log file backup and checking Alert Log files.  • Developed backup and recovery strategies for different disaster scenarios  • Reviewed alert logs and dump files to check for any problems related to the database/user.  • Involved in monitoring the lock/block processes, releasing locks in case of resource blockage and gathering statistics.  • Created users and set permissions.  • Managed database security using groups, roles and handled number of databases in different places.  • Created database objects and managed the permission access on the objects with necessary security.  • Enforced security by creating roles, granting system and object privileges on the Tables, and storing procedures with DBA concepts.  • Resolved database performance issues, capacity issues, replication and other distributed data issues.  • Performed recovery of database after loss of important data files and physical files.  • Recovered database after the loss of control files using auto backup  • Established and maintained a database backup strategy.  • Planned, installed, configured and troubleshot Oracle 11g databases on Linux Operating systems.  • Installed and configure relevant network components to ensure database access as well as database consistency and integrity.  • Troubleshot and resolve various Oracle connectivity problems.  • Created and tuned various materialized views.  • Created indexes as necessary.  • Performed and administered various DML and DDL's on a day to day basis to meet developer and business needs.  • Managed Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs.  • Installed and managed Oracle database using database control.  • Performed bulk load into the database using SQL Loader.  • Performed standard and fine grain database auditing.  • Administered database user accounts.  • Created, modified and deactivated user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights.  • Provided database administration on production, testing and development database servers.  • Monitored Tablespaces and Datafiles utilization.  • Managed Undo Tablespaces, Redo Logs, Control files and Archive logs. Implemented multiplexing control files and redo log files.  • Configured various RMAN parameters as per the requirement.  • Performed physical backups using RMAN utility.  • Configured and implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) for cold and hot backup to the databases.  • Extensively used DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups.  • Created and tuned various materialized views.  • Created and implemented various table partitions for large tables  • Applied CPU patches to different version of databases.  • Configured, audited, granted privileges, restricted access, created users, profiles, roles and monitored quota on tablespaces in line with resource planning guide.  • Used Enterprise Manager DB console to monitor performance, clone databases, tuning and maintaining optimal performance.  • Used DataPump for migration, SQL*loader, import and export of database/schema/Tablespace.  • Generated Reports and preparing memo to communicate progress and providing early alerts for major updates.  • Used a hot and cold backup and recovery using RMAN.  • Used Enterprise Manager to schedule backups.  • Performed SQL tuning and object management.  • Performed import and export as needed and scheduled nightly export on each database.  • Executed database backup and recovery strategies.  • Implemented and monitored concepts of recovery.  • Monitored database security by controlling and monitoring user access  • Created and monitored roles and profiles.  • Created and maintained database structures and objects.  • Administered database user accounts. Create, modify and deactivate user accounts; assign and monitor user access rights.  • Created different table spaces, tables, schemas, constraints  • Performed daily database administration on production environments.  • Changed password for users, granted privileges, altered roles, and set alerts.  • Used RMAN to backup database.  • Worked on full database backup.  • Created new databases using operating system commands.  • Managed and monitored direct database access security, data integrity, enforcing constraints, and database privileges.  • Monitored activities pertinent to production database for operational enhancement such as CPU, Disk and Memory utilization, space utilization, replication and consistency of sites, long running queries/data loads, query access plans, security infractions and overall performance of databases.  • Develops and implements corrective measures for database issues/problems found during monitoring  • Configured and monitored the TNS/Listener using NetCA, NetMgr.  • Used DataPump to implement database refresh with the hot backup using DUPLICATE or full export.  • Used EXPORT/IMPORT to do table level and full database defragmentation.  • Patched and installed Oracle software.  • Developed and followed upgrade procedures to ensure consistency within MSRB databases  • Performed migration of database systems from Windows to Linux Education Bachelor of Science University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD May 2012 Skills LINUX, SOLARIS, UNIX Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS  • UNIX  • LINUX  • WINDOWS  • AI  • SOLARIS