Oracle Database Administrator & Bilingual Sales Support Services Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Bilingual Sales Support Services Oracle Database Administrator & Bilingual Sales Support Services - JOHN DEERE/ SUNBELT Concord, NC • Extensive experience in Oracle Database Administration.  • Knowledge of Oracle 10g, 11g RDBMS(Relational Database Management System)  • Excellent analytical, research, detail specificity, and problem solving skills.  • Manage & resolve issues in alignment with the Service Level Agreements (SLAs)  • High level of energy, integrity and ethics  • Highly organized with a focus in prioritizing workload and scheduling follow-ups.  • Excellent writing and organizational skills.    STATUS  UNITED STATES CITIZEN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator & Bilingual Sales Support Services JOHN DEERE/ SUNBELT - Charlotte, NC February 2016 to Present • Backup and recovery of oracle database using Rman, Data Pump or User Managed.  • Data Guard configuration and administration  • Manages and performs Tablespace Management, Undo Management, Redo log management, Control file management, online Redo log management and user privilege management.  • Utilizes Oracle Data Pump IMPORT and EXPORT utilities to implement database and schema refreshes.  • Actively monitors the database environment to ensure optimal performance and to prevent production issues.  • Works with Developers to ensure to use the optimal SQL/Stored-Procedures in the database applications.  • Clones an oracle database using Cold Backup.  • Clones an oracle database using Rman Duplicate on different server connecting to the target (source) database.  • Investigates & resolves assigned priority tickets in accordance with the department metrics & established Service Level Agreements (SLAs).  • Support Sales  • Provide front-line technical support information/ solution to John Deere dealers and customers  • Create and maintain support tools/solutions available online to dealers and customers  • Make outbound calls to customers' accounts to promote and sell products and process orders.  • Assist Customer Support representatives with questions about parts, or associated and upsell parts.  • Process customer orders as a result of the above mentioned activities  • Word assigned trade shows representing John Deere All Makes Junior Database Administrator Baraka Service, LLP - Charlotte, NC March 2013 to November 2015 • Established and maintained sound backup and recovery policies and procedure  • Implemented and maintained database security (created and maintained users and roles, assigned privileges).  • Implemented and maintained oracle applications deployment and daily operation.  • Performed application tuning and performance monitoring.  • Work as part of a technical team.  • Applied Oracle patch updates.  • Performed server management and operating system administration: including patching, server performance monitoring, and executing SOPs to maintain high level of server performance and availability.  • Performed security control and management on Microsoft Window systems and Linux operating system. Junior Database Administrator FEDEX Ground - Charlotte, NC January 2012 to February 2013 • Installed and Configured Oracle 10g/11g software on Linux.  • Upgraded several databases from Oracle 10.2.0.1 to 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Applied Oracle Critical Patch Update (CPU) patches on our databases every quarter.  • Used RMAN duplicate command to clone/refresh development database from production.  • Performed database design tasks such as enforcing referential integrity standards; create database tables and table dependencies such as indexes, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, views, materialized views etc.  • Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces that contains PII data.  • Used RMAN to perform database recoveries and migration when necessary.  • Used Oracle flashback technology to restore databases and tables as needed.  • Performed various DBA Maintenance task such as rebuilding indexes, validating constraints, reorganized tables using the move command. Education Bachelor of Science University of Kinshasa 2005 to 2009 Skills Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA