SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - GW Hospital Silver Spring, MD Driven SQL Server DBA with 7 years and 4 months' of experience in managing Mission Critical Enterprise databases. Proven skills in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance, Migration, Backup, Disaster Recovery Planning, Performance Tuning, Security, T-SQL and Data Transformation in enterprise environment. Supported MS SQL Server 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008 R2 and 2008. Microsoft Certified, detail oriented, hardworking professional, with an effective combination of analytical, logical, communication and documentation skills.  AREAS OF TECHNICAL EXPERTISE INCLUDES    * Installation/Configuration  * SQL Server Migration  * Database Security  * Database Optimization  * Backup and Restore  * Clustering    * High Availability  * Disaster Recovery  * Virtualization  * Deployment of SSIS  and SSRS packages  * AWS    * Microsoft Azure  * Patching  * Performance Monitoring  * Maintenance and Troubleshooting  * Oracle Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator GW Hospital - Washington, DC February 2016 to Present • Installed, configured, and administered MS SQL server 2008, 2012, 2014, and 2016 in development, test, and production environment.  • Worked on Migration of multiple databases/SSIS packages/SSRS reports between different SQL versions 2008R2/2012/2014 and 2016 in both in In-place and Side-by-Side migration methods.  • Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database  • Administered the MS SQL Server security in relation to users, logins, and groups, Principle of Least Privilege (PLP), Securable, Permission, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies.  • Worked on Configuring and maintaining SQL Server HA and DR solution including Always On, Failover Clustering, Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring.  • Responsible for designing and implementing the backup strategy required as per the requirement on production and development environments.  • Implemented and tested the point in time recovery of the production databases.  • Developed automated daily, weekly, and monthly SQL server agent jobs such as a database backup, integrity checks, and indexing maintenance and update statistics.  • Optimized the performance of queries with modifications in T-SQL queries, removed unnecessary columns, eliminated redundant and inconsistent data, normalized tables, established joins and created indexes whenever necessary.  • Worked closely with developing team on long running queries, performance tuning, deployed scripts on production, refresh databases and port data on dev and test environment from production.  • Served as a "point of resolution, " closely monitoring disk space, system load, Disk IO, CPU, and memory usage to identify top SQL processes and troubleshoot performance issues.  • Implemented a DBA maintenance plan for MS SQL Server (DBCC, updating index statistics, monitoring database and disk space) on production and test environments.  • Wrote T-SQL Scripts to generate database performance related SSRS Reports.  • Performed various troubleshooting methodologies to identify and resolve system and user related issues.  • 24 x 7 On-Call production support to databases in stage and production environment.    Environment: Windows Server 2008/2012R2/2014/2016, MS SQL Server 2017, 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, Windows failover clustering (WFC), SSRS, SSIS, Quest spotlight, Nimsoft, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Studio, SharePoint, , ESXI 6.5, VMware, Litespeed, PowerShell, Exchange Server, service now, oracle. SQL Server DBA State Farm - Tysons Corner, VA July 2014 to February 2016 • Installation and configuration of Windows Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2014 including the set-up of Active Directory, Domain Controller, DNS and DHCP servers and Windows failover cluster.  • Migrated databases from one server to other on same versions of SQL Servers as well as different versions of SQL Servers across production, QA and development platforms.  • Involve in Database Migration to AWS Cloud Infrastructure.  • Safeguard organizational data with a physical standby for disaster recovery and logical standby for reporting in addition to managing security using SQL logins, roles, and security protocols for various users.  • Implemented SQL server high availability solutions/tools like Log shipping, Mirroring, and Replication as well as scheduled maintenance plan.  • Minimize response time required to resolve system slowdown and system shutdown by troubleshooting issues related to database, connection issues, SQL server slow response, query issues, and permissions.  • Optimize performance with upgrades such as the migration from SQL server 2008/R2 SQL servers to SQL server 2012, successfully integrating new features and improved database stability.  • Creating and managing databases, schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, procedures, triggers and database constraints to meet business requirements and policies and maintained referential Integrity.  • Created SSIS Packages for Data Flow, Object Migration and Database Maintenance.  • Run DBCC commands to check the database consistency and shrink the databases.  • Manage Very Large databases (VLDBs) of 1TB and more using Table Partitioning, Backup and data Compression and Multiple file-groups.  • Apply SQL Server patches, Service Packs, and Cumulative Updates as required and created documentation for tracking.  • Provided 24x7 on call production support.    Environment: SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, Windows 2012R2/2008/2003 Enterprise Server's, Visual Studio, SolarWinds, PowerShell, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, Hyper-V Oracle, OLTP and OLAP, Windows failover cluster, SQL Server failover Cluster and SharePoint. Database Administrator C3 Systems - Arlington, VA April 2013 to May 2014 • Installed, Configured and maintain SQL Server 2008, 2008 r2, 2012 (Clustered/Standalone and VM) Test, and Production environment.  • Moved some Dev, QA and Production servers from one location to another by setting up database mirroring as disaster recovery plan in there SQL Server as well as Windows Server 2008 environment.  • Created and maintained various logins and managed security based on the required access.  • Implemented high availability on the various servers using replication/mirroring.  • Installed SQL Server 2012 on 4th- node cluster in the QA and production environments and added it to its cluster ring in 2012 Windows Cluster.  • Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space and backup verification.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  • Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Created development, testing, staging, production and standby databases.  • Created linked servers to perform distributed queries and data transfer.  • Experience in SQL Server Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client Connectivity and Database Consistency Checks Using DBCC.  • Pro-actively and regularly monitoring of CPU, Disk I/O, memory related bottlenecks and carried out similar other tasks.  • Impact system performance by tuning long running queries to increase load time while adding additional indexes, changing access paths, rewriting queries, and adding partitioning.  • Configured operating in Windows Server 2012 R2 hosted on a virtual platform such as VMware.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2 2012, Windows 2008/2012, SQL Server failover cluster, Exchange Server, BI, Report server(SSRS VMware, Idera Diagnostic Manager, SQL Server profiler Database Administrator RCN - Silver Spring, MD April 2012 to March 2013 • Installed and administered SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012R2 on Windows Server 2008, 2008R2.  • Migrated MS Access Databases into MS SQL Server 2012 and 2014.  • Provided database administration on production, testing, and development database servers.  • Monitored user accounts, user permissions, database extents, table partitions and backup.  • Created and maintained relational databases and database objects.  • Created/updated documentation for new/existing maintenance and installation processes.  • Implemented Database Mirroring and Log Shipping in SQL Server 2008.  • Configured and managed multiple replication methods including transactional, snapshot replication.  • Coordinated with the Sr. SQL Server DBA to implement any new feature that may boost the performance of the SQL Server Environment.  • Involved in setting up SQL Server Agent Jobs for periodic backups with backup devices, database maintenance plans and recovery.  • Providing support to application team and rebuild databases.  • Improved SQL Server performance using the Windows performance monitor.  • Installed latest service packs and hot fixes.  • Troubleshoot database related issues, timeouts, deadlocks, and maintain database performance.  Environment: MS SQL-Server 2008/2008R2/2012R2, DTS, Windows 2008, 2008R2 Server, MS Access, Report Builder, Report server (SSRS), Ticketing Services.