Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA January 2015 to Present • Full responsibility in database administration (DBA), performance tuning, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances  • Monitoring and performance tuning using Oracle Enterprise Manager cloud Console and SQL Developer  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2003, 2008) and LINUX (Red Hat)  • Database Design and Development (SDLC)  • Responsible in risk analysis and applying Oracle security patches on databases.  • Responsible for monitoring fragmentation at segment and database level for performance and space.  • Contributed towards Data Guard unidirectional DML replication setup.  • Develop scripts to automate the database monitoring and housekeeping activities and send email alerts.  • Oracle database Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database Security  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data pump, and SQL Loader  • Create Oracle database on configured servers using both the DBCA and Database creation scripts  • Monitor Database performance and Database backup status using ORACLE ENTERPRISE MANAGER (OEM)  • Schedule jobs using DBMS SCHEDULER and CRON as required Oracle Database Administrator WELLS FARGO - Saint Paul, MN September 2012 to November 2014 • Monitoring and performance tuning using oracle Enterprise Manager cloud console and SQL Developer to manage daily task regarding performance and maintenance  • Monitoring and reporting daily backup with RMAN, configuring and managing backups (full and incremental)  • Involved in design and enforcing standards in place, to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance  • Create database objects such as tables, views, sequences and triggers  • Create user account and assign appropriate privileges  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the database environment  • Tablespace monitoring, performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement  • Implement database security using oracle's Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standards  • Perform SQL and PL/SQL tuning, monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic monitor (ADDM) report and Active Session History (ASH)  • Authoritative in design, development, documentation and review according to standards  • Create oracle database on configure servers using both the DBCA and Database Creation Scripts  • Use AWR/ADDM for 10g statistics management and database tuning following creation of new databases periodically and thereafter Database Administrator 3M MINNESOTA - May, MINNESOTA, US May 2010 to August 2012 • Responsible for quarterly patches, /maintaining/monitoring and upgrading the production and test Databases.  • Execute daily health checkup of production which includes testing database and performance of the oracle Infrastructure.  • Deployed and implement Oracle Grid Control (10g and 11g) to monitor all databases.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Cron for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Maintained database security via unique database roles and object permissions. Resized database files to decrease cloning, backup, and restoring time.  • Execute and provide ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance.  • Migrate databases from Oracle 10g R2 database on UNIX to Oracle 11g on Linux platform.  • Maintain various SLA's including ticket response and resolution time.  • Analyzing how Oracle resources are being used during SQL executions.  • Identifying long-running database queries refine queries for better performance and working with end-users to implement changes.  • Involve in session management and monitoring the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database.  • Performed data and metadata migration to newly installed servers using Data Pump Expdp/Impdp.  • Extensively work worked on complete and incomplete recoveries of the databases including point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Apply Oracle quarterly patches and Interim patches to databases using Opatch utility.  • Monitoring oracle instances and maintaining database performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c).  • Use SQL Developer to connect to databases, navigate tables inside databases, create tables and other database objects with GUI, insert data into tables and create reports.  • Part of the 24/7 on call production support team. Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, SQL, DISASTER RECOVERY