Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Preston IT Academy Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN Hold 7+ years of oracle database administration and related experience working in oracle 10g, 11g and 12c database design, administration and systems analysis in test, logistic and production environments. Experience in managing databases on multiple platforms such as Oracle Database Appliance (ODA). An excellent communication skills and ability to work effectively under stressful conditions where speed and accuracy are necessary. My attention to detail and the ability to maximize system resources can be beneficial in the following areas.  • Database Creation, Upgrade and Migration.  • Linux, UNIX, SOLARIS, IBM and Windows environments.  • Backup and Recovery using Data Pump and Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Monitoring and Performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Turning Advisors and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c.  • Excellent problem-solving skills.  • Effective Communication and co-operation with people of varying backgrounds as a team.  • Oracle High Availability involving Oracle RAC, Golden Gate and Data guard exposure.  • Experience participating in team Upgrading projects  • Experience working with relational databases (SQL Server and Oracle) Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FilmTech Corporation - Edina, MN July 2013 to Present • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g/11g/12c servers and creation/upgrade of databases in UNIX, Linux and windows environments.  • Created primary objects (tables, views, indexes, synonyms, procedures, functions and triggers) to help application developers with the application design.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies including Incremental backups, Cold/Hot backups, using RMAN  • Worked as a member of production DBA team in perfect coordination with seniors and team members.  • Created & Managed Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Performed day to day activities: Such as, daily error checks and database health monitoring of physical resources (disk space, memory, CPU, etc.).  • Tuned database and application performance using Stats pack, AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan and oracle Enterprise Manager (grid control).  • Worked with other IT teams to address issues specific to the database/application interaction to support functionality and maximum performance and to ensure proper backups of all Oracle environments  • Experience in applying several patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches as per the oracle recommendations.  • Worked closely with application developers and system administrators to ensure all database needs are met. Oracle Database administrator Rosemount Inc - Chanhassen, MN September 2011 to July 2013 • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) for database monitoring and performance tuning.  • Performed data and metadata migration from legacy servers to newly installed server using data pump, transportable tablespaces, and RMAN.  • Support application developers in planning, load analyzing, and backup and recovery of data  • Establish automation of repetitive processes to minimize errors using scripts and OEM.  • Worked with other IT teams to address issues specific to database and support functionality, performance and to ensure proper backups of all oracle environments.  • Maintained up to data documentation of all oracle environments.  • Created & Managed Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Follow Change Management processes to implement database configuration changes  • Follow Problem Management processes to troubleshoot and resolve recurring issues  • Proactively monitor and respond to database Alerts. Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Rman, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix, Loader, DBA, MYSQL, Oracle Dba, RAC, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate April 2019 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Database Technologies: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, and 18c, Microsoft SQL Server.  Operating Systems: Linux, Sun Solaris, Unix, AIX and Windows Server,  Tools: Data Pump, SQL loader, AWR, ASH, SQL Turning Advisors, SQL Access Advisor  Utilities: RMAN and Export and Import,  High Availability Solutions: RAC, Data Guard and Golden Gate