Oracle/PostgreSQL Database Administrator Oracle/PostgreSQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle/PostgreSQL Database Administrator Work Experience Oracle/PostgreSQL Database Administrator Cigna Dental - Sunrise, FL February 2016 to July 2019 Database Administrator responsible for managing all aspects of oracle and PostgreSQL (Cloud and on - premise) databases.    Oracle DBA:  • Installed, configured, maintained, and supported Oracle 11gR1, 11gR2, physical and logical standby database for testing, developing, and production of various applications.  • Experienced with migrating some databases from Oracle to Exadata  • Worked closely with the network team to ensure Exadata machine runs effectively  • Experienced in physical database design by creating materialized views, indexes, partitions and clusters  • Extensively used shell scripting to automate my backups, stop or start a database as well as listener or related database processes and to automate system setup prior to installation of software.  • Configuring Golden Gate Downstream Mining and integrated components for active-passive and active-active replication  • Administered seamless switchovers through skillful configuration of Dataguard and Broker  • Oversaw 24/7 on-call support for 12 databases using Oracle 12c Cloud Control for alert monitoring and notification.  • Implemented logical database design to ensure data integrity and flexibility  • Monitored and troubleshot Golden Gate replication issues  • Upgraded databases from 10g to 12C  • Configure RAC with its services like TAF for high availability and scalability  • Upgraded GI and databases from 11g to 12c while keeping physical standby databases in place  • Upgrade the ASM instance using rolling upgrade  • Monitor and troubleshoot RAC databases to maintain availability of production databases  • Migrated systems to Multitenant Architecture using CDB and PDB applications  • Extensively investigated and followed-up with application teams, and proposed solutions to resolve slowness and performance issues  • During production hours, resolved lock and resource contention issues  • Provided tuning recommendations to application teams through troubleshooting systems using SQL baselines, SQL profiles, and SQL Tuning Advisor  • Identified root causes of SQL performance issues by analyzing EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE, and TKPROF trace files  • Aided troubleshooting of performance issues through analysis of AWR, ASH, and ADDM reports  • Cloned and migrated small databases using import/export utilities, and used Datapump import/export for 11g/12c databases  • Applied patches, upgrades, and maintenance on all databases  • Utilized production data to refresh development and test instances regularly  • Assisted in management and database administration of Oracle database applications on Exadata platforms.  • Provided technical assistance for installation and upgrading of existing Oracle databases.  • Extensively utilized Oracle 11gR2 features, including Real Application Testing, Enhanced RMAN, Oracle Data Pump, EM Grid Control, and various other daily, and enhanced features in 12c such as table and partition recovery  • Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data  • Optimized results using EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, and STATSPACK to performance tune Oracle Database Objects  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to perform database monitoring, maintenance, replication processes, and performance tuning    PostgreSQL DBA:  • Installed/Configured PostgreSQL Version 9.6, 10 and 11 and monitored and managed them using PgAdmin and PSQL  • Performed backup using pgBackrest, pg_dump and pg_Basebackup  • Created and managed database objects such as users, roles, indexes, views, sequences and permissions.  • Migrated oracle databases to AWS RDS PostgreSQL using SCT Data Migration Service (DMS) Tool.  • Migrated from oracle to PostgreSQL on-premise using ora2pg  • Performed database Patching as well as version upgrade using Logical replication and Pg_upgrade from 9 to 11  • Configured and managed Streaming Replication between master and multiple slaves for high availability  • Used customized scripts to monitor table growth and automated backups using cronjobs  • Used PgHero for performance tuning. Tuned SQL using Explain Analyze and PG_STAT_ACTIVITY  • Performed maintenance activities like vacuum, vacuum full and analyze.  • Tuned Postgre Instances using Pgtune and Pgconfigurator  • Configured pgBouncer for connection pooling Oracle Database Administrator Hughes Network Systems - Germantown, MD May 2012 to December 2015 • Experience with migrating from on premise to Exadata machine using Golden Gate  • Converted non-RAC single instance to RAC database instances  • Installation, upgradation, troubleshooting and configuring of Golden Gate 12c software  • Configuring Golden Gate Downstream Mining and integrated components for active-passive and active-active replication  • Implemented procedures for automation of database management through tables and indexes.  • Executed processes for evaluation of system space, database allocation and storage metrics.  • Maintained all existing databases and new installations at current and stable production levels  • Installed 11gR2 RAC while performing disk group management in ASM  • Monitored health checks of OCR and VOTING DISKS while troubleshooting issues in RAC environment  • Ensured the secure and efficient operation of Oracle Database Systems  • Performed daily tasks such as resolving tickets, development support, and collaboration with application tuning  • Extensively monitored grid control database, error notification configuration, listener installation, and addition to grid control  • Created and implemented recovery strategies, and successfully recovered databases using RMAN  • Utilized RMAN utility to schedule and monitor physical backups in the CRON tab  • Created users, groups, roles, profiles, and granted privileges according to job needs  • Optimized and tuned SQL queries using SQL-TRACE, TKPROF, and EXPLAIN PLAN utilities  • Used integrity constraints and database triggers to maintain data integrity and security  • Applied security patches such as Patch set, Critical Patch Updates, and Patch Set Updates  • Used Transportable Tablespace (TTS) to quickly move a user's tablespace across Oracle databases  • Implemented data refreshes using RMAN, Datapump, and conventional export/import for Oracle 11g and 10g  • Installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.1 database on LINUX and WINDOWS platform  • Successfully migrated from Oracle 11g to 11gR2 RAC database and 12c non-CDB to pluggable databases  • Upgraded databases from 11g to non-CDB 12c  • Successfully used materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2 to perform data replication  • Implemented Tablespace level TDE security and created Oracle wallets  • Constantly monitored the performance of databases through viewing alert log and trace files  • Ran scripts to check status of databases, including free and used space, fragmentation, and other details  • Managed space, capacity planning, disaster recovery, and overall maintained the databases Skills Database, Sql server, Oltp, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Replication, Sql, Olap, Rman, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripts, Security, Sharepoint, Streaming, Remedy, Bash Additional Information Areas of expertise include:    ? Project & Production Support  ? Oracle 12c, 11g, & 10g Versions  ? Installation & Configuration  ? Upgrades & Patches  ? Migration of Systems  ? Exadata  ? Backup & Recovery  ? Performance Tuning  ? Dataguard & Broker  ? Goldengate  ? RAC  ? Development  ? RMAN  ? Recovery Catalog  ? Optimization of SQL & PL/SQL Scripts  ? Database Security  ? EXADATA  ? AWR Report  ? ADDM Advisors  ? Auditing  ? Flashback  ? SQL-Trace  ? TKPROF  ? SHELL Scripts  ? OEM Database & Grid Control  ? OCFS  ? PostgreSQL (3 years)  ? SQL SERVER (1 year)  ? AWS (1 Year)  ? OLAP  ? OLTP  ? Streaming Replication  ? Ora2pg  ? PgBouncer    Databases:  ? Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, PostgreSQL 9.6, 10, 11    Technical Proficiencies:  ? Platforms: Windows Server, Linux (red hat, centos), AIX  ? Languages: SQL, PL/SQL PL/PgSQL, Bash  ? Tools: OEM Grid Control, AWR, ADDM, ASH, PgHero, PgAdmin 4, PEM, PgTune, PgBouncer, PgBadger, Remedy, Foglight, Bitbucket, SharePoint