SQL Server database Administrator (remote contract) SQL Server <span class="hl">database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (remote contract) SQL Server database Administrator (remote contract) - THE TECH-EDGE GROUP Work Experience SQL Server database Administrator (remote contract) THE TECH-EDGE GROUP February 2019 to Present • Effectively migrated databases across different platforms, from SQL Server 20012 to 2014/2016  • Configured and create linked servers between SQL server database, Teradata database and oracle databases  • Updated linked server passwords and grant user login access to linked server  • Worked with customer to transfer oracle database files to SQL server database.  • Executed SSIS packages for developers  • Monitored and did troubleshooting of daily SSIS jobs that moved data for different clients  • Responsible for assigning users to database and determining the adequate security for each user.  • Also responsible within each database assigning permission to the various database objects such as tables, views and stored procedures.  • Administered varieties of SQL Server jobs and proactively monitored as well as optimize any data replication/ETL process  • Supported production environments and mission critical databases on a 24/7 basis including on-call rotation  • Set up and managed Replication for load balancing and reporting purposes  • Created monitoring alerts, backup, recovery and tuning SQL Server databases in a multi-platform environment  • Used SQL Profiler, Database Tuning Advisor, Extended Events for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL codes  • Rebuilt the indexes at regular intervals for better performance  • Experienced with Reporting & Documentation SQL Server Database Administrator WORLDPLAY May 2015 to August 2018 • Responsible for installing SQL Server database instances in all environments; development, Test and Production.  • Specified users and user access levels for each database segment.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2012/2014 to 2016.  • Responsible for supporting the SQL Server databases and ensuring their performance, availability, and security.  • Involved in performance testing and optimization of a 2TB OLTP Database.  • Managed the production and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity.  • Managed SQL Server database security by granting permissions securable to the principals and automate various routine maintenance tasks like BACKUPS  • Monitored Event Viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  • Pro-actively monitored the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime  • Provided trend analysis to the service management team to enable them make informed decisions regarding resource management.  • Improved and managed maintenance of the databases to include Deployments and Upgrades.  • Responsible for implementation and release of database changes as submitted by the development team.  • Monitored and did troubleshooting of various waits/locks and extensively worked on troubleshooting and fine-tuning of databases for performance.  • Implemented permissions, logins, roles and authentication modes as part of security policies for various categories of users  • Query optimization and improving overall performance. SQL Server Database Administrator THE TECH-EDGE GROUP September 2013 to April 2015 • Created logins and grant user access to various databases, stored procedures and views.  • Responsible for configuration of windows Server Clustering, Mirroring, and Log Shipping  • Database Migration from one server to another server  • Configured and maintain Always on High Availability  • Configured and maintain database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, availability, and security.  • Maintained database servers including but not limited to OS installation, patching  • Supported developers with database deployment.  • Conducted SQL Server database performance monitoring and tuning  • Managed and executed maintenance jobs that ensured the stability as well as performance of the database server  • Performed scheduled maintenance and support release deployment activities after hours on production environments  • Established processes to delete old backup files. SQL Server Database Administrator POSITIVE IMPACT February 2013 to August 2013 • Tested programs and databases and made necessary modifications.  • Specified users and user access levels for each database segment.  • Modified existing databases to meet unique needs.  • Provided continued maintenance and development support for developers for bug fixes and patch sets for web applications.  • Revised current DR and HA strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Planned and implemented security measures to safeguard data.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to offshore support staff.  • Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors. Education Master's in public health in public health Argosy University Bachelor of Science in Biology/biotechnology Covenant University Skills DBA, Sql Server, ETL, Sql Dba, Ssis Additional Information Database administrator (DBA) with experience in testing and supporting next-generation database solutions in SQL Server environments. Proficient in MS SQL Server, DBA skills include:    • SQL Server Installation and Implementation  • SQL Upgrades  • Performance Monitoring  • Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • SQL Server Failover clustering  • Windows Failover clustering  • SQL Server Performance Tuning  • SSIS  • Replication  • Log Shipping  • Mirroring  • Manage SQL DBMS/SQL Services  • Database Maintenance  • Always on High availability  • Database Migration  • Database optimization