Sql server dba Sql server dba Frisco, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sql server dba Hollyfrontier - Dallas, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  ? Created Logins, Users and Roles in context of SQL Server security.  ? Created procedures, functions and triggers.  ? Designed, building, installing, configuring and supporting Database servers.  ? Maintained regular backups, restore databases and transaction logs as needed.  ? Monitored through third party Solarwinds DPA tool.  ? Created automated daily checks reports using PowerShell.  ? Basic knowledge of DSC PowerShell.  Environment: SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008, SQL SERVER DBA Incomm, Inc - Dallas, TX October 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  ? Implemented and Scheduled Replication process for updating our parallel servers.  ? Created Logins, Users and Roles in context of SQL Server security.  ? Created procedures, functions and triggers.  ? Used stored procedures and views to allow users to access data instead of letting them directly access tables.  ? Designed and implemented Backups and Restore strategies using Native SQL and Light speed 3rd party tools.  ? Installed, configured and supported SSRS  ? Configure log shipping for multiple databases as a part of disaster recovery.  ? Monitored and debugged various bottlenecks through a Spotlight 3rd party monitoring tool.  ? Created reports using SQL Server Reporting services.  ? Perform SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades.  ? Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test and production environments.  ? Responsible to install & Configuring SQL Server software.  ? Implemented and maintained high availability systems(clustering, log shipping)  ? Restored database in case of failure or whenever required by applying full database backup and transaction log backups.  ? Provide 24/7 technical database support for SQL Database systems.  ? Give users the least amount of permissions they need to perform their job.    Environment: SQL Server 2014/2016, SSRS. Database Administrator March 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Database Backup and recovery/Restoration, Scheduling Jobs.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  ? Designed and created databases, tables, views, stored procedures and triggers.  ? Used stored procedures and views to allow users to access data instead of letting them directly access tables.  ? Installed, configured and supported SSRS  ? Created reports using SQL Server Reporting services.  ? Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test and production environments.  Environment: SQL Server 2012, SSRS.    Database Administrator  Database version: Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and oracle 11g  Nexen Inc., Calgary Canada Nov 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented and monitored user access and security.  ? Database Backup and recovery/Restoration, Scheduling Jobs.  ? Restored database in case of failure or whenever required by applying full database backup and transaction log backups.  ? Troubleshooting problems by using SQL server profiler.  ? Created reports using SQL Server Reporting services.  ? Created procedures, functions and triggers.  ? Performed routine DBA activities.  ? Give users the least amount of permissions they need to perform their job.  ? Conducted and managed full and incremental database backups via RMAN.  ? Configured Transactional Replication and Log Shipping with SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Responsible for general Database Administration and Performance.  ? Set up and manage database security by creating new users, roles, profiles, and provide required user privileges in development, test and production environments.  ? Used stored procedures and views to allow users to access data instead of letting them directly access tables.  Environment: SQL Server 2008, Log shipping, Replication, Cluster, SSIS, SSRS, Oracle 10g. Database Administrator Database Version 2016 to 2016 Database Administrator Database Version 2014 to 2014 Dutta Webtech - Chandigarh, Chandigarh June 2007 to May 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible to install & Configuring SQL Server software.  ? Hands on experience in creating SQL scripts to automate the database processes.  ? Created Reports using MS-Reporting Services.  ? Conducted and managed full and incremental database backups via RMAN.  ? Coordinating with application programmers to write stored procedures.  ? Creating Jobs and DTS Packages.  ? Used stored procedures and views to allow users to access data instead of letting them directly access tables.  ? Give users the least amount of permissions they need to perform their job.  ? Created Logins, Users and Roles in context of SQL Server security.    ? Managing multiple servers.  ? Creation of Database Objects includes: Tables, Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Index &function.  ? Enhancing query by dropping poorly involved indexes with new indexes.  ? Performing monitoring using query profiler.  ? Database Backup and recovery/Restoration, Scheduling Jobs.  ? Review all nightly processes for successful completion.  ? Worked on two node Active Passive clustering in SQL server 2005.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Log shipping, Replication, SSIS, SSRS, Oracle 10g. Database Administrator Database Version 2005 to 2008 and Oracle 10g/11g Education MCA Punjab Technical University - Jalandhar, Punjab Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, Sql Dba, DBA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Database MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2/2008/2005/2000, Oracle  Programming Languages T-SQL, SQL, PL/SQL, PowerShell  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10  Tools SQL Server Management studio, SSRS, SSIS, MS-SQL Profiler, Spotlight, Litespeed, Solarwinds DPA  Scripting Languages HTML.