Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - ROYAL CARIBEAN CRUISE LMT Washington, DC • I have great ability to provide expert-level technical support in many aspects of database administration including  • I have done Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, CPU/PSU Patching, Migration, Capacity planning, Performance tuning and Backup & Recovery, Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) and Data Guard, Performance tuning of Oracle Golden Gate Processes to achieve zero lag times.  • I have great experience in performing Backups/Recovery using RMAN, Datapump and Flashback Technologies.  • I have Experience in Database capacity planning, monitoring object growth and Storage Management.  • I have done performance Cloning and Refresh using RMAN and Datapump.  • I have Experience in Shell Scripting for configuring monitoring alerts and automation.  • Experience in performing Data Migration between Non ASM and ASM databases and also between the databases of different vendors.  • I Worked with EXP/IMP, EXPDP/IMPDP to refresh the schemas  • I have done Database Performance Diagnosing and Tuning using AWR (Automated Workload Repository) / Stats pack and ASH (Active Session History) reports, ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor) analysis,Expain Plan,Toad and OEM  • I have done Proactive database monitoring via automatic Email and Text alerts of Alert.log, Listerner.log and Space errors to DBA cell phone  • I am very Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, upgrading and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • I have Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.  • I have Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • I have implemented unidirectional and bidirectional real time replication in Golden Gate, I have also done upgrades and migration with zero downtime  • I have created and managed users ,managed password expiration. Also to protect sensitive data I have successfully used the advanced security measure TDE to do tablespace Data encryption Work Experience Senior Database Administrator ROYAL CARIBEAN CRUISE LMT August 2018 to Present • I have successfully implemented high level approach to hande scenarios of database Backup & recovery and cloning using the RMAN tool in RAC and Data Guard environments of large to very large databases and also setup RMAN catalog for the same  • I handle entire Oracle Database Administration such as  • Performance Tuning & Capacity Planing ,Monitoring and management  • Data Security, Backup & Recovery  • Standby/Failover Administration  • Oracle RAC & ASM Administration/Installation  • Oracle Forms and Reports Development  • I have Converted Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  • I have used data guard for Desaster recovery and Testing  • I have and still take responsibilities of Analysing and trouble shouting databases to enhance its performance using tools like ASH,AWR,ADDM,TKProf,OEM,Toad and Scripts  • On daily bases I assure the entire database security by managing the granting and revoking of priviledges expiring passwords  • On a daily bases I overlook the entire performance of the production services by monitoring and administering the Production chain  • Deep understanding about Exadata specified features such as Smart Scan, HCC Hybrid Columnar Compression , Flash Cache, etc.  • I Analyze and determine the feasibility of leverage the Oracle Enterprise Manager solution to report on performance, provide metrics, and become the centralized proactive maintenance solution for Exadata distributions.  • First hands-on experiences in software and firmware maintenance of both the Database and Storage servers in the Exadata database machine including upgrades and patching.  • I have Provided and implemented performance tuning recommendations of all components in Exadata database machine.  • I have had great spells with database migration to Cloud  • I Created monitoring and alerting dashboards using CloudWatch  • I Worked through exciting recipes to administer AWS cloud  • I have created and managed users ,managed password expiration. Also to protect sensitive data I have successfully used the advanced security measure TDE to do tablespace Data encryption  • I have Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption.  • I have implemented unidirectional and bidirectional real time replication in Golden Gate, I have also done upgrades and migration with zero downtime  • I troubleshoot Golden gate active-active perfomance issues  • I have monitored and managed lags ,I also did troublrshooting of process abends like,manager,extract and replicate abend  • I have been involved Database Cloning using RMAN, Migration within same and across different platforms, upgrading and Patching of Oracle Databasesfrom 10g to 11g and to 12c  • I managed databses in RAC  • Recently I have upgraded databases from 11g to 12c and I have patched databases  • I monitor and monitor databases of different sizes using Toad,OEM and Command line using personalized scripts  • I manage the privileges of users and expire passwords  • Applied Bug fixes patches and Quarterly Security Patches for the stand-alone databases and 2-node RAC databases with in the maintenance window.    Tools ; TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, ASH and ADDM.Toad, Putty, Winscp, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, and Cisco VPN Client,OEM  Database Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import  Ticketing: Service now Remedy Oracle Database Administrator QVC - West Chester, PA June 2014 to July 2018 • I Displayed a high level of expertise while handling the various scenarios of database Backup & recovery and cloning using the RMAN tool in RAC and Data Guard environments of large to very large databases also setup RMAN catalog for the same.  • I have Hands on experience in installation and implementation of 12c cloud control and migration of 11g grid control to 12c cloud control.  • Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer , SQLTXPLAIN, OSWatcher and other OS related utilities like pstack , pmap , top, vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace, truss and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 11g and 12c to monitor single instance and RAC databases.  • I have been involved in Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  • I have Performed oracle Software's Installations, Creation of new standalone and clustered databases.  • I successfully led a team of Five DBAs during the configuration of a data Guard for disaster recovery  • I have taken care Administering and setting up of 11G RAC and 10G RACclusterware and instances.  • I have Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • I have Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.    • I Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • I have handled Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • I have Redefined tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • I have Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • I Implemented 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables..  • I Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • I have experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • I have Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER and Crontab  • I have Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • I Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • I have Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • I have Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • I Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • I Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  • Information Technology- Data transmission,data retrieval ,data manipulation ,data processing and data storage  • I have applied patches and upgrades on Golden Gate with zero down time  • I have implemented real time replication on a pilot project in Golden Gate  • I have done unidirectional and bidirectional replication in Golden Gate  • I have implemented DML and DDL replication in Goden Gate  • I have done schema ,table ,column and whole database replication in Golden Gate    Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN,SERVICE NOW,OEM Oracle Database Administrator KeyBank - Cleveland, OH June 2010 to June 2014 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Installed Oracle 10g and 11gR1,11gR2 database on HP-UX 11.0, Redhat 6, IBM AIX 5.1,5.2,6.1  • Installed RAC/GRID Infrastructure on Oracle 10g,11g and worked on ASM feature of Oracle on HP-UNIX/LINUX. Worked on the ACFS file system and scheduled backup using RMAN on ACFS file system sharing between the nodes  • Maintained a 2-node RAC environment on LINUX AS 4.0(RHEL) for the staging purpose to support the business requirements and provide High Availability.  • Upgraded DEV/Qa/performace databases from 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2  • Upgraded the databases from 10gR2 to 11gR2 and upgrade from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  • Installed and configured golden gate for replication.  • Managed DSS (Decision Support System) and OLTP (On Line Transaction Processing system) full life cycle projects with multiple databases at one time, biggest database around 10 TBytes  • Responsible for Database Backup and Recovery, daily monitoring of database & network issues  • Deployed Grid Control to monitor and manage all the databases on clients  • Worked on the Load Balancing issues on the Server side by creating the services.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning, Net backup  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • I have handed large database environments (Data warehouse) using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis observing the performance of the production database and constantly active regarding performance and space management issues and accordingly providing recommendations to make database healthy and running.  • I have done Data loads using SQL*Loader and refresh the test environments using Data Pump export/import  • I have administered the databases using Grid Control including but not limited to Space Management, Performance Tuning, and Workload Analysis (AWR, ADDM)  • I have been Involved in setting up disaster recovery sites using Data Guard technology. Configuring the Physical Standby, active data guard and snapshot standby database  • I have Used Shell Scripts to automate database operation and schedule jobs using CRONTAB  • I Created and managed the RAC clustered databases on Solaris and HP-UX used ASM  • I have Upgraded Grid Infrastructure and Databases from 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3. by creating a new home of 11.2.0.3 and relinking the binaries.  • I have Worked with Oracle Support to fix the production issues and also to get the merge patches.  • I have Provided application support to create database objects and apply database changes.  • I have Worked on Database Wallet and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Physical University of Buea 2009