Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Duke Energy Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC July 2016 to Present Install, configure, upgrade, monitor and administer 10g, 11g, 12c in Linux  • Design and implementation of Backup and Recovery strategies (both cold and hot backups) and performing periodical backup, restoration and recovery using RMAN (full and incremental)  • Produce AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF reports for performance tuning  • Duplicate tablespaces and databases from production server to test server in alignment with client requirement  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) /Network Attached Storage (NAS).  • Proficient in Database Design (Physical and Logical Database Design) and Normalization.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (Opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Performed installation, setup and creation of three node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5. Oracle Database Admin Bank of Oklahoma - Tulsa, OK November 2013 to June 2016 Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g/11g Oracle Goldengate for data replication.    • Installation and configuration of GoldenGate and Replication of data using Oracle Golden Gate.  • Resolved/Diagnose Node Eviction issues, trail file issues.  • Remote administration and support of Oracle production and development Databases on major Operating Systems.  • Worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented and configured 11g grid control on RHEL.  • Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with a scheduled job (Cron Job).  • Experience in using 11g features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, and ADDM.  • Monitoring of Oracle Databases, Production of AWR, ADDM for performance tunings, SQL Script reports for Departmental heads.  • Monthly creation of tables, indexes and views. Configuration of Streams and fixing of any stream errors, recovery of backups from the NAS drive, refreshment of CDB database and the patching Linux servers. Skills Database administration, Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g,11g,12C, Pl/sql