Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Active Secret Clearance I am an accomplished Oracle Database Administrator expert with over 8 years of experience with an in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Database Design, Monitoring, Performance Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical, and organizational skills & abilities. I am an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple tasks according to priority. Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Active Secret Clearance - Arlington, VA March 2013 to Present Wrote and implemented a backup strategy according to company SLA; execution of backup  schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8 hours down to 1 hour  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles.  • Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Cloned databases using RMAN and Data Pump utilities for all database sizes.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain Plan for periodic Performance Tuning.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Migrated database objects from development through testing into production environments.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Implemented table and index partitioning so as to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed, and enable faster parallel query.  • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.4.  • Monitored multiple databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control.  • Assisted in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successfully applied RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Implemented Data Pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing  Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve overall performance.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • On-call support team for 24/7 production  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete, and read documents in a limited role.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogenous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Experienced working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database.  • Applied Oracle quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using OPatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Utilized PeopleSoft 9.1 package to manage EPM databases. Oracle Database Administrator Verizon Enterprise Solutions - Washington, DC January 2011 to March 2013 • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on single instance on Unix/Linux, Windows servers ( Database sizes ranging from 100GB to 69TB).  • Implemented a backup and recovery policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and Data Pump  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development, and implementation.  • Championed database migration from 9i to 10g, and database upgrades using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 9i and 10g on both Windows and LINUX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances.  • Migrated database objects from development through testing, and into production environments.  • Maintained database security policy and installation using passwords, privileges and user profiles  • Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces. I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) & database auditing policies, as well as data redaction.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configured and managed ASM instances on Oracle 10g.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows servers ( Database sizes range approximately 100GB to 21TB). Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, ORACLE 10, PL/SQL, REPLICATION