Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - NABORS Drilling Services Houston, TX Database Administrator with a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science and over 8 years of strong experience in Oracle (6yrs +) and PostgreSQL(2 years +) in heterogeneous system environment including LINUX, UNIX, AIX, Solaris and Windows, supporting a variety of applications both in TEST and PRODUCTION environment with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c. During this period, I have supported PostgreSQL databases where I migrated from Oracle to PostgreSQL on AWS cloud. I have had the opportunity to support MS SQL server databases (2008,2012,2014) running on windows and Linux. Excellent in security management, database maintenance and establishing backup and recovery processes to safeguard data, paying attention to High availability configurations of the database as well as some PostgreSQL database activities like Replication. I am a fast learner and is willing to learn more new things and make good use of them especially with the open source. I have the capability to start contributing to the growth of the company from day 1 and i bring to the company set of skills and experience. I look forward to a new role where I can learn new things and grow in the career alongside the company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator NABORS Drilling Services - Houston, TX September 2016 to Present • Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager) , and Database Flashback using GRP ( Guaranteed Restore Point ) and Export and Import (Datapump and Normal ) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Building Oracle Standby databases, both Active Dataguard for real-time replication and normal Dataguard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Migration of Oracle databases 11g (11.2.0.4) from Linux Boxes to EXADATA machine using GOLDEN GATE.  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (patch) patches on all the databases.  • Applying Rolling Upgrade in the RAC environment to enhance availability.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  • Developed compliance reports and performed auditing at higher levels.  • Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  • Experience in UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (table spaces, data files, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.  • Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  • Extensive experience in RMAN recovery testing, RAC and standalone database.  • Recovered huge Database (4 Terabyte) when UNDO table space got corrupted in Real Application Cluster (RAC).  • Experience in setting up Oracle ASM storage for Oracle RAC databases.  • Performed database replication through Golden Gate.  • Implemented Data Guard with high availability and performance configurations and participated in Data Guard Fail over tests.  • Implemented archive and Purge strategy for archiving the inactive data in the historical database and purging the archived data from the primary database as a part of performance improvisation using Goldengate and exp/imp using partitions.  • Monitored data transfer between the Database servers using Data Stage, Oracle Streams/CDC.  • Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN which includes hot backups and Cold backups.  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Supported development teams by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, and TKPROF.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL, PL/SQL, database design, database tables, indexes, Instance, memory, operating system and java calls.  • Experience in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP.    PostgreSQL Database Administration  • Experience in installing, configuring, designing and building PostgreSQL databases in Linux and Windows and providing 24/7 on-call rotation.  • Good experience in performance tuning, query optimization, and overall security of the database.  • Installed and configured PostgreSQL (9.5, 9.6 and worked recently with PostgreSQL version 10 and 11.2).  • Highly experienced in Linux Operating system  • Proactively managed standby replication and hot standby for disaster recovery.  • Experience in creating database objects to enhance performance like index, partitioning etc  • Exposure to cross platform migration from oracle to PostgreSQL.  • Used pg_Bouncer for connection pooling, pg_Badge for generating statistic reports.  • Administered PostgreSQL databases using pg_Admin and Psql.  • Configured replication between master and slave and monitored the on-going process.  • Upgraded database versions using pg_dump/pg_restore and pg_upgrade tools and I make sure the latest security patches to the database are updated, this is provided by PostgreSQL open source community.  • Performed Backups (pg_basebackup, pg_backrest, pg_dump) and restore operations, compressed backups and database/schema refreshes  • Experienced on restore operations (pg_restore) and Point In Time Recovery  • Extensively used pg_hero for performance tuning and analysis, SQL Tuning using the EXPLAIN ANALYZE and pg_stat_activity  • Tuned Auto vacuum parameters to reclaim space consumed by dead tuples and ensure the up to date statistics of tables.  • Extensively used customized scripts to monitor the growth of database, table growth and automated backups using cron jobs.  • Performance tuning of the database at all levels.  • Excellent in Capacity planning.  • Create roles, grant privileges, create tables, use indexes and foreign/primary key constraint as needed and required.  • Implemented security as required at all levels in the database.  • Experience in PostgreSQL clustering  • Implemented security measures ranging from Auditing to Encryption to protect Sensitive Data.  • Skilled in PL/pgSQL, Shell and BASH Scripting, SQL and T-SQL Oracle Database Administrator UNICA - Waltham, MA July 2011 to September 2016 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.2.0.3, Oracle 12.1.0.1 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)12c Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL Loader, External Tables.  • Part of a team for Unidirectional GOLDENGATE for replication.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills (PHYSICAL STANDBY DATAGUARD) and documented database and application validation steps.  • Participated in a 2 node RAC running on ASM cluster for Availability and Scalability.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  • Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine grained Auditing.  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  • Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centers.  • Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications.  • Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  • Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements.  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  • Perform production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Used SQL DEVELOPER to Migrate to Oracle cloud. Education Bachelor of Science in databases University of Buea Skills DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE Additional Information SKILLS  ORACLE    • Golden gate for replication  • Dataguard for disaster recovery  • RAC for availability  • Performance Tuning/Analysis  • Testing  • ASM  • Production Support  • OEM Grid control  • Shell Scripting  • Exadata  • Multitenant Architecture  • Installations and Configurations  • Upgrade and Patches  • ETL (extraction Transformation & loading)  • Database administration  • RMAN (Recovery Manager)  • Dataguard Broker  • Datapump and export/import  • Transportable Tablespace  • Sql loader  • AWR,ADDM,ASH,Explain plan  • SQL TRACE,TK PROF  • SQL Tuning & Access Advisor  • SQL DEVELOPER  • NAS    POSTGRESQL  • Pg_Admin  • Pg_Bouncer  • Psql  • Ora2pg  • Pg_Badge  • Pg_basebackup  • Pg_backrest  • Pg_dump  • Pg_restore  • Pg_upgrade  • Pg_Hero  • Explain Analyze  • Vacuum, etc.    DATABASE $ SOFTWARE SUPPORTED    Oracle- 10g,11g,12c  PostgreSQL- 9.5,9.6 and 10  MS SQL server- 2008,2012,2014    OPERATING SYSTEM    Linux(Red-Hat), Unix, Solaris, Window, Aix