Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator First Tennessee Bank - Charlotte, NC February 2017 to July 2019 • Installation of oracle software, configuration and creation of 10g, 11g and 12c databases in production, DEV and TEST environments to supporting the SDLC.  • Designed and physical, logical, snapshot and active standby databases.  • Allocating system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Involve in 24/7 on-call support for production and development databases.  • Created and managed user accounts, appropriate roles and privileges to users.  • Worked on 12c multitenant architecture and its new features. Refreshing/cloning/ migration of Dev, Test and production databases.  • Database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning.  • Installed, monitored and troubleshoot unidirectional and bidirectional Goldengate.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security, network encryption, Data redaction and Masking.  • Successfully installed Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) including; Grid infrastructure and Oracle RDBMS software on a 3 nodes RAC architecture in development and UAT.  • Regularly monitored the alert logs, redo log status, listener. Log and checking the space for normal segments, rollback segments and tablespaces.  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database through Database Tuning, Application tuning, Instance tuning, and Tuning Disk Usage.  • Planned and designed database backups strategies for full recoverability.  • Successfully responded to and completed all help desk tickets and work request tickets promptly. Oracle Database Administrator State Farm - Phoenix, AZ January 2013 to January 2017 • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases.  • Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Performed Logical backup of critical application databases using EXPDP/IMPDP with scheduled jobs (Cron Job).  • Responsible for creating recovery catalogs and registering databases with Catalog Database.  • Involved in Defragmenting data blocks of table spaces for optimized performance.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication.  • Implemented policies on data confidentiality, integrity, availability, and auditability, based on Access controls for Access to Data at the database level.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning and monitored production database using Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and Automatic Session History (ASH).  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of 3 node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance. Installed ASM and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used Data pump, conventional export/import utility for migration to move data between 11g and 12c environments.  • Installed ASM and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Contact Oracle Support Services in resolving the SRs    Status: GREEN CARD Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, OLTP, ORACLE Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Quality Control and Assurance Regulatory Compliance and Standards Cross-functional Leadership and Collaboration  • Five (5) years of experience in DATA GUARD - configured and maintained Physical, Logical, snapshot Active standby databases. Administered and monitored by Data Guard configurations through data guard broker and command line interfaces. Switchover/failover, changing protection modes, archive gap resolutions.  • Four (4) years of experience in GOLDENGATE: Installed, configured and monitored Uni-directional and bidirectional Golden Gate for replication. Performed initial load and change synchronization, both for classic and integrated capture.  • Four (4) years of experience in PATCHING - Applied both PSU / CPU patches. Patched both single instances, Data Guard and RAC environments.  • MIGRATION and UPGRADE. Upgraded both single instance and RAC databases from 10g to 12c and migrated data within and across platforms. Migrated from file system to ASM.  • Six years (6) of excellent experience in BACKUP and RECOVERY - Design and implemented user managed, logical and RMAN Backup strategies. Tuned and scheduled backups using DBMS_SCHEDULER/crontab and created recovery catalogs. Recovered from loss of both critical, non-critical datafiles and entire database. Worked with TSPITR and Flashback technologies.  • Three years (3) of experience in RAC - Installed and maintained 3 node RAC cluster for large production system and migrated from Non-RAC environment to RAC.  • Six (6) years of experience in PERFORMANCE TUNNING - Troubleshooting and Tuning Oracle Database, applications, operating system and network using AWR, ASH, ADDM.  • EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQLTRACE, 11gOEM, tuning advisors. Created and used AWR baselines for analysis.  • Created and managed user profiles implemented auditing and advanced security measures for protecting data at rest and in motion.  • Installation, creation, administration and maintenance of Oracle10g, 11g and 12c databases.  • Three (3) years of experience in Oracle database 12C: Created and setup oracle 12c container and pluggable databases.  • Customized various Unix Shell Scripts  • Experience providing 24/7 database support on OLTP and OLAP databases.  • Exposure on Exadata machine to optimize system performance.  • Experience on MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, NoSQL.  • Experience in Oracle Support processes for technical requests.