Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - US FOODS Silver Spring, MD I'm an oracle Database administrator with 7+ years’ experience and with great proficiency in production support and project works. I have great work ethics and strong team spirit. Prior to becoming a DBA, I have been a seasoned Communicator with the Famous (Le Messager) as Editor-in-Chief (Journalist) Newspaper in Cameroon. I have had great spells of practical leadership and I am a level-headed person who knows how to motivate a team to be more productive.  I am authorized to work in the US for any employer  Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator US FOODS - Rosemont, IL February 2016 to Present • Installation and configuration of 10g,11g,12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)and Windows server 2010,2012.  • Installation and configuration of 12c Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and unix platforms.  • Upgraded multiple Standalone and RAC databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Worked New Features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  • Experience in troubleshooting RAC databases and engaging with application team for gaining performance enhancements for application in clustered environment.  • Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU(Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  • Supported in Performing GoldenGate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  • Troubleshooting GoldenGate using GGSERR.LOG and logdump utility.  • Replication Using GoldenGate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  • Responsible for Installation and upgrading of GoldenGate 11.2.1.0.1 to GoldenGate (v12) 12.1.2.0.0.  • Implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automized scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  • Duplicating Tablespaces And Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  • Involved in datacentre migrating large size database in multiple platform.  • Expertise in Active DataGuard, Snapshot using Dataguard Broker (DGMGRL) and RMAN.  • Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and also used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g,11gRAC& 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 500GB to 5TB.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes. Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  • Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2) , DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator CARESOURCE - Dayton, OH November 2012 to February 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Worked on disaster recovery of exadata dataguard physical standby Failover/switchover/loss of service /rebuild/corruption/loss of datafile testing.  • Automated monitoring the databases, performance parameters, backup and recovery activities by running Cron jobs and customized various Unix Shell Scripts in sending Email for ORA- errors, reports for Quick Morning Check (QMC), automate routine DBA tasks of taking backups, exports, space usage monitoring, move Archive Logs to different mount point when Archive Destination is full and resync RMAN catalog.  • Worked with a team for installation and maintenance of ORACLE 10g RAC, ASM database for high availability.  • Monitored and tuned long running jobs by working closely with the application development team and analyzing objects, created or rebuilt indexes, query tuning using SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Explain Plan, TOAD.  • Performed troubleshooting of database using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Planned, tested and implemented backup strategy using RMAN, Oracle Utilities (Export/Import) EXPDP and OS methods.  • Performed Database replication from production to test/development environment Using RMAN, Data pump utilities and manually  • Responsible for network configuration and involved in a Client-Server environment using TNSnames, LISTENER, Net Configuration Assistant and other configuration files.  • Creating and restoring databases using Oracle Flashback Technology with Guaranteed restore point.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Installed Oracle and grid software on standalone servers on ASM and file system.  • Performed activities on ASM, creating disk group with different Redundancy Levels/using Fail group, adding a disk to a disk group, making disks online/offline and mount/dismount disk groups as SYSASM  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education Bachelor's Skills Database administration, Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Stored procedures, Ksh, Linux, Shell scripting, Shell scripts, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Nas, Disaster recovery, Rman, Data center, Backups, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Server, MYSQL