Sr. Database Administrator/Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer Sr. Database Administrator/Developer - United States Department of Agriculture Fairfax, VA Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator/Developer United States Department of Agriculture - Washington, DC November 2016 to Present Created database security controls, password complexity/roles/privileges, implemented Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt users Tablespaces; applied auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  ? Performed database migration from 10 to 11g and 12c using Data Pump, DBUA, DBCA, cloning for storage, tablespaces transportable and duplicate database using RMAN.  ? Administered use of RMAN scripts for backup, restore and recovery and export/import to transport data between 10g, 11g and 12c in production, test and development environment.  ? Performed database refreshes on Oracle 11gr2/12cR1 databases in development & testing environments.  ? Worked closely with sysadmin, project managers, middleware tools teams, testers and developers to deliver best application performance.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances in adherence to best practices.  ? Provided access of database and grant required permissions and audited actions of tools & testing team.  ? Creation of Standard Operating Procedures for support of database operations.  ? Supported database and SQL tuning to minimize performance impact after Oracle 12c upgrade.  ? Administered large batch jobs and tuning of SQL queries and database systems.  ? Used RMAN and Data Pump to copy/create database for development & testing team.  ? Supported installation, upgrade, patching and configuration of OEM Cloud Control for database, RAC monitoring.  ? Monitored performance statistics using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS package to resolve SQL queries.  ? Scheduled auto maintenance and corrective actions jobs in OEM.  ? Cloned database using RMAN for development and testing environments.  ? Maintain high reliability for 24|7|365 Linux production servers.  ? Part of the 24/7 on-call production support team Oracle Database Administrator/Developer- Contract Zoetis INC - Parsippany, NJ October 2014 to October 2016 Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.4.  ? Assisted end users with tickets related to SQL Server 2012 databases.  ? Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  ? Created a standby database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  ? Implemented Backup/Restoration Strategy, scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning &migration of small sized databases (200GB-500Gb) using Data pump in 10g/11g environments.  ? Performed daily database monitoring & maintenance, performance tuning using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Created & managing database structures, storage provisions, table/index segments, constraints, database access, roles and privileges.  ? Worked closely with the developers for the better performance in applications in writing indexes, materialized views on tables.  ? Cloned & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  ? Performed SQL tuning and database performance tuning by establishing reports of STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitored the database performance on daily basis. Junior Database Administrator- Contract Inova Fairfax Hospital - Fairfax, VA June 2012 to September 2014 Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Supported SQL Server 2012 and 2014 databases on Windows Server, performed backup and restores of SQL Server databases.  ? Automated the processes, managing alert log, efficient backup using Unix/Linux shell scripting.  ? Monitored small, medium, and large databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g and Grid Control.  ? Implementing Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Data pump import/export to move data between 10g/11g environments.  ? Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication.  ? Implemented and configured TDE to encrypt users' tablespaces.  ? Maintained and monitored Performance Tuning of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning tools such as, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL access.  ? Refreshed databases using RMAN utility.  ? Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Performed SQL Oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  ? Maintained in-depth of database products and industry trends.  ? Researched, tested, and developed systems maintenance for Oracle and SQL server database. Education M.A. in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College B.A. in Computer Science & Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA A.S. in Information Technology/Science Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA Skills Oracle, Oracle 10g, Oracle forms, Pl/sql, Sql, Rman, Apache, Shell scripting, Html, Json, Perl, Scripting, Tcl, Visio, Xml, Itil, Sharepoint, Soa, Weblogic, Remedy Additional Information Skills  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, TCL, XML, HTML, Bash, Shell scripting, Perl  Frameworks: Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Restful Webservice/JSON, Apache/JavaEE, (SOA), Commercial off-the shell products (COTS), ITIL, Mediator Web Service Angular JS, Angular 5  Tools and Utilities: Backup & Recovery (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager 10g & 11g, TDE (AES), Automatic Storage Management (ASM), TOAD, SQL Loader, Oracle Data Guard, Real Application Cluster (RAC), Golden Gate, Data Modeler, ERWIN 4.0, Microsoft Visio,  Oracle Redaction, Oracle Audit Vault, Oracle Grid Control 10g, 11g, Cloud Control 12c/13c Oracle Statspack, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Segment Advisor, DBUA, DBCA, NETCA, NETSTAT, Oracle Application Express, Oracle Web reports, Jira, Remedy, ALM, Oracle Forms & Reports, Sharepoint  Systems: CentOS/RHEL, Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c Enterprise Edition, MS SQL, SQL Servers, Windows 2008, 2012 and 2016 Enterprise Edition Servers  Application Servers: Oracle Form & Reports, APEX, Business Objects, Drools, Eclipse Mars, JDK 1.7 u79, Weblogic 10g and 11g. Apache, WebLogic, ESS, CDMS,  Alerting and Monitoring: OEM, Application Lifecycle Management, JIRA, Remedy, alert log