Senior IT Consultant Senior IT Consultant Senior IT Consultant Work Experience Senior IT Consultant ePlus/SLAIT Consulting 2018 to 2019 Architected and developed asset discovery and tracking system enabling step-by-step monitoring of 4000+ shared assets slated for hardware refresh  ? Identified pertinent stakeholders then organized and conducted requirements elicitation interviews to determine essential system functionality  ? Conceived and constructed SQL Server automated procedure for integrating and analyzing data from ServiceNow, Microsoft SCCM, and Snow Asset Management into one homogeneous data set, identifying commonalities and discrepancies  ? Modeled entity relationship diagram (ERD) based on end-user requirements, developed and coded DDL based on ERD model, and instantiated data structure as the foundation for an interface utilized by stakeholders for data validation  ? Developer and administrator for QuickBase database application and reporting tool enabling tracking and monitoring of 3000+ individual assets slated for hardware refresh  ? Modeled and created process flows, data structures, and relationships enabling tracking and historical reporting of every asset's "life cycle" including all physical moves and logical status changes  ? Architected and codified PowerShell-based ETL solution interfacing SQL Server with QuickBase application  ? Developed 50+ summary reports, charts, and graphs - separated into role-based dashboards - providing real-time analytics and visualization of project status  Virginia Auditor of Public Accounts Database Administrator/ Database Manager Virginia Auditor of Public Accounts 2014 to 2018 Architected entire end-to-end solution for mandated Virginia fiscal transparency website utilizing current software licenses, hardware resources, and open source technologies requiring $0 in additional purchasing  ? Exclusive developer of the data design, ETL process, ETL code, and overall implementation of website - finishing on budget and on time  * Conceptualized, modeled, and developed Snowflake schema for data warehouse  * Developed date-based ETL update processes including fact and dimension table data updates, automated materialized view refreshes, transaction logging, and error logging capabilities  ? Installed, configured, and maintained database server utilizing Oracle VM Server 3.4, Oracle VM Manager, Oracle Linux 7.4, and Oracle database 12c  ? Configured front-end web server utilizing Apache, PHP, and FTPS including procurement and installation of SSL certificates  ? Conceptualized and implemented PeopleSoft-interfacing project planning and budgeting application enabling directors to budget projects based off accurate historical data saving 100s of employee-hours per year  ? Modeled and created database solution that stored application-based data and PeopleSoft data for continual comparison and analysis  ? Architected, developed, and coded C# based web frontend  ? Conceptualized and developed Tableau dashboards for senior management visualizing project staffing and costing - identifying areas of up to 20% improvement in efficiency  ? Exclusively responsible for the administration of 7 Oracle databases representing 4.5 TB of data and over 200 schemas  ? Personally installed and configured 5 of the databases including 2 grid infrastructure and ASM instances and two 12c container databases  ? Engineered a $200 hardware and software solution enabling secure storage of Tax data saving $100k of potential costs  ? Initiated and executed internal Oracle licensing review saving $300k in licensing costs  ? Supervisory oversight of 3 employees including creation of job roles, hiring decisioning, annual review responsibilities, and promotional consideration  ? Exclusively responsible for the administration of 3 Linux VM servers, 7 Linux VMs, and 1 Windows Server  ? Personally created and configured 2 of the physical servers and 5 of the VMs    Virginia Attorney General Computer Programmer Virginia Attorney General's Office 2013 to 2014 Researched, tested, and redesigned query processes integrating SQL into legacy SAS code saving up to 5 hours of computational processing time per day  ? Administered and maintained internally developed case tracking system  ? Developed and integrated a supplemental component to case management system enabling accurate time tracking and reporting of employees to individual case work Education Master of Information Systems in Information Systems Virginia Commonwealth University 2017 Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Apache, Linux, Red hat, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Vba, Visual basic, Tableau, T-sql, Peoplesoft, R2 Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Languages- SQL, PL/SQL, RMAN, Transact-SQL (T-SQL), Bash, PowerShell, C#, Visual Basic, VBA, Python, PHP, HTML, JavaScript  ? Database- Oracle 12c, 11g (Grid, ASM, RAC); SQL Server 2016, 2012, 2008; MySQL 5.6, 5.7  ? Applications - Oracle Cloud Control, Oracle VM Manager, QuickBase, Apache, Tableau, PeopleSoft  ? OS - Oracle Linux 7, 6; Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7, 6, 5; Oracle VM Server 3, 2; Windows Server 2016, 2012 R2