Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Emerson Electric Co Fairfield, OH • Oracle Database Administrator 6+ years of experience with strong emphasis on delivering world-class solutions across corporate  • Mainly Oracle Database Administration experience including Oracle Exadata, Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c & 13c Release 2 (12.1.0.2), 11gR2 RAC on LINUX and Sun Solaris, Installation, Upgrading, Patching, sizing, creating Oracle Databases, and Oracle database Objects, data migrations, Troubleshooting, Performance & Tuning, Backup & Recovery, and Database integrity and Security.  • Experience in TDE(Transparent Data Encryption) in both 11g wallet and 12C Keystore.  • DBA and well versed with SQA(Software quality assurance) life cycle, requirement gathering, deploying test cases development, also with Oracle EBS(E-Business Suite).  • Hands on experience in Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation)  • Extensive experience designing and implementing backup and recovery strategy for databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  • Experience with various database Backup and Recovery methods like PITR, TSPITR, Export/Import and Flashback Technologies.  • Experience in the field of Database Technology with experience in designing, developing implementing Databases.  • Have ample knowledge in implementing policies, and procedures for disaster recovery and archival processing to ensure data protection.  • Expert in delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, ORADEBUG, 11g OEM Grid monitoring custom scripts troubleshooting oracle databases using SQL trace utilities.  • Experience with SQL coding including DDL, DML and fine tuning those sql's for better performance.  • Good knowledge v$ performance views and command line skills to identify information about sessions, wait events, system performance etc  • Involved in tuning applications for optimal response time using SQL /Optimizer Trace at various levels and events, Explain Plan, TKprof, or debug and also identifying the poor SQL's, histograms, row chaining & row migrations and tune accordingly.  • Exposure to SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Profiles, SQL Monitoring, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Baselines and SQLTXTRACT tools and utilities.  • Applying Patches, Critical Patch Update/Patch Set update and One-off Patches using OPatch. Experience in patching RAC databases in rolling fashion to maintain high availability.  • Extensive experience in designing Logical and Physical data models for new developments using ERwin modeler.  • Experience in using 11g features Flash-Back Recovery, Data Pump, AWR, ASM, ADDM, ASH, Recycle Bin, 11g&12c Grid Monitoring.  • Skilled in cross platform migrations from Windows to Linux, Solaris, HP and AIX unix  • Excellent Experience in installing and maintaining Oracle Dataguard to implement physical Standby Databases for Disaster Recovery.  • Proficient in setting up Standby Database using shell scripts and RMAN utility tool, activating and Re-building Standby Databases both Physical and Logical supported by DATAGUARD.  • Migrated databases from Non-ASM file system to ASM file system using RMAN.  • Good experience in RAC Clusterware administration, Configuration and Patching Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like SRVCTL,CRSCTL ASMCMD,CELLCLI and dcli    • Expertise in Configuring RMAN with Catalog /No catalog and worked on Point-In-Time Recovery and flashback.  • Plugging the tablespace between different platforms using Cross platform transportable tablespace Utility.  • Collecting performance statistics using Statspack/AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) and ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor).  • Used TKPROF utility and Explain Plan for tuning SQL queries.  • Experience in regular DBA activities such as Upgrades, Patches, TAR support, Cloning, Backups and Recovery Manager, Performance Tuning, Capacity Planning and documentation  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Emerson Electric Co - Ferguson, MO June 2017 to Present • Support many databases running Oracle 11g & 12.2.0.1 on Standalones & Exadata environment ,running on X6s with the use of Cloud Control 12C in monitoring.  • Create documentation to support the business and satisfy regulatory requirements.  • Plan and execute disaster recovery for company production systems.  • Research and solve Oracle with Oracle Support.  • Provide senior level DBA support for applications, including developing data migration scripts, data validation queries, and a maintenance plan for the various development versions of these applications.  • Provide documentation and support for all aspects of maintenance and development.  • Work with application development team staff to develop & test database architecture and approve all production schema changes.  • Manage movement of data between Dev,Test. UAT and Production.  • Tune database instances and applications and recommend changes to improve database performance.  • Migration of data from sql-server to Oracle12C.  • Plan and implement backup and recovery strategy and write scripts to do nightly RMAN backup.  • Installed, patched, and managed Oracle Database versions 11g on Red Hat Linux  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g,11gRAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c and 13c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Implemented Golden Gate in moving large volumes of transactional data, with minimal impact to online systems.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes.  • Also, worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Migrated OLAP databases close to 8TB with minimal downtime using GoldenGate and verified data integrity using Goldengate Veridata tool for Linux 3 Node RAC.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  • Implemented Range,list and interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables.  • Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  • Coordinated maintenane activities including shutdown and startup of db's and ec2 instances  • Completed RDS backups before and after maintenance activies including upgrades and patching  • Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11. 2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Peabody Energy - St. Louis, MO April 2016 to June 2017 • DBA supported 6 Node Exadata on X4s from Development, Test, UAT to Production environments, involving daily configuration, administration, all running on Red Hat Linux 6.5. Database sizes range from 500GB to 7TB (in MANHATTAN,ODS & FIN,OC11,SCI & EDW environments).  • Both tables and schemas refreshes using Datapump, expdp and impdp.  • Database refreshed using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and EXPORT/IMPORT data from 9i to 11.2.0.4.  • Created a standby database by using RMAN Duplicate in order to reduce the down time for the PROD database during the migration process.  • Planned Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c, oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Managed agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c.  • Configuring administration groups, and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications, in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • SQL tuning and Database performance tuning has been done based on reports generated by SQL Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM and monitor the database performance on daily basis.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Worked closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed.  • Database refresh from Production to dev, test and uat. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Chicago, IL March 2015 to April 2016 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Datapump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Worked on Installation and maintenance of Oracle 11g, 12C RAC databases including Golden gate, ASM and CRS.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Worked extensively with Physical Standby database, troubleshooting, switchover and switchback with Physical standby setup.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2.  • Applied patches 10.2.0.2 and 10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4.  • Tools Used: Oracle 10.2.0.1, HP-UX 11, Sun Solaris 10.0, Oracle Streams, RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator Harmony, HealthCare - South Bend, IN March 2013 to January 2015 • Managed and supported many database including an 8 Node Exadata on X2 & X3s from Development, Test, UAT to Production environments, involving daily configuration, administration, all running on Red Hat Linux 6.5. Database sizes range from 500GB to 7TB (in MANHATTAN,ODS & FIN,OC11,SCI & EDW environments).  • Database refreshed using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and EXPORT/IMPORT data from 10g to 11.2.0.4.  • Used g RMAN to create standby databases.  • Planned Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export/Import Data pump utilities).  • Installation of oracle enterprise manager 12c, oracle management repository and deployed agents.  • Managed agents using emctl utility and creating incident rules in enterprise manager 12c.  • Configuring administration groups, and creating template collections in oem 12c.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications, in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Used Secure SCP & FTP extensively for the File transfers from machines to remote server.  • Cloning & duplicating databases using scripts as well as RMAN for test and developments instances.  • Used AWR, ADDM,ASH, SQLtUNE. addm ash to troulbshoot database issues  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 11g R2.  • Implemented Dataguard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Worked closely with Systems Analysts, Systems Engineers/Admins & Application Developers through the SDLC from Development to Production, via Tech-Test in Needs Assessment, Requirements Gathering (Server hardware/OS specifications for Oracle Installs), Database Designing (Physical & Logical) and Implementation, database user creation and database access both at role & table levels, as well as final Project Performance Assessment/Evaluation.  • Created database Objects, Tablespaces, Schemas as needed. Education Accounting and Information Technology University of Buea November 2012 Skills Database, Oracle, Sql, Rman, Aix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Databases: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c,18c  Database Tools: Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Oracle Migration Workbench, ERwin, Service now, Remedy  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Hardware: Sun Fire 15K, Sun 6320 Storage, Sun Enterprise Servers 890/880/420/450, Sun StorEdge 6320, Hitachi, EMC, Dell Servers, Compaq Servers 6000/3000/1600/800, HP/UX-9000, Red Hat Linux 6.2