Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Chaveran, Inc Waldorf, MD Motivated, resourceful, and driven Database and Systems Administrator with over four years of experience in corporate environments. Technically-savvy with a passion for learning and understanding new systems and processes. Offer excellent interpersonal and communications with a dedication to helping end-users in troubleshooting and problem-solving system issues. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran, Inc - Bowie, MD November 2015 to Present • Installed and configured container and non container Oracle databases.  • Coordinate data backup, restore and recovery with RMAN.  • Proficient in Migrating data and transportable tablespace using Datapump utilities.  • Carried out test restore and recovery on RMAN backup.  • Used Profile and Roles to enforce Policy and users password characteristics  • Proficient with the use of Sqlplus in creating users, Tablespaces and system administration  • Managed data security with Wallet and TDE configuration. Linux/UNIX Systems Administrator 9-Solutions, Inc - Upper Marlboro, MD April 2013 to May 2017 • Installed and configured Apache, LDAP, and client servers and MySQL databases.  • Managed server provisioning for Oracle databases.  • Utilized remote login utilities to troubleshoot user logins and other system problems.  • Monitored and maintained job processes using associated commands.  • Troubleshot network connectivity to ensure availability for users.  • Performed RHEL virtualization using VMware and Kernel-based virtual machines.  • Monitored and performed capacity planning in support of system resource needs and usage.  • Set up a Red Hat Kickstart server facility. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (4 years), databases. (3 years), DHCP (3 years), DNS (3 years), FTP (3 years), MySQL (4 years), NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (3 years), NFS (Less than 1 year), Oracle (3 years), PKI (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Red Hat (4 years), Sun (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), VMware (4 years), VPN (Less than 1 year), Oracle Dba