ORACLE/SQL Server Database Administrator ORACLE/SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> ORACLE/SQL Server Database Administrator - Iowa Foundation for Medical Care Silver Spring, MD • Extensive experience with Database Cloning and Refreshing pre-prod/dev databases with prod/pre-prod databases.  • Installed RAC 11g on 3 node cluster for large production system and migrated the legacy system from Non-RAC environment to RAC 11g cluster database.  • Installed and configured EM Central Grid control (OEM Grid) to administer and manage large number of databases and enterprise wide targets.  • Installation, Upgrades, Configuration and Troubleshooting GoldenGate 11g/12c software.  • Configured GoldenGate Classic and Integrated components for Active-Passive and Active-Active  • Worked extensively on Performance tuning of Queries by maintaining Aggregates, Compression, partition, indexing and use of Hints, Stored outlines, Statistics.  • Strong experience in migrating database from Non-ASM to ASM and Non-RAC to RAC.  • Administered Oracle ASM disk groups (mirroring, compatibility) with Oracle ASM Configuration Assistant (ASMCA)  • Proficiency with Installation and maintenance of replication tool Golden Gate by creating extract process, extract pump, and replicate.  • Experience in Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Laid hands on new tools and experienced features like Data Replay, Log Miner and Flashback data Archive, Schema Management, Data guard and RMAN in Oracle 11g.  • Skilled in developing RMAN scripts for database back up including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and standalone instances.  • Worked extensively on created development, testing, staging, production, RAC and standby databases for OLTP and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts and stepwise.  • Excellent knowledge in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery, Cloning of databases using RMAN, VERITAS Net Backup and Experienced in Linux and Solaris using 11g network configuration (NETCA) Listeners , PL/SQL,UNIX Shell Programming.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Data Migrations of Oracle databases to MS SQL SERVER databases.  • Performed Upgrade and Migration of Oracle databases from oracle 10g to 11g & 12c.  • Applied PSU/CPU Patches, ASM Patches, Grid Infrastructure Patches, Online Patches, one-off Patches and rolling patches.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and Perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Clusters (RAC) and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) and Data guard and Streams.  • Good exposure of Oracle DBA tasks Installation, Patching, Cloning, and Upgrade of Oracle Databases.  • Strong Knowledge and experience of Creating Users, Public Synonyms, materialized views, Database Links, roles, profiles, privileges, Audit Triggers and assigning roles to users. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ORACLE/SQL Server Database Administrator Iowa Foundation for Medical Care - West Des Moines, IA May 2016 to Present • Ensuring load balancing in RAC by creating services for different purposes based on the application requirement and also defined TAF policy for RAC instances.  • Monitoring and maintaining 2/3 node RAC database on Red Hat Linux. Providing support to the development team and handling release schedules.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Monitoring and Performance tuning of GoldenGate sessions at OS level, Database level and GGSCI level and investigate replication failures using ggserr.log, report files and LogDump utility.  • Performed Zero Downtime migrations from Non Exadata machines to Exadata machines using Oracle Golden Gate and Dataguard.  • Developed Shell scripts, SQL & PL/SQL scripts for monitoring GoldenGate processes and their stats running on 60+ servers from one single database repository providing table level granularity with end-to-end replication map and thus maintain history of all GoldenGate processes for later analysis.  • Development of policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security and archiving.  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Performed Replication using materialized views with a complete refresh/Fast refresh.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used RDA, ADDM and AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Creating, granting and monitoring user access rights and privileges through roles and profiles.  • Perform backups and recovery of SQL server databases.  • perform refreshes on MS SQL databases using exp/imp utility.  • Ensure database compliance for audits for the SQL server databases.  • Provide HA solutions such as log shipping, transactional replication  • Extensive knowledge of DR options named for MS SQL SERVER such as Database mirroring, ALWAYS-ON FAILOVER CLUSTER  • Working knowledge of SSIS, SSRS, SSAS  • Perform database management functions including resolving performance issues and installing new releases and patches on SQL Server databases.  • Providing instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage with the help of AWR and ADDM Reports.  • Automatic Shared Memory Management (ASMM) for Performance diagnosis/tuning and Automatic Segment Space Management (ASSM)  • Supported development effort by providing SQL statement tuning and optimizing ETL procedures and removing load and query performance bottlenecks by using tools Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, TOAD and Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  • Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs.  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 9i and 10g/11g environments.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge datacenters.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Administering and monitor over 115 oracle databases 11g/12c of sizes ranging from 200GB to 20TB, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager). ORACLE Database Administrator Wolters Kluwer Health.Inc - Indianapolis, IN March 2014 to May 2016 • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 10g/11g to 11gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 supports for all the production and development databases.  • Implemented Logical and Physical Standby Databases for RAC cluster on Sun Solaris platform using M of Oracle 11g R2.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 11gR2.  • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data Pump export/import utilities in Oracle 11gR2.  • Performed RMAN operations (Incremental Backups). Helped developer to install Oracle Client, troubleshoot and establish the connection to Oracle database through ODBC, JDBC.  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*Trace, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR and ADDM reports.  • Database tuning, Application Tuning & performance monitoring. Fine tuning Initialization parameters, I/O, Memory and Operating System kernel parameters.  • Monitored the production Oracle alert logs for database errors and data issues.  • Used EXPORT/IMPORT to do table level and full database defragmentation  • Managed RAC Linux servers running Oracle in cluster environments.  • Performed patching of Oracle databases with latest patches from Oracle.  • Install and configure block change tracking to work with RMAN Merged incremental backups.  • Applied patches 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Used to run the scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Ux, Hp-ux, Rman, Vpn, Cisco, Remedy, Virtualization, Vmware, Oem, Loader, Checkpoint, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c  MS SQL 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017  Database Tools  Oracle (Oracle Enterprise Manager, SQL*Plus, SQL Loader, DB Configuration Assistant) Toad, OEM Grid, RMAN, SQL*Loader, Exp/Imp/Data Pump, Log miner, Statspack/AWR, Top, DBCA, DBUA, ADDM, Remedy, DPA  Operating Systems  UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10, AIX, HP-UX), LINUX  Remote Tools  Cisco VPN, Checkpoint VPN, Remote Admin, VNC, Remote Desktop, VMware Virtualization.