Sr Oracle Database Administrator Sr Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Oracle Database Administrator - United Health Group Hartford, CT • Full responsibility and expertise in database administration (DBA), performance tuning (AWR, ASH ADDM, EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF), database backup, database recovery, database security, database optimization, data migration of Oracle instances and SQL-server databases.  • Worked with TB databases and BIGDATA  • Analysis and reporting of BIGDATA using GOOGLE'S BIGQUERY for Business intelligence (BI)  • Expertise using 12C security features like; Transparent data encryption (TDE), Oracle WALLET, Database vault, secured socket layer (SSL) and Public Key infrastructure (PKI)  • Database administration tools like; Oracle cloud control (OCC), TOAD, SQL DEVELOPER  • Experience in Database design using Microsoft Visio, SQL developer data modeler, ER Assistant to draw entity relationship diagrams.  • Create database objects like; views, procedures, functions, triggers, tables, synonyms and writing codes populate tables with data in the database  • Experience in installation, upgrade and maintenance of RAC (Real Application Cluster) 10g and 11g databases to support online applications.  • Configuring Automatic Storage Management (ASM) which includes creating disks and disk groups for oracle 11g and 12Cr2 RAC databases.  • Experience in monitoring oracle instances and maintaining databases, performance using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Oracle GRID-control and database monitoring using 11g Grid monitoring tool.  • Experience in creating, configuring physical standby database using data guard 11g and 12c active data guard.  • Experience with flashback technology.  • Hands on experience in conventional Hot and cold backups, database recovery, cloning of a database using RMAN backup and recovery.  • Extensive experience in tuning the NetBackup environment and automated Installation scripts for NetBackup.  • Installation, configuration, administration, and maintenance of VERITAS NetBackup application  • Expertise in performance tuning for high performance of database availability for users, backup and recovery (RMAN and using catalog database), UNIX scripting for tasks like automated backups, space management, database security.  • Experience in application and memory tuning with explain plan, TKPROF, STATSPACK, SQL trace, SQL optimization utilities, SQL tuning advisor, SQL access advisor and SQL planned management.  • Experience in using tools like AWR (automatic workload repository), ADDM (automatic database diagnostic monitor) and ASH (active session history) for database performance reports.  • Experience in upgrading databases from oracle9i to 10g, 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c using DBUA (oracle database upgrade assistant) and manual method.  • Testing and implementing different physical and logical backup and recovery methods including a point in time, media recovery, full/partial, XXXDatapump export/import, using External tables to query data outside the database.  • Involved in each phase of the lifecycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development, and production support activities.  • Experience with large databases (5TB - 14 Tb) for OLTP and OLAP applications.  • Performed installation, configuration, and maintenance of oracle 11g/12c, 11g RAC databases.  • Experience in configuring oracle 10g, 11g Real application cluster (RAC) (2 and 3 nodes) using cluster ware and automatic storage management (ASM)  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone, and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Performed migration of oracle 11g/12c non-RAC single instance to RAC database instances.  • Experience with 11g cluster maintenance using CRSCTL command.  • Experience in using SRVCTL command for Oracle 11g RAC database  • Used EXPDP & IMPDP to take backup at the database level or tablespace level and also to accomplish table level and full database defragmentation.  • Proficient in using various database Utilities like EXPORT/IMPORT, DataPump, TOAD.  • Experience in Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data using SQL loader utility.  • Automated many common tasks using crontab including Backups, exports, and imports Work Experience Sr Oracle Database Administrator United Health Group - Hartford, CT December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Providing ongoing operational support for Oracle Databases in all application specific environments (Dev to Prod)  • Providing data migrations (RMAN restore/refresh and datapump exp/imp)  • Assist in manual and automated application code deployments (DDLs and DMLs)  • Conducting performance tuning to maintain system stability (using Oracle RDBMS tools)  • Troubleshooting to capture incident data and analyze for root cause issues  • Participating in binaries installation, DB creation, configuration, upgrades and DB patching and OS patching activities  • Serving as a team player by working with colleagues and clients to identify and address overall system problems as needed  • Participating in 24x7 on-call rotation with other colleagues on a weekly rotation basis  • Influencing management to adopt new ideas, products, and/or approaches as appropriate  • Experience with 11g/12 RAC, HA-DR, Dataguard, ASM, OEM, RMAN, and EXPDP/IMPDP  • Experience with TDE, Wallet, Audit Vault  • Experience with Data migrations (RMAN restore, EXPDP/IMPDP)  • Experience with Database RMAN backup/recovery skills (TSM/TDPO/DDomain)  • Experience with Capacity management (space utilization, archive/purge data)  • Exposure to monitoring and creating alerts in OEM  • Understanding of job scheduling  • Experience with User Security/Administration  • Experience with VM Ware is plus Sr Oracle Database Administrator Bristol Myers Squibb Wallingford CT - Wallingford, CT February 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Maintain and support existing production and non-production oracle databases including backup recovery.  • Performance optimization.  • Support database needs for new project deployments.  • Assist in the physical relocation of database and non- database assets between different BMS data centers and between BMS data centers and cloud providers.  • Assist in all facets of infrastructure lifecycle management activities.  • Asset tracking via enterprise CMDB.  • Install, upgrade and patch 11g and 12c Oracle databases in Linux and Windows environments  • Automate database administration tasks using PL/SQL and shell scripts  • Perform basic and advanced tuning at the database and database/server level  • Use Enterprise Manager12c/13c ,Toad and other tools for availability and performance monitoring  • Work directly with clients to plan and execute database outages and migrations Oracle Database Administrator Ambac Financial Group, Inc - New York, NY June 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • SQL query tuning using reports generated by tools like StatsPack, TKPROF and SQL*Trace and Explain Plan  • Create database using GOLD IMAGE generated from OCC 12c  • Used AUTOMATION TOOLS LIKE; CRONTAB, OCC for scheduling scripts  • Shell script experience for backup jobs, logical exports, maintenance jobs like; renaming log files, purging logs from mount points to avoid space issues  • Configure data guard for disaster recovery (DR)  • Database refreshes using DATAPUMP from PROD database to DEV environment  • Migration of CODES from production to test and DEV databases  • Troubleshooting performance issues in the database using TOP, SAR, command, ADRCI for health check  • Create container database with pluggable databases for High availability  • GOLDEN GATE for data replication and ZERO DOWNTIME UPGRADE using TRAIL LOCAL AND REMOTE TRAIL FILES, EXTRACT AND REPLICATE PROCESS, MANAGER PROCESS AND SUPPLEMENTED WITH DATAPUMP for logical transfer of data from source to target  • Rebuilding Indexes and gather statistics on tables on different databases on a regular basis to gain database performance using DBMS_STATS package  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non-CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c NonCDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Successfully setup 4 nodes Primary RAC with 3 nodes physical standby for a new application in 11GR2. Tuning the Databases for optimization using AWR, ASH, ADDM, STATSPACK, Explain Plans and TKPROF, Estimating Table & Index Size.  • Utilizing Enterprise manager to monitor alerts, schedule jobs, monitor SQL loads, generate AWR reports  • Configured Oracle Data Guard to ensure disaster recovery, high availability and data protection.  • Database monitoring and performance tuning using OEM GC, AWR and ADDM, ASH, SQLT, TRCA, SQL Access Advisor, SPM,  • Monitoring & Maintaining NetBackup Environment.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databases and Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 11g/12c environments.  • Used External Tables.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Modify database structures as required by developers due to business or application requirements, clone development databases for testing and training.  • Partitioning tables by determining the suitable methodology to improve performance and manageability.  • Created Materialized views, groups for performing SQL*Loader jobs for data loading and used DataPump jobs for loading the subscriber and history related data at replicated site.  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, and monitoring their growth rate.  • Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  • Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  • Thorough knowledge in setting up the infrastructure for databases in huge data centers.  • Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup, and the creation of four node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability, and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process, and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).    Environment: Oracle 11g/12cRAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Database Administrator Bon Secours Health System - Richmond, VA July 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11g R2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • SQL tuning and Application Performance monitoring.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Applying Quarterly Security Patches (CPU/PSU) and applying Patch set and One-off Patches.  • Responsible for proactively managing database growth and trends to ensure database availability and propose recommendations based on transaction volumes, usage growth and response times as a part of capacity planning exercise.  • Ensure that the databases do not run out of space with automated scripts  • Conducting sizing and capacity planning for oracle databases.  • Responsible for tuning of long-running queries by creating B-Tree and BITMAP indexes.  • Resolving issues related to Network Congestion, Memory (SGA and PGA), CPU & IO and other oracle related issues.  • Migration of database from one server to another server.  • Responsible for setup and implementation of 2 Node RAC on Linux in 10g and 11g R2.  • Responsible for configuring data guard physical and standby database setup for high availability and handling synchronization issues between primary and standby.  • Worked on performance and tuning on SQL queries.  • Performed daily maintenance tasks like space management, rectified locking problems, managed quotas etc., configured network components like TNSNAMES, Names Server, Connection Manager, etc. for the easy and effective management of Oracle networking. Configured listener for external procedure calls.  • Efficient in using the Oracle Tools like SQL* Plus, SQL* Loader, TKPROF, LOGMINER, STATSPACK, SQL*Net, IMPORT/EXPORT, and RMAN.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Done migration of non-ASM database to ASM database.  • Scheduling and maintaining level 0 and level 1 RMAN (Recovery Manager) backups.  • Backup and Restore - Full, Incremental, RMAN/NetBackup  • Backup and restore data to tape drive and disk using NetBackup  • Managing, Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the databases on a periodic basis using AWR, ADDM reports and providing recommendations.  • Automated the refreshes between production and test environments, scripts to clear out applied logs.  • Automated scripts to gathering statistics for database objects  • Performed active DataGuard switchover from standby database to the active database for DR testing.  • Converted traditional database synching technique (through FTP) to the usage of DataGuard for prod based databases.  • Migrated databases from one server to another using RMAN active duplication.  • Handling and debugging of high priority and sudden database service interruption issues like service interruption due to ORA-600 errors in the dump and database hung due to ORA 7445 errors and restoring the service to normal and providing efficient root cause analysis.  • Capacity Planning for OLTP environment- Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the existing and new databases.  • Proactive performance monitoring by implementing UNIX scripts and automated jobs (Grid) for alerts.  • Refreshing databases and Migration of databases from various environments for Testing, Development work.  • Developed database system build sheets, code review checklists, code promotion process documents, outage reporting documents.  • Sizing the SGA, DB buffers, shared SQL area, log buffer based on the requirements.  • Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12cRAC/9i, VMS, Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2003, Red Hat Linux, TOAD, RMAN, SQL server, OEM. Oracle Junior DBA Enterprise Holdings Inc - Clayton, MO May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Managed data files, control files, redo log files, tables, indexes, constraints for performance and availability.  • Worked on user management mainly on grants, privileges, roles, and profiles.  • Designing and developing SQL procedures, query performance tuning.  • Database Refreshing / Replication from production to testing using a hot backup.  • Performing the capacity planning for databases.  • Cloned/Refreshed Database environments to create a patch, test, development and QA environments.  • Tuned SQL statements using explain plan and Tkprof. Monitoring and Performance tuning.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Automated the processes by using CRONTAB.  • Extensively used SQL Loader to load data from flat files to the Oracle Database.  • Creation of database tables, indexes, and referential integrity constraints.  • Writing Oracle scripts for the SQL and PL/SQL requirements for various applications.  • Created and maintained materialized views.  • Modified and debugged stored procedures and triggers.  • Interacted with the users and troubleshoot the problems related to the privileges & resources.  • Monitor database activity and file usage, and ensure necessary resources are present so that databases function properly by removing or deleting old or obsolete files.  • Performing all the Database Administration activities like space management in database, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases.  • Contributed to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Proactively managed the databases; set up alarms for managing any exceptions in the day to day management of the databases; pre-empted and prevented issues, disasters from happening.  • Monitoring tablespace issues, creating tablespaces and adding datafiles  • Involved in session management and monitored the critical wait events, blocking sessions in the database.  • Wrote Stored Procedures according to specs and control files for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database.  • Tuning test and production database by altering the parameters.  • Export and Import of database objects to copy from one database to another database.  • Investigating suspicious database activity using Auditing.  • Write database documentation, including data standards, procedures, and definitions.    Environment: Oracle 10.2.0.1, Oracle 9i (9.2.0.8), RMAN, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Education ASSOCIATE in OCA LAWS (University of yaounde 2009