SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - ELI LILLY and Company • Seven Plus years of experience in Database Administration for very complex and large databases in SQL Server2017/ 2016/2014/ 2012 / and 2008 R2.  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Server with server configuration, patch, upgrade, maintain and migrate databases. Expert in SQL Server Replication with Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations.  • Experience with advanced query design, stored procedures triggers and functions and High Availability Solution such as (WSFC) Cluster, Replication, Mirroring and Log Shipping.  • Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and index Analysis. Maintained individual service accounts for SQL Server services on cluster with different Security groups to raise security mark. Proficient working in SharePoint content databases.  • Experience in data migration between the two environments with SSIS and Import, Export wizard. Strong experience in mentoring team members and writing documentation.  • Designed data Partitioning solutions for tables and indexes & Risk monitoring & control. Strong Experience in creating jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and Scheduling SSIS Packages. Experience in maintenance plans to perform index de-fragmentation, reorganize index, rebuild index, and update the index statistics.  • Experience in implementing different types of Replication Models such as Peer to Peer, Merge, Transactional and Snapshot on basis of business specification. Expertise in troubleshooting SQL issues by using SQL Tools, execution plans, Trace, statistics, index tuning wizard. Experience in using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and optimizing the queries, tracing long running queries and deadlocks. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator ELI LILLY and Company - Branchburg, NJ June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2016/2014/ 2012 and migrated databases from SQL Server2012 R2/ 2008R2. Configured and Maintained Four-Node Active/Passive Windows Failover Cluster with SQL Server 2012 R2 on SAN environment. Configured alwayson with replication and move table from one server to another server.  • Configured and maintained transactional and troubleshoot replication issues. Configured and administered Always On Availability Group. Designed and Deployed SSIS Packages to Export and Import Data from various Databases and Files. Performed Database Backup and Point-In-Time Recovery solutions using SQL Server Client and Quest Lite-Speed.  • Managed security and permission of SQL Server. Created Database Objects like Stored Procedures, functions, Views, Triggers. Managed index usage and fragmentation and updated statistics in databases. Involved in troubleshooting and fine-tuning database performance and concurrency and root cause analysis. Worked on Query optimization and tuning using SQL Server Profiler, Database Engine Tuning advisor, and Activity Monitor and analyzing execution plan.  • Checked Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS. Enforced Policy Based Management at Database Level as well as Table Level. Implemented Partitioned Table, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE), MERGE statements. Developed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and deployed in SharePoint. Involved in Data Modelling, Normalization, developing Logical/Physical ER Diagram using Erwin and SQL Server Data Diagram.  • Translated business requirements into technical design specifications and actively supported business users for change requests. Provided 24/7 on call support for all the Production Servers.    Environment: MS SQL Server2016, 2014,2012/2008R2, Windows Clustering, Replication, Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2008R2, Red Hat Linux 6, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, Lite-Speed SQL Server Database Administrator MTA Maryland - Baltimore, MD May 2015 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2016/2014/ 2012 and migrated databases from SQL Server2012 R2/ 2008R2. Configured and Maintained Four-Node Active/Passive Windows Failover Cluster with SQL Server 2012 R2 on SAN environment.  • Configured and maintained transactional and peer-to-peer replication and troubleshoot replication issues. Configured and administered Always On Availability Group. Designed and Deployed SSIS Packages to Export and Import Data from various Databases and Files. Performed Database Backup and Point-In-Time Recovery solutions using SQL Server Client and Quest Lite-Speed.  • Managed security and permission of SQL Server. Created Database Objects like Stored Procedures, functions, Views, Triggers. Managed index usage and fragmentation and updated statistics in databases. Involved in troubleshooting and fine-tuning database performance and concurrency and root cause analysis. Worked on Query optimization and tuning using SQL Server Profiler, Database Engine Tuning advisor, and Activity Monitor and analyzing execution plan.  • Checked Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS. Enforced Policy Based Management at Database Level as well as Table Level. Implemented Partitioned Table, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE), MERGE statements. Developed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and deployed in SharePoint. Involved in Data Modelling, Normalization, developing Logical/Physical ER Diagram using Erwin and SQL Server Data Diagram.  • Translated business requirements into technical design specifications and actively supported business users for change requests. Provided 24/7 on call support for all the Production Servers.    Environment: MS SQL Server2016, 2014,2012/2008R2, Windows Clustering, Replication, Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2008R2, Red Hat Linux 6, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, Lite-Speed. SQL Server Database Administrator Department of Education - Germantown, MD August 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  * Installed, configured SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012R2 and 2008 R2 and upgraded SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012R2. Configured and maintained SQL Server High Availability solution such as Replication, Log Shipping and Mirroring.  * Performed SQL Server service pack and Windows Service pack upgrades. Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance. Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  * Worked extensively in Query analyzer and profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs. Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning. Transferring the data from excel to SQL Server 2008R2 & SQL Server 2012R2 through SSIS package.  * Rebuilt the indexes at regular intervals for better performance. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  * Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures and triggers. Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  * In conjunction with development teams, define and maintain database and code standards and naming conventions for the organization to ensure consistency in database and code development.  * To provide 24x7 production support for SQL Server databases on Clustered Servers with sizes ranging from 1 to 2 Terabytes to achieve maximum performance and uptime in production environment.    Environment:  SQL Server 2008R2, 2012R2 and 2014 SharePoint200/2010, Windows Server 2008R2 and 2012 R2. SQL Server DBA Citi Group - New York, NY June 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Supported implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users. Technical trouble shooting and provided consultation to development teams.  • Developed, monitor, and maintain backup and recovery for all assigned databases to include the appropriate transaction logging. Monitored High availability Solutions of the SQL Server Databases. Responsible to Monitor and troubleshooting Log Shipping. Setup and Monitored transactional replication, Database mirroring on Production. Participate in implementation of new releases into production.  * Used Stored Procedures, DTS packages, BCP for updating Servers. Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented and Scheduled Replication process for updating our parallel servers.  * Applied table partitioning to improve I/O access. Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications. Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning. Tested and Implemented procedures to detect poor database performance, collecting required information, and root cause analysis.  * Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.    Environment:  MS SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012R2, T-SQL, DTS, SSIS, BCP, SQL Profiler and Windows 2008 R2/ 2012R2. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science Kalimuddin College - Dhaka, BD Skills Data modeling, Database, Sql server, Sql, Sharepoint, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, T-sql, C++, Visio, Visual basic, Visual basic 6, R2, Remedy, Jira, Ms office, Crystal report, Excel, Outlook, Word, DBA, ETL, Ssis, Sql Dba Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008 R2 /2012 R2, 2016, ESXi 5.5.0.  Database: MS SQL Server2017/2016/ 2014/2012R2/2008R2  Languages: T-SQL, Visual Basic 6, Visual Basic 5, C, C++  Reporting/Analysis Tool: SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services), Crystal Report  Data Modeling: SQL Server Database Diagram, VISIO  Other Tools: SharePoint 2010 and 2013 Remedy Ticketing System, JIRA.  MS Office: Word, Excel, Access, Outlook, InfoPath and Power Point.