SQL Database Administrator SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Database Administrator - Comcast Alexandria, VA ? A Microsoft certified professional with over Six years of proven experience in the IT industry with in-depth knowledge in Administering and Monitoring of MS SQL Server Databases.  ? Well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated and effective team player with excellent analytical, troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Work Experience SQL Database Administrator Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to Present Configured, installed and maintained SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008 and 2005 database, email and web applications;  ? Worked on disk management, and performance monitoring of production environments.  ? Created SSIS packages to extract data from OLTP to OLAP systems and automated them  ? Involved in migration from Oracle 9i to SQL Server 2012. SQL Database Administrator Blue Cross Blue Shield - Washington, DC October 2015 to May 2017 Upgraded and Migrated databases in development, testing and production environments.  ? Created and modified tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views  ? Developed and monitored various SQL Maintenance Plans  ? Developed SSIS packages to perform ETL operation from flat files, DB2, and Oracle to/from MS SQL server databases.  ? Worked with clients to document requirements and develop custom implementations of the data warehouse, including custom ETL processes, SSAS cubes, reports and dashboards.  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2008 R2and 2012 in development, test, and production environment  ? Developed queries (T-SQL) to perform maintenance activates as needed.  ? Developed procedures/protocols on database planning and implementation, database security aspects, database auditing, Backup and restore modality.  ? Reviewed the current procedure of backup and restoration and introduced the differential back up into the system and periodic restoration of backups.  ? Created and administered Database objects - tables, views, stored procedures, triggers for implementing some application functionality at the database side for performance improvement.  ? Performed Performance tuning of Stored Procedures and T-SQL Queries.  ? Created execution plan suggested indexes to improve performance  ? Monitored, analysed and troubleshoot SQL Server related issue such as Concurrency problems (blocks, locks, deadlocks, activity monitor), and SQL Agent job execution problems.  ? Supported HA and DR recovery strategies (log shipping, replication and Always on AGs)  ? Responded to ticketing based on requirements.  ? Created and configured Alerts and automated jobs to manage database and server level activities.  Environment: SQL Server 2012/2014, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (SSAS, SSIS, SSRS), .Net framework, Microsoft Office, SharePoint Server 2010, DB2, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server 2012, ASP.NET, C# .Net 3.5 framework SQL DBA Boston consulting - ET February 2012 to September 2015 Developed complex stored procedures Extended System SP, Triggers, views, Tables, user defined functions, DBCC commands.  ? Implemented SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various Categories of users.  ? Created and managed schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Procedures, Triggers and maintained Referential Integrity.  ? Managed and monitored the use of disk space, memory and connections.  ? Performed DBCC consistency checks if generated error, fixing data corruption on the databases.  ? Prepared different types of reports using SSRS  ? Involved in the design of physical database schema, data modelling, and performance tuning.  ? Performed the migration of database from SQL server 2005 to SQL server 2008 and 2008R2  ? Configured and monitored high availability/disaster recovery strategies like log shipping, replication, mirroring and clustering.  ? Used DBCC to check database conditions, rebuilding indexes and other database maintenance  ? Monitored SQL server agent jobs to make sure all scheduled jobs run successfully every night.    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/R2, Windows Server 2003/R2/2008/R2, .NET, Microsoft Reporting Services. Erwin and ER Studio 2012 to 2014 2016.  ? Troubleshoot SQL Server related problems including CPU, Memory, I/O, and Disk space.  ? Worked on native tools like DTA, SQL Server Profiler, Activity Monitor, Perfmon.  ? Expert on different DBCC commands, Stored Procs, and DMVs to maintain and troubleshoot.  ? Automated SQL Server Jobs, Configured Database mail, Created Alerts, Operators and Notifications.  ? Implementing Backup/restore and Recovery Strategy for application and database.  ? Administered SQL Server High Availability and Disaster Recovery strategies.  ? Planned and implemented SQL Server Security and database Permissions.  ? Created and developed database objects like tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, functions.  ? Installing and Configuring SSIS, SSRS and SSAS services.  ? Participated in data modelling, development and maintenance of SQL Server Reporting Services.  ? Designed and developed various ETL (Extract Transform and Load) packages using SSIS to extract data from SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, Access, and other flat file sources.  ? Developed different reports like drill down, Parameterized, Cascading, Matrix, Chart.  ? Managed and maintained Data marts thorough knowledge of Features, Structure, Attributes, Hierarchies, Star and Snowflake Schemas of Data Marts.  ? Performed Database Normalization, de-normalization, Optimization and Tuning, Data Import/ Export and Capacity Planning.  ? Worked extensively on Erwin and ER Studio projects in both OLAP and OLTP applications.  ? Provided a 24x7 Dedicated support to users for Enterprise critical Production servers.  ? Worked on various Tickets on daily basis and solved issues accordingly.  ? Participated in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile development Methodologies. SSIS 2012 to 2012 Created tabular and matrix reports in SSRS.  ? Wrote stored procedures and functions to create SSRS reports.  ? Involved in the creation and deployment of the reports using SSRS  ? Extracted data from the databases (Oracle and SQL Server, Microsoft Azure, DB2, XML, Excel, FLAT FILES) using Microsoft integration service to load it into a single data warehouse repository.  ? Maintained database indexes, stored procedures, quires to improve performance  ? Automated daily maintenance tasks including performance monitoring, disk space usage, managing log files and error logs, take backups, and mail notification.  ? Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, security breach, etc.  ? Implemented and administered security, auditing and policy-based management as required.  ? Configured and troubleshoot high availability and disaster recovery solutions ( database mirroring, clustering, replication and Always On availability groups).  ? Checked for database consistency, fixed DBCC errors, monitored error logs, database space allocations and transaction log space allocations.  ? Applied SPs and hotfixes on SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008.  ? Responded and worked on tickets, provided clear and informative status entries, resolution entries and quality assurance closure with the 24/7 support for production, development and test servers.  ? Performed investigation to identify the root cause of any customer issue and strive to incorporate solutions that are correct, with zero rework.  Environment: Microsoft Azure, SSIS, SSRS, MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012, C#, Visual studio 2016, MS Access, MS Excel, MS Office Access 2013, DB2, Oracle 9i, SharePoint server 2010, Visual studio Team Foundation Server, VMware and PowerShell Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Information Science in Business Information Science Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills SQL (6 years), SSIS (3 years), Data Warehousing (3 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Database Administration (6 years), Database Development (3 years), Visual Studio (4 years), Crystal Reports (3 years), ERP (1 year), Analytics (3 years), Sql Server, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Microsoft SQL server 2016 Administration Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lnrcxvcwubzma2y7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.