IT Systems Administrator IT Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Germantown, MD Seeking employment as Systems Administrator as an individual with extensive technical skill  and knowledge, over 5 years of experience in the field. Work Experience IT Systems Administrator PBF GLOBAL - Rockville, MD July 2018 to Present • Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures & guidelines.  • Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop hardware.  • Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment.  • Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  • Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers  • Provide technical expertise in architecting and developing the AMS or CRM platforms and related product suite.  • Work with cross-functional teams to define business requirements and deliver AMS or CRM  solutions.  • Develop and support integration solutions of AMS or CRM with business support systems  • Develop queries and build reports  • Troubleshoot and resolve production issues (software bugs, data issues, and system  configuration issues) for the AMS or CRM and related software.  • Responsible for the administration and maintenance of the customer relationship database, including development of minor customizations through system's development functionality.  • Function as primary contact to consult with IT consultants and to help resolve and identify  solutions for the firm.  • Oversees the end-to-end report development including interaction with staff to gather  requirements, understand report objectives, design and develop reports as well as deliver  productive tools for all systems users as needed.  • Test customizations, integrations along with AMS or CRM service pack and hot fix releases  as may be needed.  • Ensure all aspects of AMS or CRM integrations are coordinated, tested and functioning properly. Database Administrator SHOLLA CORPORATION - Silver Spring, MD February 2014 to July 2018 • Conducted SQL Server production database analysis on a regular basis.  • Provided customer assistance and support pertaining to database system queries and complaints.  • Installed administered and updated database tools and systems.  • Attending meetings, taking targets and distributing them to the team leaders.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting SQL Server Performance using Query Tuning  • Configuring Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replication.  • Mirroring one of our critical databases with zero latency/synchronized.  • Implementation of backup and Recovery strategies.  • Perform Full, Differential and Transaction Log Backup.  • Created the Jobs and schedules for daily running.  • Created Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Tested and Deployed new database structures, such as tables, indexes and stores procedures  • Participated in configuring always on with Availability group SQL Server 2012 via nodes on Windows Server Fail-over Cluster.  • Participating in SQL Server Engineering to identify the root cause of the disaster.  • Analyzing and resolving the case for slow performance or deadlock. Education bachelor's degree in Software Development and Security PENN STATE WORLD CAMPUS 2017 to Present Skills Windows Server, Microsoft Sql server, SQL, Technical Support, Microsoft office, Linux, Networking, SSRS, SSIS, T-Sql, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM, VDI, TCP/IP, Network Protocols, Vmware, AWS, C++, Java, Microsoft Hyper-V., Microsoft Office 365, LAN, Wan, VOIP Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA -Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014) Present • Install and configure  • Maintain instances and databases  • Optimize and troubleshoot  • Manage data  • Implement security  • Implement high availability  • Create database objects  • Work with data  • Modify data  • Troubleshoot and optimize  • Implement SQL in Azure  • Manage databases and instances  • Deploy and migrate applications IT Support Professional Certificate Present • Hardware Configuration  • Hardware Troubleshooting  • Help Desk  • Linux  • Mac Support  • Networking  • Operating Systems  • Software Troubleshooting  • System Backup and Recovery  • System Administration  • Technical Support  • Virtualization  • System Security