ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR ORACLE <span class="hl">DATABASE</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR - MTCI New Carrollton, MD PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:    ? Over 5+ Years of total Oracle Database Administration experience in implementing, Design, Development, Testing and Production support in all industry verticals exclusively Financial, Pharmaceutical, Insurance Industries.  ? Wrote several Purging shell scripts on Linux which have been using as standard script at the workplace  ? Provided root cause analysis and permanent fix of production problems  ? Installation, administration and maintenance of Oracle 11g and 12C  ? Team player with excellent interpersonal, analytical and communications skills  ? Wrote scripts to inform the DBA's regarding the status, performance and space management of the database  ? Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and testing  ? Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  ? Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 12C, 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  ? Experience with SQL coding DDL, DML and fine tuning those sql's for better performance.  ? Performed backup & recovery of large databases and provided 24X7 production support to high critical databases  ? Unix Shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  ? Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle instances using Oracle Enterprise Manager, ADDM, TOAD, monitor users, table spaces, memory structures, rollback segments, logs, and alerts.  ? Expert in systems analysis and architecture, capacity planning, backup/recovery, installation, configuration, apply patches, troubleshooting, performance monitoring and tuning.  ? Design, development, and testing of backup and recovery to ensure complete recoverability.  ? Solid experience in disaster recovery, routine maintenance for Oracle databases.  ? Security management for database, network, and operating systems.  ? SQL Net installation/configuration/troubleshooting (Server and Client side)  ? Storage Management including fragmentation detection, tablespace growth ratio.  ? Excellent interpersonal and strong analytical, problem-solving skills. Work Experience ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR MTCI - Laurel, MD June 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install client/server Oracle and MS SQL Server Software  • Wrote scripts to create tables, views, indexes and synonyms required meeting developer needs.  • Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Creating physical databases with multiple tablespaces from logical and physical data model  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Prepared scripts to tune developer SQL codes to maximize result return time  • Performed cold and hot backup using Rman.    • Troubleshooting, Restructuring and tuning for optimal performance of existing databases that were poorly designed for heavy hits.  • Cloned databases using scripts as well as RMAN. Installation, setup and configuration of Data guard.  • Refreshed schema using DataPump. Created the database, tablespaces, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Backup / Recovery methodology specification for mission critical databases  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab.  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12C Enterprise Editions, OEM with Oracle Diagnostic and Tuning packs.  • Experience working on POC of 12C new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12C using the PDB metadata clone, PDB remote clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Database and Data Migration using DataPump, Migration Utility.  • Performed bulk data loads using SQL Loader.  • Set up and configured SQL*Net and on servers and client machines.  • Administration of RAC and DATAGUARD databases in Oracle 11g.  • Resizing and reorganization of database objects: Tables, Indexes, Rollback segments and Redo log files of existing production and development systems. Resizing Tablespaces, Tables, indexes, Rollback segments.  • Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  • Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  • Resolving RAC specific issues such as node evictions etc  • Performed proactive and reactive tuning/managing database space utilization and growth  • Implementing Oracle ASM and resolving ASM related issues  • Detailed analysis of the business and users requirements by doing various information gathering techniques.    Environment: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.4), Oracle 12C, DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLA Education High school or equivalent Skills ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, RMAN, HTML, Oracle Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    OPERATING SYSTEMS: Red Hat Linux RHEL 7.1, AIX 6.1, HP-UX, SOLARIS 8/9/10, MS Windows  RDBMS: Oracle 12C/11g/10g  LANGUAGES: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  SOFTWARE/ APPLICATIONS/ TOOLS:  DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), OEM Grid Control, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management Service (OMS), Real Application Clusters (RAC), ASM, TOAD, DataPump (expdp, impdp), SRVCTL, SQL*Plus, MS Outlook,    TUNING TOOLS: SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM  WEB TOOLS: HTML, XML