Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior DBA Minneapolis, MN Devoted Senior database administrator with nine years of extensive knowledge and  proficiency in security implementation, backup & recovery, high availability and disaster  recovery solutions, upgrades, patching, performance monitoring and tuning, migration, and  database cloning. Proficient in various platforms such as Linux, Unix, Windows, and various  database systems such as Oracle 10g, 11g, and 12c. Enthusiastic problem solver whose able to  adapt quickly to a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator BAE Systems - Reston, VA August 2015 to Present Installing and upgrading database software    ? Monitoring and resolving Database and applications locking issues.    ? Performance tuning, utilizing OEM or third party tools.    ? Implementation and maintenance of Disaster Recovery environments using Data Guard.    ? Scheduling and studying ASH/AWR/ADDM reports and taking corrective actions.    ? Configuring databases to use Direct NFS for improved performance.    ? Experience and understanding of high- availability solutions RAC and Maximum Availability  Architecture.    ? Automating, scripting and streamlining processes for efficiency and accuracy  ? Utilizing Oracle backup methodologies, and their implementation, scheduling of RMAN  backups as well as successful database restores. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Inova Health System - Falls Church, VA June 2013 to July 2015 Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 11.2.0.4 databases in 24/7 production  environment on Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers, as well as Microsoft SQL Server 2012  databases on Windows Server 2012.  ? Managed database authorization and database roles/privileges, and enabled database  auditing for database security.  ? Configured Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt sensitive data.  ? Monitored space utilization and optimized performance of Oracle 11g databases using  Oracle Enterprise Manager.  ? Provided and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using Oracle Data  Guard.  ? Performed backup and recovery of Oracle databases using Recovery Manager (RMAN).  ? Created logical backups of Oracle databases using Data Pump utility.  ? Cloned databases using RMAN.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch  utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  ? Performed bulk load into databases SQL Loader.  ? Provided troubleshooting and support for user issues.  ? Analyzed complex SQL queries, and provided data analysis and interpretation.  ? Enforced business rules and maintained data integrity via the use of constraints using  DDL statements. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Securitas - Herndon, VA September 2011 to May 2013 Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 10g and 11g databases in test, development, and production environments on Unix servers.  ? Automated system tasks using DBMS_Scheduler.  ? Implemented cold backups and hot backups for production and development  environments.  ? Restore and recover different backups on production and test environment in case of disaster.  ? Created stored procedures, views, and triggers.  ? Performed capacity planning for future projects and initiatives.  ? System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation.  ? Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch  utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  ? Creation and administration of users, roles, privileges and profiles to control access  permissions and privileges of users and/or applications.  ? Resolved Oracle related errors/issues assigned through Remedy ticketing system.  ? Planned, implemented and monitored backup and recovery strategies for production  databases using RMAN.  ? Configured Oracle databases using DBCA and networking tools such as NETCA.  ? Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users, and auditing user activity. Education BS in Science & Medical Technology George Mason University Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science Northern Virginia Community College Skills SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, RMAN, RED HAT, UNIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SCRIPTING, REMEDY, STORAGE MANAGEMENT, T-SQL, BASH, JIRA, RDBMS, AUDIT, MS WINDOWS SERVER 2008, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, LOADER, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, DBA, Sql Database, MYSQL Additional Information LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/ayub-ali-566a29177