Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - Walmart Lanham, MD An accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) with over 7 years of experience with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup and Recovery, Migration, Database Design, Monitoring and Tuning, Upgrades, Security Implementations. I also have a wide knowledge on assortment of technologies including 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and SQL Server. A highly motivated individual with strong leadership and interpersonal skills, who can be trusted with highly sensitive/confidential documentation and projects. An enthusiastic proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail. I possess excellent written and verbal communication with the ability to articulate variety of concepts to technical and non technical audiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Administrator Walmart - Washington, DC August 2017 to Present • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA ; execution of backup schedule for both physical logical backups using RAM and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also use block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Lead database migration project from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using password, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data encrypt columns, tables and table spaces. I also implemented the "triple (AAA) and database auditing polices as well as data redaction.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environment.  • Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing & performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH and Explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Cloned database using RAM and DATAPUMP utilities for all database size.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamics aspects of storage & memory for the database.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STARTS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and take appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Performed database Refreshes from production environment.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Performed PL/SQL errors fixes and modified the applications using PLSQL. Oracle Database Administrator Bank of America - Baltimore, MD July 2015 to August 2017 • Created database from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Support daily administration, monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on single instance on Unix /Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012( Database sizes ranging from 100GB to 59TB).  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development & implementation.  • Implemented a backup and recovery policy under tight SLA times using RAM and DataPump.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA .Also installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server instances 2008 and 2012  • Championed Database Migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using Oracle DataPump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL *Net to access the database across the network.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Designed and implemented the ETL utilizing PL/SQL.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Worked on ORACLE EXADATE Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance for the database.  • Configure and manage ASM instance on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test and deploy patches to all database instances. Oracle Database Administrator Computer Information System & Healthcare Inc - Landover, MD June 2012 to July 2015 Proactive manage the database to prevent it from poor performance by using the Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) to analyze the statistic levels.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM .Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the database.  • Implementing DataPump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing Database/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Perform configuration and utilize Oracle flashback technology for recovery of errors.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10 g RAC database. Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Buea Skills Bash (Less than 1 year), Capacity planning (5 years), Data replication (Less than 1 year), Database (7 years), Disaster recovery (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), loader (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (2 years), Oem (3 years), oracle (7 years), performance tuning. (5 years), Pl/sql (4 years), Red hat (Less than 1 year), replication. (5 years), Rman (Less than 1 year), security (5 years), Sql (7 years), Sql server (2 years), Switch capacity (5 years), Unix (5 years) Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  • Backup and Recovery using RMAN  • Upgrades &Migration  • Installation, Configuration, Capacity Planning  • Database Security & Patching  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning    • Oracle ASM  • Grid control  • Bash /Unix Shell scripting & Automation  • Oracle Data guard  • Oracle Golden Gate & RAC    • Backup and recovery using RAM  • Work with various operating system like MS Windows Server (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX, LINUX(Red Hat)  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA  • Database security(TDE)  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, and DRA  • Oracle VM Virtual Box    • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Datapump, and SQL loader  • Oracle ASM (clusters) configuration and administration