Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Frederick, MD I am an accomplished Database Administrator with over 7 years of experience including database design,  monitoring & tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, security, and cloning. I am proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, and MS SQL Server; experience with supporting databases on Linux, Unix, and Windows. Able to work effectively with team members and independently. Current active Secret clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Walter Reed National Military Medical Center - Bethesda, MD October 2016 to Present Experience with implementing, tuning and maintaining Oracle Database.  • Experience in providing administration and support for Oracle 10g/11g installations, database creation, database security, database optimization and tuning.  • Thorough understanding of partitioning, encryption, OEM, grid control, replication  • Superior oral and written communication skills to collaborate operations with developers, systems administrators and other groups.  • Proficient with backup and recovery using RMAN.  • Create and execute SQL scripts for database maintenance and monitoring, and execution of inserts, updates and other  DML.  • Assist developers with database related issues including database objects such as functions, triggers, and procedures, and other objects.  • Well-versed in Linux and Windows Operating Systems including scripting and basic administration.  • Maintained access permissions and privileges for database objects.  • Provided troubleshooting and support for all IT-related issues.  • Performed queries and provide data analysis and interpretation.  • Extensively using DATAPUMP and Export /Import utilities for logical backups and performed database cloning using RMAN.  • Slow running queries analysis.  • Planned installation configuration managed and troubleshoot Oracle 11g and 12c databases on Linux and Windows OS.  • Administered database user accounts.  • Managed database permissions and setup database roles and enable database auditing for database security. Oracle Database Administrator Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Rockville, MD September 2014 to October 2016 Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data  Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces.  • Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX.  • Maintained SQL Server 2012 instances on Windows.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 35TB).  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Database Administrator Clubhill Media - Germantown, MD March 2012 to August 2014 Part of database support team for Oracle and SQL Server databases.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Performed backup and recovery of Oracle databases using RMAN.  • Provided support for MS SQL Server databases on Windows Server 2012.  • Assisted users with database related concerns via ticketing system.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments. Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Encryption, Rman, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Scripting, Security, Capacity planning, Oem Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2019 to Present