Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Methuen, MA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Jelani Consulting LLC - Laurel, MD November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Database Migration from 11g to 12c Oracle Database with Super Cluster using Data pump utility.  • Installed Oracle Cluster-Ware to provide infrastructure for RAC and also configured 2 node Oracle 11g RAC.  • Work with Users to resolve any Database or query performance issues using Database advisors and AWR.  • Review, create and also monitor triggers and stored procedures used for user applications and back end reporting.  • Apply Oracle patches for various Oracle bugs and quarterly security patches for both Standby and Primary Databases.  • Provide Oracle and SQL Server Database consulting and support with employer's external clients. Supports also includes the following: DBA tasks such as performance tuning, backup and recovery of full and partial Databases using RMAN, and Database performance tuning of HP-UX multiprocessor shared Database environment.  • Provide DBA Implementation and support for Oracle migrations and upgrades, including environments using Data Guard.  • Troubleshoot and resolve locking and concurrency issues, excessive parsing, resource bottlenecks including memory and CPU bottlenecks and recommending solutions.  • Experience in applying security patches and updates using OPATCH utility.  • Monitoring the Database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Installed, configured and manage Oracle Database 10g and 11g ASM storage.  • Perform restore, recovery and refresh of Databases.  • Maintain Database configurations in compliance with change management and release management.  • Implemented different partition methodologies to improve manageability and performance.  • Installed and configured grid monitoring tool for Oracle 11g Database.  • Perform hot and cold backup using RMAN.  • Backup and restore of Databases, tables, schema using Datapump export/import and transportable tablespaces (TTS).  • Control Database resource access through user profiles and data access control through Virtual Private Database and principle of least privileges implementation. Oracle Database Administrator BGE - Baltimore, MD January 2011 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Monitoring the full backup and incremental backup jobs using RMAN.  • Scheduling the physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Monitoring the Database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, used tuning utilities like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, and Sizing of tables and indexes.  • Performed database and performance testing for the database objects.  • Performed day to day activities such as creating users/roles/schemas/tables/views/indexes and running the scripts given by clients.  • Performed installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Proactively monitored the disk and the memory usage of the Server and monitored tablespaces for performance measures.  • Monitored and optimized performance, resources, availability and operation of all systems.  • Installed Data Guard standby Databases and performed disaster recovery testing.  • Added, modified or removed users, roles, privileges, profiles and other data accesses.  • Participated in regular 24/7 on call support duty rotation for production database and after hours  • Support.  • Managed databases and instances using Data Guard and RAC in a real time production, testing and development environment.  • Implementation and support of Oracle 10g and 11g, migrations and upgrades from Oracle 9i and 10g Databases including RAC Databases and Linux. Education CERTIFICATION in physics University of Buea 2001 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    RDBMS: Oracle [ ] Oracle 10g (Data Guard)  Operating Systems: HP-UX 11.00, Solaris 9/10, AIX 5.3, Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.4, 5.5 and Windows [ ]  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux Shell Scripting  Tuning Utilities: SQL Trace, TKPROF, Explain Plan, ADDM, AWR, ASH, ADRCI  Backup Tools: RMAN, OCOPY, DBVERIFY  Migration Tools: Data Pump (expdp /impdp), SQL*Loader  Install/Upgrade: OUI, DBCA, DBUA, OPATCH  Management tool: Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL*Plus Command Line  Network tools: NetCA, Lsnrctl  High Availability: ASM (ASMCMD), Knowledge of Data Guard, RAC