Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - KAISER PERMANENTE Landover, MD Accomplished, ORACLE Database Administrator, and an expert in IT security with over 8 years of experience with extensive knowledge, proficiency, and expertise in Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Security Implementation, Cloning, Backup & Recovery, Replication, and Database Design. Adept in an assortment of technologies, including Oracle 11g, 12c, 18c, SQL loader, MySQL, and MS SQL server. Possesses remarkable verbal, written, analytical and organizational abilities; with Motivational Management style, and a penchant for building, and retaining, teams that are highly motivated to find innovative solutions. Passionate learner who gracefully and successfully manages multiple priorities and performs exceptionally well under pressure. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator KAISER PERMANENTE 2017 to Present • Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008, 2012, and 2016.  • Support multiple databases running Oracle 11g and 12c on Linux platforms in all environments in multiple data centers.  • Designed backup strategies following SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 4hrs down to 25mins.  • Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using OPATCH utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Performing Database Refresh from production to test and development environments using RMAN Duplicate.  • Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Constructed database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt tables and Tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Implemented data masking to populate development and testing environments, without putting sensitive production data at risk.  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008, 2012. 2016 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 39TB).  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Implemented table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users and supervised the coaching of junior DBAs.  • Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production support. Generating Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Oracle Database Administrator BANK OF AMERICA 2013 to 2017 • Performing Day-to-Day DBA tasks: performance tuning, system security, database installation configuration, patching, technical database support in 24X7 environment to ensure system performance and stability.  • Daily incremental backup and weekly full backup of databases using RMAN.  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Frequently monitor emails in regards to any database issues.  • Responsible for quarterly patches, maintaining/monitoring/upgrading the production and test databases.  • Setup/configured oracle RMAN for database backup and recovery. Application of different recovery.  • Procedures for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure by using Export/Import scripts.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Granting roles and privileges to end users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving oracle database and application issues.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Cron for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Implemented database security using Oracle's Transparent Data Encryption based on Database Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) developed by Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)  • Logical Volumes layouts, Disk layouts and Capacity planning.  • Test backups. Test recovery by forcing database crashes.  • Perform database tuning by reviewing AWR & ADDM reports, implementing SQL profiles and baselines, designing table and index partitioning and coalescing of database objects for faster query performance. Include memory, I/O, contention, and SQL statement tuning. Junior Oracle DBA SYSCO 2010 to 2013 • Install, configure, and upgrade Oracle server database management software using appropriate patches and applications.  • Facilitate a wide range of migrations, upgrades, and conversions adhering to applicable backup and recovery protocol.  • Monitor and maintain the health of architected databases and database server environments.  • Implement and integrate performance tuning and security features to optimize functionality.  • Prepare and maintain database documentation and standards to bolster user management and acceptance activities.  • Experienced in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization's critical information and exceeding the industry standard.  • In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.  • Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Loader, SQL, RMAN, PL/SQL and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users. Altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  • Databases Performance Tuning/Maintenance. Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Replication, Sql, Disaster recovery, Encryption, Rman, Data masking, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Data replication, Security, Bash Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Installation, configuration, capacity planning  • Backup & Recovery  • Upgrades & Migration  • Database Security & Patching  • Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)  • Database Cloning  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning  • Data Masking  • Oracle Data Guard & Data Pump  • Oracle Golden Gate & RAC  • Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation  • Oracle ASM  • Grid Control    TECHINCAL SKILLS AND TOOLS    • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, OPATCH, DBCA and DBUA  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • Database security (including TDE)  • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Oracle Data Guard installation/ administration for high availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • Monitoring and performance Tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, TKProf, Explain Plan, Statspack/AWR, ADRCI, ADDM, DRA, Dbms_monitor  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data Pump, and SQL Loader  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014, 2016), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos)  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)