Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Huntington National Bank Columbus, OH I have an expert knowledge on Oracle 11gR2,10g, 12c, RAC ,RMAN for Backup and recovery, Data guard for Disaster recovery, Installation, Configuration, Migration, upgrade, cloning, patching, Performance Tuning.Excellent experience in Installation and configuration of different databases on various Operating Systems such as LINUX, SOLARIS, AIX and Windows platforms.   Planned and scheduled the Physical (Cold / Hot) backups as well as Logical backups.  Experience in management tools like Oracle Enterprise Manager, Toad and SQL Developer.  Knowledge of Golden Gate and Real Application Cluster (RAC).  Provided 24x7 Remote / on-call production supports.  Have provided security management.  Proactive, good in documentation and communication ( oral and written). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH January 2016 to Present Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • Installed and Configured Oracle 11g (3 node RAC) CRS using ASM, 11.2.0.3 RAC (2 node cluster) using GI setup.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 11.2.0.3.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM  • Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication.  • Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.  • Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.  • Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in handling large databases up to 4TB in size and largest table of size 60GB with 145 million records.  • Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.  • Providing suggestion and workaround to Tune the Bad Performing SQL by giving Index and Stats fixwith the help of Execution plan and Predications  • Monitoring and working in Oracle Golden Gate support activities like new configuration, deployment on existing configuration and Release activities.  • Managing Golden Gate abended, stopped process, errors, alerts and lag alert using golden gate director.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases  • Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.  • Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.  • Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.  • Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.  • Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.  • Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.  • Performance tuning of Oracle instances  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Involved in performing upgrades from Oracle 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization.  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  • Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Oracle Database Administrator Columbus, IN March 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Active member in making enterprise hardware infrastructure related decisions with IT management  • Involve in meetings with top IT management to discuss platform migrations  • Installed, Setup, Configured Oracle version 10g Release2 64 Bit on Solaris 10 and HP-UX11  • Installed, Setup, Configured Oracle version 11g Release2 64 Bit on SLES 10  • Migrating from Oracle 10g Sun Solaris 10 to Oracle 11g SUSE Linux (SLES) 10  • Built Oracle MAA Physical Standby and Logical Standby and configure Data Guard Broker for High Availability/Disaster Recovery purpose  • Perform planned switchover and failover to physical standby database with and without Data Guard Broker to verify availability status  • Transferring data from one server to another server by Export/Import Data Pump and Normal Export /Import utilities  • Refresh Test/Dev/Quality/Training/Sandbox environment from Production for Apps Team  • Regularly applying all CPU & PSU Patches to All Oracle Databases using Opatch  • Creating and monitoring TAR/SR with Oracle Support  • Extensively used Oracle 10gR2 new features automatic SGA tuning, enhanced RMAN with Flash Recovery Area, Block Change Tracking, Merge backup, Oracle Data Pump, big file tablespaces, new EM Grid Control, Database Control, Studio Control, AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning/Access Advisors, Flashback Database and several others  • Implemented Oracle Streams for propagation and management of data, transactions and events in the data stream to ensure smooth and transparent data flow using Oracle Streams methodology of  • Capture, Staging and Apply from the production Database to the Target database  • Implemented DATA GUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  • Performance tuning of Oracle Database Objects by fixing row chaining  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF,  • STATSPACK  • Tuned parameters for a large monthly SQL* Loader job resulting in 90% reduction of operation time  • Working with Blobs and Clobs, Materialized views with Query Rewrite, Bitmapped Indexes, etc  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning).  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes, on tables and indexes. Education Bachelor of Science degree Fourah Bay College, University of Sierra Leone (USL) - Freetown, SL Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate February 2019