Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Corteva Agriscience Atlanta, GA PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  • Troubleshoot and resolve slowness or performance issues with extensive investigation and follow-up with respective application teams with RCA and proposed solutions.  • Resolve lock/latch and resource contention issues during production hours  • Configure Dataguard and Broker for administration of seamless switchovers.  • Upgrade GI and DBs from 11g to 12c with physical standby DBs in place Installation and configuration of oracle Golden Gate.  • Tune and Optimize application code to adhere to SLAs.  • Involve in meetings with top IT management to discuss extremely complex platform migrations.  • Plan and lead upgrades/migrations/patches with complete action plan and tested fallback plan.  • Worked on Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data pump.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Implemented Hot/Cold physical backups (Incremental and full), cloning, duplicating of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup & IBM TSM.  • Experienced in using 10g features like 10g RMAN, Data pump Flash-Back Recovery and ASM.  • Communicate and Co-ordinate with application teams in planning, execution and post verification for major upgrades and migrations through recurring meetings.  • Configured SCAN as a cluster alias for load balancing and as a client connection failover mechanism  • Experience in using Golden Gate to support data replication in the Oracle database environment.  • Experience in applying PSU patch on standalone as well as RAC databases.  • Worked on various relational databases including SQL SERVER, MYSQL and POSTGRES.  • Migrated On Premises systems and databases to cloud solutions such as AWS and Azure.  • Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, 10g RAC servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.  • Configured Manager, Replicate and Extract processes and implemented unidirectional, bidirectional replication using Oracle 11g Golden Gate on RHEL 5 platform.  • UNIX shell scripts for hot backups, SQL*Loader, export and import of database.  • Proficient with Database Cloning, Migration, and Patching of Oracle Databases.  • Installed Oracle 11g with ASM and OCFS2 File systems.  • Highly Experienced in Hot/Cold Backup and Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN.  • Highly experienced in performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Cross-platform Migration across different RDBMS including PostGres, MySQL and SQL SERVER  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) across Platforms  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Experience in Implementation of Cloud Solutions for Database Migrations on MS Azure and hands on training on Amazon AWS.  • Experience in doing upgrades including maintenance & monitoring implementation.  • Extensive knowledge in UNIX platforms includes HP, SOLARIS, AIX, and LINUX and Windows 2012  • Knowledge in configuring ASM (Automatic Storage Management)  • UNIX Systems Administration - Database and application integration efforts. Heavy UNIX shell scripting, CRON jobs.    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Databases: Oracle 11G/10G/12C Work Experience Database Administrator Corteva Agriscience - Indianapolis, IN January 2019 to Present Oracle, MySQL, POSTGRES, SQLSERVER)  • Migration of database services to Cloud based technologies Windows Azure Virtual Machine (P.O.C)  • Implemented Oracle Security | Auditing techniques for SOX compliance which includes Fine Grained Auditing (FGA), Fine Grained Access Control (FGAC) using DBMS_FGA and DBMS_RLS for implementing Row Level | Column Level Security, data and backup encryption, strong authentication.  • Oracle security using Roles and Profiles and granting of the privileges according to the needs of the various users and adhering to the security and policies of the organization.  • Closely worked with an Application team to identify if there is any bottleneck found in Application Server to troubleshoot and administering.  • Capacity planning: Allocate system storage and plan future storage requirements.  • Performed Database Tuning for I/O Contention, Memory contention, Locks, Latches, Row Migration, Row Chaining, Block Contentions and etc.  • O/S monitoring for CPU, Memory and Disk I/O utilization using OEM and Solawinds DPA  Develop and design dashboards, reports, ad-hoc queries and analysis  • Creating database objects as stored procedure, functions, triggers etc.  • Handled planned/ Un-planned outages of production servers and maintained different jobs.  • Involved in database design & data modeling activities including modifying different packages for data mapping as per business/user request.  • Automation of different business activities using shell script and plsql objects.  • Routine crosschecking of the job failure tickets & taking corrective actions.  • Facilitate junior team members in resolving tickets in GSD.  • Performance tuning of SQL and PLSQL objects.  • Prepare and review the action plans for performing scheduled activities.  • Space management of data files and table spaces.  • Performed user creation with defined roles and profile.  • Resolve day to day user requests like archival error, space issues, etc.  Perform change for changing any database parameters.  • Handled undo management issues.  • Installation of oracle software and Proof of concept Database migration on Azure Cloud Virtual Machine  • Migration of oracle 10g/11g/12C databases from physical server to VMWARE virtual servers on a new DOMAIN.  • Support Developers with USERS REMEDIATION Post-Migration to New Dow Updating Application USERS post Migration with new ID's and update built in app-coded information including DOMAIN names(USING PL/SQL)  • Created, scheduled and monitored SQL SERVER JOBS, making sure jobs run successfully every time  Revise and improve current monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise.  • Creating documentations for installations, MIGRATION, upgrades, BACKUP, RESTORES, index maintenance.  • Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.  • Involved in TROUBLESHOOTING as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  • Participating in ON-CALL ROTATION with the team.  • Maintaining all environments (test, training and dev).  • Involved in REBUILDING OR REORGANIZING INDEX through maintenance plan.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Assisted with sizing, query optimization, buffer tuning, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  • Designed databases for referential integrity and involved in logical design plan.  • Performance Tuning on a daily basis for preventing issues and providing capacity planning using Percona Toolkit (pt-query-digest).  • Proficiency in Unix/Linux shell commands.  • Configure alerts and threshold using advance monitoring software such as Solarwinds Database Performance Analyzer(DPA)  • Monitored Database Logs database objects, such as tables, indexes, rules, user-defined data types, defaults, database triggers & stored procedures (to implement complex business rules)  • Created and deleted users, groups and set up restrictive permissions, configuration of the sudo files etc.  • Created and deleted users, groups and set up restrictive permissions, configuration of the sudo files  etc.  • Performed MYSQL Replication setup and administration on Golden Gate.  on Windows 2008.  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/12C/18c, RHEL 7, Azure, MSSQLSERVER, MYSQL, POSTGRES, SOLARWINDS, HADOOP, ASURE CLOUD, TSM, COMMVAULT, RMAN, OEM, Data pump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0, AWS Database Administrator (Oracle, MySQL, POSTGRES, SQLSERVER) Dow AgroScience - Indianapolis, IN December 2017 to January 2019 • Participate in software design reviews with developers to ensure that the architecture is scalable to meet long-term performance goals.  • Manage a centralized MS SQL Server 2014, SQL 2012 and 2008R2 Platform consisting of thousands of mission critical databases  • Ability to proactively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live database systems issues. Knowledge in database design including logical and physical design.  • Knowledge of disaster recovery principles and practices, including planning, testing, backup/restore.  • Hands-on experience on database administration, backup recovery and troubleshooting in co-location environments.  • Ability to thrive in a fast-paced, deadline-sensitive environment.  • Responsible for configuring, integrating, and maintaining all Development, QA, Staging and Production PostgreSQL databases within the organization.  • Responsible for all backup, recovery, and upgrading of all of the PostgreSQL databases. Monitoring databases to optimize database performance and diagnosing any issues.  • Develop, implement, maintain policies and procedures and document database architecture to ensure the security and integrity of the databases.  • Implement data models, database designs, data access, table maintenance and code changes together with our development team.  • Experience in code migration, database change management through various stages of development life cycle.  • Providing response for all system / database issues on 24 x 7 Schedule responding to critical events and situations outside normal work hours.  • Install, configure and manage PostgreSQL 9.4, replication Master/Slave, Backups and Restores Using Pg_dump and Pg_restore.  • Maintain and support of regarding logs, users, tables, packages and functions.  • Review and monitor system and instance resources to ensure continuous database operations (i.e., database storage, memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention).Implement, maintain, and test backup and recovery strategies and performance tuning on tables, indexes, tables and procedures on SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2012.  • Configure and manage backups and restores on MySQL version 6 using mysqldump on Red hat 5. Also migrate from InNodb to MyISAM storage, experience using MySQLAdmin tool.  • Create and Configure PostgreSQL Backups using Pgdump tool in Centos 6, also execute and validate all the parameters to migrate from Oracle 11g to PostgreSQL 9.  • Use SQLine Data and SQLines SQL converter to migrate from Oracle to Postgres  • Experience working with Windows Hyper-V Server, , Windows Clustering including.  • Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity.  • Assisted with sizing, query optimization, buffer tuning, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades  and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan.  • Designed databases for referential integrity and involved in logical design plan.  • Performance Tuning on a daily basis for preventing issues and providing capacity planning using  • Percona Toolkit (pt-query-digest).    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/12C RHEL 6.9, Azure, MSSQLSERVER, MYSQL, POSTGRES, SOLARWINDS, HADOOP, ASURE CLOUD, TSM, COMMVAULT, RMAN, OEM, Data pump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0, Nagios Oracle/SQL SERVER Database Administrator US Steel - Pittsburgh, PA February 2014 to November 2017 • Installation and configuration of 10g,11g,12c in UNIX/LINUX (RHEL)and Windows server 2008,2012.  • Installation and configuration of 12c Container Databases on standalone servers and cluster on windows and unix platforms.  • Upgraded multiple Standalone and RAC databases and grid infrastructure from 11gR2 to 12cR1.  • Upgrading GoldenGate from v11 to 12c and Expertise on Oracle Golden Gate and be able to configure Golden Gate  • Used Logdump utility, Defgen utility in GoldenGate environment and Installed Goldengate in dev, test, prod environment  • Worked New Features on 12c databases such as recovering tables, masking the fields, using advanced optimization parameters for good performance of 12c Databases.  • Experience in troubleshooting RAC databases and engaging with application team for gaining performance enhancements for application in clustered environment.  • Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU(Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using OPatch Auto.  • Supported in Performing GoldenGate configuration, administration, installation, also configuring pumps and managing trail files by purging old extract files and log files.  • Troubleshooting GoldenGate using GGSERR.LOG and logdump utility.  • Replication Using GoldenGate for multiple extracts and replication and mapping, Great understanding and usage of advanced parameters in Golden Gate  • Responsible for Installation and upgrading of GoldenGate 11.2.1.0.1 to GoldenGate (v12) 12.1.2.0.0.  • Implemented Physical Standby Databases on 2-node 11gR2 Real Application Cluster and automized scripts to delete archive logs that already applied to standby.  • Duplicating Tablespaces and Databases from Production server to Test server as per customer requirement.  • Involved in datacentre migrating large size database in multiple platform.  • Expertise in Active DataGuard, Snapshot using Dataguard Broker (DGMGRL) and RMAN.  • Generated AWR (Statspack), ADDM, Explain Plan, TKPROF, SQLTRACE, ORADEBUG reports for Performance tuning and also used new tools of 12c for security purpose.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot cloning feature.  • Have implemented two type of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Having hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Comm vault.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11g, RAC & 12C environment for the Production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Experiencing in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplicate of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g&11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes. Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, Extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD,  • Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  • Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  • Implement and enforce security for all of the Oracle Databases; the three basic security tasks are authentication (Setting up user accounts to control logins to the database), authorization (setting permissions on various parts of the database), and auditing (tracking who did what, with the database).  • Perform database re-organizations as required to assist performance and ensure maximum uptime of the database, implement SQL access and tuning advisors recommendations.  • Outline standards in place to ensure that all application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance.  • Evaluates releases of Oracle and its tools, and third party products to ensure that the site is running the products that are most appropriate.  • Experienced with ASM, adding, deleting disks to the disk group.  • Supported development teams for all the database related issues and handled the critical issues like network failures and ASM DISK group errors and node failures in the RAC cluster.  • Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  • Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries  Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/12C RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0 Data Guard, RAC, Golden Gate, RMAN, OEM, Data pump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0 Database Administrator GE Healthcare - Richmond, VA March 2012 to January 2014 • Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Enforcing and managing Security and Audit requirement compliance.  • Performance tuning by Fine Tuning Initialization parameters, I/O, Memory, storage and Operating System kernel parameters, Oracle SQL, optimizer, and query plan, optimize queries and performing PL/SQL code profiling.  • Troubleshooting the Database Performance issues by analyzing Automated Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) reports, using SQL Adviser & UNDO Adviser tools, OEM GRID, TOAD / DBARTISAN (third party tool).  • Tracing Blocking / Locking and Long Running sessions, Wait Interface.  • Capacity Planning as per Data growth and work-load by working closely with other decision-making Teams such as Development, Business / Clients.  • Apply CPU, DST, RDBMS patches to RAC Databases as per the requirement.  • Supporting OS Patching activity for all RAC Servers.  • Create databases for development, testing and production (including RAC databases and NON- RAC databases).  • Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges)  • Implementing 11g Data guard with one physical database. Used OEM Grid Control Diagnostic and tuning packs to tune application and SQL queries. Installation, Configuration & Administration of Oracle 11gR2 RAC.  • 24*7 production support for day to day operations and On Call responsibilities.  • Optimization and tuning SQL queries using TRACE FILE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN. Extensive usage of ADDM, AWR, ASSM, features of 10g/11gR2.  • Database structure changes, table/index sizing, SGA sizing, SQL, I/O and Application tuning, transaction monitoring, detecting lock contentions, tuning sort operations.  • Timely Reorganization of tables and rebuilt of indexes to improve the performance of the SQL queries as part of scheduled maintenance window. Developing online RMAN backup scripts to automate backup procedures.  • Clone RAC databases with various strategies like Cold/Hot/Logical Refresh and RMAN Backup.  • On RAC systems did CRS upgrade, ASM upgrade, DB Upgrade and OEM Agent Upgrade.  • Cloning from cluster database to Normal database and Cloning from Normal database to cluster database.  • Implemented Oracle Physical Standby DataGuard on multiple oracle 11g / 12c databases.  • Configured DG Broker for easy Failover/Switchover during outages and Convert to Snapshot standby during DR test every 6 months.  • Troubleshooting and fixing DG Broker configuration.  • Troubleshooting and Fixing out of sync Oracle Physical Standby DataGuard using RMAN incremental backup.  • Upgrading Oracle databases from 11.2.0.x to 11.2.0.4 and from 11.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.4.5 and from 11.2.0.X to 12.1.0.1.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Managing database security.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Managed Database Maintenance Activities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL.  • Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents.  Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, Data Guard, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Data pump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0 Database Administrator IBM Sterling OMS 2011 to 2014 • 8 years of experience as a Database Administrator working in both UNIX and Windows platforms, on different RDBMS such as Oracle, Postgres, MS SQL SERVER, and MySQL.  • Worked on Oracle 12c, 11g, 10g versions, Postgres versions 9, 10, 11, MS SQL Server 2012, 2014 and 2016 including projects, production, development and 24/7 business critical database support  • Experienced in Installation and configuration of Database Software, Upgrades, Patches, Security support, Database Migration, Backup and Recovery, Refreshes, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, Cloning, High Availability and Script Automation.  • Configuration and Implementation of Advance technologies such as Always On Availability, Transportable Tablespaces, Transparent Data Encryption, RAC, Data Guard, and Golden Gate  • Implementation of Cloud Solutions and database migration from Onsite to Cloud including AWS, AZURE  • DB Application Support for PeopleSoft, IBM Sterling OMS, and Microsoft Dynamic Ax and other Enterprise Applications  • End-to-end understanding of SDLC methodology.    Key Skills/Years of Experience:  Oracle DBA: 8 years (10g,11g,12c,18c)  PostgreSQL/MySQL: 3 years  MS SQL Server: 6 years (SQL SERVER2008/2012/2014/2016)  Golden Gate: 4 years  (TDE) Transparent Data Encryption:5 years  RAC: 5 years of experience  EXADATA: 3 Years  DataGuard: 6 Years of experience  Unix scripting: 6 years of experience  AZURE Cloud: 2+ Years  EXADATA: 2 years  AWS: 6 months+  Major App DBA Support: Peoplesoft, OMS, Microsoft DAX    Availability to Start: Two weeks  Location: Indianapolis IN/Atlanta GA Education Bachelors in Information Systems in Information Systems IUPUI 2014 to Present Associates Applied Computer Science Prince George's Community College 2010 Skills PL/SQL, SQL, RMAN, AIX, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, UX, HP-UX, PERL, SCRIPTING, OEM, WINDOWS 95, LOADER, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, Sql Dba, MYSQL