Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - HANSEN TECHNOLOGY Allentown, PA I have over 5 years of hands-on experience as an Oracle Database Administrator and I have work on Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c versions running on different operating systems such as LINUX, AIX, UNIX and WINDOWS in both production support and development across a full SDLC. However, some of my responsibilities in my experience include Database Configuration and installation, Database creation, Database Upgrades and Patching, Database Security, Backup and Recovery, Performance tuning, shell scripting, Documentation, Data guard, RAC, Golden Gate, Database Refreshes and Database Migrations.  In addition, I am a very analytical person, a good team player, a self-motivated and creative person with an aptitude to learn quickly, take responsibility, work under pressure and with a good communication and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator HANSEN TECHNOLOGY - Allentown, PA July 2017 to Present • DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.2 & 5.3. Database sizes range from 4GB to 2TB (in ODS & EDW environments).  • Responsible for Build Work in various servers which has 3 Node RAC & Non - RAC, High Availability, Golden Gate Technologies.  • Experienced in Golden Gate Installation and Configuration for database replication purpose.  • Solid experience with different versions of Golden Gate installation, configuration, Administration, heartbeat monitoring etc.,  • Supported 400+ databases including RAC production database, a Data warehouse database and a lot of Development and Test databases and upgraded from 10g to 11g.  • Provided Production & test environment support while coordinating with Unix Team and storage team to configure the OS infrastructure for Oracle Databases.  • Worked on setting up/installation and configuration of release 11g R2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices and 11g CRS on IBM AIX 6.1.  • Performed conversion of Single Node Instance to multi node RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Installed and configured 6 node oracle 11gR2 RAC for production environment.  • Installed 12c Databases and responsible for upgrading Oracle 10g RAC to 11g RAC.  • Involved in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting Golden Gate EXTRACT and REPLICATE issues.  • Implemented and administered Oracle Golden Gate (v10) for Database Replication between production and reporting node, by using Oracle Streams in parallel to secure data and having the availability of the database during regular the upgrade or maintenance operation.  • Implemented Data Pump, Export and Import on day to day basis as per development and test servers.  • Responsible for Performance Monitoring and analysis of 11gRAC (Real Application Clusters) with AWR (Automatic Workload Repository) reports and ASH (Active Session History).  • Monitoring database performance and database operation to prevent downtime and slowness of the services.  • Worked closely with the system operations team on database deployment processes and database capacity planning.  • Implemented backup and recovery procedures (Cold/Hot backups, RMAN Incremental backups & Import/Export).  • Cloning RAC to RAC and RAC to NON RAC using hot backup and RMAN.  • Expertise in configuring and managing the Concurrent Managers, Workflow Notification Mailers and monitoring their operation  • Strong experience in Space and User Management, Capacity planning, standby setup, Backup & recovery (Import/Export, Datapump, RMAN)  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM, SQL TRACE and SQLT  • Handled Physical and Logical Corruptions and recovery using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Applied database patches using Opatch utility & building Clone instances for Development and Test teams.  • Maintained and monitored various production servers with Oracle 11g R1, 11g R2, 10g, and exadata servers.  • Maintained DATA GUARD to provide high availability by implementing physical stand-by database and snapshot-standby and worked with Oracle 11g features 11g Grid Control and Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Troubleshooting Space Management & User accounts and privilege issues while coordinating with Unix and application teams.  • Performed proactive database maintenance procedures to ensure optimal performance and uptime and implemented shell scripts for automation of day to day activities.  • Regular Security Patching and Critical patch Updates (CPU) and Patch set updates (PSU) on Oracle databases and interim patches for various bug fixes on database products.  • Production support for Oracle database 10g/11g RAC.  • Implemented and configured of Oracle Enterprise manager OEM 12C and Oracle Management Server for maintenance and monitoring of production databases.  • Managing Users, Roles, privileges, profiles, schemas, SQL Monitoring, SQL Advisor, SQL tuning and Metrics, using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12C.  • Creating and Managing Primary Objects like Custom tables, Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Alerts & Functions. Views, Indexes, user accounts, roles, grants and performing day-to-day operations.  • Expert in monitoring database using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). Oracle Production Support Database Administrator XL Health - Baltimore, MD June 2014 to June 2017 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databasesand Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Backup/Recovery - Write Rman Backup script as required. Restore backupset to Local server from Tape. Recover database to point-in-time on different host. Restore tables from Old backup. Recover corrupted Blocks from Rman backup. Restore backup of 10g on 11g. Involved in Corporate DR exercise. Implement Flashback features. Used backup-based duplication method for 11R2 databases.  • Apply in-place/out-of-place PSU Patch in 11R2. Install bug fix patch.  • Tuning Database using AWR/ADDM/SQL trace. Hands on Various Tuning Advisors. Migrate SQL plans & statistics from QA to PROD. Schedule stats Job using DBMS_SCHEDULER. Used AWRSQL/SQL tuning package. Tune various SQL's. Provide Primary investigation on Performance issue to application team in minimal time. Troubleshoot/mitigate various wait events in DB. Tuning of RAC instances and Database.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Detect corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  • Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine grained Auditing.  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  • Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centres.  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  • Perform production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of BUEA CAMEROON Skills DATAGUARD (4 years), BACKUP AND RECOVERY (5 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), MIGRATION (5 years), PL/SQL (2 years), RMAN & SQL (5 years), OEM (5 years), LINUX (5 years), SHELL SCRIPTING (2 years), SECURITY (4 years), EXADATA (2 years), UPGRADE & PATCHES (4 years), PERFORMANCE TUNING (5 years), ORACLE DBA (5 years), RAC & GOLDEN GATE (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present