Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Brake Parts Inc I have three years of hands-on experience in Oracle Database Administration. Duties include Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Oracle Golden Gate. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Brake Parts Inc - McHenry, IL July 2016 to Present Have some ideas for migration of regular databases to Oracle Exadata  ? Tuning of Oracle Databases for performance improvement using AWR, ADDM, ASH, Trace Analyzer, SQLTXPLAIN, and other OS related utilities like pstack, top, vmstat, iostat, prstat, strace, and also used Oracle Enterprise Manager(OEM) 11g and 12c  ? Converting Standby database to Snapshot standby database for pre-go live activities  ? Performed oracle Software Installations, Creation of new standalone databases.  ? Implemented Oracle TDE to provide transparent encryption of stored data to support submission efforts with release of Oracle 11g R2.  ? Design and Maintaining Physical standby maintenance (Switch over - using Data Guard Broker).  ? Database structure changes, table/index sizing, SGA sizing, SQL, I/O and Application tuning, transaction monitoring, detecting lock contentions, tuning sort operations.  ? Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, MAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.  ? Handled Chained Rows and Row migration, and solved the database performance issues.  ? Generated Statspack/AWR reports using OEM 12C from Oracle 11g database and analysed the reports for Oracle wait events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, database growth.  ? Installed and Managed Oracle 12c Grid Control (OEM) for monitoring Production, Active Data guard (DG Broker), Stage and Dev systems.  ? Also worked on Network data encryption to improve the security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure the connections.  ? Redefinition of tables using DBMS_REDEFINITION, partitioning the tables in the production, re-defining the columns data types, and moving the LOBS to different tablespace  ? Partitioned tables Maintenance, adding new partitions, exchanging one year old partitions then archiving of the exchanged partitions, dropping or truncating of old portions.  ? Implemented 11g Interval Partitioning for monthly partitioning of large tables..  ? Developed RMAN Backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  ? Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab  ? Performance monitoring and Database/Instance, AWR, Statspack, ADDM, ASH reports, OEM Grid Control, Fine tuning of SGA/PGA parameters, initialization parameters and reorganized physical objects (tables & indexes) and table spaces at performance standpoint.  ? Performance tuning - Tune SQL statements, I/O, Memory, latches etc. Worked on SQL Profiler, Explain Plan and Stats Pack for tuning top wait events, high cost SQL's.  ? Used Explain Plan, Oracle hints and creation of new indexes to improve the performance of SQL statements. Involved in SQL Query tuning and provided tuning recommendations to Application jobs, time/CPU consuming queries    ? Tools Used: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle Database Administrator CenturyLink Inc - Monroe, LA March 2015 to June 2016 Implemented proactive monitoring using STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Supporting multiple databases for production, development, test and staging purposes on Sun Solaris and Linux environments.  ? Applying upgrade patch, maintenance and interim (opatch) patches on all the databases.  ? Refreshing Dev and Test instances with data from Production on a regular basis.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, DML, DDL, Oracle tables, Stored Procedures, functions, cursors, triggers and UNIX shell scripts.  ? Knowledge in setting up infrastructure for databases in huge data centers.  ? Installed Oracle 11g on Linux platform using ASM.  ? RMAN point in time recovery and Instance recovery done on 11g.  ? Scheduling repetitive activities like gathering schema statistics, exports, table space usage report using crontab.  ? Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning, done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  ? Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 12c, 11g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  ? Performed Data refresh activities using the export data pump utility.  ? Excessively worked on performing database backup and recovery using RMAN. Key player in troubleshooting backup issues. Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  ? Good hands on performance tuning related issues with Experience in query analyzing and Performance Tuning for the SQL queries, which are running slow, consuming high resources.  ? Worked on converting bigfile to small file tablespace conversion for very large data (included 2TB of data)  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) to oracle 12C (12.2.0.2) RAC database  ? Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  ? Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, two Node RAC (Real Application Cluster) with ASM file system on AIX platform Education Information Technology Montgomery college Present Skills BACKUPS (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), DATABASES (3 years), MAINTENANCE (3 years), ORACLE (3 years) Additional Information Skills    Have 3 years of experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including Solaris, and Linux redhat supporting a variety of applications with Oracle 11g and 12c.  ? Created ASM volume using ASMCA and created ACFS for Golden Gate  ? Installation, configuration, upgrade and performance tuning of databases from 11g R2 to 12cR1 and upgraded Golden Gate from v11 to 12c  ? Replication of data using Oracle Golden gate and configured Uni-directional, Active-Active replication and Performed Golden gate monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning  ? Implemented GoldenGate heartbeat table for lag monitoring.  ? I have working knowledge of 12c, 11g databases with the UNIX and LINUX operating system.  ? Performing complete and incomplete recovery during disasters, failures and user errors.  ? Creating and managing database objects such as 11g R2 and 12c RAC Data Guard and Experience in ensuring the high availability, integrity of databases & database designing and assisted in integration of applications into current IT actionable events and solutions and tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  ? Refreshing of databases using Data Pump Export and Import utilities (expdp/impdp).  ? Implemented backup/recover strategies using hot backup, cold backups using RMAN and Export/Import utilities and Wrote Shell Scripts for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  ? Data Guard administration and maintenance.  ? Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Utilized Log Miner Technology & applied Application Database Transactions on other Databases.  ? Installed and configured oracle Grid control (12cR1 and 11gR2)  ? Successfully implemented Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Hot and Cold backups.  ? Taking the RMAN incremental and cumulative backups.  ? Scheduling the databases backup using Crontab and VERITAS net backup  ? Perform Logical backup using full/partial export/import and data pump.  ? Creating Logical and Physical database structure, Creating and altering Tablespaces. Managing Users and Resources, Creating users, Granting required roles and revoking privileges accordingly through Roles.  ? Provided instance level performance monitoring and tuning for Event Waits, Sessions, Physical and Logical IO and Memory Usage.  ? Cloning of production databases as needed for testing, development using RMAN or scripts.  ? Performed SQL tuning based on report generated by ASH, ADDM, AWR  ? Identified and resolved performance issues caused by table fragmentation using segment Advisors  ? Troubleshoot and resolve locking and concurrency issues, Excessive parsing, resource bottleneck (including memory and CPU bottlenecks) and recommending a solution  ? Perform Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and tablespaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and Alerts.  ? Involvement in space management, managed quotas. Tuning of database using Utlstat scripts Statspack and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA.  ? Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental and cumulative backup. Implementing backup and recovery strategies.  ? Deployed Standby databases using Data Guard 11G (Maximum Performance).  ? Have skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch as well as database upgrade.  ? Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.