Senior Database Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Senior Database Administrator Riverdale, MD Accomplished Database Administrator and expert in IT security with over 7 years of experience with extensive  knowledge, proficiency and expertise in Monitoring and Tuning, Migration, Backup & Recovery, Replication,  Security Implementation, Cloning and Database Design. I am adept in an assortment of technologies including  Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MySQL, MS SQL server with exceptional analytical, problem-solving,  communication skills and remarkable organizational abilities. Outstanding leadership skill with proven ability for  building and retaining highly motivated team. I am a committed team player and energetic achiever that can  manage multiple projects seamlessly and performs exceptionally well under a challenging environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Database Engineer Global Health and Educational Projects, Inc. - Riverdale, MD August 2015 to Present > Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  > Manage database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing, & performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  > Monitor AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident  reports  > Installed and configured software for Oracle 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also installed, administered and maintained SQL Server Instances 2008, 2012, and 2016.  • Championed database migration from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases to achieve high availability and disaster  recovery solutions (DATA GUARD).  • Apply Oracle’s quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/PSU application) using OPATCH utility to install,  test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.  • Improve performance bottleneck by monitoring Table space and Performance tuning for performance  improvement.  • Support daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux,  Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes range 50GB to 35TB).  • Loading data into database tables using SQL Loader.  • Consistent monitoring the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  • Implement table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase disk load  balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Generate shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Part of the support team for 24/7 on-call production supports. Generating Standard Operating  procedures (SOPs) Database Developer/ Administrator Shimadzu Scientific Instruments - Columbia, MD January 2018 to May 2019 > Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE).  • Designed backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. Used block change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Installed and administered Physical Standby databases for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and disaster recovery solution (DATA GUARD).  • Implemented table and index partitioning so as to minimize database time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments.  • Performed Database maintenance and upgrades, which include patching, cloning and migration.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users. Database Administrator Nnamdi Azikikwe University October 2012 to July 2015 > Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Implemented and integrated performance tuning and security features to optimize functionality.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Prepared and maintained database documentation and standards to bolster user management and acceptance activities.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role.  • Extensively used various tools, such as SQL*Loader, SQL, RMAN, PL/SQL and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Assisted in database design and modeling  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Facilitated a wide range of migrations, upgrades, and conversions adhering to applicable backup and recovery protocol.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM, Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, and efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts. Education Bachelors of Science University of Nigeria Nsukka Masters of Science Michigan State University Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Sql Server, Backup & Recovery, Upgrades & Migration, Data Guard and Data Pump, Database Security & Patching, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), Upgrades & Migration (7 years), ETL, Oracle Database, Postgresql, RAC, Rman, Sql Database, Sybase, DB2 Additional Information linkedin.com/in/prisca-zuby