MongoDB Developer/ Administrator MongoDB Developer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> MongoDB Developer/ Administrator - UHG Greensboro, NC • Over 09 years of experience in Developing/ Administrator web applications using Java/J2EE, JavaScript, jQuery, Object Oriented Programming, JSP, Servlet, Web Services and additionally in design, administration, analysis, development and implementation stages of various databases like MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server and  • Extensive experience in developing Map-Reduce programs and aggregation frameworks using JavaScript's.  • Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB.  • Experience in the analysis of the data, data modelling and data structures.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs.  • Experience in Agile software development approach, a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  • Extensive experience with JavaScript, Ruby and Python in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  • Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  • Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  • Experience in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, maintenance of software applications and testing Client/Server and web applications.  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  • Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products.  • Fast learner, can quickly incorporate and implement new procedures with efficiency and accuracy.  • Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  • Team player with excellent communication skills and ability to lead. Self-motivated individual with exemplary analytical and problem solving skills.  • Exceptional ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews. Self-motivated worker with strong focus on business goals and end-user experience. Work Experience MongoDB Developer/ Administrator UHG - Greensboro, NC December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for administration, maintenance, Performance analysis, and Capacity planning for Mongodb 2.x, 3.0.x and 3.2 versions.  • • Set and tune System Parameters for MongoDB.  • • Install and run Mongodb with multiple instances on servers.  • • Secure MongoDB using authentication.  • • Configuring, implementing and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharding) cluster of Mongodb having TB's of data.  • • Backup and restore mongo databases using LVM snapshots and Ops manager backups.  • • Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  • • Disaster Recovery setup and best practices, including planning, testing, failover testing.  • • Add / remove replica and shard nodes in Mongodb Cluster as needed.  • • Design & implement sharding and indexing strategies for huge data sets.  • • Migrate mongodb sharded/replica cluster form one datacenter to another without downtime.  • • Manage and Monitor large production MongoDB sharded cluster environments having terabytes of the data.  • • Setting up MongoDB Profiling to get slow queries.  • • Migrated Mongo instances from MMAPV1 to Wiredtiger storage engine.  • • Ensure data replication with no lag.  • • Pro-actively identify, troubleshoot and resolve live MongoDB issues.  • • Work with Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment.  • • Monitor deployments for capacity planning and performance.  • • Created Gridfs collections and cleaned orphan chunks to reclaim space.  • • Implement MMS monitoring and backup (MongoDB Management Services) on cloud and on local servers (on-premise and OPS Manager).  • • Help Development teams to understand MongoDB design principals.  • • Documenting MongoDB installation, operations, security, auditing multiple environments.  • • Optimizing the JavaScript queries.  • • Created different customized application roles to maintain security across the mongo cluster.  Environment: MongoDB, Cassandra, Ruby, MMS,OPS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup Scheduler, Data guard, Sharding, Replication, Python, Shell scripting, Perl, PyMongo, JavaScript, Perl script. Sr. MongoDBA/ Database Administrator IBM - New York, NY August 2015 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Load balancing of application request's by configuring multiple mongos instances in sharded cluster.  • Migrated Mongo database from MMAPV1 storage engine to WiredTiger storage engine.  • Changing the size of system. Profile collection with required size. Analyzing profiler output and implements workaround to resolve issues.  • Understanding Aggregation pipeline operations have an optimization phase which attempts to reshape the pipeline for improved performance.  • Familiar with compression techniques in Wiredtiger storage engine. Applied patches and upgraded the replica set in rolling fashion.  • Monitoring Oplog timestamp and make sure all nodes status healthy in replica set.  • Worked with Aggregation Pipeline Limits and memory restrictions. Maintaining Sharded cluster availability and security across all the nodes.  • Worked on multiple BSON type objects and used based on requirement. Analyzing explain plan result stages and descriptive of the operations.  • Considering limits and thresholds for existing and new Mongo database implementations.  • Configured Role-Based Access Control with custom roles and privileges.  • Running MongoDB with secure configuration options.  • Provided backup solution using MMS/OPS manager.  • Having knowledge on Index properties and suggesting development team to build index on required fields.  Environment: MongoDB, MMS, OPS manager, mongostat, mongotop, mongofiles, Ruby, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup scheduler, Pearl, PyMongo, Java script. Database Administrator Farm Credit Bank of Texas - Austin, TX March 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installation and creation of 10g RAC and 9i databases for Testing, Development and Production.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Major activities include logical and physical database design, capacity planning, performance tuning, database security, disaster recovery, installation and ongoing maintenance.  • Administered multiple environments automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB  • Configured Disaster Recover and Logical standby for Production database in 10G. Tune databases performance, Schedule backup, jobs using OEM Grid Control.  • Involved optimizing database schemas, SQL queries, database procedures, and installation.  • Worked with Erwin, ER/Studio, Data Warehousing, Extract Transform and Load (ETL), Oracle Warehouse Builder, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, Granting required privileges, profiles to users, Auditing Users.  • Written shell scripts for digitization the process and for Startup and Shutdown, Health Check of Databases, Analyzing of Tables and Rebuilding of Indexes.  • Tuning SQL queries using AWR, ADDM, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, and SQL TRACE.  • Developed startup/shutdown guides, troubleshooting documents, root cause analysis documents.  • Worked on Data pump (Expdp / Impdp), Import / Export for logical database maintenance.  • Creating tablespaces sizing the system table space, allocating default tablespaces for users.  • Creating tables and indexes, sizing their extent, partitioning and so on.  • Creating users with restricted access, with default and temporary tablespaces.  • Developed database system build sheets, code review check lists, code promotion process documents, outage reporting documents.  • Resolving SQL tuning issues and Tuning Considerations for Different Applications.  • Monitoring the table growth, database growth, current users, and system resource usage and so on.  • Experience in SQL*Loader, loading data from text files.  • Performed scheduling of Change Control-activities and scheduling jobs.  • Performed Database Reorganization regularly to remove row migrations and fragmentation using export and import utilities. Write UNIX Shell Scripts to schedule these activities.  • Contact oracle Metalink to resolve database issues and to raise SR's.  Environment: MongoDB, Oracle 10g /9i, ASM, Sun Solaris 9, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, OEM, Explain Plan, Tkprof, SQL*LOADER Oracle DBA/Oracle Admin Verizon - Atlanta, GA May 2010 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved with installation and maintenance of Oracle RAC for high availability.  • Involved in the change control process and Upgraded the Oracle 10g database to 11g version and also applied patch set and interim patches whenever required to make the database software up to date.  • Worked extensively on monitoring 10G Grid Control and Configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control  • Maintained 10g RAC environment and troubleshooting issues. Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment  • Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  • Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  • Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas. Performed Migration of databases 10g on Hp - UNIX to Oracle 11gR2 on Linux.  • Created, monitoring database objects like Indexes, Views, Users, and DB Links. Implemented High availability using Golden Gate Replication.  • Wrote scripts for database maintenance activities such as monitoring the growth rate of table spaces and extents. Also wrote UNIX scripts to process batch jobs.  • Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  • Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  • Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms_stats.  • Worked with DW team on problem resolution and implemented change requests. - Performance tuning on DW such as Data extraction from production to Data warehouse.  • Installing Retail applications (RMS, ReSA, SIM, RIB and CO). Applying patches to all retail applications.  • Upgradation of retail applications.  • Deploying the custom code into all retail applications. Creation of Point of sale (POS) stores and Backoffice (BO) domains under web logic server  • Involved in 24x7 production database maintenance and on-call support. Conducted time-to-time analysis and monitoring of the software and hardware requirements and act accordingly  Environment: Oracle 10g, RAC on Sun Solaris, Linux, Data Guard, Toad, Exadata, OEM, ASM, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), WebLogic server, oracle retail applications. Education Bachelor's Skills Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Mongodb, Python, Scripting, Networking, Bridges, Microsoft windows Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Database Mongo 3.0/3.2/3.4 Oracle 11g/10g and MongoDB 3.2, 3.4  Monitoring tools OPS manager, mtools ,mongostat,mongotop  Operating systems Microsoft windows, UNIX, LINUX, Microsoft server 2012/2012R2  Networking Tools Switches, Routers, bridges, servers and hubs  Database Client tools Robomongo,Mongo compass,SQL Developer, SQL Server,  Programming SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Python  Networking simulation tools GNS3, Packet Tracer