Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - ADT Boca Raton, FL • Having 10+ years of experience in MS SQL Server Database Administration and Maintenance in Production/QA/Test SQL servers in SQL 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2 versions.  • Proficiency in High availability/Disaster recovery solutions like AlwaysOn, Transaction Replication, Clustering, Log shipping and Backup/Recovery.  • Strong knowledge in SQL Server architecture and Involved in perfomance tuning and provided recommendations for time/CPU/memory consuming queries.  • Very good experience in SQL server migration and upgradation projects.  • 8 years of hands-on experience on supporting production environment including multiple ITIL modules e.g. Incident management, Change management, Configuration management, Problem management.  • Good knowledge in Table partition with sliding window technique and purging huge historical table and improved the performance of the T-SQL queries.  • Worked on various domains like BFS, Retail, Health care, FMCG and ERP, handled SQL databases application and delivered solutions for critical incidents, problems, change request and worked in Transition Projects.  • Expert in handling Fog Light, Ignite & Spotlight database monitoring and alarming tools.  • SQL server License consolidation and Upgraded SQL physical server licensing to ESX SQL VM farm on Core based SA license to reduce the cost.  • Provided 24x7 support for critical production systems. Performing root cause analysis on P1/P2 issues.  • Expertise in Database Administration with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities on very large Databases around 4 TB in Size.  • Deployment and supporting SSIS packages and SSRS reporting. Handling windows/active directory tasks for SQL team owned servers like cluster qurom setup/voting configuration, user securtiy etc.  • Experience in automation of administrative tasks like creating Maintenance plans, creating Jobs, Alerts using SQL Server Agent and Setting up and Troubleshooting Replication, Always on and Log shipping.  • Strong problem-solving skills, Team player, Implemented and performed proactive system monitoring to ensure high-availability and good performance. Work Experience Database Administrator ADT - Boca Raton, FL October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administration and maintenance of SQL server in Production and QA environment on SQL 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008 versions; replication, table partitioning, Clustering, Always on, DR setup;  • Handling major application SQL server migration and upgradation project (SQL 2008R2 to SQL 2016).  • Setting up and troubleshooting Always On availability, replication and Log shipping between SQL servers.  • Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud infrastructure Azure  • Performing Table partition for huge history table's and splitting the data into multiple filegroup to easy access and archiving the old year data using slide window technique.  • Provide technical guidance on building solutions using Azure PaaS and other services.  • Performing backup and recovery on Database Management Systems (DBMS);  • Creating SSRS report for weekly biusiness dashboard to management and database perfomanace and inventory report in SSRS.  • Troubleshooting database performance issues & tuning SQL quries.  • Analysing and identifying technical areas of improvement within existing applications.  • Optimizing database access and allocating/reallocating database resources for optimum configuration, database performance, and cost;  • Implementation of the Data Model and creating various reports as per the requirement.  • Handling windows cluster settup and ablity o handle active director tasked for SQL owned server and managing user security and perform volume maintenance tasks etc.  • Being a technical resource for direct communications to team members in the project development, testing and implementation processes;  • Installation, Administration of SQL server 2005/2008/2012/2014 over windows 2003/2008/2012 Platform.  • Creating technical specifications to meet the requirements of the design; and Analysing and identifying technical areas of improvement within existing applications.  • Researching and recommending new tools and technology frameworks that can drive innovation and differentiation of software  • Expert in handling Fog Light & Spotlight database monitoring and alarming tools.    Employer: Populus Group, LLC. Database Administrator Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Supporting Enterprise Database Management (EDM) project which has DAN SQL server, hosted many SQL database application and worked in compliance Action centre and handling tickets.  • Configuring SQL server monitoring and net cool alerts in Fog light and spotlight tools for whole sale server and DAN server and reports.  • Managing SQL security compliance failure for Our SQL server group and acting to remediate the failure.  • Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud infrastructure Azure  • Setting up and troubleshooting Always On availability, replication and Log shipping between two or more servers with different configurations.  • Upgraded to Fog Light 5.7.5.3 and spotlight version from11.7.0 to 12.0.1 and handling vendor tickets.  • Implementing SQL Always On setup for critical production databases and in secondary replica enable for reporting purpose.  • Managing and archiving Fog light & spotlight SQL repository database and servers.  • Databases refresh activity in UAT/DEV/Test environments.  • Analysis of database growth and recommendations for additional capacity (hardware, memory etc.)  • Troubleshooting space issues like transaction log full, data file full, clearing the drive space.  • Creation of Jobs Schedules, Alerts using SQL Server Agent and Notifications.    Employer: Cognizant Technology Solutions. Technical Lead Stewart Title - Houston, TX March 2015 to October 2016 Project Description:  Stewart Title is a global real estate services company which offers products and services through their direct operations, network of Stewart Trusted Providers and family of companies. Stewart title offers from residential and commercial title insurances and closing and settlement services to specialized offerings for the mortgage industry. Stewart title offers compressive service, deep expertise and solutions to the customers in needs for any real estate transaction.  Project Highlights:  High Availability solution: Configured SQL 2014 always on availability solution for critical application Resware and reporting option on secondary replica server.  Risk and Health Assessment program: Worked with Microsoft expert and ran RAP tool in super critical production SQL server to proactively identify the critical, medium, low categories problem and issue and took corrective action to increase the database performance.  SQL Server License consolidation: Migrated all physical SQL server Core based licensed server to ESX SQL farm Core based software assure license model to reduce the cost consequence.  Retained SCOM server old data: For Corporate audit retained the old archived bulk data databases and restored in SQL server by coordinating with backup and tools team.  Consistency and Integrity Check: Performed Database consistency test for critical application AIM+, SureClose Lawson, Oracle EPM in SQL server.  SQL Migration: Migrated most of non-production physical SQL server to consolidated VM server to reduced Microsoft licensing.  Responsibilities:  • Installed SQL 2014\2012\2008 and applied service packs.  • Scheduling\Monitoring\troubleshooting SQL database backup jobs and backup disk space management.  • Database refreshment to Dev, UAT, QA environment from production for application team.  • Implemented production database to Always on high availability and configured reporting features on secondary replica server.  • Resolved deadlocks and blocking issues using Performance Monitor, Quest PA, Spot light third party tool, SQL Server Profiler, DMVs, System tables and Stored Procedures for performance tuning and Used DBCC commands for consistency checks to improve performance.  • Importing Tables, Store Procedures, Functions, Triggers from one environment to other environments.  • Created and Scheduled SQL jobs to run SSIS packages into the data warehouse on a daily basis.  • Experience in providing Logging, Error handling by using Event Handler, and Custom Logging for SSIS Packages  • Upgrading databases SQL servers, applying patches etc.  • Worked on Optimization and Tuning of Stored Procedures and T-SQL queries.  • Created maintenance plans for performing Optimizations, Backups, Rebuilt and Reorganize indexes.  • Performance tuning and Optimization of procedures and queries  • Worked with SQL Server Profiler to generate traces on application team demands.  • Handling server level and database level permissions for users.  Project #2: Global Shared Services.  Clients: CSM, NBIM, Orkla Foods, American ports, Christies. (July 2011 to Mar 2015)  Work Location: India.  Role: Senior Systems Executive    Project Highlights:  SQL Server Upgradation: In CSM environment, have Upgraded critical production application databases from SQL 2008 R2 to SQL 2012 version SQL failover clustering after successful test in test environment.  DR Test: Performed DR test by failing over secondary log shipping server to production by doing database health check and application connectivity.  Knowledge Transition: Acquired KT from Orkla customer team in Norway for 3 months and gave reverse KT to internal cognizant team and on boarded the Orkla environment for offshore support and conveyed to steady state support.  SQL Patching: Applied latest SQL service packs on required SQL server by successful testing in Dev, QA and then applied in production server via CAB and application team approval    Responsibilities  • Configuring new maintenance plan for DB backups, DB integrity and index maintenance etc.  • Setting up and Troubleshooting Replication, always availability and Log shipping between two or more servers with different configurations.  • Implemented SQL Always On setup for critical production databases and in secondary replica enable for reporting purpose.  • Worked on SQL server migration 2005, 2008 to higher version and also Physical to VM level migration.  • Installation, Administration of SQL server 2005/2008/2012/2014 over windows 2003/2008/2012 Platform.  • Databases refresh activity in UAT/DEV/Test environments.  • Analysis of database growth and recommendations for additional capacity (hardware, memory etc.)  • Automation of silent SQL installation  • Permanent fixes for repetitive problems issues.  • Troubleshooting space issues like transaction log full, data file full, clearing the drive space.  • worked on SSIS package deployment and run the package and reporting to development team.  • Creating new database objects, resolved backup files issues and performance issues on regular basis.  • Creation of Jobs Schedules, Alerts using SQL Server Agent and Notifications.  • Worked on all high availability's: Clustering, replication, and Log shipping.  • Analyses the TSQL queries for developer and writing queries for better performance. Analyst Programmer Ramco Systems Ltd May 2010 to July 2011 Contract employee for Ramco)  Project: Ramco On Demand ERP (May 2010- July 2011)  Work Location: India.  Role: Analyst Programmer.    Responsibilities:  • Installation, Administration of SQL server 2005/2008 over windows 2003/2008 Platform.  • Adhoc and hot fix movement from development team.  • Synching ERP SQL production database server in Singapore and US Site DB server.  • Responsible for creating & maintaining Database files for the db.'s.  • worked on SSIS package deployment and creating SSRS report for SQL team support.  • DB refreshment in Non-Prod environment. Work as a part of the team and provide 24x7 supports to the servers.  • Implementing Database maintenance Plan for Database consistence & Integrity.  • Monitoring Database performance and optimizing performance  • Configured SQL Agent for scheduling backups, managing jobs and creating alerts.  • Performing database consistency checks using DBCC Utilities and handling data corruption in user databases.  • Setting up and Troubleshooting Log shipping between two or more servers with different configurations.  • Setting up and Troubleshooting in Mirroring and SQL Server Failover clustering  • Generated daily report on the job failures, backup failures, disk space and involved in performance issues and resolving deadlocks.    Employer: Leiten Technology Pvt Ltd Junior Programmer SMART, MRP - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installing, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Backup and DBCC jobs on the servers, Database Migration & Refreshing the Database.  • Worked with Tables, stored procedures and trigger  • Troubleshoot system issues, monitor scheduled jobs and set up maintenance plans for proactively monitoring the performance of all SQL Server databases including monitoring failed and long running MS SQL Server jobs.  • Installing and Configuring SQL Server instances  • Creating and Managing indexes  • Configuring Database options and maintaining database integrity  Resolving blocking and deadlock issues. Grant privileges to user, role, and object. Support column level privileges. Administrate security for server's logins (Windows and SQL Accounts). Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer science Anna University 2004 to 2008 Skills Database administration, Database, Sql server, Replication, Sql, Clustering, Ssrs, R2, Bmc, Shipping, Analyzer Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System: Windows server 2016/2012/2008/2003.  Technology: SQL server 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2/2008/2005 Database Administration.  Database Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Lite Speed, Fog light, Spot Light, Profiler, Query Analyzer, SSRS, SSIS, Ignite.  High availability: SQL server Always on availability, Clustering, Mirroring, log shipping and Transaction replication.  Other Tools: On Target, Service Now and HP BMC service manager.