Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Sacramento Children's Home Sacramento, CA Work Experience Database Administrator Sacramento Children's Home September 2017 to Present SQL Server and Windows Server 2012 Administration. Plan, design and develop  databases and programs using Visual Basic for Applications and SQL Server. Use  Database Design tools to create table relationships, views and stored procedures.  Develop maintenance procedures for full, differential and transaction log backups. Install  Virtual machines and Linux tools such as MySQL, Apache and PHP. Modify PHP and HTML pages. Create custom backup and restore scripts using python and bash scp.  Provide network systems and computer Desktop and Laptop troubleshooting support.  Manage VoIP System and Call Center system for 24/7 Call Center. Develop SharePoint  pages and forms in SharePoint 2016 Database Admin Evoknow Inc April 2017 to September 2017 CentOS Linux webserver support as well as SQL query writing to meet reporting  requirements to multi-national website. Assist in making Database table modifications, PHP code bug reporting and corrections using GitHub. Used AWS for updating Website  pictures etc. IT Technician/Program Assistant River Oak Center for Children October 2010 to May 2017 Provided IT Helpdesk and Desktop Support. Solve network and Electronic health record  issues that arose on a daily basis. Troubleshoot and fix desktop and laptop hardware and software. Ran updates on software. Setup Servers to run software. Provide  Windows Server 2008 maintenance and support. Virtual Machine support using Hyper-V and VMWare Education Microsoft Virtual Academy September 2017 to October 2017 Associate's in Business Administration in Business Administration Heald College - Stockton, CA April 2007 to October 2008 Skills SQL (3 years), EXCHANGE, PYTHON, VISUAL BASIC FOR APPLICATIONS (3 years), SHAREPOINT 2016 (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), HELPDESK (5 years), DBA (3 years), MYSQL, Sql Server, Sql Dba