SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dacula, GA SKILLS SUMMARY:   • Experience writing, debugging, and tuning Transactional SQL, and stored procedures   • Ability to ensure the integrity of databases are protected against loss or misuse of information   • Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include release rollout and upgrades   • Database administration including installation, configuration, migrations, consolidations, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers   • Maintenance and tuning of the databases and replication.   • Experience with setup and administration of SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.   • Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, table design)   • Experienced in configuring HADR using SQL server 2012, 2014, and 2016.   • Experienced in setting up partially contained databases using SQL server 2012, 2014, 2016.   • Experienced in deploying SQL server 2012 cluster solutions.   • Responsible for improvement and maintenance of the databases to include release rollout and upgrades.   • Database administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers.   • Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, and table design).   • Experience working with merge and transactional replication.   • Management of multi-terabyte production clustered systems using ACTIVE-PASSIVE Clustering.   • Experience with implementing Database Disaster Recovery and Planning   • Experienced with the design, implementation, and administration of SQL Server and Oracle database solutions.   • Have good understanding of virtualization, storage and Server configuration for SQL Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Greater Pisoniac LLC - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to Present • Create and maintain various databases and database objects on Production QA & development environments using SQL Server 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016  • Monitor the complete environment for resource utilizations to avoid any bottlenecks.  • Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration  • Migrate SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), and Tableau Reporting  • Expert in Using DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring.  • Rebuilding / Monitoring indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Recovering the databases from backup in disasters. Implementing Point-In-Time Recovery solutions.  • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency.  • Involved in Source Data Analysis, analysis and designing mappings for data extraction also responsible for Design and Development of SSIS Packages to load the Data from various Databases and Files.  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Created alerts for successful or unsuccessful completion of scheduled jobs. Developed ad-hoc queries for end users.  • Migrated production databases from physical servers to VMs Database Administrator VILLA I.T Consultants - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to January 2017 • Created and maintained various databases on Production and development environments using SQL Server 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016   • Monitored the complete environment for resource utilizations and to avoid any bottlenecks.   • Evaluating the current infrastructure and proposing revisions based on licensing cost.   • Building out new clusters to handle mission-critical databases.   • Creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, index maintenance.  • Planning for consolidation of databases.   • Mentoring less experienced teammates on changes and the technology in general.   • Revise current DR and HA strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure.   • Proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.   • Troubleshooting issues and carrying out root cause analysis on the issues as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.   • Participating in on-call rotation with the team.   • Maintaining all environments (prod, uat, test, training and dev). w Performing mini health checks every morning.   • Analyzing daily reports for mission-critical databases.   • Setting up and managing replication, mirroring, log shipping, clustering and ALWAYS ON.  Database Administrator Support Guinness Nigeria (Subsidiary of Diageo) June 2012 to February 2014 • Participating in upgrade and migration efforts for various clients from SQL Server 2008 to 2008R2   • Installed and configured multiple SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2 Multi-Node for Mission critical production databases.   • Utilizing expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration to improve uptime as well as reduce RPO and RTO of business.   • Saves business over $300,000 in license costs by pushing the use of SQL Server 2008R2 Std Edition based on the application requirements and the improved HADR capabilities in the SQL release.   • Working with developers to improve query execution times and boost performance.   • Performing periodic database maintenance on all databases across all environments.   • Implementing, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server Replication and Mirroring across all SQL database servers in the enterprise.   • Participating in periodic database refresh operations for lower environments.   • Participating in root cause analysis of performance issues within the environment.   • Participating in Project and SQL Team meetings on a regular basis.  Education MBA Obafemi Awolowo University 2015 B.Sc in Finance University Of Ilorin 2002 Skills Sql Server, Sql Dba, DBA, ETL