Associate Database administrator Associate <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Associate Database administrator - UST Global Having 6 years of focused extensive experience in Database Administration. I worked in MongoDB and Oracle database administration tracks. Have extensive experience in database administration on LINUX platforms, installation, configuration and managing MongoDB 2.4/2.6/3.2/3.4/3.6 Databases. Here I am responsible for Installing database software, Configuring Backups, Setup the replication and Configuring the Cluster. I also have hands-on experience in supporting different solutions using products like Configuration management tools like Robo 3T, MongoDB Compass and Monitoring tools like MMS, MongoDB charts and Automation tools like Ops Manager. Work Experience Associate Database administrator UST Global January 2017 to Present Ø Handled 300+ mongo database servers.   Ø Requirement gathering for design database architecture and capacity planning.  Ø Installing/ upgrading OpsManager application (AppDB, Blockstore DB and OM application)  Ø Configured Ops-Manager for Prod/Non-Prod replica set environments and initialized the automation.   Ø Providing enhanced security using SSL authentication and LDAP mechanism.   Ø Scheduled the snapshot backups and incremental (oplog) backups using OpsManager.   Ø Implemented boostFS mechanism for backups.   Ø Providing point in time restore as per application requirements.   Ø Troubleshooting issues and concerns. Sr. Database admin Wipro Technologies Ltd August 2015 to January 2017 Technical Specialist HCL Technologies Ltd July 2014 to August 2015 Database Administrator HAPTIC Technologies Pvt Ltd June 2012 to July 2014 Key Projects  Project 5: Anthem Database services  Status: Steady State  Client: Anthem  Role: Associate DBA  Responsibilities:    ? Handled 300+ mongo database servers.  ? Requirement gathering for design database architecture and capacity planning.  ? Installing/ upgrading OpsManager application (AppDB, Blockstore DB and OM application)  ? Configured Ops-Manager for Prod/Non-Prod replica set environments and initialized the automation.  ? Providing enhanced security using SSL authentication and LDAP mechanism.  ? Scheduled the snapshot backups and incremental (oplog) backups using OpsManager.  ? Implemented boostFS mechanism for backups.  ? Providing point in time restore as per application requirements.  ? Troubleshooting issues and concerns.    Project 4: Citi Cloud Services  Status: Steady State  Client: Citi Bank  Role: Sr. Database Admin  Responsibilities:    MongoDB:  ? 24x7 Production Database Administration.  ? Collaborate with customer for hosting requirements.  ? Administering and guiding team for architecting and developing MongoDB Solution.  ? Handled 200+ mongo database servers.  ? Configuring and monitoring replica sets, sharded cluster.  ? Configuring and implementing monitoring solution using Ops Manager for mongodb monitoring, building custom thresholds and events transformation with Aperture and Ops Manager.  ? Upgrade Mongo servers from Mongo 2.6.8 to Mongo 3.0.12.  ? Created the clones/duplicates of production databases for consolidation purposes.  ? Coordinating other support team for follow-up queries.  ? Consolidating the issues and identifying root cause with the help of MongoDB Inc. support.    Cassandra:  ? Create, Manage and maintain internal development and testing Cassandra databases.  ? Setting up Multi-Datacenters for Cassandra.  ? Implement Disaster Recovery for Cassandra.  ? Implement backup strategies for Apache Cassandra.    Project 3: Practice Team  Status: Transition State  Client: HCL Tech  Role: Consultant  Responsibilities:    ? Requirement gathering and feasibility study.  ? Solution designing.  ? Infrastructure provisioning.  ? Helping clients setting their applications for MongoDB.  ? Troubleshooting issues and concerns.  ? Design and development of Infrastructure MongoDB as a service using VMware virtual cloud environment.  ? Delivery focused architectural, development and deployment approach using agile practices and the implementation of processes, methodologies and techniques configured for the specific project.    Project 2: VMware Infra Support  Status: Steady State  Client: VMWare  Role: Database Administrator  Responsibilities:    ? 24x7 Production Database Administration.  ? Installation and configuration of Mongodb database servers and mongo client software.  ? Handled 50+ mongo database servers.  ? Configuring and monitoring replica sets, sharded cluster.  ? Configure and monitor replication (master-slave) in Mongodb and resolve the storage issues using replication re-sync.  ? Worked on MongoDB authentication and authorization.  ? Automate routine tasks with scripts and open-source tools.  ? Upgrade Mongo servers from Mongo 2.4 to Mongo 2.6  ? Created the clones/duplicates of production databases for consolidation purposes.  ? Daily Database maintenance (success of Backups, checking errors in error logs, checking free space in disk level, Monitor the disk space in the server and take action accordingly etc)  ? Administrating and implementing of backup and recovery strategies using mongodump, mongorestore utility s.  ? Export and Import data into CSV files using mongoexport and mongoimport utilities.  ? Daily monitoring of backups using the backup log scripts and MMS.  ? Automate the deployments with Ops Manager.  ? Maintain database performance and capacity planning.  ? Created users and grant required privileges and roles.  ? Mongodb configuration settings, security considerations and diagnostic configuration.  ? Evaluate Performance of Current Operations using profiler.    Project 1: Communications VAS support  Status: Delivered    Role: Database Administrator  Responsibilities:    ? 24x7 Production Database Administration and support.  ? Installation of 11gR2 and oracle client software.  ? Creation of database templates.  ? Configured listener at the server side and tns aliases at client side.  ? Established database links among databases.  ? Created the clones/duplicates of production databases for consolidation purposes.  ? Daily Database maintenance (success of Backups, checking errors in alert logs, checking free space in table spaces, Monitor the disk space in the server and take action accordingly etc)  ? Administrating oracle Data Pump, Export and Import utility  ? ASM space level management.  ? Daily monitoring of backups using the backup logs and OEM  ? Involved in reorganizing the tables and rebuilding the indexes that are highly fragmented to improve the performance  ? Monitoring and administrating the Standby database's  ? Gathering the stats for tables and schemas. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (5 years), MONGODB (2 years), APACHE CASSANDRA (2 years), ASTERADATA (2 years), CASSANDRA (2 years), MYSQL Additional Information Technical Proficiency    Operating System: Linux (RedHat, CentOS)    Database (Primary Support): MongoDB    Database (Secondary Support): Cassandra    Configuration mgmt. Tools: MongoDB Compass, Robo 3T    Scripting: Bash shell    Monitoring Tool: Ops Manager 2.0/3.4/3.6, mtools, Datastax OpsCenter    Languages: SQL, PL/SQL and NodeJS