SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - ALLERGY SERVICES OF NORTH AMERICA Atlanta, GA I am highly motivated experience in IT industry, supporting SQL Server Database system with vast knowledge in SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2008. A proactive DBA with strong technical expertise, excellent written and communication skills, can work independently and collaborate with teams across different IT structures.    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Data Migration, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Always-On Availability Group. Transactional Replication, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring, Patch, Database Security and Change Management, Index Rebuild, SQL Server Configuration and Installation, PowerShell Automation, SSRS, SSIS and SSAS in SQL versions 2008R/2012/2014/2016/2017 environments Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator ALLERGY SERVICES OF NORTH AMERICA - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to Present • Maintained T-SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers, constraints, and other objects to enforce data integrity and application business rules.  • Worked closely with application developers in the development, debugging, and performance tuning of T-SQL stored procedures and functions.  • Participated in 24 x7 on-call rotation in OLTP database environment  • Configured and maintained Always On Availability Groups, Failover Clustering  • SQL Server Installation, Upgrades, Migrations and Configuration  • Perform Database maintenance plans for index rebuild/defragment, and database statistics  • Proactively monitor and respond to MSSQL database Alerts and continually assess, improve, and optimize database environment.  • Implemented and maintained High Availability using Always ON Availability Group in SQL 2014/2016 servers  • Performed database Ad-hoc backups and restores for both ad-hoc requests and validating database integrity  • Implemented replication (transactional and snapshot) across several servers with multiple subscriptions from multiple sources  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users  • Implemented a backup strategy from scratch and created database maintenance plans to handle backups based on our strategy across the company.  • Increased efficiency 35% by providing optimum database performance with efficient backup and restore processes  • Administering Microsoft SQL Servers that are on-premises and in Azure the cloud. JUNIOR DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR NORTHPOINT TECNOLOGY INC - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to February 2017 ENVIRONMENT: SQL SERVER 2012, 2014, 2016    • Worked and maintained production and development databases in SQL 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014 in a non-stop heavy transactional and reporting environments  • Configure various High Availability solutions; Failover Clustering (Windows and Database), Mirroring and Log-shipping  • Duties included disk configuration, tuning, documenting architecture, and reviewing developer code as it moves through development, test, and production environments  • Involved in Always On for High Availability and reporting purpose and created the documentation.  • Monitored, optimize and requested allocation physical data storage for database systems  • Coordinate SSRS, SSIS packages, maintenance plans, stored procedures, transactional/merge replication and latency  • Database Administration including Installation, Configuration, Upgrades, Capacity Planning, Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery in Managing Clusters of SQL Servers  • Worked and maintained production and development databases in SQL 2005/2008/2008R2/2012/2014 in a non-stop heavy transactional and reporting environments  • Configure various High Availability solutions; Failover Clustering (Windows and Database), Mirroring and Log-shipping  • Enhanced users' understanding of database systems by conducting pre-implementation workshops, delivering group and individual training sessions and creating user-friendly training materials  • Experience in using DMV and dynamic management functions for finding out long running queries.  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  • Ensuring availability and performance of the MS SQL databases that support the various systems.  • Linking MS SQL with legacy MS Access and My SQL databases using ODBC connections.  • Monitoring the database systems to secure services with minimum downtime.  • Providing trend and usage/capacity analysis to server management team to enable them to make informed decisions regarding resource management/allocation.  • Design, Setup and Manage replication for the articles across multiple database servers involving multiple publishers and subscribers.  • Experience in installing Virtual environment running Windows and MS SQL, MY SQL  • Provide guidance and work with .Net development teams in data and schema design to ensure proper implementation and utilization of the data structures. Junior System Administrator GLOBALCOM Telecommunications Company - Lagos, NG October 2009 to April 2014 Nigeria.    Administered Active Directory and Group policy for three autonomous networks I a 3000+ user environment.    • Ensured full incremental data backups were successful, performed data restore for users as needed.  • Assisted with implementation of windows update services server which greatly reduced administrator overhead for routine patch and security analysis duties.  • Maintained windows PKI smartcards services and Intermediate Certificate Authority servers to ensure login availability.  • Responsible for the daily performance and maintenance of 30 servers and over 70 SQL Server instances. Education Microsoft University 2013 B.Sc. in Information and Technology Lagos State University - Lagos, NG 2001 to 2007 Skills MYSQL, Sql Server, DBA, Sql Dba