Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Victor O. Schinnerer Alexandria, VA Over Eight years of experience as DBA with ability to analyze and troubleshoot very large and highly transactional database systems. Solid working experience in designing and implementing database solutions. Highly motivated and takes initiative to manage and work on different projects individually and as a team. Strong business and technical vision with effective people skills, innovative, problem solver, result oriented, and has high aptitude to learn new technologies. I am looking to join a dynamic team that works under high pressure and challenging environment to build and deliver high quality solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Victor O. Schinnerer - Chase, MD May 2016 to Present Victor O. Schinnerer is underwriter company works in analyzing risks and mitigations in business insurance world. I was responsible in managing database servers and also worked on multiple projects with internal and external clients.  ? Designed, reverse engineered and documented data warehouse solutions.  ? Setup and monitored high availability solutions such as AlwaysOn and Clustering.  ? Developed, configured and deployed SQL Scripts, SSIS packages and SSRS Reports.  ? Debugged complex queries and stored procedures.  ? Implemented service patching and cumulative updates in a quarterly basis.  ? Implemented log shipping as part of disaster recovery plan.  ? Monitored log space usages and troubleshoot issues arising with log files.  ? Designed and implemented backup and recovery plan strategies.  ? Performed databases maintenances using maintenance wizard features.  ? Managed SQL data and log files and hard drive storages for maximum performance.  ? Used Solar winds and other third party tools to monitor the performance of SQL Server.  ? Performed data loads using SSIS, scripts and BCP from different data sources.  ? Managed users and permissions of SQL Server reporting services.  ? Monitored and troubleshoots SQL Server agent jobs.  ? Optimized the performance of ETL jobs scheduled on staging and SSIS servers.  ? Debugged SQL queries and stored procedures by working with Developers.  ? Implemented automated database refresh in lower environments using backup and restore.  ? Setup databases mails and alerts for critical jobs and server issues.  ? Implemented job history cleanup and managed SQL server log files.  ? Migrated on premise database servers into AWS (EC2 and RDS) using database migration service.  ? Provide 24/7technical support and monitoring.    Tools Used  Solar Winds, Red Gate, Idera, Apex, TFS, AWS(RDS & EC2), ERWIN, VMware, ORACLE, SQL Built in tools(profiler & DTA). SQL DBA AvalonBay Communities, Inc - Alexandria, VA April 2013 to April 2016 AvalonBay Communities, Inc. is a publicly traded real estate investment trust that invests in apartments. . I was responsible in managing database servers and also worked on multiple projects with internal and external clients.  • Installation of MS SQL Server enterprise on Clustered Production, Test and Development boxes.  • Migrated databases from SQL Server 2005/2008 to SQL Server 2014/2016.  • Configured 3 Node widows failover clustering and SQL 2014 Alwayson  • Performed SQL service pack & security patch on failover cluster and AVG.  • Installed and configured SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Regularly monitor the performance of UAT and PROD server (CPU, Memory, I/O) using SQL Profiler, Performance monitor, DMVs, Wait Stats and Events.  • Experience in T-SQL writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Created login id, passwords and roles in production and non-production environment.  • Experience on creating and maintains on SQL Virtual Machine running at VM ware and Microsoft Hyper-V environment.  • Used Power Shell to execute batch files and other scripting tasks.  • Set up transactional and snapshot replication among SQL Server 2008/2012 boxes.  • Auditing stored procedures for optimization and improving performance.  • Backing up system and user databases and restoring them when necessary.  • Schedule the jobs for the Database Maintenance.  • Re-align the database structure for performance and space management.  • Run DBCC commands to check the database consistency and shrink the databases.  • Extensively used DMV, SQL profiler and performance Monitor, and Performance Dash board for troubleshooting.  • Maintain index rebuild and re-organize indexes periodically.  • Transfer data among SQL boxes using SSIS, BCP, and Back up & restore.  • Created Alerts and Notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, task assignment and tracking.  • Provide 24/7technical support and monitoring. SQL DBA Bridge IT Services - Alexandria, VA March 2011 to March 2013 Bridge IT Services is a small growing company specializing in creating / improving web presence, business intelligence solutions and hosting webs and databases for a small and emerging business. I am a SQL DBA who manages, monitors and administers all database servers and supports external and internal clients in a daily operational systems.  ? Working with external clients and business analysts in gathering, understanding and documenting requirements.  ? Installing and configuring SQL server and other applications.  ? Managing logins, users, roles, securable and permissions for all environments.  ? Preparing security compliance and implementing Audit/Check balance procedures for each server.  ? Analyzing database workloads and planning capacity changes of the servers.  ? Monitoring, identifying and troubleshooting SQL Server performance bottle necks.  ? Supporting all Production Environments and External Clients in a daily basis.  ? Tuning SQL server performance issues by using indexes, partitions and by implementing best practices.  ? Monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server Agent jobs.  ? Upgrading and Patching SQL Server boxes in all Environments (Production, QA and Development).  ? Implementing Code Deployments to Higher Environments.  ? Performing on demand backups and restores in operational systems.  ? Setting up, monitoring and troubleshooting replications on multiple servers.  ? Configuring and managing SQL server reporting and integrations services.  ? Tuning and Enhancing slow running queries and stored procedures.  ? Tracing, capturing and troubleshooting locking, blocking and deadlock graphs.  ? Performing Index and statistics maintenances using maintenance features.  ? Implementing backup file managements, archiving and cleanups.  ? Performing database consistency and allocation checks and troubleshooting where problem arise.  ? Expertise in using different utility tools such as SQL builtin tools as well as third party tools.  ? Setting up, monitoring & troubleshooting high availability solutions such as mirroring and replication.  ? Involving in Agile methodologies, sprint planning, grooming, review and retrospective. Education Bachelor's Hawassa University - Hawassa September 2005 to October 2007 Skills Sql Dba, Sql Server