Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Akamai Technologies DBA with 7 years of experience as an Oracle Database Administrator. Extensively worked on Installing, configuring Oracle 12c, 11gR2 and 10g Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management Database on AIX, Linux, UNIX and Windows environments. Experienced in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) 10g/11g, Data Guard and Golden Gate for Oracle High Availability. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Akamai Technologies - Cambridge, MA June 2012 to Present • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both logical and physical standby databases in 10g and 11g RAC environment for production database.  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM.  • Participates on project teams as database administration support to ensure that databases are appropriately modified to support new business applications and requirements  • Install, patch and upgrading Oracle 10/11g & 12c to support internal production and test environments.  Installation of 12c OEM and customize it to our needs  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Alert management, Created and setup alerts to send notification to Users from application wherever necessary.  • Perform day to day activities like backup-restore, space management, monitoring database alerts, performance tuning.  • Proficient in troubleshooting Node Eviction in Oracle RAC Environment  • Applied PSU patches and other database related patches.  • Have a good experience in administering Oracle Cluster ware components.  • Configured ASM and handled issues and suggested feasible workarounds for ASM Metadata corruption and Configured user log on load balancing and failover on RAC database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager). Oracle Production Support Database Administrator FireEye - Detroit, MI March 2011 to June 2012 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Databases migrated to RAC for improved resiliency and performance.  • Security User Management, Privileges, Role, Auditing, Profiling, Authentication. Creating Materialized views and Materialized View Logs for Increased Performance and Data Replication.  • Knowledge in Golden Gate installation & Configuration setups in both windows/Linux environments.  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.    • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Performed SQL and PL/SQL tuning, oracle contention and monitored production database using automatic workload repository (AWR), automatic database diagnostic monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Worked closely with the Oracle developers for the better performance in Applications in writing the Packages, Triggers and Indexes on the tables.  • Database refreshes using expdp, impdp, RMAN Duplicate and cloning.  • Experienced in cloning the databases using HOT and COLD backups.  • Used RMAN Duplicate and HOT/COLD backups to migrate the data from 11.1.0.7 to 11.2.0.3.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration.  • Achieved optimized performance for the databases by rebuilding indexes on tables. Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, HP-UX