Ammunition Database Administrator Ammunition <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Ammunition Database Administrator - United States Navy, USS Dwight D. Eisenhower CVN Chesapeake, VA Work Experience Ammunition Database Administrator United States Navy, USS Dwight D. Eisenhower CVN March 2015 to Present Key Skills: Ordnance Information System (OIS), Automated Information Technology (AIT), Trained and supervised over 80 personnel in assets inventory and Automated Information Technology (AIT) equipment use.  Selected Contributions:  • Maintained movement, procurements, and utilization of over $400 million in explosives and 1800 ammunition pallets with support of 200 personnel.  • Worked with Ordnance Information System (OIS) to receive, order, track, and expend ships ammunition assets. Built metric spreadsheet to show high and low usage of various types of ammunition during high tempo evolutions.  • Led and trained multiple personnel on Ship Explosive Safety Inspection (SESI) and Explosive Safety Inspection (ESI).  • Screened 40 personnel to ensure arms ammunition and explosives form requirements are satisfied and qualifications to obtain credentials are developed.  • Supervised operation of organizations performing supply and related service operations such as transportation, asset inventories, property disposal serving as the principal manager of supply and services operations. Managed open and covered storage, receiving, classification, issue materiel handling, supply locator systems, facility safety, and supply security operations.  • Planned, managed, and coordinated the total cradle-to-grave life cycle of logistics support for assigned systems, subsystems, or allowance standards integrating separate functions of supply, maintenance, procurement, and quality assurance into logistics activities required to sustain ships ready status.  • Tracked over 1800 pieces of Material Handling Equipment through the maintenance life cycle and locations.  • Periodically monitored operating policies, processes and procedures to identify, recommend changes, and implement opportunities; ensuring that retail business practices and policies are adhered to. Supervisor United States Navy, USS Harry S Truman January 2010 to March 2015 Raymond Parham, phone(757) 613-0377.  Ammunition Database Administrator / Magazine Supervisor (01/2010 - 03/2015)  Key Skills: Ordnance Information System (OIS), Automated Information Technology (AIT), Ship Explosive Safety Inspection (SESI) and Explosive Safety Inspection (ESI), Manned M2HB .50 caliber machine guns used to defend ships.  Selected Contribution:  • Work with Automated Information Technology (AIT) gear tracking supplies, ammunition and various types of MHE/ OHE gear.  • Directed management of material support functions in stock control and accounting, procurement, inventory control, and item financial management. Supervised development and preparation of operations information, plans, maps, sketches, overlays, and related data to employment supply and service organizations. Analyzed reports on supply and service support operations.  • Planned and coordinated ship ammunition onload dealing with logistics, warehouse/ site, and magazine locations along with being the main inventory manager. Streamlined the process by researching the ammunition and storage requirements to improve the logistics plan and flow, reducing the amount of time spent onloading ammunition.  • Conducted monthly site/ magazine assessments to verify proper storage, marking and disposal of materials.  • Developed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for safe handling of materials and equipment.  • Weapons/ammunition testing, inspection, building, maintenance, and storage. Education High school or equivalent Skills Weapons (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), DBA, Oracle Dba (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-6 Assessments Organizational Skills — Proficient July 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pvmzl1zv2evy5pss Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  • M9, M-4/16, M500, M2HB 50.cal  • Ships Duty Weapons Officer  • Proficient in all business aspects of jobs, Microsoft Office Applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Internet, cryptologic equipment, handheld devices, tablets, phone systems