Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Murata Electronics, TX Stone Mountain, GA Over 6+ years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle11g and 12c. Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem solving skills. Possessexcellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.    • Supported as Production and development DBA. Involved in Change/Release/Patch management and off-shore co-ordination, Product development, data center Migration, Upgrade and Integration. Administration including design, deploy, tune, trouble-shoot. Efficient to manage 50+DB. VLDB size in 5 TB.  • Management of schemas, objects, USERS and PRIVILEGES 10g OEM Grid Monitoring.  • Upgrade databases from 10g to 11g and 11g to 12c..  • Expertise in Database Space Management, experience in troubleshooting and performance tuning.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills, Sound judgment and use of initiative.  • Recovery of Databases (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption etc.).  • Experience on working with data guard physical standby databases.  • Manage Data Guard, Fail-over, switchover. Open physical standby. Flashback of database. Configure 11g Active data guard.  • Performed Backup/restore/recover using RMAN and user managed. Create backup/restore strategies. RMAN, UNIX script for backup.  • Excellent Written and verbal Communication skills with a customer service oriented attitude.. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Murata Electronics, TX April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Data Guard, Create Physical/logical standby  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain..  • Planning Backup/Restoration Strategy, Planning and scheduling Backups, taking Logical Backups (with Export and Data pump utilities).  • Creating&ManagingDatabase Structures, Storage Allocation, Table/Index segments, Constraints, Database Access, Roles and Privileges.  • Implemented and managed optimum physical database design (tablespaces, datafiles, extents, redo logs, archive logs) and assessed database capacity by monitoring online storage, growth and file system space, in adherence to the Optimal Flex Architecture.  • Cloned schemas, objects and data on new server using exports from 10g database and imported in 11g using data pump.  • Used Data Pump for export and import. Wrote scripts for Backup of databases, maintenance of archive logs for databases. Streamlined backup procedures and implemented RMAN for backup and disaster recovery.  • Designed, developed and maintained UNIX shell scripts to collect and monitor database metrics and Statspack snapshots and reports.  • Monitored and provided weekly reports on the server's memory, disk and CPU I/O using HP tools and UNIX command-line utilities.  • Provided maintenance of user accounts, privileges, profiles and roles.  • Involved with OLTP relational databases system analysis, design, implementation and management.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 9i to 10g, Cross platform migration from different platforms.  • Administered (11g RAC) environments adding and removing nodes to the cluster and handled performance tuning using AWR.  • Supported off-hour on call support for database related issues.  • Documented the Standard Processes for peers to follow.    Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g& EBS, RAC, OEM, DATAGUARD, RMAN, Data Pump, Diagnostic and Tuning Advisors. Oracle Database Administrator DONNELLY COMMUNICATIONS, GA January 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:    • Provide day-to-day databases support for users & application teams. Implementing database backup & restorations  • Implemented new features of Oracle 11g like Automatic Memory Management, Automatic SQL Tuning, Case Sensitive Passwords, Data Recovery Advisor, Database Replay, Query Result Cache, Read-Only Tables, Secure Files, SQL Access Advisor, SQL Performance Analyzer, and SQL Plan Management, Statistics Collection Enhancements.  • Perform other regular DBA activities including space management and performance monitoring.  • Keeping the databases up to date with respect to Latest PSU's and very comfortable in applying patches.  • Planning and scheduling Backups, Database Recovery, taking Logical Backups (with Export /Import), Database backup (Hot & cold)  • Proficient in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects.  • Installed & Configured Oracle 11g Grid Control for monitoring over 200 Prod / Non Prod Hosts.  • Taking Periodic Backup of the databases and the software using RMAN.  • Flash Recovery of Database (Recovering from Media Failure, Recovering tables dropped accidentally, Recovering data files, Recovering from Block Corruption).  • Performance tuning which includes creating indexes, analyze, explain plan, optimizer hints.    Environment: Oracle 10g/11g RAC, SQL developer 1.3 Junior Oracle DBA Convergys January 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Performance tuning of application and database, identification and resolution of contention, defining and implementing Backup Recovery policy, and day-to-day monitoring of the Production database  • Worked on the physical and logical designing of the database, which includes the distribution of data- files on different disks  • Controlled and monitored user access to the database. Optimized the performance of the database. Tuned SGA data dictionary and set database parameters  • Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Worked with Oracle Diagnostics tools such as Explain Plan, SQL Trace, Used to analyze timing and execution plan for SQL query to tune the SQL statements  • Reorganized data files, identified and eliminated contention factors like I/O, buffers and locks  • Allocated the separate rollback segments for the Batch processing jobs in order to speed up processing  • Reorganized data files, identification and elimination of contention factors like I/O, buffers    Environment:Oracle 10g and 9i, RMAN, Export/Import, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader. Education Asc. Psychology Georgia State Perimeter University - Atlanta, GA 2008 to 2016 Bsc in Information Systems Georgia Southern University 2010 to 2014 Skills Database, Odbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information Operating systems LINUX, MS-DOS, NT, , Windows Advanced Servers 2000/2003.  Databases Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c  Oracle Database Tools SQL*Loader, OEM, SQL Developer, Grid Control  Tools & Utilities Export/Import, RMAN, Data Pump, ERWIN.  Languages PL/SQL, SQL, Unix shell scripts.  Web Tools HTML and XML, SQL NET, ODBC, TCP/IP    Technical Skills