Senior Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Database Administrator - United States Department Of State I am an accomplished Oracle Database Administrator with over 9 years of experience with in-depth knowledge and proficiency in Backup & Recovery, Security Implementations, Database Design, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Cloning, and Replication. I am also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, MySQL and MS SQL Server. I possess extraordinary written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. I am proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. I am an energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Work Experience Senior Database Administrator United States Department Of State - Washington, DC August 2015 to Present • Manipulate data stored in database tables  • Enforced business rules by using constraints  • Create users and assigned the privileges users need to perform tasks.  • Use SQL commands that retrieve data based on specific criteria.  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users depending on user activity, auditing, & performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Cloned databases using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities for all database sizes.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM, ASH, and Explain plan for periodic Performance tuning.  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events & took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test & into production environments.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage & memory for the databases.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments.  • Implement table and index partitioning so as to Minimize DB_time, increase disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query. Senior Database Administrator Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc - Washington, DC June 2011 to July 2015 • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning and troubleshooting on single instance on Unix/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 2012 ( Database sizes ranging from 100GB to 59TB).  • Implemented a backup and recovery policy under tight SLA times using RMAN and Data Pump.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development & implementation.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Data Pump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB_time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Experience migrating database objects from development through test and into production environments.  • Maintaining Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using the Oracle SQL Developer to OFA Institution and finally to DB launch.  • Installed and administered GOLDEN GATE in a unidirectional, bidirectional, and broadcast configuration to mainly replicate data and ensure high availability, in a heterogeneous environment, also worked with EXADATA Machines for high performance and availability.  • Configured Oracle tools like SQL*Net to access the database across the network  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Worked in a cross functional team that oversaw the Oracle RAC installation & configuration for Linux environments.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Installed and configured the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Championed database migration from 10g to 11g and database upgrade from 11g to 12c using the Oracle Datapump and DBUA utilities respectively.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and UNIX platforms using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Server Instances 2008 and 2012.  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB).  • Experience working on ORACLE EXADATA Machine X4-2 for the extreme performance of the database. Database Administrator Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY September 2009 to May 2011 • Performed monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7 Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  • Performed SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indices, dropping unnecessary indices, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning using OEM Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 10g two Node RAC with ASM file system on Sun Solaris platform.  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • Maintaining highly reliable 24x7x365 Linux production servers for AWS EC2 instances.  • Part of the on-call production support team for 24/7 on-call production support.  • Administered a Mongo DB to create, update, delete and read documents, in a limited role. Education BS in Social Work in Social Work Stony Brook University - New York, NY Master's in Database systems Technology UMUC Skills Ab initio (Less than 1 year), Bash (4 years), Cloning (7 years), Data Manipulation (Less than 1 year), Data Replication (8 years), Database (9 years), Disaster Recovery (Less than 1 year), ETL (7 years), Linux (5 years), MS SQL Server. (4 years), OEM (9 years), Oracle (9 years), Performance tuning. (5 years), replication. (5 years), RMAN (8 years), security (9 years), Solaris (8 years), SQL (9 years), SQL Server (4 years), Unix (9 years), Oracle Dba, MYSQL, DBA, ASM, Sql Database, Sql Dba, DB2 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate September 2016 to Present SQL Certified May 2016 to Present Security+ July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE INCLUDE  • Backup & Recovery  • Upgrades & Migration  • User Creation, Management & Database Security and Patching  • Data Manipulation & Transaction Control  • Subqueries & Merge Statements  • Creating Constraints, Sequences, Indexes etc.    • Table Creation and Management  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning  • Oracle Data Guard & Data Pump  • Oracle Golden Gate & RAC  • Bash/Unix Shell scripting & Automation  • Database Cloning    TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  • Database security (TDE)  • Backup & Recovery using RMAN  • Monitoring and performance tuning using OEM Console, Toad, SQL Developer, Grid Control, Explain Plan, AWR, ADDM, & DRA  • Work with various operating systems like MS Windows Servers (2008, 2012, 2014), UNIX (Solaris 8/9/10), LINUX (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Centos). Mongo DB.  • ETL tools: SQL*Loader, Informatica 9.1, Ab initio 3.1.5.3, IBM data stage 11.5    • Database migration using Exp/Imp/Data pump, and SQL Loader  • Oracle ASM (clusters) and RAC configuration and administration  • Oracle Golden Gate (Data Replication)  • Oracle Data Guard installation/administration for High availability and Disaster Recovery (DR)  • MS SQL Server Management Studio  • SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  • Installation, configuration and update of Oracle 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA