Owner/UX Designer / Front End Developer Owner/UX Designer / <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - VISUALLY SWEET STUDIOS Ansonia, CT With almost over 8 years of front end development and user experience. Organized and detail oriented with the ability to get the job done. Hard working, team player who follows directions and guidelines. Able to learn new skills quickly and work with minimal supervision. Work Experience Owner/UX Designer / Front End Developer VISUALLY SWEET STUDIOS - Ansonia, CT 2010 to Present • Works with customers on a daily basis via phone calls, email and slack.  • Passionately creates graphic designs for brands that communicated their entire vision.  • Responsible for communicating daily with potential clients for the on-boarding process.  • Accountable for the execution of each project phrase and providing proofs to customers.  • Key achievement: Provides web design, graphic design and branding services to business and organizations all over the United States. UX Designer / Front End Developer iRescue Mobile 2018 to 2019 ? Responsible for the entire brand design.  ? Creates all brand assets and brand awareness for the company.  ? Develops User Interface design that follow UX/UI standard procedures.  ? Responsible for gathering all customer demographic data and using this for the company.  ? Key achievement: Created a brand that communicates the company’s brand message. Front End Developer/ Graphic Designer iKASA Furniture - Hartford, CT 2017 to 2017 • Ranked #4 on Google after conducting Local Organic SEO for the company.  • Was responsible listing products in nonidentical furniture categories.  • Created video and visual content for the company's holiday sales.  • Organized the company’s web content to fit UX standards and procedures.  • Key achievement: Worked directly with customers to ensure a better online transactions. Front End Developer/Graphic Designer Exclusive Linez - Hartford, CT 2016 to 2017 • Created and maintained the entire online presence for the company.  • Was responsible for organic SEO/SEM and maintaining other online listings .  • Worked passionately with customers to ensure customer satisfaction with their orders.  • Organized branding and graphic design aspects for the company and customer orders.  • Key achievement: Ranked #1 on Google after conducting Local Organic SEO for the company. User Research analyst KELLY BLUE BOOK 2015 to 2016 • Assisted the company in research of user stories and personas for company’s website.  • Was Responsible for highlighting user-experience issues that customers faced when buying vehicles.  • Discovered the difficulties for users who were buying SUVs in a specific budget.  • Was Responsible for addressing the pros and cons of buying and comparing between two vehicles.  • Key achievement: Executed standard UX Research procedures to ensure the betterment of KBB. Linux Instructor URBAN LEAGUE - CITY OF SPRINGFIELD - Springfield, MA 2013 to 2014 • Educated inner city youth on RaspberryPI Linux Systems.  • Taught workshop students coding languages such as HTML5, CSS3.  • Provided a linux/coding curriculum suited to the workshop.  • Coordinated with the Urban League and the City of Springfield,MA to ensure workshop success.  • Key achievement: Founded, branded a after-school STEM program. WordPress Theme Instructor CSSIgniter - Remote 2011 to 2011 • Was responsible for creating instructional videos for each CSSIGNITER WordPress Theme.  • Was responsible for recording videos that followed theme documentation.  • Worked remotely in the United states for a European startup.  • Provided customer service and handled tickets via ZenDesk.  • Key achievement: Created instructional videos for european company on how to setup WordPress Themes. Education High school or equivalent Commonwealth Of Massachusetts - Ludlow, MA Skills Front-End (8 years), Angularjs, Javascript, UI, User Interface, CSS3, HTML5, Jquery, Bootstrap, Node, User Experience Design, Google Adwords, Customer Service, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Office, AJAX, PHP, WordPress, LESS / SASS, Wordpress (8 years), FTP (8 years), Web Hosting (8 years), Social Media Marketing (8 years)