Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer ion channel - Portland, OR May 2018 to Present Ion Channel is a start up in the software security space and my day to day has a pretty wide variety of tasks involved. Some highlights from the last year:    • Creating a common core of React/styled-components components: inputs, logomarks, page layouts, lists, buttons, filter menus, sort menus, etc  • Debugging and writing Go: HTTP handlers, SQL statement preparers, ORM and validation  • Testing testing testing: Ruby/Cucumber for backend integration tests, Go/Goblin for backend unit tests, Jest/Webdriver for frontend user workflow testing, Jest for frontend unit and integration tests, Storybook for component snapshotting and manual visual design review  • Devops! Standing-up, tearing-down and configuring S3 buckets, Cloudfront CDNs, Route53 aliases and cnames and what have you; I've been working with both the AWS console and the JavaScript/Node AWS SDK  • Onboarding and mentorship: Creating interview question banks, doing interviews (tech screens, code pairing, and your usual Q&A), creating onboarding and mentorship docs for new hires, doing one-on-ones Software Consultant Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR October 2017 to January 2018 Staff Engineer, Front End Developer Aerohive Networks - Portland, OR June 2016 to April 2017 I was part of a team doing maintenance programming on a cloud-based network administration application written in Dojo. The work was largely bug hunting and trying to straighten out a code base that started with and then accumulated a lot of tech debt over the last five years. I also helped setup and maintain our hardware lab where we debugged the application and connected devices in a "live" environment.    I was also working on a new application using Node, Express, and React to access and display analytics data using the Highcharts library. Tech Lead Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR January 2016 to February 2016 Responsibilities  In my last role with Cambia I analyzed the project for technical debt and opportunities to improve work processes. We created a defect-tracking process, started the move from 6-week releases to continuous delivery, and started dedicating a portion of every sprint to eliminating technical debt. I also drafted and presented plans for sharing and forking common code between the Regence, Asuris, and Bridgespan projects; long-range planning for CMS migration; and converting front end modules to React. Lead Designer (Software) Catalyst DevWorks - Beaverton, OR September 2013 to February 2016 Responsibilities  For two and a half years, I worked for Catalyst DevWorks, an onshore, agile application development services company, building, maintaining, and deploying enterprise-level web applications. I develop primarily for the front end with React, jQuery, and AngularJS. To support my frontend work, I also debug and troubleshoot Spring, Java, and Apache web servers. I've spent time in both technical lead and architect roles and helped formalize cross-team development processes. Tech Lead Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR July 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities  After the Bridgespan project, Cambia invited me to lead a new Catalyst team for their Regence and Asuris mobile optimization work. As the technical lead I developed coding standards, workstation setup scripts, and generally worked to transfer my knowledge of the platform to new team members.    I continued to develop features for business, but also took on other duties like capacity and sprint planning, coordinating my team with the UX and QA teams, assigning work, and making recommendations for team composition. We met our deadline and deployed a full-site redesign for both Regence and Asuris. Software Developer Cambia Health Solutions - Portland, OR July 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities  I was part of a team brought on to expedite the Bridgespan redesign for 2014 Open Enrollment. I created new web applications using the in-house framework and refactored existing utility libraries to better suit our goals. The web applications were written in HTML, Javascript, and SASS. We used Node and NPM for dependency management and Grunt, Python, Ruby, Perl, and Bash for build automation. Beyond front end development, I also refactored the build and deploy scripts, debugged Sprint and Java data service endpoints, developed UI automation in Java Selenium and created Javascript unit tests with Qunit. We used Git and feature-branching for source control. Automation Engineer NIKE - Beaverton, OR May 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities  I created UI automation tests for the Brand Events web application. Work included migrating legacy tests from jMeter to a parameterized TestNG suite. We also setup and ran a Selenium grid to reduce run times for full regression tests. This was also my first project developing in OSX. I customized the OSX environment with Homebrew and other plugins. The project used Subversion source control with Git aliases installed. Education Some college Skills Front End, React, CSS3, UI, Front-End, Javascript Links https://github.com/worc