Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - USAA San Antonio, TX • 5 Years of experience in developing professional User Interface/ Front End web applications.  • Strong working knowledge of HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Bootstrap.  • Extensively used the React JS, Angular 2.0 and Angular 4.0, frameworks for single page application.  • Extensively worked on Web architecture, Web 2.0, and Web pack.  • Experience in creating and consuming Web Services using Restful API and SOAP  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTTP, HTML 5, JavaScript, and Typescript.  • Good Understanding of, Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions compatibility.  • Experience in designing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with CSS @media Queries, Fluid Layouts and Bootstrap.  • Experience in working on CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Gulp and Grunt.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome, IE Developer Toolbar for Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer.  • Work knowledge in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Worked in various version control systems - GIT, TFS, SVN (Tortoise Git)  • Experience in system analysis, design, workflow architecture, development, testing and maintenance of web-based applications.  • Expertise in implementing the business rules in different layers like User Interface, services and backend database.  • Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Load Testing.  • Experience working in AGILE and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions. Work Experience Web Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, React JS.  • Working on responsive website for Desktop, Tablets and Mobile users using CSS Media Queries.  • Using React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Using React-Redux to create the smart components and managing React application state.  • Using React - Redux as middleware to connect redux store with react application and handle multiple actions.  • Using Express and Node for developing mock JSON for initial UI development and later integrated with actual REST API  • Using Middleware, Redux Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Using Axios in actions for making web services calls for GET, POST, PUT, DELETE methods.  • Using REST API calls to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and populated on UI conditionally depending on the prop values of a component.  • Working on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, for rendering component's using HTML tags.  • Using React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Working on Cross-Browser Compatibility and tested each & every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, and Chrome.  • Using Babel for transpilation Typescript to JavaScript.  • Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Mocha.  • Using GITLAB to test, build, and deploy the codebase in the repository.  • Using RTC/JIRA to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, React-Router, Ajax, JSON, GITLAB, Node JS, Express JS, Bootstrap, Restful API, Mocha, Visual Studio, Agile, Scrum, InVision, web services, JIRA Web Developer PenFed - McLean, VA April 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the RICH User Interface using HTML 5, SCSS, JavaScript, ES6, React JS, and Bootstrap.  • Worked on responsive website for Desktop, Tablets and Mobile users using React.js and Materialize CSS.  • Leveraged React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router to develop the Web application.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used React-Redux to create the smart components and managing React application state.  • Used Redux-Thunk as middleware to manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions.  • Used Middleware, Redux Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Used Axios with ReactJS for making AJAX Calls, and (Fetch) web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used REST API calls to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and populated on UI conditionally depending on the prop values of a component.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, for rendering component's using HTML tags.  • Leveraged react npm packages like react-slick to develop image carousels, react-modal and react-input-auto size.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Worked on Cross-Browser Compatibility and tested each & every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, and Chrome.  • Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and react-bootstrap components.  • Used Babel for transpilation Typescript to JavaScript.  • Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jest.  • Used Prepros to compile SCSS, JavaScript files for cross browser synchronizing in real time.  • Used GIT to manage the code repository.  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, React-Router, Ajax, JSON, GIT, Node JS, Express JS,Bootstrap, Restful API, Prepros, Jest, Visual Studio, Agile, Scrum, InVision, web services, JIRA Web Developer MRM//McCann - Birmingham, MI December 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Bootstrap.  • Developed Reactive UI components using JSX, Babel and React JS.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views for rendering the components, which contains additional components, called custom HTML tags.  • Used React-Router library to turn application into Single Page Application  • Responsible for debugging scripts and CSS styles on the browser using IE Developer Tools, Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools.  • Used React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Used HTTP Service in React JS to consume REST API's from Java based API Service.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble.  • Used Redux Framework for state management and store the history of the application.  • Used GIT as distributed version control system for code check-in, check-out, merging and branching.  • Used Webpack to bundle JavaScript files and for packaging.  • Developed UI Components in Test Driven Development (TDD) and performed unit testing using Jasmine and karma test runner utilities.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management and following TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum meetings.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, React-Router, Ajax, JSON, GIT, Bootstrap, Restful API, Webpack, Visual Studio, Agile, Scrum, Photoshop, web services, JIRA Front End Developer Greek Time - Austin, TX September 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application both for Web and Mobile using HTML 5, CSS 3, Typescript, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, for front- end development and Mobile Application with ionic 2/3 framework.  • Used Angular 2/4 to create a Single Page Application (SPA) following MVC architecture and used Router outlet to render the components for specific location of the application.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Typescript, Bower, and Angular 2.0/4.0.  • Designed and Developed Mobile Application with ionic framework  • Used media queries and twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Designs.  • Used NPM as a package manager for Typescript, Grunt for task runner, which handles template cache and code magnification and Bower for installing frontend dependencies.  • Responsible for creating Restful Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format.  • Worked on Angular 2 structural, attribute directives, and created custom directives to reuse it in the code.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management and following TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology and Scrum meetings.  • Used Git as distributed revision control system for code check-in, check-out, merging and branching.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript (ECMA Script 6), Angular 2/4, jQuery, Ionic 2/3, Ajax, JSON, Git, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Restful API, SASS, Agile, Scrum, Protractor, web services, web sockets, JIRA UI Developer Synovus - GE August 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing all the MVC UI pages using HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, AJAX, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, RESTful API.  • Worked on MV* frameworks like Angular 2.0/4.0, for creating Single-Page Applications (SPA).  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, along with HTML5, SASS, and JavaScript and Typescript.  • The portal is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and Media Queries to support Phone, Tablets, and Desktop.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Developed web application that is Modular, Scalable, Stable and Optimized.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5 and SASS using the latest web technologies.  • Created TypeScript, reusable components and services to consume RESTful services, based architecture provided by Angular 2.0/4.0.  • Developed web application that is Modular, Scalable, Stable and Optimized.  • Built single page apps, modules, graphics and reusable components using React JS, Angular 2.0.  • Developed front end web applications using Angular 2.0/4.0, Grunt, Bower, SASS.  • Good experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge.  • Implemented Angular 2.0 component to maintain each view data.  • Developed Responsive Web applications on all device platforms  • Worked with Angular.2.0 Routers, Forms, Modules, DOM, Events, Expressions, Components, Pipes and Http Request.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server, integrating JSON-based REST services.  • Implemented the GET / POST functionality for JSON.  • Interacted with RESTful API services (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end services).  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of attributes using jQuery.  • Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using AJAX.  • Using Jasmine unit testing and end-to- end test using Protractor and experienced in TDD (Test-driven development) method.  • Followed Agile methodology.  • Used GitHub as a version control, and JIRA for task management.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily SCRUM meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SASS, LESS, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, TypeScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, RESTful API, JSON, JIRA, Jasmine, Grunt, Agile/Scrum UI Developer E-rachit Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, XML, AJAX, and Bootstrap.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and Angular. JS  • Designed Front- end with object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Developed client-side Interface by using the Angular JS, for SPA development.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Developed Angular JS, pages, using Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application.  • Worked with Angular JS, Dependency Injection, Expression, Filters, Directives, Components, Modules, Services, controllers, Data Binding, Scope.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Followed Agile methodology.  • Used GitHub as a version control, and JIRA for task management.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, Dreamweaver, AJAX, Bootstrap, SOAP, JSON Education MS in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of South Florida - Tampa, FL 2015 BS in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Basaveshwar Engineering College 2012 Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Redux, Typescript, Json, Xml, Ajax, Css, Unit testing, Router, Eclipse, jquery, Frameworks, Mac, Mac os Links http://@media Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System Windows, MAC OS.  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS 3, JSON, AJAX, XML, XHTML.  Frameworks Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4,  Library jQuery, Redux, React JS, React-Router.  JavaScript Unit Testing Mocha, Jasmine, Karma, Jest  IDE NetBeans, Web storm, Sublime 3, Visual Studio, Eclipse,  Debugging Tools Firebug, IE Tester, Chrome Element Inspectors,  Languages JavaScript, Typescript.