Sr. Full Stack Developer/ Front- End Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer/ Front- End Developer - Symantec, Kansas Accomplished and skilled IT professional looking for a challenging position as a Full-Stack Developer to upgrade my skills and knowledge in an established organization.  I have around 5+ of IT experience working through all phases of SDLC (design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications and websites). Utilized various cutting-edge technologies such as Python, Java, AWS, Big Data and Hadoop, cloud services. Proficient working on JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS 1.x/2.0/4.0, NodeJS, Express.JS, Ember.JS, ExtJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Spring, Hibernate. Experience and exposure in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and using Front End Technologies like JAVA, PHP, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, CSS2/3, Media Queries, JSP, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Ember.js. Good expertise in working with various Spring modules: Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Security. Excellent experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Extensive knowledge of Web-based n-tier architecture, Database Design, development of applications using J2EE Design Patterns e.g. creational, structural and behavioral design patterns (MVC Architecture, Data Access Object (DAO), Composite View, View Helper, etc.). Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration. Developed Web-based enterprise applications using Java/J2EE, Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Micro Services , Web Services (SOAP and REST) and MVC Framework (Struts, Spring MVC). Experienced in development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, and IntelliJ. Experience in software configuration management tools like CVS, SVN and GitHub. Hands on experience working on front- end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and Have experience in back- end, like Node.js, python, SQL /NoSQL databases, and APIs of all kinds, I've built high-availability AWS and Digital Ocean, Nginx, Apache HTTPs. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer/ Front- End Developer Symantec, Kansas January 2018 to Present • Implemented MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS, NodeJS) with RESTful stands.  • Utilized front- end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Angular2.0/4.0, jQuery, AJAX, React.js.  • JSON, Kendo UI for designing User Interface and checked cross browser compatibility with various browsers.  • Worked on front- end used JavaScript with Ember.js to build a single-page app style front- end.  • Working on microservices and Spring boot for designing/developing the cloud platform to build a perfect SOA using spring cloud and spring web services.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked as part of Microservices team to develop and deliver Maven projects to deploy on tomcat.  • Used GIT for version control, and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js and MySQL.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used Ember.js in combining both tools and concepts of native GUI frameworks with support for the feature that makes the web so powerful the URL.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords .  • Developed data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module and Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java. Loaded data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL-DB package.  • Developed a distributed web application using J2EE technology frameworks and involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  • Implemented Hibernate Inheritance strategies to map relation between tables and configured many-many relationship using Hibernate annotations.  • Used CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets) along with the preprocessor SASS and RWD to apply assorted styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Developed and Consumed REST based web Services using Spring Boot and JAX-RS.  • Have done server-side scripting using Node.JS to develop the applications, which are data intensive real time applications that run on distributed devices.  • Used Spring and hibernate as well to develop REST web services to fetch and provide data from various data systems. Used NodeJS for server-side, Bootstrap for client-side, Highchart.js for displaying data in the form of graphs.  • Used Karma for front end unit testing, backend with Mocha framework and Chai assertion, end to end testing in Angular2 using Protractor. SOAP/RESTful API (Web services JSON & XML) Integration & creation. Agile/Scrum driven software development environment. Full Stack Java Developer Oracle - Redwood City, CA June 2016 to December 2017 • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Created RESTful APIs in Java environment using JAX-RS and Node.JS using Express.JS framework.  • Developed Open stack API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images and worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Used KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB -NoSQL database.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating Restful web services.  • Used Ember.js templates that help to automatically update the model, if contents of applications get change.  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with REST template based RESTful API and utilized spring cloud to manage the complexity.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Worked on creating Restful API's using Ember.JS to be consumed by backend.  • Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to Mongo db.  • Used Hibernate, ORM solution technique of mapping data and involved in creating Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotation.  • Deployed the code in Jenkins server and Setting up Docker Containers with Docker Swarm for continuous integration and build.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Developed SOAP/REST based web services supporting XML and JSON message formats. Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.  • Worked with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message oriented middleware. Modified CSS-driven layouts and manipulate the visual layout, especially during code-freeze.  • Worked with task runner GULP, Jasmine test framework and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra. Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back- end to handle requests sent from the front- end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Designed and implemented the logging mechanism using SVN as a version control tool and Ant for building and deploying the application.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check. Java Web Developer eBay - Bellevue, WA January 2015 to April 2016 • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using JSP, AngularJS, CSS, and HTML, JSTL tag libraries in JSP pages based on the W3C standards.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC-EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Groups, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Used Ember.js and Twitter Bootstrap as the front- end frameworks to develop the Single Page Applications.  • Built RESTful API in Java using JAX-RS for obtaining proper error codes, URL Mapping and implemented them using Jersey.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js, Ember.js Require.js and node.js to develop User Interface of web pages.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed and implemented scalable, RESTful and microservices-based mobile back- end. Extracted Data from RDMS into Cassandra Cluster using Sqoop and involved in commission and decommission of the nodes in the existing Cassandra cluster.  • Employed various core and J2ee design patterns like factory, DAO, Command, Business Delegate, MVC, Service locator.  • Worked on Log analysis web application by using elastic search tools with Docker cross platform.  • Transformed designs mock-ups to customized standards HTML pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers. Code to build automation task using Gulp and Grunt and involved in writing server-side scripts using Node.js and Express.js framework.  • Used jQuery Grid plugin for data manipulation between presentation and business logic layers.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project in Hybrid methodology. Front- End Developer JPMC - Dallas, TX January 2012 to June 2013 • Designed and developed online marketing collateral including site pages, forms, module, emails and ad units.  • Used J2EE framework to design and Implement highly scalable software application.  • Worked with Servlets and Struts based multitier applications in developing J2EE components and involved in Struts framework code implementation.  • Designed user-friendly experiences for consumers and develop using standard complaint HTML & CSS and Imported and update web content in CMS.  • Converted client's website to XHTML and CSS and fixed cross-browser problems following the W3C Standards Designed and redesigned of the application using EJB, developed UI components using JSP, Struts, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and AJAX for Recipient and Provider maintenance portals.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Involved with the source control and deployment activities using Git, Maven and Jenkins. Used Waterfall methodologies for Software Development.