Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Cdk Global Seattle WA ? Around 6 years of experience as a NodeJS / UI Developer with solid understanding of HTML5, CSS3, Handlebar, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, ReactJs, NodeJS and AngularJS.  ? Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Experience on working with CSS3 background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, ReactJs, Backbone JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications.  ? Rewrote existing CSS3 to form adaptive and responsive layouts for mobile UI.  ? Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of Portals and UI Applications including HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods.  ? In-depth knowledge about browser DOM API and methods to access traverse and modify the DOM using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in working with the JavaScript and various MVC JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS  ? Extensively used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack; Developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  ? Knowledge on Typescript, ES6 and Angular for Mobile applications, Web API and browser clients.  ? Developed custom directives (for simultaneous file uploads) and created AngularJs services to consume in controllers.  ? Experience in using the latest approaches, including MVVM in the browser, event driven applications using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON  ? Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website. Experienced in in setting up of AWS relational databases like MYSQL, MSSQL, and NoSQL database mongoDB  ? Proficient in using version control tool like Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Visual Source Safe (VSS), SVN, Jenkins.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJs.  ? Experienced in ReactJs and working with ProtoType Flux architecture  ? Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJs framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  ? Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJs and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Expert in using JavaScript libraries like Handlebar.js for precompiling templates, Require.js for AMD and Bootstrap.js for CSS.  ? Experience in configuration management systems like SVN, CVS, Mercurial and GIT-HUB.  ? Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug, Fiddler and Developer Tools.  ? Thorough grasp of cross-browser compatibility issues and code optimization.  ? Developed Enterprise level Web Apps while meeting strict requirements for security and administration management.  ? Managing tickets through JIRA and use Source tree with GIT for version control and also used bower as package manager.  ? Used SVN, CVS, GIT and for Version controlling and error reporting and project management tools like JIRA.  ? Skilled in working with IDE Tools like Eclipse, Visual studio, Notepad++  ? Extensive experience working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support. Work Experience Front- end Developer Cdk Global Seattle WA - Seattle, WA March 2019 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:    ? Developed enterprise-level applications utilizing, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular7 and modern UI frameworks such as Bootstrap.  ? Front end was built with Html5, Backbone, Bower & RequireJS  ? Developing various reusable components in Angular 7.  ? Developing various services in Angular as per required business logic.  ? Detailed Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  ? Implementing inheritance properties using SASS for creating responsive style sheets.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular7 and JSON.  ? Used $http and $resource service for retrieving data from the server via XMLHttprequest object in Angular7 framework.  ? Application Architected and developed using Angular7, MVC framework.  ? Have a good experience in traversing the DOM elements and making changes.  ? Worked with Angular7 Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters.  ? Used Angular Http services for performing Ajax calls for consuming api's as required.  ? Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular router for various views and sub views.  ? Used RxJS Observables for handling events and Asynchronous operations.  ? Used NgRX for maintaining state of application as single source of truth and updating components when the state is updated.  ? Used Angular7 virtual scrolling, drag and drop and various features from @angular/cdk.  ? Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  ? Experience with Grunt, Gulp and Bower modules of NodeJS.  ? Used Angular7 to develop applications with Angular7 and Node Also Used Grunt-ts to automatically compile Typescript.  ? Using Bower Package Manager for installing updated packages and libraries for client side like jQuery, Requirejs, Angular-Route, Angular-Mocks.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  ? Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  ? Developing reusable features in Node platform using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, NodeJS, Express.  ? Developed various templates to be reusable by using Handlebars templating engine.  ? Developed various designs using CSS Hierarchy to be applied based on configuration of site.  ? Used LESS as CSS preprocessor for taking advantage of various code reusability features such as variables, mixins etc  ? Extensively used FlexBox layout CSS3 for displaying templates on various designs.  ? Used CSS media query's for making pages responsive for all devices.  ? Used Express library on Node for handling requests.  ? Extensively used Promises, Async/Await pattern for handling Asynchronous operations on Node Server.  ? Implemented i18n - internationalization of sites to different languages.  ? Implemented Pixel Tagging on the sites to be used for performing Analytics team.  ? Follow SEO friendly names for using meta tags and page names, redirect's and url's, Alt text on assets  ? Experience in performing Mongo DBA operational routines  ? Used JS tree that provides interactive trees by which we can implement drag & drop with search functionality.  ? Created Custom directives for components used across the application.  ? Created dynamic reactive forms, form controls and implemented form validations.  ? Helped with the integration of Backend with the front- end elements.  ? Drove work on a compact profile (ECMA 327) primarily aimed at mobile environments.  ? Created and Enterprise level web app to manage the entire HR department using HR Management tool.  ? Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, Angular2, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Monitored application performance using AppDynamics and diagnosed, eliminate problems at code-level and Visualizing the entire application stack.  ? Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Committed code change into repository by using version control tool GIT.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  ? Unit tests developed using Jasmine running on Karma for frontend test running on browser.  ? Developed features behind toggles for safe platform release and having rollback plan.  ? Extensively developed server side based on asynchronous programming using promises.  ? Used various JavaScript design patterns on node like Module, Adapter, Processor, Retriever, Promisified functions etc.  ? Developed patterns in platform for safe release process such as developing features behind toggles so to turn on/off the toggles as a rollback, cross platform release.  ? Developed some scripts on NodeJS for doing data fixes, api testing.  ? Created JUnit test class and Integration test classes by mocking the services using Mockito  ? Performed DR testing on MongoDB annually.  ? Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 7, TypeScript, REST API, Bootstrap, NodeJS, i18n, SEO, Express, RxJS, NgRX, Angular Material, AngularCDK, LESS, Jasmine, Karma, Bamboo, JIRA, SASS, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, GIT. Lead Front- end Developer McDonald's - Metairie, LA May 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developing Web components for Beachbody website using HTML5, CSS, SCSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular4.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Built mobile-first, responsive websites using Angular4, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developed and Maintain Beachbody homepage with latest web stack.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Developed Front End Components, created carousels using Angular4, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Video popups, video playlists in web pages using bright cove.  • Managing E-commerce stuff with Market Live.  • JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Adobe marketing cloud is used for test and target.  • Creating offers, campaigns to know the conversion rate of new web pages with existing web pages.  • Develop HTML templates and perform client-side Validation using JavaScript.  • Generated new and edited existing user interface with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes.  • Attending Daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, sprint review, and sprint retrospective  • Working with Product owner on Artifacts Such as Product Backlog.  • Worked with Jenkins, JVM to build the web applications to production environment.  • Developed custom directives in Angular4 for the UI screens  • Used Grunt and NodeJS as server for the front- end development  • Used Minified JS to minify the JavaScript.  • Added products, SKU, upsells, Add-ons for product purchases in Market Live.  • Developed Unit test cases for the Angular4 controllers using Karma, Jasmine  • Involved in writing maven scripts for merging jar files into existing repository.  • Worked with chrome debugger to locate the issue through different browsers.  • Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Coordinated with development team, QA team, Scrum master, Product Owner and Senior management to refine requirements and address issues using Git, Jenkins and Cloudinary.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, MVC, REST, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Git, MySQL, Angular4, SCSS, Ruby, NodeJS, Market Live, Adobe Marketing Cloud, Cloudinary, Jenkins. Sr UI Developer AT&T - Richardson, TX November 2016 to April 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed ReactJs cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS3, and ES6 to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJs.  ? Ensured the website to be mobile-first and Responsive web design (RWD)by employing Bootstrap, CSS3 media queries.  ? Integrated with the back- end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to data.  ? Used JQuery events to manipulate the elements depend on the user interactions (like. Ready (), hover (), bind (), click (), keypress (), etc.).  ? Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and callback functions.  ? Worked with DOM elements, making changes to them and interlinking them.  ? Worked with data Visualization using Google Chart API.  ? Applied ES6 style guide compliant code practices inside proprietary MVC-like build platform within a tech stack  ? Set up the Method for different TFS Application Tier as Load Balancing in the TFS environment.  ? Training and mentoring JavaScript developers in ProtoType/Redux development.  ? Prototyping new features and ideas - HTML 5, CSS3, and ES6.  ? Developed single page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using JavaScript MVC framework ReactJs.  ? Expertise in writing high performance ReactJs components, by using lifecycle methods like should-component-update & component-will-receive-props.  ? Developed Front End Components, created Handlebar Templates using ReactJs, keeping the DOM Clean.  ? Widely used ReactJs and Twitter-Bootstrap components like calendar picker, time picker, directives, select2, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router Providers, progress bar, ng-Idle, and ng-Upload.  ? Developed Enterprise level Web Apps while meeting strict requirements for security and administration management.  ? Developed UML diagrams like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detail design phase.  ? Worked on Adobe Dreamweaver to build websites and developing web pages through Word Press.  ? Developed the online chat interface for the anonymous communication between mentors and clients.  ? Worked on tools like JIRA for bug tracking and GIT for version control.  ? Designed and developed performance tests for the data-pipeline using JUnit Framework.  ? Worked on the application which is built using Test Driven Development framework jasmine.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SPA, JQUERY, ReactJs, NodeJS, ES6, Handlebar, GitHub, JSON, AJAX, REST, JIRA, Jasmine, Adobe. UI/Web Developer PayPal Inc - San Jose, CA January 2016 to November 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Hands on experience in coding web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and ReactJs making them cross browser compatible.  ? Used Twitter bootstrap for HTML5 components style definitions and user interface elements such as dialog boxes and tooltips.  ? Designed and implemented ProtoType/Redux application  ? Experienced in CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements.  ? Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Worked with Data Tables, a table enhancing plug-in for the jQuery JavaScript library, adding sorting, paging, and filtering abilities to plain HTML5 tables.  ? Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  ? Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Tempnet Framework.  ? Drafting technical specifications and acting as editor in standards work with ECMA  ? Worked on ReactJs MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application and created some custom.  ? Creating ProtoType.js / Flux / Redux front- end UI, and Node.js applications for backend  ? Created Dynamic web pages using forms, filters, expressions and data binding of ReactJs.  ? Used JSON for data transfer between front end and back end.  ? Further tasks include management of all MongoDB database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.  ? Developed server-side REST style web services and called them from backbone models/collections.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Selecting appropriate AWS services to design and deploy an application based on given requirements.  ? Performed a POC with Junit/Cucumber for functional testing  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, and Development Testing and Production phases for the new requirements of the Application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Responsive Web Design, ReactJs, Node JS, SVN UI/Web developer Align Technologies - IN August 2014 to July 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX.  ? Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs.  ? Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Worked with cross browser compatibility issues to ensure the smooth running of application and all its features on different browsers.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery) connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  ? Used JQuery core libraries for the logical implementation part at the client side of the website.  ? Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  ? Expertise in AngularJS for developing Single Page Applications.  ? Wrote SQL queries to get the data, update the data from the database and to connect database in the DAO implementation classes.  ? Deployed the application using Tomcat Web Server.  ? Debugged the application using Firebug and traversed through the nodes of the tree using DOM functions.  ? Used Microsoft Visio for designing the Use Case Diagrams, Class model, Sequence diagrams, and Activity diagrams for SDLC process of the application.  ? Tested the web services with SOAPUI tool.  ? Used Eclipse as Development IDE for web applications.  ? Involved in raising the change requests and entering all the production issues into the remedy system.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SPA, JQuery, NodeJS, DOM functions, REST, Use Case Diagrams, AngularJS Front End Developer Avenir IT Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed business applications with dynamic and browser compatible pages using technologies like HTML and CSS based on the W3C standards.  ? Developed the Frontend User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework and HTML.  ? Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery UI and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  ? Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Used JS for custom client-side validation and DOM manipulations.  ? Used AJAX to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server.  ? Worked with technologies such as jQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive and user friendly.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery) connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Implemented JQuery Filter search a JavaScript tool for adding a little search widget next to any page listing.  ? Used Flash Animations and Storyboard & User Flows for e-learning tutorials using human factor engineering design concepts.  ? Analyzed and created Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages.  ? Responsible in gathering requirements with different customers and modified code as the customer needs.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Used UML diagrams Use Cases, Object, Class, State, Sequence and Collaboration to design the application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  ? Involved in documenting the details related to Changes occurring in the system, following the Quality processes.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, Use cases, JavaScript Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science GITAM University Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic Skills Visual studio, Application server, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Xml, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dreamweaver, Asp.net, Tomcat, Ui web