Senior UX Developer Senior UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UX Developer - CVS Health San Mateo, CA Work Experience Senior UX Developer CVS Health - Boston, MA June 2018 to Present Project Description:Implementation of multiple web applications(20+ templates) for web site rebranding/re-credentialing, CVS specialty applications and Test Strip forms. User interface applications allowing information inputs and capture for users to get information about additional things. All applications are accessibility-friendly, responsive web designs with JavaScript, jQuery, HTML and CSS based front end.    R&R and Working knowledge:  • Implementation of UX designs using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • DevelopingAccessibility-friendly web designs.  • Followed Agile Methodology for daily stand ups, two-week sprints, presenting demos at the end of each sprint.  • Interface with UX designers, content developers and full stack developers.  • Participate in design discussions with business analysts, content developers and accessibility teams.  • Actively incorporate JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, and Angular JS 2/4/5.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS for layout and Responsive Web Design.  • Coordinate with UI design team on issues like navigation, page routing, product page design and more.  • Collaborate with team using advanced GIT strategies XD, InVision, and Sketch.  • Extensively used JIRA for bug tracking and defect management.  • Developedresponsive web pages for smart phones, tablets and Personal desktops using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Build and test all Mobile Applications for Android and IOS.  • Project management, design and implementation at client site using various software development tools such as Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA, GIT,JIRA and Confluence as per project needs.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  • Testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting technical problems.  • Involved in development, enhancement, testing, security and performance of the application.  • Used GIT for version control.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript(ES 5/6), jQuery, Typescript, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5, JIRA, IntelliJ, Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse, GIT. Senior UI Developer State Auto Insurance Companies - Columbus, OH November 2016 to May 2018 Project Description: Implementation ofGuidewire Portal for Agents to create personal Auto/Home/Umbrella and Commercial polices and implementation of Account Management Portal for agents and insured for policy account management. Both the portals are single page applications with java script and angular based frontend and guidewire based backend.  R&R and Working knowledge:  • Developing user Interactive web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, Typescript as per the business requirements.  • As an onshore support team developer working inside Agile methodology, attended daily stand-ups and participated in sprint planning as well as in presenting demos at the end of each sprint.  • Worked on feature implementation and development of Guidewire Digital Agent Portal applications platform (Quote and Buy, Agent Gateway, Claims Portal, Account Management) for the Guidewire web-based Insurance Suite Applications (Policy Center, Claim Center and Billing Center) using the Edge architecture.  • As a scrum team member worked on stories, trouble shooting issues and providing hotfixes for critical defects.  • Expert in developing user interface web applications usingJavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS,MVC frameworks(Angular JS, Angular2).  • Developed Responsive web design using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Created and Consumed RESTFUL Web Services using Angular2HTTP Module.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and used ngIf to display the error messages.  • Used @Input and @Output for transferring data between child and parent components.  • Working knowledge of various built-in angular services like $location, $q, $http, $filter etc.  • Extensively used Angular JS Custom directives, Factories, Services, routing, Interceptors, data binding and third-party modules.  • Created Reusable Services and used them in different component using Angular2 Dependency injection.  • Expert in building cross browser compatibility applications using Angular JS, JQuery UI and SASS.  • Used JIRA extensively for organizing issues, tracking the assigned work, and following team activity.  • Used J-Query and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Extensively used SVN for version control and regularly pushed the code to SVN.    Environment: JavaScript(ES 5/6), typescript, Gosu, HTML, CSS, SASS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, Require JS,RESTFUL Web Services, JSON, JIRA, SVN, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Fiddler, Microsoft SQL server 2012, Jasmine, Karma, Guidewire Policy Center, Billing Center and Claim Center. Senior Front- End Developer NYS Office of Information Technology Services - Albany, NY April 2015 to October 2016 Description: New York state office of Information Technology Services (ITS) helps consolidate and merge state agencies and streamline services. ITS is responsible for providing centralized IT services to the state and its governmental agencies.    R&R and Working Knowledge:  • Worked in Agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  • Developed the front- end web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, and AngularJS 1.X.  • Developed single page application by using AngularJS directives, controllers, modules and 2-way data binding, forms, DOM, events, filters and HTTP Request.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and DOM manipulation using components in angular for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Used Require JS for module creation and dependency management.  • Implemented modules into Angular JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Worked with the back- end developers in the process of design and implementation of the RESTful API and integration with external web services.  • Extensively used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer.  • Handled browser compatibility issues in browsers such as IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Proficient in using JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs on everyday basis.  • Used GIT as version control tool in our project.  • Participated in discussions with DB team, QA team, Business Analysts, Project managers and users to analyses and implement the requirements efficiently.  • Worked with other BA, QA and other Developers to enhance application functionality and add new features and provide bug fixes    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS 1.X, Require JS, IntelliJ, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio, JSON, RESTful API, AJAX, JIRA, GIT, XML, XSD, XSL. UI Developer HSBC Bank - New York, NY November 2013 to March 2015 Description: HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organizations in the world. Global businesses include retail banking and wealth management, global banking and markets, commercial banking and global private banking.    R&R and Working Knowledge:  • Responsible in designing and development of portal and UI components using MVC framework, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Followed Agile process two-week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Used AngularJS, HTTP Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render the UI.  • Worked with various service components such as $animate, $compile, $filter, and $http.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules and manipulated nodes in DOM tree.  • Constructed and designed web pages and templates, including layout and navigation for the complete web application using HTML, XML, and XSLT.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed custom modules by integrating Web Services like REST and SOAP.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Expertise in using Grid Framework.  • Implemented JSON parsing for data handling on different applications.  • Writing mock services to connect to incase of environments downtime using Node JS and express frameworks.  • Developed Maven Scripts for the build process and deployed in WebLogic 10.2.  • Participated in design meetings for backend database architecture.  • Generated UML class diagrams that captured the dependency of MySQL tables.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used JIRA as a ticketing tool, bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Extensively used SVN for version control.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, SVN, AJAX, XML, XSLT, MVC framework, Ajax, REST, SOAP, JIRA, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Maven, WebLogic 10.2, MySQL, MySQL workbench. Java Developer Sierra Atlantic - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to October 2013 Description: Sierra Atlantic is responsible for providing software development services to the insurance and financial industries. The application implementation management services to customers in process manufacturing, financial services, retail industries, and life sciences.  R&R and Working Knowledge:  • Developed Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, used JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Designed and developed Controllers and Action Forms using Spring Framework.  • Developed font end applications using MVC Framework.  • Used RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from different applications.  • Used Spring Framework for implementing Dependency Injection, AOP.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application.  • Involved in end to end development and bug fixing.  • Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front- end processing.  • Front end screens development using JSP with tag libraries and HTML pages.  • Consume REST Style services using JSON.  • Used Maven to build and deploy the application on tomcat server.  • Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the customer's satisfaction.  • Used Oracle10g as backend database using Windows OS and involved in development of Stored Procedures.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 2.5, JavaScript, JQuery, RESTful Web Services, Hibernate, JSON JPA, HTML, CSS, Apache Tomcat 6.0, SVN, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Maven, Oracle10g, XML, IBM ILOG Jviews. Education Masters in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Kakatiya University - Warangal, Telangana Skills .net (7 years), Ajax (4 years), Apache (1 year), Bootstrap (5 years), Eclipse (5 years), Git (2 years), Html5 (2 years), java (3 years), Javascript (7 years), jquery (7 years), Json (6 years), Microsoft visual studio (7 years), Sass (2 years), Subversion (4 years), Svn (4 years), Ui (5 years), User interface (5 years), version control. (5 years), Visual studio (7 years), Xml (4 years)