UI Developer/Visual Designer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Visual Designer UI Developer/Visual Designer - RCWilley Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience UI Developer/Visual Designer RCWilley - Salt Lake City, UT June 2014 to Present RC Willey is a retail store that sells merchandise in the following categories: furniture, electronics, home appliances, mattresses, flooring, and seasonal merchandise. This project involved transforming the applications present in JQuery to Angular JS. The website uses AngularJS, JQuery and AJAX features extensively.    Responsibilities:  • Transform the website features from jQuery domain to AngularJS domain as the latter is faster and easier to implement.  • Developed AngularJS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system.  • Integrated the model and view part using Model View View Models (MVVM)  • Extensive experience using Bootstrap for layout.  • Used customized services and directives in AngularJS to develop dynamic and responsive webpages.  • Built the template, pulled agent information from JSON object and rendered it onto the widget.  • Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript/ECMAscript5 for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Maintained, enhanced, and recommended solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Participated in the team on agile development cycle.  • Coordinated with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  Environment:HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript 5, JQuery, JSP, EJB, JSON, DOM, Node.js, AngularJS, Require.js, bootstrap, GIT, MVC/MVVM, Adobe Fireworks, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, PL/SQL, Windows. Front End/Visual Graphics Designer Johnson & Johnson Services Inc - Bridgewater, NJ January 2013 to May 2014 For over a century, Johnson & Johnson has been a driving force in the rapid growth of the health care industry. Today, Johnson & Johnson has more than 250 companies located in 60 countries around the world. The company is supported by the efforts of more than 8, 500 employees worldwide.  I was particularly involved in UI development team. The team responsibilities included usability analysis, wireframe prototyping, visual design, front- end development and integration with backend data and services.    Responsibilities:  • HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, and CSS based front end UI design and development.  • Used AngularJS custom directives to develop reusable UI custom component.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading and rich features of ECMA 5 (strict mode, getters and setters, JSON parsing) to provide more functionality to the JavaScript code.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Maintained the documentation and use cases for the website.  • Mapping business requirements to application features and the most suited technology to provide business value.  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Front- End Research and Development, Integration, Bug Fixing and Launch & Maintenance.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the client to identify the user requirements and the user experience to achieve the consistency in the proposed application.  • Analyzed and demonstrated the user centric design and customer experience to the client with the newly proposed application design.  • Estimated the effort for the implementing the changes.  • Researched and identified the well versed open source tool to implement the cross browser application to achieve the web standards.  • Developed / Integrated static pages into the existing and proposed system.  • Performed code review and unit testing.  • Identified and fixed the browser/performance related issues in the application.  • Provided production deployment and validation support.  • Fixed the post production issues in the application.    Environment:Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, High charts, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, SQL Server and Windows XP. UI Developer/ Visual Graphic Interface Designer Live Nation Entertainment - Hollywood, CA September 2012 to December 2013 Hollywood, CA Sep 2012 to Dec2013  UI Developer/ Visual Graphic Interface Designer  Live Nation Entertainment is the world's leading live entertainment and e-commerce company, comprised of four market leaders: Ticketmaster.com, Live Nation Concerts, Artist Nation and Live Nation Network. Ticketmaster.com is the global event ticketing leader and one of the world's top five e-commerce sites, with over 27 million monthly unique visitors. I worked on improving the look and feel of the Ticketmaster website and incorporated advanced features for better user experience of the web application even on their mobile screens.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Developed UML diagrams for the system and analyzed the application work flow.  • Developed CSS to maintain the uniformity of the all the screens though out the application and positioning of the screen objects.  • Incorporated Twitter bootstrap concepts to make the web application responsive to mobile and tablet screens.  • Worked with clients to obtain and document project requirements for High Level Design of the application.  • Produced big, bold & responsive headlines using slab-text JQuery plugin  • Coded Advanced Object Oriented JavaScript framework like API plugin in JQuery, utilizing a single JavaScript/ CSS UI interface for web based browsers, the super app features HTML capabilities within different components like accordions, grids, and charts.  • Designed JQuery UI plugins to allow a developer to seamlessly integrate UI widgets into the look and feel of their site or application.  • Developed CSS to maintain the uniformity of the all the screens though out the application and positioning of the screen objects.  • Created different types of modals. One for dynamic content for Ajax call having both modal header as well as modal content together inside one modal body.  • Created different Web 2.0 Design patterns such as Navigation Tabs, Item Pagination, Page Grids, Sign-In module, Ranking, Writing a Review, Calendar Picker, Auto Complete.  • Used AJAX to implement its queue browser for smoother transactions.  • Worked with the Back- End team and Quality assurance team in the process.    Environment:Java 1.6, CSS, firebug, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows Platforms, IDE- Eclipse, SVN, LESS, Bootstrap, REST and Angular JS Framework Front- end Developer Accenture/US Bank, Cosa - Mesa, CA November 2010 to October 2011 US bank is a subsidiary of US Bancorp financial services company. It is the fifth largest bank in US in terms of deposits. I worked on improving the existing interface for deposits and recurring payment gateways for the users of US bank as well as employees.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with client, program manager to gather their requirements.  • Involved in complete User interface designing and coded the web site in XHTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Used AJAX with JQuery controls for Listing all scripts in a grid and making them editable it in the grid which will reflect in the database table as well (like margins)  • Wrote CSS and JavaScript for browser compatibility. Re-skinned and created new theme for some of the forms using CSS and dynamic JavaScript.  • Created an actions menu with jQuery that appears when checkboxes are selected  • Designed XML schemas and parsers for scalable XML documents used with Web Services and real-time reporting.  • Changed the width of the list items that resulted in different forms of grids. Also solved the padding effect differences among the various browsers i.e. browser's compatibility.  • Worked with CSS Selectors, classes, ids, pseudo classes, Inheritance and cascade concepts, Box model with fixed width, fluid & elastic layouts.  • Worked extensively on Spring MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Worked on HTML, DOM, Browser Object model and plain JavaScript.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Implemented pagination links that helps each page to download only when requested that speeds up delivery and saving on bandwidth.  Environment:CSS2, OO Java Script, Ajax, JQuery, XML, JSP, JUnit, Windows Platforms, Java 1.4, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, IDE- Eclipse. Front- end Developer Mindtree - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2007 to September 2010 Mindtree is a multinational information technology and outsourcing company which deals in e-commerce, mobile applications, cloud computing, digital transformation, business intelligence, data analytics, testing, Agile software development, infrastructure, EAI and ERP with more than 290 clients and offices in 14 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  • Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used OO Java Script, JSP, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the application.  • Involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets.  • Used JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Improved outgoing quality through test and yield improvements and characterization. Also reduced costs through test time improvements.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing.    Environment:Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Windows NT 4.0, UNIX, My Eclipse IDE, JSP/Servlets, Apache, Tomcat, Web logic, JDBC, XML, HTML, Oracle8. Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/8/10, MAC OS    ? A Result Oriented Professional with 8 Years of work experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks (MV*), AngularJS, jQuery, BackboneJS, JSON, JSONP, Twitter Bootstrap, Modernizer JS, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, Ajax, CSS3, CSS Frameworks, SASS, CSS Sprite, Jasmine Unit Test Framework.  ? Expertise in Developing Responsive Design, REST Service Application with Reusable Code and High Quality & Performance using suitable Front End Technologies.  ? Experience in Prototyping - Built entire Intranet portal in Axure environment.  ? Excellent and impressive hands on creating wireframes using MS visio and Adobe In Design.  ? Experience in creating user interface widgets using JQuery.  ? Experience with Backbone JavaScript library with a RESTful JSON interface.  ? Experience in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Excellent experience in RWD (Responsive Web Design)  ? Analyze user interface problems and create on-brand design solutions that meet measurable business goals and requirements.  ? Use metrics and research to inform design/UX optimization efforts.  ? An experienced troubleshooter and tester in JavaScript code behind depending on the type of bug and solution that was presented. Heavy use of Jasmine, Karma Unit Testing and JSFiddle and Firebug.  ? Experience working in Databases like Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, Postgre SQL, MS SQL Server 2000, MySQL.  ? Experienced in Agile, Scrum and Waterfall software development methodologies.  ? Experience in working with Apache and IIS web servers.  ? Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.