Angular-4/ Developer Angular-4/ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular-4/ Developer - Maximus Topeka, KS • 9 years of extensive experience as a Front- End UI Developer with different domains like Logistics Management, Health care, Banking and Financial Services.  • Profound knowledge in HTML5, CSS3, SASS/LESS, DOM, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 4, ReactJS and NodeJS.  • Well versed in CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and preprocessors like SASS, LESS.  • Extensive experience on MVC frameworks like AngularJS and Angular 2 for creating Single-Page Applications.  • Experience in implementing store actions, installing React Router, React-Redux app to handle real time data, API calls from Thunk, Redux in ReactJS.  • Experience in in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow Virtual DOM, JSX, React native concepts.  • Extensive experience in developing software applications using Angular 4 components like observables, routing, dependency injection, two-way binding, service resources, pipes and events.  • Developed API driven responsive web applications by integrating Angular 4 with Bootstrap and API's.  • Extensively implemented ES6 for building interactive cross platform web application and optimizing the application for high performance.  • Expert in working with NodeJS server-side application to implement concepts like Event Dispatcher, Express.js.  • Experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript, jQuery. Worked on $http service to call the Ajax and get the JSON data from the server.  • Experienced in understanding and modifying existing code and maintaining rich complex web applications.  • Experienced in working with debugging tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome, Safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar and worked on cross-browser compatibility issues.  • Worked with testing frameworks like Karma and Jasmine for unit testing.  • Utilized Gulp, Grunt and Bower components to fasten the project building process and deployment process.  • Experience in working with MVC Architecture and in using version control such as SVN and GIT.  • Used JIRA as issue tracking product management tool to maintain and collaborate on issues and tasks.  • Worked on IDE's like Atom, Web Storm, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA and Sublime Text.  • Experience with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming and Agile Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular-4/ Developer Maximus - Reston, VA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, ext.JS, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular 4.  • Defined new validations through Angular for the form field validation implemented using directives like valid, pristine, checked and also sanitizing the form.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design using NG-Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Query.  • Worked on Angular 4 by consuming Restful web services and used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Used AJAX to make the service calls from the web page in background using jQuery without performing a browser refresh.  • Created classes using the Meta data Annotations derived through the decorators in Angular 4.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular directives.  • Developed Typescript reusable components and services to consume Nodejs using Component based architecture.  • Created Angular4 custom pipe to format the data.  • Optimized the code for reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the provider's property in Angular 4 Components.  • Worked on Routes in Angular 4 to create the base route and extensions by using RouterConfig as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the webpage.  • Designed and implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular4, NodeJS, NPM.  • Involved in configuring the GIT repository and used GIT for version control.  • Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, demos and retrospectives, stand up meetings and followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 4, Oracle, Grunt, GIT, NodeJS, Agile Methodology. Front- End Developer Visa, Forster City, CA August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities  • Involved in designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and ReactJS.  • Utilized LESS preprocessors of CSS to extend CSS with variables, operators, interpolations, functions and many more other usable assets.  • Integrated React and Redux to keep track of application state with stores and designed components with dispatched actions that manipulate objects with actions.  • Created JS components using JSX and used React JSON schema for implementing and building HTML forms out of a JSON schema and using Bootstrap semantics by default.  • Browserifying the Nodejs module, so that it can be directly invoked from browser, used browserify  module.  • Understand the current functionality in DME2 (Java) component and implement the same functionality in Nodejs  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Configuring the job in Jenkins to automate the process of running the Nodejs test cases.  • Configuring the Jenkins for publishing the Nodejs component on ATT's internal  • Developed pages to interact with the server for information using jQuery and AJAX.  • EMBERDDED Software Developer with noteworthy years of experience on Linux based platforms and Wi-Fi based System.  • Emberdded code design and development for radio control, radio calibration/trimming algorithms and production test to get the best power and performance efficiency.  • Analyzed the response of JSON to update Document Object Model (DOM) and involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and bulk update of attributes using ReactJS and jQuery.  • Experience in synchronous data-flow in the application using Redux.  • Created Responsive Web Design Development for the webpages which are having integrated Restful web services and WebAPIs.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node.JS to save the timestamp in database converting into GMT.  • Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  • Worked in Agile / SCRUM project methodologies, including best practices for source code management, JIRA and GIT.  • Used web scripting languages like NodeJS and Yarn for interaction between client side and server side technologies.  • Migrated the client-side logic written in JavaScript to ES6 using Babel and performed unit testing using Jasmine.  • Experienced with Gulp to perform compiling, linting to maintain package dependencies.  • Used GIT for Version Control System.  • Used Firebug, chrome extensions for react and redux, debugging and browser compatibility.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Oracle, Eclipse, ReactJS, Redux, ES6, GIT, Gulp and Firebug React.js / developer Costco - Issaquah, WA July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and ReactJS.  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and react.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React.js, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React.js.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  • Created Responsive Web Design Development for the webpages which are having integrated Restful web services and WebAPIs.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node.JS to save the timestamp in database converting into GMT.  • Implemented map StateToProps, map DispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  • Worked in Agile / SCRUM project methodologies, including best practices for source code management, JIRA and GIT.  • Used web scripting languages like NodeJS and Yarn for interaction between client side and server side technologies.  • Migrated the client-side logic written in JavaScript to ES6 using Babel and performed unit testing using Jasmine.  • Experienced with Gulp to perform compiling, linting to maintain package dependencies.  • Used GIT for Version Control System.  • Used Firebug, chrome extensions for react and redux, debugging and browser compatibility.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Oracle, Eclipse, ReactJS, Redux, ES6, GIT, Gulp and Firebug Angular Developer Humana Health Care - Louisville, KY June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on Angular JS, Bootstrap, high charts, HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Media queries for various breakpoints in the adaptive web-designing environment.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Worked with Adaptive web designing and developed CSS Media Queries to make the application compatible with iPad (Landscape and Portrait) and PC.  • Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements.  • Developed AngularJS Forms, Validations, Modules, DOM, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters, and used AngularJS and Bootstrap for effective design of web pages.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS and defined all application states (routes) by using Angular UI-Router to implement SPA.  • Created the Application using D3.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Implemented generating the verification hash code using crypto package on Node.JS and Added user validations and user permissions by using the D3.js.  • Web application development for backend system using D3.js with cutting edge.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the D3.js environment.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a Responsive website across different size of screens, set breakpoints for smartphones, tablets and desktops.  • Worked with backup team to backup LINUX servers using Netback up  • Configured Red Hat LINUX servers for SPLUNK installation and involved in splunk installation  • Used Jasmine for testing, and deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, D3JS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, SVG, Cross-browser compatibility, Agile/Scrum, SVN, JIRA and Jasmine. Jr. UI Developer Lincoln Financial GroupAtlanta GA May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and JSON.  • Handled REST API calls with AJAX and processed JSON data responses to format, validate and display to the user.  • Extensively used CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors issues with CSS.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed front- end UI pages and necessary backend classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking. Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MYSQL, SVN, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's Skills MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION SERVER, Git, HTML