Associate Systems Developer Associate Systems <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer El Paso, TX On the quest to conquer the MEAN & LAMP stack. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Systems Developer Prudential - El Paso, TX January 2019 to Present Successfully took a Machine Learning Course with Udacity.    Implemented a Web Progressive Application with Angular 6 and NgRedux (State Management Container) which allows users to create accounts and track their transactions. The system also dynamically generates bar, line and pie charts. Used IBM DB2 for the database and Spring Boot for the back end. Wrote unit tests to ensure requirements met specifications.     An ongoing progress is to develop a machine learning model to make predictions what the user might purchase next. Front End Developer Cartwheel - Remote May 2018 to November 2018 Cartwheel is a startup company developing a tool that allows contractors or freelancers to bill their clients without the paperwork hassle. We followed a microservice architecture to promote decoupling, componentization and continuous delivery.     Responsibilities:     Create or update existing components and services to full-fill design and other non-functional/functional requirements.     Used Ngrx for state management and data store.     Experience typescript HTML, SCSS, Chrome dev tools and CI/CD environments     Ensured the system is mobile responsive Intern Front End - Angular Developer Cartwheel - Remote October 2017 to May 2018 Updated ?and modified ?existing ?Angular ?application. Used Redux to handle data storing within the system. ?Learned Cartwheel’s ?technical ?stack, ?as ?well ?as ?development ?methodologies.  Wrote unit tests in a Test Driven Development with Karma to ensure ?code ?is ?bullet ?proof. Created ?“pixel ?perfect” ?software with TypeScript and SCSS ?to ?verify it ?looks ?and ?feels beautiful.  Received ?mentorship ?on ?coding ?practices, ?and ?developed ?scalable ?software ?in ?a ?team environment. At the conclusion of the internship I developed over 10+ features for the system.    Cartwheel Production Site: https://cartwheel.io/  Cartwheel Development Site: https://dev.app.cartwheel.io/ React Developer Freelance - El Paso, TX September 2017 to October 2017 Retained a client that needed a website for a new college that opened on January 2018. React JS, Firebase and Material Design UI was used to develop this project.     Horizon Education: https://porter-crocodile-25736.netlify.com/ Android Developer Freelance - El Paso, TX July 2017 to August 2017 Successfully created an Android Mobile Application for a client. The client is currently an owner of a Vietnamese chain called Pho Tre Bien. The current version allows restaurant managers to add employees, update their inventory by doing weekly counts, and view the different prices from various distributors within the same application. I accomplish this using a RESTful API Volley, a representational state transfer that communicates with the database and application. Furthermore, an algorithm was defined accordingly by the client requirements. The algorithm merely obtains the cheapest price from the various distributors Pho Tre Bien resupplies from.     Inventory: http://www.github.com/oiricaud/inventory Research Assistant CERP - El Paso, TX July 2016 to April 2017 Assisted the Geology department at UT El Paso, which include their research associates and professors to build software on Local Climate Change that is affecting our community, El Paso TX. Created a web page that allows users to take a survey and view animals affected by climate change. Used MVC, PHP, HTML, CSS, Version Control and CodeIgniter's Web Framework to accomplish this project. Web Designer UTEP - El Paso, TX October 2015 to July 2016 Maintained and created web pages for the IMSE & EE engineering departments and designed social media content through the Adobe Cloud. Senior Game Advisor GameStop - El Paso, TX October 2013 to April 2015 Advised customers in Spanish and English with game recommendations while reaching daily, weekly and monthly sales goals. Also updated marketing biweekly and reviewed video games. Education BS in Computer Science University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX August 2014 to December 2018 Skills Java (3 years), Javascript (1 year), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), PHP (1 year), Android (2 years), MVC Design Pattern (1 year), Customer Service (3 years), Photoshop (2 years), Illustrator (2 years), Marketing (1 year), MySQL (1 year), NoSQL (1 year), React js (Less than 1 year), Node js (Less than 1 year), Angular 4 (Less than 1 year), SCSS (Less than 1 year), TypeScript (Less than 1 year), Redux (Less than 1 year), XML, SQL Links https://github.com/oiricaud http://www.narped.com Awards Early High School Graduate 2014-08 Winner of the Early High School Graduation Scholarship Certifications/Licenses Driver's License