Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer - Kohl's San Jose, CA • Over 5 years of professional experience as Full Stack JavaScript Developer in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, React.js, Bootstrap, Redux, Node.js, Express.js, AJAX, JSON, MongoDB, Mongoose and RESTful APIs.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design (RWD) by using HTML and CSS to resize, hide, shrink, or enlarge a website to make it look good on devices such as desktops, tablets and phones.  • Experience on working with HTML5 elements, attributes, forms, graphics (Canvas, SVG), and APIs like HTML geolocation and HTML drag and drop.  • Experience on working with CSS3 backgrounds, borders, margins, padding, flex box and media queries.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using React.js.  • Experience in MERN stack development (MongoDB, Express.js, React, Node.js) with proficient JavaScript and JSON.  • Experience in building user interfaces (UI) by using React components with JSX.  • Experience in routing handling in react by using React Router.  • Familiar with React UI component libraries such as React Bootstrap, Material-UI and Ant Design React.  • Used React Developer Tools in browser to inspect a React tree, including the component hierarchy, props, stats and more.  • Experience in using Redux as state container for JavaScript apps.  • Used Redux DevTools in React component to provides power-ups for Redux development workflow and the state handling.  • Worked on web applications with cross browser compatibilities for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  • Used LambdaTest for cross browser testing. Validated website by using HTML, CSS validator like w3 validator and Jigsaw validator.  • Experience in designing web applications utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used Webpack as module bundler for modern JavaScript applications.  • Worked in development methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall.  • Experience in NoSQL database like MongoDB and SQL databases like SQL Server and PostgreSQL.  • Used Git for version controlling and JIRA for project management, task management and bug tracking. Work Experience Full-Stack Developer Kohl's - Milpitas, CA January 2019 to Present Project:  Web application focused on Kohl's coupons and gift cards department. The app involves Promo Codes & Sales with details and user-friendly features for customers. Implemented products recommendation for new arrivals and featured customer favorites. Designed UI, links and navigation to other Kohl's departments.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Responsive Web Design using HTML5 Viewport, CSS3 media queries, Grid View.  • Responsible for creating UI components for Kohl's coupons page and gift cards page using React, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for building Single Page Application using react router.  • Implemented features like searching item name, sorting promo codes by time, new products recommendation and shop now buttons.  • Used Redux as state container to separate the data and presentation layer.  • Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Created Reducers that received Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Used Thunk as redux middleware to retrieve data from backend and perform RESTful services.  • Utilized React DevTools and Redux DevTools for debugging.  • Used Webpack for bundle the frontend assets such as JavaScript, images, fonts and CSS.  • Used AJAX to communicate with the server for better user experience and performance.  • Developed the application on Node.js platform with Express.js framework using JavaScript programming.  • Involved in backend and database design by using Node.js and MongoDB that provides REST API in JSON format.  • Used Mongoose as middleware to connect JS application with MongoDB. Designed Mongoose Schemas for data models.  • Participated in Agile methodology for application development and involve in analysis, design, coding and testing.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Used Git as version control tool.  • Designed, Debugged and Developed applications using Visual Studio Code. Front- end Developer Sirius XM - New York, NY June 2018 to December 2018 Project:  Sirius provides video services for computer, smartphone, tablet and a variety of connected devices in home. Sirius Employee management system is a web application designed for Sirius human resources department with CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on employee information.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the web application using MERN stack development.  • Designed presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and React.js.  • Developed React components within application using React.js, ES6.  • Used React Bootstrap as UI library.  • Used React-Table as a Data Grid for client-side pagination.  • Implemented React components for Create New Employee, Edit Employee and Employee table.  • Implemented React component hierarchy, states, props.  • Added Validations, Sorting features and Click events for specific elements.  • Developed backend using Node.js and Express.js with RESTful APIs to handle HTTP requests and responses.  • Implemented elements such as search bar, buttons, navigations using JavaScript and JSX.  • Implemented features to invoke phone and email apps to make phone calls or send emails.  • Implemented infinite scrolling for employee list so there's no need for pagination.  • Designed business logic for creating, deleting, updating the superior-subordinate relationship.  • Implemented new features such as avatar uploading, updating and deleting.  • Used MongoDB as NoSQL database.  • Used Webpack as module bundler for the JavaScript application.  • Used JavaScript minification to make website loads faster.  • Developed single page application to render dynamically based on the JSON from Node.js server.  • Used Babel as a compiler for coding in ES6. Software Development Engineer NEW BEAST L.L.C - Jersey City, NJ November 2017 to May 2018 Project:  Ride hailing Business. Based on Spring Cloud microservices, Ride hailing business provides Dispatch Service, Location Service and Real-time Data Streaming Service for drivers and passengers.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Gateway Team which performs dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency and security in the distributed system with cloud-based microservices.  • Developed new load balancing algorithms with Availability Filtering mode and Weighted Response Time mode besides default Round Robin mode.  • Worked on usage quotas on users to manage capacity or charge for tiered access.  • Create RESTful API documentations with swagger, an API developer tool for the OpenAPI Specification (OAS).  • Worked with Spring Framework and used Spring Boot to config Spring.  • Implemented microservices that can be deployed and scaled independently.  • Used Zuul service to serve as the gateway for the project. Zuul is used for microservice API management.  • Used PostgreSQL database and created tables. Software Developer (Android) February 2013 to May 2016 Project:  Ancient and rare trees management system is a geographic information system implemented with Android, iOS, and Web application. The android version is built for performing location and inspecting service on android devices.  Responsibilities:  • Contributed in Android Group which creates an Android app to manage information of ancient and rare trees in Lin'an China.  • Used Gradle as custom build tool to build android packages.  • Used GPS and APIs to get data from the Web, including requesting HTTP request for location data, parsing the JSON and handling exceptions.  • Redesigned the UI with Constraint Layout, so the app can support Android devices in all shapes and sizes.  • Updated statistics and draw diagrams with ArcGIS to manage the data from Public Welfare Forest Management Information System.  • Designed and debugged with Android Studio as IDE.  • Used Espresso as testing framework for automatic synchronization test actions with UI.  • Analyzed source code by using Lint to flag programming errors, bugs, stylistic errors and suspicious constructs. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ Bachelor of Science in Geographic Information System in Geographic Information System Zhejiang A & F University Skills Visual studio, Android studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Webpack, Json, Python, Database, Sql server, Postgresql, Sql, Android, Html5, Mongodb, Ajax, Arcgis Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, ES6, jQuery, React, Bootstrap, Redux, Node.js,  express.js, JSON, AJAX, Webpack, Babel.  Programming Languages: JavaScript, Java, SQL, C, C#, Kotlin, Python  Database: MongoDB, SQL Server, PostgreSQL  Version Control: Git  Operation Systems: Windows, Mac OS  IDE: Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Android Studio  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  Other tools: ArcGIS, Photoshop