Front End Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Front End Engineer - TKC Holdings Inc Bloomington, IL • Over 7+ Years of IT experience in development of web-based, client/server, distributed and Object oriented applications.  • Involved in various Phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) i.e. Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and User Training of Enterprise Web-Applications, stand alone and Distributed applications.  • Strong knowledge of SCRUM, Agile development.  • Experience in developing the projects using various web frameworks, Angular 2.0,5.0,6.0, Node.js, AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Extensive Experience in writing Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions in SQL Server 2008/2012.  • Experience in writing Data Access Layers using an MVC-based architecture.  • Knowledge on MongoDB, Mongoose for Object-Document Mapping (ODM).  • Proficient in using User controls and custom controls for application development.  • Experience in implementing Authentication and Authorization for the applications.  • Expertise in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views and Performance Tuning.  • Ability to adapt for new tools and technologies quickly and apply to the applications/projects.  • Innovative with a special talent for trouble shooting and resolving complex technical problems and escalated issues.  • Extensively used MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Git for software configuration management and version control.  • Experience in implementing error handling, exception management, tracing and logging features.  • Worked on Jest, QUnit, Mocha and Jasmine libraries for Unit Tests and Acceptance Tests and performed code reviews.  • A team player with excellent interpersonal, communication and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Engineer TKC Holdings Inc August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented service logic to parse the web files which are of specific format from FTP by using JQuery as a part of console application.  • Developed RCM web application using Node, Angular 5.0, C# Asp.net MVC, jQuery, SQL Server.  • Developed front- end code with Ajax call in Angular and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back- end RESTful Server.  • Created the Node.js Express Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front- end side Angular to back- end MongoDB.  • Displayed the well-organized result in web pages by writing Angular Component controller  • Implemented authentication and authorization.  • Implemented AJAX for partial page execution and asynchronous data transfer between service layer and client.  • Involved in unit testing for the change request and the defects. Implemented Business Objects layers using npm and new features like arrow functions, let and const, and promises.  • Created data objects in SQL server by creating stored procedures and functions.  • Developed web services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and REST for creating proxy classes.  • Used ES6, Typescript, C# MVC and LAMBDA expressions for communicating between Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer.  • Performed validations by using client-side validations and filters.  • Worked on tuning the SQL Queries for better performance by looking at the different tools like SQL Profiler and execution plans.  • Developed Unit Test cases using QUnit.  • Used Team Foundation Server for managing version of the source code and all project related documents and tasks.    Environment: Angular4, Node.js, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, jqGrid, Chart.js, IIS7.5, SQL-Server 2012 UI Developer AT&T - Piscataway, NJ January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) from requirement analysis, designing UI/Middle tier/ database and transition.  • Implemented the web application framework using Angular, Node, JavaScript, JQuery and various Design Patterns for Custom solutions and the service Layer  • Created proof of concept for implementing views in React for development  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Entity Framework  • Express, EJS helps in partial views which are a user control and it is embedded inside other view.  • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed jQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  • Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  • Using TFS for version control.  • Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration.  • Worked extensively on CSS for making the application responsive over all screen sizes.  • Worked in Agile development environment and participated in meetings and discussions with department heads, project managers, architects and co - developers.  • Implemented various client side validations using JQuery and Angular, Passport Validation implemented at Controller level using Data Annotations.  • Extensively used JQuery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions.  • Actively involved in Database design and stored procedure and optimization.  • Develop administrative module to add/remove roles from users, activate users, configure privileges, and ensure authorized users had approval authority for certain actions.  • Implemented caching to improve performance and scalability in some processes that consume commonly used static data.    Environment: Angular, AJAX Rest Api, JavaScript, JQuery, Node, WCF, IIS 7.0, AJAX, HTML5, CSS Used Web based GIT repository Manager American Express, Pheonix, AZ August 2014 to January 2015 Aug 2014 - Jan 2015  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery1.x, Require.JS, AJAX, JSON3, Angular JS, RESTful Web Services.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI on mobile web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSON.  ? Developing web app which is built around HTML, CSS and jQuery.  ? Participate in project planning and client discussion.  ? Implement CSS3 style sheets for reset, placement of page elements and styling  ? Responsive web design implementation (RWD) of CSS3 media queries.  ? Participated in project planning and client discussion.  ? Search Engine Optimization and website testing for cross platform compatibility.  ? Implemented Angular Routes, Components to maintain each view data. Implemented Rest Service calls.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data.  ? Worked within AGILE team environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss planning and development needs for current cycle.  ? Closely interacted with QA and Backend Teams.  ? Used Web based GIT repository Manager. Web/UI Developer Cybage Inc September 2012 to December 2014 Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs, JSON, AJAX, XML, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL  Responsibilities:  ? Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Developed jQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  ? Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  ? Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website  ? Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  ? Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  ? Using SVN for version control.  ? Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (6 years), JQuery (6 years), JSON (6 years), REST (4 years), XML (6 years), .Net (7 years), SQL Server (6 years), Oracle 10G (3 years), MySQL (2 years), PHP (1 year), Front End, Javascript, React, Angularjs, Angular, UI, Front-End, User Interface, Webpack (5 years), Cucumber (4 years), Protractor (3 years), Mocha (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Angular JavaScript SQL Java Express Async  Spring Browserify Grunt Socket.IO Mocha Passport  Sencha ExtJs MySQLi Node.js JSX QUnit  SCRUM MVC Cheerio Nodemailer XML JSON  REST JQuery Backbone LESS SASS AJAX  JSLint JSHint ESLint WebPack GIT Subversion  Gulp Restify Intellij IDEA Marked Body-parser Compression  Oracle Mongoose MS SQL Server MYSQL Stripe Gulp  MongoDB JQuery OSX Windows Babel Inquirer  NoSQL Handlebars EJS AWS TypeScript Firebase  Bootstrap GitHub Bcrypt Redux NPM DB2  Angular Js React Http-server Nodemon Atom ODM