Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Santa Rosa, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Nuvolum - Petaluma, CA May 2018 to Present Development and maintenance of WordPress sites for over 100 clients. Creation of patient experience platform front- end using Node.js and Handlebars. Heavy HTML/CSS/JavaScript (JQuery)/PHP code in all projects. Node.js and Handlebars also used in separate software projects for the company. Web Developer Bronco Wine Co - Napa, CA July 2017 to May 2018 Create dynamic websites for the various brands under Bronco Wine Co. as well as maintain the main Bronco  webpage. Java and Web Developer Creative Radicals - Santa Rosa, CA July 2015 to May 2017 As a Creative Radicals Java Developer I am responsible for creating data scrapers and API data modules. This also includes parsing JSON and XML. As a Creative Radicals Web Developer I am responsible for creating HTML help  documentation for the companies software. I created print friendly test documentation for all software created by the company as well. I designed the user interface for an Android application with client specific guidelines. I created  graphics and icons for Creative Radicals documentation and presentations. I also performed quality assurance  testing for all of our software. Finally, I worked as the first level of tech support and worked directly with clients to help  solve any issues they had with the software. Web Developer Boomity - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Front- End development on large scale association websites which includes interface, content management, graphics, and brand consistency. Responsibilities include client specific design from desktop to mobile sizes and everything in between.    Accomplishments  BOOMITY Blog layout design    Skills Used  HTML  CSS  User Interface  SEO  Graphic Design  Bootstrap  JQuery  Photography Web Designer Personally Yours Photography - Novato, CA January 2015 to February 2015 Responsibilities  Re-design of small business website with contact form capabilities as well as a custom content management system  integrated into the site in order to change images freely.    Skills Used  Mock-ups  HTML  CSS  JQuery  PHP plug-ins  Brand Identity Web Designer Sonoma Maintenance - Santa Rosa, CA May 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities  Creation of small business website with creative freedom. Responsibilities include keeping a small business feel to the brand, graphic design, and from scratch coding.    Skills Used  Mock-ups  HTML  CSS  JQuery  PHP plug-ins  Brand Identity  Graphic Design  Re-Branding  Voice-mail to Email Receptionist/ Sales/ Child Care YMCA - Prescott, AZ May 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities  Membership Sales  Membership Transactions  Customer Support  Child Care  Transaction Logging/ Audits  Telecommunications    Accomplishments  Punctual Employee of the Year- For punctuality, never missing a shift, and covering short notice shifts year round.    Skills Used  Customer Interactions  Transaction Logging  Child Supervision Education BS in Graphic Information Technology-Web Development Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2013 to 2014 AA in Graphic Design Yavapai College - Prescott, AZ 2011 to 2012 Skills Node.js, Handlebars.js, UI/UX, AJAX , PHP , Java, OOP , Vin65, Wordpress, Javascript, JQuery, XAMP , Bootstrap, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, CSS3, HTML5, CMS , UI/UX Design, Branding, SEO , Android UI, Technical Documentation Writing, Quality Assurance, Front End, Javascript, UI, Front-End, CSS3, Front End, Front-End, Javascript, Node, UI Links http://dswiftdesign.com