Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - CenturyLink New Century, KS • Around 6years hands on experience in developing Web Applications using HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), JavaScript, Type Script, Angular (2/4), Node.js, React Js, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap.  • Experience in working with Angular2 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Hands on Knowledge on Azure Cloud Services for creating Web-Applications and Knowledge on AzureCLI.  • Experienced on creating and managing Azure VM, VMware tools, Cloud Services, and Storages.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular (2/4), Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, and CSS Frameworks.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/ Typescript SPA domains.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Experience in AngularJS structural framework for dynamic web apps.  • Expertise to create a self-contained, reusable and testable modulus and components in AngularJS.  • Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web Forms 2.0 in Angular 2 and their Validations.  • Create desktop application with Angular 2/4 and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to Node.js server-side code.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications Node.js along with Express JS.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Highly skilled at front- end engineering using Object-Oriented JavaScript.  • Well experienced in writing test cases in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development.  • Experience in using ChromeDeveloperTools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Good experience in automated build process by using Jenkins and Maven.  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT),IntegrationTesting and in preparing test cases.  • Expertise creating user validationforms and sending data to server using RESTful services.  • Used Jenkins for build Process to Generate ContinuousIntegration and VersionControl is done by GIT.  • Extensively work with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and many other design applications.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, and NPM to build and test applications.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Expertise in Video Coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN.  • Good experience in unit testing by using Karma and Mocha.  • Extensive experience working under Agile methodologies environment (scrum, Kanban).  • Experience with various IDE's such as VisualStudioCode, Web Strom, Sublime and Notepad++. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer CenturyLink - New Century, KS September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed the application using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Developed non-functional HTML5, CSS3 pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Developed screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Worked on some of the features of Angular2 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2and Typescript.  • Developed single page applications using Angular2, Typescript, Webpack and Grunt.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2.  • Developed responsive web pages using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Migrated the existing Angular 2 components to Angular 4 and updated the application.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 4 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 4.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS3, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular 2.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Light box Plug-in using Jquery.  • Connected server and database to update data information MongoDB.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT(TDD).  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity and Communication.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2/4, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JIRA, TDD, MongoDB, GIT, Visual Studio Code. UI Developer Rexel Holdings - Dallas, TX June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created and deployed new features to sustain and amend existing applications under MVC pattern using Node.JS, Bootstrap.  • Developed the Frontend by using ReactJs and JavaScript.  • Expertise in ReactJS framework and integrate them to Node.jsserver-side code.  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Used Reduxasync actions to make the app fully asynchronous.  • Created flux stores to migrate an existing flux app to redux.  • Used Redux to maintain state of react application. Used Redux-Thunk and Redux-Saga for asynchronous calls in the different applications  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Design, develop and test HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS, Redux that meets accessibility of web browser.  • Designed and developed ReactJs component required for the project.  • Developed ReactJS applications by completing stories in timely manner while maintaining bestpractices outlined by the team lead.  • Responsible for parsing JSON data to & from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format  • Used Local Storage to store & retrieve insensitive user data during transition between the different pages.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server sideandclient-sidecode.  • Handled escalated support tickets till closure for Microsoft Azure in troubleshooting IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS for customer needs.  • Responsible to for making the dynamic page's using AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Experience in RESTfulwebservices to integrate between HRMS and Finance.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment: Reactjs,ReduxJavaScript, jQuery, Microsoft Azure, JIRA,GIT, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle database, SPA, Bootstrap, GIT, Karma, Jasmine and selenium, Grunt. UI Developer Angular JS, Flux for SPA - Pittsburgh, PA September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user interface in Angular JS.  • Knowledge in using Angular JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using Angular JS.  • Good experience in JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups (PSD).  • Daily programming in server and client side by using Angular2.  • Worked on Front end by using Angular 2, and JavaScript Frameworks.  • Extensive use of Angular2 for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Worked on Angular2 directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Extensive knowledge of and use of Angular2 directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Good knowledge in Angular 2 and Responsive Web Design.  • Used Node JS,Angular 2 and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Worked in using Angular 2 components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes in CSS.  • Experience in Using SASS and LESS  • Implemented Routers& History in Single Page App (SPA).  • Developed client side drop down menus, search bars and drop down toggles using Twitter-Bootstrap.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Design and Develop Micro services platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, Gulp and NPM to build and test applications.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and end to end testing using Protractor.  • Used the new tags from HTML5 like section, article, header, footer, canvas for animations.  Environment: Angular2, Angular JS Node.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, Sublime, Maven, GIT, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt, Spring MVC, Protractor, Micro Services. Jr. Front end Developer Augusta - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, Angularjs including Ajax controls.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in Angularjs.  • Developed secured web applications by using client scripting such as JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS3, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular js.  • Created and maintained the framework & layout of each portal with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).  • Used AJAX to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time add modal sdialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make dropdown on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  Environment: HTML, DOM, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS JSON, JQuery, Ajax and Web Services (REST). Jr. Web Developer Infinx - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Closely worked with Business analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved extensively in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Designed and developed web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for developing cross browser compatible application and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies during project development.  • Used JIRA for Project tracking.  • Used Safari web inspector and chrome developer tools for debugging  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Extensively used GIT for version controlling.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, GIT. Education Master's Skills Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap. (5 years), C (Less than 1 year), database (1 year), Dreamweaver (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (2 years), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year), Illustrator (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (6 years), JBOSS (Less than 1 year), jQuery (5 years), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), MYSQL. (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), Subversion (Less than 1 year), SVN (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML4/ HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, Angular JS, Angular 2, Vue.js, Type Script.  IDE's Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, Web Storm, Sublime.  Debugging tools Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools.  Operating systems Mac OS, Windows.  Servers Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere, WebLogic.  Version Control GITLAB, GitHub, SVN.  Build Tools Jenkins  Database SQL Server, MYSQL.  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator  Programming Languages C, C++