Junior Internet/intranet Developer Junior Internet/intranet <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Internet/intranet Developer - Delmock Technologies Inc Silver Spring, MD Front- End Developer with a strong work ethic and dynamic technical abilities.. Intermediate experience using AngularJS, Node.js, JavaScript, PHP, and mySQL. Well-versed in design principles, version control, UI, web technologies, MVC, and OOP. Well-rounded technical background including: 7 years of work experience in analytics, logistics, with 2 years of IT and front- end software development focus. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Internet/intranet Developer Delmock Technologies Inc - Baltimore, MD January 2019 to Present • Leveraging current web development and graphic tools, as well as, Web server and database administration.  • Designing, developing and deploying Web sites and/or Web applications, including product selection, configuration.  • Installation, maintenance, and site policy development.  (336) 681-2845 • mhabeebulah@gmail.com • muhammadhabeebulah.com  GitHub: https://github.com/habeezzy • LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammad-habeebulah/ Freelance Front- end Developer Node.js/Express - Detroit, MI October 2016 to Present • Experienced in XAMPP web server solution for building of server side web applications.  • Experienced building dynamic web applications in AngularJS connecting with Node.js/Express.  • Strong understanding of building mobile first responsive websites in CSS using media queries to uniquely customize every  piece of content.  • Developed in VSCode, Atom (integrating 3 rd party plugins), and other IDE's.  • Experienced in debugging code.  • Strong understanding of building applications in AngularJS and integrating 3rd party API's.  • Developed dynamic one page web applications with AngularJS following SDLC guidelines.  • Experienced in working with GitHub and Git for version controlled applications  • Knowledge of google analytics and usage of google analytics for real-time tracking. Data Specialist Gage Bilt Tools Inc - Clinton Township, MI June 2018 to December 2018 Performed updates in organization's record system (Evo-ERP) to include sold/shipping dates, yearly usage, as well as inventory and pricing for manufactured tools.  ? Responsible for tracking over 10,000 Rivet/Lockbolt Fastener tools for both aerospace and commercial industries.  ? Leveraged analytical tools to develop efficient system operations through use of MS Excel and Outlook.  ? Reviewed and verified quantities received against bills of lading contract, purchase requests and shipping documents. E-services Technician Northwest Federal Credit Union - Herndon, VA July 2017 to November 2017 Provide telephone support to over 10,000 end-users, troubleshooting, diagnosing, resolving, and documenting software  related technical issues. Creating, respond to, escalating, and closing tickets accordingly.  • Creating/maintaining accounts through extensive use of financial record software.  • Multi-tasked with Financial management software programs such as Epysis, Synapsis, Cisco Agent, and Synergy.  • Responsible for facilitating all electronic monetary transactions via online-banking. Transportation Security Officer Transportation Security Administration - Washington, DC June 2010 to July 2017 Responsible for the safety and security of the traveling public and their property by utilizing protocol and procedures  established by DHS/TSA.  • Maintained a high level of Customer Service and Communication while using required observation and security techniques.  • Advanced skills in security equipment: Explosive Trace Detection, Computed Tomography X-ray, Heimann X-ray, and Advanced Imaging Technology. Basic use of Microsoft Outlook and Excel.  • Maintained annual testing scores in the top 5 percentile. Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.), Kinesiology/Biology George Mason University - College of Health and Human Services - Detroit, MI December 2013 Links http://muhammadhabeebulah.com https://github.com/habeezzy https://www.linkedin.com/in/muhammad-habeebulah