Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - Freelance Work Bryan, TX As an ambitious and forward thinking individual, I steadily strive to accomplish  success in my profession by employing passion, creativity, and diligence to execute  daily responsibilities. A customer-oriented professional that has a positive attitude, tactical and analytical mindset  alongside the willingness to acquire knowledge and hearken to every new task in front  of me. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Freelance Work - Bryan, TX December 2018 to Present • Communication with the customers.  • Created responsive websites from scratch.  • Design and development of various websites.  • Support and development of new functionality for already existing projects. Police Officer Texas A&M University Police Dept - College Station, TX January 2018 to December 2018 • Provide for public safety by maintaining order, responding to emergencies, protecting people and property, enforcing motor vehicle and criminal laws, and promoting good community relations.  • Identify, pursue, and arrest suspects and perpetrators of criminal acts.  • Record facts to prepare reports that document incidents and activities.  • Monitor, note, report, and investigate suspicious persons and situations, safety hazards, and unusual or illegal activity in patrol area.  • Review facts of incidents to determine if criminal act or statute violations were involved. Branch Manager World Acceptance Corporation - Bryan, TX August 2011 to January 2018 • Provide customer service by greeting and assisting customers, and responding to customer inquiries and complaints.  • Network within the community to find and attract new business. Direct and supervise employees engaged, in providing customer service, credit insurance sales, and collections.  • Verify and examine information for accuracy on the loan application.   • Analyze credit data to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money.  • Approve, reject, or coordinate the approval or rejection of lines of credit for personal loans.  • Approve loans within specified limits, and refer loan applications outside those limits to management for approval.  • Review loan agreements to ensure that they are complete and accurate according to policy.  • Negotiate payment arrangements with customers who have delinquent loans.  • Review collection reports to determine the status of collections and the amounts of outstanding balances.  • Review accounts to determine write-offs for collection agencies.  • Prepared and filed Taxes for individuals and businesses. Education TEEX Central Texas Police Academy February 2018 to June 2018 Bachelor's of Science in Kinesiology Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX January 2009 to May 2011 Skills STRATEGIC PLANNING, PROBLEM SOLVING, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, CSS, PHOTOSHOP, ADOBE PHOTOSHOP, MICROSOFT OFFICE Links https://github.com/ckozekwa Certifications/Licenses TCOLE Basic Peace Officer License June 2018 to June 2020 Additional Information Interpersonal Skills ••••• Microsoft Office •••••  Teamwork ••••• HTML & CSS •••••  Critical Thinking ••••• JavaScript •••••  Strategic Planning ••••• Python •••••  Problem Solving ••••• Adobe Photoshop •••••