Sr. UI / Front- End Developer Sr. UI / <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI / Front- End Developer - Optum Santa Clara, CA ? 6+ years of experience in developing websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.JS, Express, React.JS, Redux, AJAX and JSON  ? Experienced in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle such as requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites.  ? Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web-based applications.  ? Used Semantic UI or pure codes to develop user interface widgets.  ? Experience in creating custom, general use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core Node.JS.  ? Used popular Node.js frameworks such as Express to develop Restful API  ? Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Worked with JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery.  ? Solid understanding of DOM and DOM functions.  ? Incorporated the table-less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  ? Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities for Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  ? Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  ? Strong Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool.  ? Experience in converting current React apps to React Native apps for various devices.  ? Used RWD techniques such as using flexible grids and layouts, images, intelligent use of CSS Media queries for user's experience on different screens (iPad, iPhone).  ? Experience in utilizing Bootstrap reusable components  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Strong ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI / Front- End Developer Optum - San Diego, CA July 2017 to Present Optum, a part of UnitedHealth Group, is a pharmacy benefit manager and care services group focused on health systems infrastructure. The scope of the project was to redesign the existing website and add new features and capabilities to existing UI for membership, claims and billing system. I was responsible for designing and developing a dynamic, responsive and interactive user interface for both web and mobile using React and React Native.    ? Involved in creating appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company's needs and goals.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts using CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS  ? Involved in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for web development.  ? Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the Webpack, React, Redux, Less, Semantic UI.  ? Single page app using routing concept.  ? Implemented client-side Interface using React JS  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Yarn.  ? Used React-Router-DOM to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Worked with ReactJS - props, state, keys, refs, events and fetch API to make calls to the server.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services  ? Converted application using React Native to be compatible with IOS and Android.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used advanced level of AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  ? Used GIT as a version-controlling tool.  ? SASS, LESS was used to add styling to the various components in the Apps.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React.JS, Redux, React-Native, JavaScript, Node.js, Express, Sublime, Visual Studio Code, Linux, AJAX, Sketch, GIT. Sr. Front- End Engineer (UI/Web Developer) Best Buy - Richfield, MN January 2016 to June 2017 Best Buy is an American multinational consumer electronics retailer. I was responsible for the Customization & Login System designed to provide direct customer service and support to clients.    ? Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  ? Built rich front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4  ? CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Created React JS/ Redux front- end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  ? Leveraged React JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Responsible for setting up React environment which includes setting up a build system with Webpack, NPM, Babel for ES6 transpiling, React Router for app routing, Redux for state management.  ? Maintained Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  ? Skilled in leading frameworks as React JS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front- end solution.  ? Created custom filter in React JS in the application.  ? Used React JS library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Created React JS for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads.  ? Used various properties, parameters in ES6.  ? Used Jest with Enzyme for React App testing.  ? Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Maintained consistency of front- end via code over variety of browsers and solve Cross-browser issue.  ? Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  ? Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.    Environments: React JS, Redux, Flux, Node JS, JavaScript, HTML5, Sass, CSS3, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Core Java, WebDriver, Sublime, GIT, Grunt, Firebug, Agile. UI Engineer Zillow - Seattle, WA August 2014 to December 2015 Zillow is an online real estate database company. I was responsible for optimizing the layouts and content for their website and added some key features and functions to better demonstrate their products and deliver user-friendly interface. Provided full support for the team regarding issues, feature discussions and enhancements to help them achieve business goals.    ? Designed development of presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Responsible for the planning and design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  ? Worked closely with the client to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various mobile / web applications.  ? Implemented the coding standards for improving performance of the Website. (Code Reuse, jQuery chaining, name spacing, CSS selector performance)  ? Worked extensively on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, JSON  ? Used RWD (Responsive Web Design) techniques to enhance web page display based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  ? Used JSON extensively for collecting data from server and sending requests to the server from client-side.  ? Used Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance.  ? Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development using JavaScript and jQuery  ? Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  ? Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Used the Restful HTTP protocol for making the Ajax API calls.  ? Designed and implemented UI for few enhancements.  ? Used GitHub code repository for code check-in/check-out.  ? Had Scrum meetings daily where we discuss updates on the task.  ? Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment.  ? Participated in maintenance and production support.    Environment: Express.JS, MongoDB, Node.JS, HTML5/CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, SVN, JavaScript, GIT, Bootstrap, Agile. Front End Developer The Vitamin Shoppe, NJ February 2013 to August 2014 Vitamin Shoppe is an American retailer of nutritional supplements. I was responsible for implementing the Design and build the Website architecture and User-friendly layout and other functions.    ? Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, JavaScript and HTML 5.  ? Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  ? Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through the DOM and access the nodes.  ? Used jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, widgets, menus, forms and user interfaces.  ? Created adaptable and maintainable CSS3 style sheet using SASS  ? Performed client-side validations with customized error messages using JavaScript.  ? Debugged the application using Firebug and traversed through the nodes of the tree using DOM functions.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs that arose at the test level.  ? Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  ? Used AJAX to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, SVN, Visual Studio 2010 Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science San Jose State University - San Jose, CA Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Beijing University of Technology - Beijing, CN Skills C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP