UX DESIGNER UX DESIGNER Senior UX Designer Salt Lake City, UT I’m a designer based in Salt Lake City, Utah, with more than a decade focused on creating meaningful experiences through design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX DESIGNER ProdataKey December 2018 to April 2019 Reason for leaving: company filled position as full-time, but later decided a contractor better suited their needs  • Designed and developed a functional prototype of a mobile app for manual secure access of physical doors.  • Conducted in-person user testing for the mobile app.  • Created a living style guide to unify experiences across marketing, design, and development. SENIOR UX DEVELOPER Fashionphile July 2017 to December 2018 Reason for leaving: UX portion of my role was minimized; no opportunity for career growth  • Overhauled corporate homepage with better branding, clearer calls to action, and smoother user journeys.  • Designed and coded front end of an "outlet" version of the main site.  • Rebuilt customer interface used to sell used products to the company, a core function of the business.  • Created a living style guide to link visual elements with code components for consistent user experience. UX Designer iCentris November 2016 to June 2017 Reason for leaving: laid off due to economic circumstances  • Instituted formal UX processes, including data-driven planning, persona development, wireframing, prototyping, and user testing.  • Managed user interviews, including planning, scheduling, script-writing, conducting interviews, and analysis.  • Created a living style guide to link visual elements with code components for consistent user experience. UX DESIGNER & FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER Blink Worldwide December 2015 to September 2016 Reason for leaving: laid off due to elimination and outsourcing of department  • Built responsive interactive quiz for the Partnership for Drug-Free Kids for the 30th anniversary of the notable "This Is Your Brain on Drugs" campaign.  • Comprehensive UX design for multiple clients such as Vivial, mGage, and LogicSource, including  development of personas, sitemaps, wireframes, and user journeys.  • Built responsive interface prototype for an iOS mobile app for Black Diamond.  • Contributed significant design and development for BluonEnergy.com, including responsive layout.  • Built a responsive website with a custom-crafted admin panel for a high- end real estate company. UX DESIGNER & FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER Daz Productions November 2014 to October 2015 Reason for leaving: laid off due to economic circumstances  • Designed and developed usability and responsiveness improvements for the Daz3d.com store.  • Created an embeddable store module for the Daz Studio software that matched the existing UI and branding  • Redesigned the Daz3d Forum, a community with 1.4 million registered users, from the ground up.  User Experience Designer  801-543-9125 | jgabrielsen@gmail.com | jamesgabrielsen.com    experience, MARKETING CREATIVE MANAGER - Allen Communication Learning Services  January 2014 to November 2014  Reason for leaving: position eliminated due to corporate restructuring  • Designed and created all marketing art assets, including assets for marketing campaigns, web sites, and blog  posts during the highest-sales year in company history  • Conducted market research to design objectives based on user profiles, web analytics, competitor analysis, and client interviews.  • Designed and built responsive landing pages utilizing complex animations.  • Redesigned the corporate logo system and created a new brand standards style guide. PROJECT MANAGER TechMediaNetwork (Purch) April 2013 to January 2014 Reason for leaving: left to pursue career growth opportunity  • Managed up to five simultaneous multi-department projects in an agile environment.  • Managed the rebranding and mobile-responsive redesigns of globally viewed sites, including LiveScience, Space.com, LAPTOP, and BusinessNewsDaily.  • Managed the implementation of automatic back- end accounting tools for Herman Street. SENIOR GRAPHIC DESIGNER TechMediaNetwork (Purch) October 2008 to April 2013 Reason for leaving: promoted within the company  • Redesigned the Herman Street shopping cart from scratch, increasing conversion by 30%.  • Redesigned page templates to improve UX and increase page views by as much as 160%.  • Designed websites, ecommerce sites, internal web-based tools, banner ads, and print materials. Education BS in English and Visual Art WEBER STATE UNIVERSITY 2011 Skills Git, HTML, User Experience, UX, Sketch, UI, User Interface Design, Graphic Design, Web Design, Persona Development, Wireframing, Prototyping, User Testing, A/B Testing, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Adobe XD, Sketch, InVision, Google Analytics, Google Optimize, CSS, Sass Links http://jamesgabrielsen.com Assessments Graphic Design — Expert August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ud991g08qgwdn24y Search Engine Optimization — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6rp0j-up296j5xuj Market Research — Highly Proficient August 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/csysiitseneursyq Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nuqfqqzhkgnpq2lc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.