Front- End Software Engineer II <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer II Front- End Software Engineer Pflugerville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Software Engineer II BAZAARVOICE - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Team Lead of Multi-Product Submission, a new ratings and reviews web app with over 400 clients globally, including  Walmart, Costco, and Home Depot.  • Developed responsive React/Redux/SCSS component library that facilitated a highly-customizable submission form  experience, complete with thorough accessibility, broad device/platform support, and full localization.  • Implemented in-depth analytics, utilized resulting data to drive performance and usability enhancements, and saw a 10x  increase in ratings and 2.5x increase in written reviews when compared to the single submission form alternative.  • Worked closely with UX team to brainstorm responses to user testing data and rapidly convert design prototypes into responsive, portable features.  • Thorough unit test coverage, functional tests, and regression tests facilitated a safe, efficient, and confident release cycle, dramatically reducing deployment issues with clients and earning our team a reputation of polished, reliable delivery.  • Spearheaded cross-team collaboration to ensure synchronicity on full-stack features such as media uploads, progressive  submission, user authentication, network error handling, and API changes. Founder, Lead Developer DEVIOUS GAMERS LLC - Bedford, TX April 2014 to Present Gathered friends, started a company, secured funding, and developed/released I Hate My Job, a 3D mobile arcade game  where the player is an angry employee hurling groceries at customers, in November 2016 for iOS and Android.  • Handled all I Hate My Job programming, via Unreal Engine 4 (C++ and Blueprints), including:  o Smooth, responsive mobile tilt controls, with reactive player animations and alternative finger-slide configuration.  o Animation state machine to dynamically handle hand positions for picking up groceries and hit reactions.  o Procedural character generator for customers, affecting hair, skin-tone, clothing, size, behavior, and store entry-point.  o Implemented Google Analytics, banner ads, interstitial ads, achievements.  o [Cancelled feature] Developed real-time cross-platform 1v1 minigame via native Photon Realtime library.  • Currently developing new project, a tactical adventure RPG made in Unreal Engine 4, in free time. Full Stack Developer LIFE CORPORATION - Arlington, TX February 2017 to August 2018 • Architected modular component and data pipeline of React/Redux/Styled Components/Apollo/GraphQL/Node/MySQL, facilitating rapid construction of the following suite of apps related to our live polling service:  o Agent interface for live polling, delivering scripts, dynamic answer options, helpful animations, and socket management.  o QC interface to grade agent calls, providing audio, scripts, agent behavior/actions, and feedback options.  o Agent dashboard to view grading feedback, leaderboards, company news, tutorials, and upcoming polls.  o Admin interface to post upcoming poll scripts, review qualifier auditions, post news, and manage polls' status.  • Refactored jQuery web chat widget component into real-time live chat, with completely new & modern UI, improved  performance, and an overall reduction in code for better readability/maintenance.  • Created portable, fully-functional, cross-browser, scalable slot machine, via vanilla JS and inline HTML/CSS, with server  connection options, forms to fill out upon usage, and API for external influence/integration.  • Engineered interactive, cross-browser video player via React, Redux, PHP, and MySQL. Handled dozens of video clips, with touch icons for interaction and story progression management. Portable component able to be placed into any website  using IE10 and beyond, with intuitive API for expanded usage. Education Bachelor's in Film Scoring Southern Methodist University - Dallas, TX 2014 Skills Javascript, CSS, React, Redux, Jest, Enzyme, Apollo, GraphQL, WebDriver, Node, MySQL, Java, C++, C#, iOS, Android, Unreal Engine, Unity, Vive, Agile, Management, Mentoring Links https://github.com/gagerandall Additional Information SKILLS  • JavaScript, CSS, React, Redux, Jest, Enzyme, Apollo, GraphQL, Node, WebDriver, MySQL, Java, C++, C#  • Cross-browser, iOS, Android, Unreal Engine, Unity, Vive  • Agile methodology, team leadership, mentoring, management, business communications