Angular 2/4/ Front- End Developer Angular 2/4/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular 2/4/ Front- End Developer - Cisive Little Rock, AR • Over 8+ years of Web Development experience in designing, developing, testing and deploying web applications.  • Extensive experience in developing various applications using Visual Studio .NET technologies like C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, WCF, WPF, MVC.  • Proficient at building a single page application website using AngularJS.  • Good experience and strong fundamental of architecture design including Data structure, n-tier architecture, design patterns (Singleton, Factory, Builder, Iterator), architectural patterns (MVC, MVP, MVVM).  • Extensive knowledge and working experience of web development technologies such as, JavaScript, jQuery UI, AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Excellent experience with develop, design, deploy web service, WCF, web API in cross domain environment and other .NET technologies including Entity Framework 6/5/4, ADO.NET, and LINQ.  • Acquired knowledge over the years by working on all aspects of web development, from front- end to back- end including business logic layer, mid-tier, data access layer and database.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing AJAX method to communicate with a server.  • Experience with Data Accessing and manipulating using ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  • Highly proficient with debugger/testing tools: NUnit, Fiddler, Batarang and Jasmine.  • Experience with project management tool, source/version control such as: Team Foundation Server, JIRA , GIT and Mecurial.  • Extensive knowledge in designing and creating database and tables in SQL Server.  • Hands on experience in working with Stored Procedures, Indexes, Triggers, Temp Tables and Views using SQL Server 2012.  • Proven track record working with different software development cycle processes: Waterfall, Agile-Scrum and Extreme Programming.  • Experience with multiple web servers including IIS and Apache.  • Valuable team player with excellent communication skills, trouble shooting skills with ability to learn and adapt to new technologies quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular 2/4/ Front- End Developer Cisive - Holtsville, NY February 2017 to Present Description: Cisive provides comprehensive global background investigations on potential and current employees, vendors, clients, and business partners. Project was to develop a web based application to efficiently speed up the background investigation process. Administrator and normal user could use the application to register or update new client's information simply by dropping in the original document to the web application which the document could be in TXT,CSV or Excel sheet format. The application would perform the custom validation on the file which can catch any error before sending the file to the database. User can also track the status of any further investigation and reviewing done on the document and download the error file if certain information from the file need to be updated.  Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Followed the N-Tier architecture for the application development with DAL, BLL, and UI.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS).  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common[ Common core things including form validation], @angular/router[Routing for our entire app].  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Designed the page using Bootstrap and some custom CSS.  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 2 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Worked on unit testing for the Angular application using karma.  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Developed CSS3 to style page layouts, navigation and page-loading spinner.  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Collaborated with the front- end design team and back- end team and started converting the static files with the dynamic content with the data is retrieved from the database by the API calls.  • Used Mecurial for managing source code by resolving merge conflicts that occur during collaboration of various stakeholders of the application.  Environment: Angular2, Angular 4, SQL server 2012, IIS 7, HTML, CSS3, Mecurial, Web API, JSON, Web API, Karma. .Net/AngularJS/Web API Developer Saint Peter's Healthcare System - New Brunswick, NJ April 2016 to January 2017 Description: Saint Peter's Healthcare System was formed in 2007 and reflects the expansive scope of health and wellness services it offers to the community. Project was to develop a web based application to clinically integrate existing system and build cost effective system to improve quality and patient outcome. Administrator user could use the application to register new clients or personal customers, manage basic information, policy detail and claim history. Authentication and authorization is provided based on user roles.  Responsibilities:  • Helped team lead to create data flow diagrams, and class diagram using MS Visio.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Built front- end SPA using CSHTML, AngularJS, and bootstrap and back- end using ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  • Followed single page application design and integrated all the pages using ng-route and "routeProvider".  • Used custom authentication variable in ng-route to provide authentication and authorization for the application for every change in event of "routeChangeSuccess".  • Implemented ng-grid to show the data in the table.  • Helped implement the DAL layer of Web API using Entity Framework 5.  • Designed the page using Bootstrap and some custom CSS.  • Implemented the promises using $q to handle the auto update by notifying the variable.  • Created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Created many controllers for each page, with dependencies such as $q, $location, $window, $routeParams and all services to be used on the controller.  • Implemented validation method for form input in web page using combination of normal HTML validator (use "novalidate", to bypass the normal HTML checking and handle them using ng-show, ng-hide, ng-disable) and specific AngularJS validator directive (ngRequired).  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code management.  • Performed unit testing with Jasmine for front- end and Nunit for back- end.  Environment: AngularJS 1.4, SQL server 2012, IIS 7, HTML, CSS3, TFS, Web API, XML, JSON, Web API, Batarang, Jasmine, SSIS. .Net/WCF Developer NJM Insurance Group - Trenton, NJ January 2014 to March 2016 Description: NJM is one of the largest auto insurance companies in New Jersey, with a rich history of outstanding customer service as well as premium rates that are among the most competitive in the state. This project was to develop an application that allows employees and supervisors to log, report, and update work time and activities.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, design, development, testing and implementation of the web application and used Agile development life cycle with daily scrum meetings.  • Built the web application using ASP.NET MVC5.  • Worked on designing the database using SQL server 2012 with SQL server management studio and create stored procedures for specific View Model.  • Helped implement n-tier architecture using Entity Framework 6 as Data access layer and View Model for Business access layer with LINQ to select specific data.  • Implemented repository and unit of work patterns by using dependency injection (inject the repository) on MVC controller level to facilitate Unit Testing and Test Driven Development.  • Utilized the form base authentication with role/activity base authorization for the web application security.  • Used client and server side validations for better performance and maintain clear code structure.  • Implemented validation using Data Annotation to set the validation rule/information and implemented client side validation by adding "EnableClientValidation" with the use of jQuery, jQuery.validate and unobtrusive.  • Used Bootstrap to help the responsiveness of webpage and design with few custom CSS3 style sheet on elements.  • Enhanced pages with jQuery AJAX methods which provided responsive user interfaces to display the data on the pate and to make asynchronous HTTP calls to the server side.  • For Front- End HTML page used Razor View 3.2.3 as a view engine and HTML5.  • For Front- End script used jQuery 3.1.0 and jQuery UI 1.12.0.  • Used WCF as a service to provide the data from database, purposely for security.  • Tested the functionality of the web application using Nunit to perform Unit testing.  • Used JIRA as management tool and GIT as a version control.  Environment: ASP.Net/.Net Framework 4.5.1, C#, ASP.Net MVC 5, WCF, Entity Framework 6, LINQ, SQL server 2014, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery 1.1, jQuery UI 1.10.3, IIS 8 .Net/Web API/AngularJS Developer Marlin Business Services Corp - Mount Laurel, NJ January 2013 to December 2013 Description: Marlin Business Services Corp. provides commercial equipment financing and working capital loans to small businesses nationwide. It is centered around providing excellent service and delivering on commitments made to equipment dealers, manufacturers, resellers, distributors, brokers and their customers. This project was to develop an internal management system providing recruiting functionalities including open/close positions, key word search, group e-mail, calendar, and dashboard.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a Scrum/Agile environment for design and development stages of the project.  • Designed and developed the AngularJS web application using AngularJS 1.0.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Gained experience in REST architectural style, worked on CRUD actions. (Get, Post, Put and Delete).  • Designed the page using Bootstrap and custom CSS style sheet.  • Implemented Two Way Data-binding in AngularJS in order to handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components.  • Created AngularJS directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Configured Angular Route Module which provides $routeProvider to help create SPA.  • Implemented DAL layer of Web API using Entity Framework 5.  • Implemented the promises using $q to handle the auto update by notifying the variable.  • Debugged and tracked using Fiddler for Web API service and Batarang for AngularJS.  • Used Jasmine to unit test the AngularJS project in an isolated and automated manner.  Environment: AngularJS 1.0, SQL server 2012, IIS 7, HTML, CSS3, TFS, Web API, XML, JSON, Web API, Fiddler, Batarang, Jasmine. .Net Developer Insurance Agencies - Northfield, NJ November 2011 to December 2012 Description: Insurance Agencies Inc. is a premier independent insurance agency. It is a general independent agency with a broad range of Commercial, Personal, Life, and Health products. The system developed in this project helped simplify the operation process of new insurance policy applications and approvals, as well as claims verification and adjustment. All the policies and claims relevant materials were uploaded through the system which was then reviewed by the assigned underwriters and managers for decision making.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology with daily scrum meeting.  • Built the web application using ASP.Net MVC 4.  • Worked with Product Owner to design dataflow diagram in Visio.  • Worked with team lead to config route.config and web.config.  • Implemented MVC application using C#, ASP.Net MVC with Razor View Engine, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Implemented HTTP handler with action filter to perform actions such as error handling and pass views and JSON objects.  • Designed and executed n-tier architecture using ADO.Net as Data access layer and View model for Business access layer with LINQ to select specific data.  • Used Temp Data and View Data to maintain data between multiple requests.  • Implemented various validation method for the pages including; JavaScript validation, View Model data annotation.  • All the scripts and style sheets were loaded using bundling for better performance.  • Used WCF as a service to provide the data from database, purposely for security. Consumed the service using jQuery/Ajax in the cross-domain environment.  Environment: ASP.Net/.Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.Net MVC 3, ADO.Net, LINQ, SQL server 2008, Razor View 1, HTML, CSS3, WCF, JavaScript, jQuery 1.1, IIS 7. .Net Developer Bogle Agency Insurance - Lyndhurst, NJ October 2009 to October 2011 Description: Bogle Agency Insurance is an Independent Insurance Agency which provides several options to select the best possible coverage and pricing for prospective clients. This Project was to develop an application for the PR department to create and schedule events for the firm. The main purpose of this project was for the department to arrange meetings between potential clients and prospects. The application consists of various modules such add, edit, and delete event modules. With the right credentials employees, can schedule and manage, provide details of the set events to the attendees.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementation of code and database.  • Built the web application using ASP.Net Web Forms.  • Designed the database using SQL server 2008 with SQL server management studio.  • Designed and executed n-tier architecture using ADO.Net as Data access layer and BAL for business logic.  • Used multiple state managements such as Cache, Cookies, View State, Hidden Field, Query string, session to provide/keep information associated with the page.  • Implemented multiple controllers such as Repeater, GridView to show the data.  • Implemented technologies/techniques such as Ajax toolkit, AJAX autocomplete extender on some elements of the web page (search box, etc.)  • For Front- end script used jQuery and JavaScript.  • Utilized data provided from Web service and used bridge (added web service to the project solution) to deal with the cross domain.  Environment: ASP.Net Web Forms, C#, Web Service, ADO.Net, SQL server 2008, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax toolkit, HTML, CSS3 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rutgers University of New Brunswick Skills DATABASE (8 years), SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (8 years), .NET (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL    Programming/Script Languages/Platform: C#, C, JAVA, JavaScript, Node.JS, Typescript  Front- End Languages/Scripts: JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, Angular2/4  .NET Technologies: ASP.NET MVC 5/4/3, ASP.NET Web Forms, Entity Framework, Web Services, WCF, Web API, LINQ, .NET framework 1-5  IDE: Visual Studio 2015/2012/2010  Database/Service tools: SQL Server 2014/2012/2010, SSIS, SSRS, MySQL  Version Control Tools: Team Foundation Server, GIT, JIRA, Mecurial  Microsoft Programs: Words/Excel/PowerPoint/Access/Visio  Debugger/Testing NUnit, Jasmine  Others XML, JSON