Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Developer Jersey City, NJ • 2+ years of industry experience in Administration, responsible for managing clerical work as well as arranging and coordinating  meetings.  • 3+ years of industry experience as a Developer, Front End Applications and Web Development responsible for working on a  range of projects and designing appealing web applications.  • Good experience in developing applications using IDE's like Notepad++.  • Very strong analytical, problem solving, debugging, documentation and excellent communication skills  • Effective team player, smart worker, research oriented, and highly motivated self-starter  • Very efficient at meeting deadlines, working under pressure, and managing multiple tasks simultaneously. Work Experience Administrative Assistant College Campus - New York, NY August 2016 to January 2018 USA. UI/ Front End Developer InterGlobe Technologies May 2014 to September 2015 May 2014- September 2015  This project is an online banking application consisting of various modules like personal Banking, Loan Locking, Pricing, Withdraw, Extend Load Expiry, Funding, Closing, Mortgages, Re-finance, Investment banking, stocks, bonds, Mutual funds, insurance and  portfolio/wealth management. It also generates reports based on clients' loan status like loans missing, collateral documents, loans  purchased, loans pending settlement review, loans not cleared for settlement.The personal banking module consists of managing  Checking and Savings accounts, balance transfers, bill payments, deposit methods and individual retirement accounts and money  transfer.  Role: UI/ Front End Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked within AGILE team environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss planning and development  needs for current cycle.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, deployment and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework HTML5, CSS  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in HTML using the latest web.    Environment: HTML, TypeScript, Maven, Windows. UI Developer Estee Lauder November 2012 to March 2014 Nov 2012 - Mar 2014  This project was an Ecommerce web-based application which allowed the customer to get a view of all the products in the store and buy them online. The application mainly dealt with the online payment and billings. It provides a search feature which uses Regular  Expression or pattern matching with a user interface called Search box through which consumers can access and view latest and top  selling products/offers. It uses Secure Good payment Gateway solution for customer to make a payment    Role: UI Developer  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project.  • Developed user interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML5.  • Developed AngularJS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system.  • Used customized services and directives in AngularJS to develop dynamic and responsive webpages.    Environment: Windows, HTML5, Angular2, Apache. UI Developer Corbus - Noida, Uttar Pradesh September 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project.  • Provide UX expertise to outside groups on Web application development and implementation.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, colour scheme and layout for the website and implemented it into a final  interface design with the HTML5, Typescript.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter, custom media queries, etc.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.    Environment: HTML, Git, Apache, Windows. Web/UI Developer SOPRA GROUP - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Used Waterfall methodology as a Software Development Life Cycle and involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, and testing.  • Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing MVC Frameworks. Responsible for the process  of UI design for Internet sites and applications.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, XML, Windows. Education master's in information technology in information technology Cumberland University Present Bachelor of Professional Studies in Business Administration DeVry College of New York - New York, NY April 2018 Skills Html, Html5, Weblogic, jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:  Methodologies Agile  Languages jQuery, HTML  Web Technologies HTML5, XHTML  Web/App Servers WebLogic