Sr. UI developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI developer - TEK Systems Irving, TX • Having 8+years of experience in UI development, Front end development, and Rich user interface design, development, documentation, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, wireframes, project and team management.  • Expertise in developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript and JQuery Mobile with the webpage cross browser compatibility and Responsive design.  • Complete knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Expertise is creating table free (div based) hand written HTML/HTML5 pages using CSS/CSS3  • Well-versed using JavaScript and JQuery for manipulating the mark-up and data operations using JQuery AJAX.  • Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Worked extensively with IDE's like Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, RAD and Test Driven methodologies.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and TFS and project management tools like JIRA and ASANA.  • Extensive experience with UML design  • In depth experience at one time or another with AngularJS, ReactJS, jQuery, jQuery UI, Backbone.js, Node.js.  • Extensive experience in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS  • Understanding of relational databases, involved in application development using several RDBMS such as Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, and MySQL.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personals, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting.  • Experienced working in both AGILE and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions.  • Experience in implementation of Web Analytics -Site catalyst using AngularJS, NodeJS  • Expert in developing Object-Oriented Web applications using MVC architecture.  • Worked on various platforms including Windows XP, Vista, 7 and UNIX  • Possess good analytical skills, which enabled to analyze data with ease.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. Work Experience Sr. UI developer TEK Systems - Irving, TX May 2018 to Present Description: T. Rowe Price is an American Publicly owned investment firm, headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland. The company offers mutual funds, sub advisory services, and separate  Account management for individuals, institutions, retirement plans, and financial intermediaries.  Responsibilities:  • Developed responsive website using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS framework.  • Followed Agile Methodology and used HP ALM to maintain user stories and defects.  • Used source control tools like Tortoise SVN  • Good experience using Bootstrap Templates for Responsive Web Design and CSS media queries.  • Used Angular JS framework to create Single Page Application, which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Google Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer.  • Developed Angular JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Applied Angular JS built in directives like ng-model, ng-bind, ng-click on Angular JS application  • Used Web storm IDE which enhanced code quality and also allows to write code faster.  • Applied Angular JS for validating client side inputs by user interface.  • Involved in Design and Developing of the front end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to perform validation on the client side.  • Developed a UI component using Angular JS. Project using Angular JS framework frontend development using HTML5 and CSS3 for most of the feature.  • Using Bower, Grunt and NPM for project maintenance and installing the dependencies on client side  • Created bunch of Custom Directives that were used to implement the common functionality throughout the application.  • Designed the responsive webpage that fits all devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone by using Media Queries.  • Used npm and bower front- end package manager to install and handle all the packages.  Environment: AngularJs, gulpJs, webstorm, Jasmine, tortoise SVN, HTML5, CSS3,Agile, HP ALM bootstrap ,Javascript UI developer TEK Systems - Irving, TX March 2017 to April 2018 Description: It was a CUTTING EDGE project to completely redesign the company website (www.dsw.com). I was part of front- end team working on AngularJS to make the website responsive. I was part of the framework solutions team that is responsible for identifying new functionalities needed in the custom-built JavaScript framework.    Responsibilities:  • Created HTML, CSS, and DHTML pages for front- end, used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Was a part of E-Commerce development team  • Expert in Javascript Unit testing frameworks like PhantomJs, JASMINE, Karma.  • Provided production support by interacting with the end-users and fixing defects.  • Involved in requirement elaboration, design and development of new features and enhancements.  • Expert in Javascript frameworks like AngularJs, BackboneJs, and Nodejs.  • Have implemented different patterns on the existing framework to identify the strengths and loopholes in the framework so it can be evolved better.  • Expert in creating user friendly responsive web based interfaces using JSPs.  • Worked on POCs for a specific requirement using different frameworks like AngularJS and Nodejs to identify the strengths of each framework.  • Proposed and developed many new features in the existing site.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing.  • Wrote responsive components using Angular, SASS like type ahead suggestions and search results.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Developed a SPA using Angular and created various custom directives using the same.  • Worked for Auto GWP Promotions functionality in mobile and full site.  • Involved in development of BOPIS / BOSTS functionality in mobile and full site platform.  • Worked on Apache rewrite rules for graceful upgrade during production cutover.  Environment: AngularJs, NodeJs, BackboneJs, Angular Material design, gulpJs , IntellIJ, Jasmine, Monitoring tools like App Dynamics and Sitescope, Shell scripting, SourceTree, sublime, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, JAVA, J2EE, Endeca, ATG. UI developer Johnson and Johnson - Morris Plains, NJ August 2016 to February 2017 Project: Inventory Warehouse Management System  This application is used for creating and tracking the orders from warehouse to suppliers. This application is build using ext js version 5. Different templates were developed as per the business needs. This includes location browser, inventory browser, order browser, purchase browser and account browser.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front end along with pages for user interactions; for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Capturing the requirements. Involved in designing and developing, coding the Templates.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Used Ext JS UI components to implement various functionalities, Coded for Various windows, panels, forms and tree components, adding custom event on components and implementing their listeners for operation to be performed.  • Written code to implement AJAX based applications be fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Created Graphic User Interface (GUI) and applied to web site.  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Used Angular JS , JQuery and JavaScript MVC framework to convert a struts application in a more modular and maintainable Rest API based application with a configurable Angular JS Frond End.  • Used AngularJS, NodeJS, Html, CSS, JavaScript to build rich User Interface  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Used Mongo DB as a data source for all the new internal web applications and analytics purpose as well.  • Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Participated in code reviews and used Maven for builds and GIT for source control.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  ENVIRONMENT: Angular java script, AJAX, EXTJS, HTML 5, CSS 3, JSON, bootstrap, Mongo DB , Oracle10g, Tomcat Cargo Server, GIT, Restful web services, and Win SCP, Web Storm, Scaled-Agile Methodologies. UI developer Regal Home Inspection - Colts Neck, NJ December 2014 to July 2016 Description: The application aims to rebuild the existing system to provide a better user experience as well as richer functionality. The tasks include redesign and rebuild of the page layouts, migration from the legacy system, and integration with new functionality according to the business requirements. The new system is more attracting, efficient, and interactive.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the front- end components using AngularJS framework to leverage the Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in the development life cycle with the Agile methodology.  • Used spring framework that handles application logic and makes calls to business objects and services mainly SOAP Web services.  • Rebuilt user interface with UI Bootstrap and custom CSS styling with the other front- end developers in the team.  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration.  • Written so many applications from the scratch using editors like dream viewer, web storm and eclipse.  • Used Spring Security for OAuth authentication, by configuring Spring Security into SpringMVC CV application.  • Used ReactJS to make a reusable component to update a section of home page with regular intervals.  • Hands on experience in conducting Web Application Security scan, Network Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking using commercial and non-commercial applications and methodologies such as OWASP Top 10 and HP WebInspect.  • Used CSS optimization to develop web pages with responsiveness.  • Initiated market research studies and analyzed findings to understand customer and market opportunities  • Sourced and executed pre-production development by closely working with  • Worked with Quality Assurance Manager and factories to monitor and enforce set.  • Worked on Media Queries as a complement to the Grid System of UI Bootstrap to facilitate the implementation of the responsiveness.  • Implemented navigation bar as a custom directive of Angularjs Framework so that it can be reused on different templates.  • Bound the data to the different views after fetching the JSON formatted data from back- end web services by consuming AJAX calls.  • Developed the login and registration module and used the jQuery Validation Plugin for the form validation.  • Worked on multiple cross browser compatibility issues to support browsers according to the business requirements, including Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari, and IE(>8).  • Used debugging toolkit FireBug, Chrome Dev Tools, IE Tester, etc. to track and fix bugs.  • Provided connection to social websites with feedback features by using JavaScript.  • Utilized version control tool GIT to work on the same code-base in the repository with the other team members.  • Involved in the test driven development and wrote unit tests effectively  • Communicated with multiple parties/teams to resolve technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved in the maintenance and updates of several project documents, including project plan, best practices sheet, and various reports.  Environment:  AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, ReactJS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, GIT Front End UI Developer Lenovo - Morrisville, NC August 2013 to November 2014 Description: Lenovo Group Ltd. is a Chinese multinational computer technology company with headquarters in Beijing, China, and Morrisville, North Carolina, United States. It designs, develops, manufactures and sells personal computers, tablet computers, smartphones, workstations, servers, electronic storage devices, IT management software and smart televisions. In 2014, Lenovo was the world's largest personal computer vendor by unit sales. It markets the ThinkPad line of notebook computers and the Think Centre line of desktops.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Kendo UI Controls to support HTML5 Controls in all the browsers.  • Integrated some kendo widgets Date pickers, Numeric textboxes, Tooltips, Dialog boxes, drop-down list, Email, upload, grid etc.  • Used Kendo data source for the server communication to save, update, create, read and delete.  • Created Ajax wrapper classes and helper methods for the global usage  • Used modular revealing pattern for project  • Used Kendo validator for validating forms.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed and developed a REST-ful style Web Services layer to interface with a RPG and DB2 system.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed the controller servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Struts framework.  • Created Common files, global messages for the common usage.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using Kendo framework.  • Involved in creating HTML 5 templates.  • To release the enhancements within the specified timeline communicated.  • Going through User Documents and Design user interface designs, Wire frames, Information architecture flows and mockups.  • GUI Design and Development. (Page Layout Design, HTML5 Design, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo and CSS3 Styles).  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs.  • Worked on Responsive Designing for Mobiles and Tables.  • Create highly usable web design solutions with focus on user experience and compliance to standards.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Taking the product through the entire lifecycle of analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation and support.  • Work in cross functional team to develop timely changes to page content and design in c requirements.  • Testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting technical problems.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo, CSS3, AJAX, Visual Studio tool. UI Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL January 2012 to July 2013 Description: Mileage Plus is a new website available for all the Mileage plus members. It enables user to manage their activity and use to their miles to earn rewards in one place. Members also can make online reservations and can buy the merchandizing products through mileage plus.com  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application.  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Worked on Non-functional Testcases as a part of developer testing.  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX.  • Developed the Web Interface using Servlets, Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Enhancements to the existing web pages with involving JavaScript validations before service level validations to the html components.  • Demonstrate ability to handle multiple projects simultaneously, meet deadlines, effectively manage priorities and communicate progress.  • Developed single-page web applications and to provide synchronization to various parts of web-apps using JavaScript library.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX and Windows XP. Java UI Developer Four soft - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to December 2011 Description:Four soft IT Solutions provides a wide variety of value-added integrated IT solutions to customers across a multitude of markets and geographies. Our skilled consultants and professionals help our customers achieve and exceed their business goals by designing, deploying, and implementing optimized and scalable IT solutions that continuously exceed their expectations.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Coding site in HTML, XML, CSS, Flash, PHP/MySQL and JavaScript.  • Involved in designing UI Screen, created several mock up Using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Front- end validations are done using JavaScript.  • Participated in analyzing the requirements and depicted them through use cases and scenarios.  • Participated in unit testing, integration testing and installation of the system.  • Involved in Web design and development for the UI interface design, graphic design for printed materials and presentations, illustration, logo design. Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Contributed in decision making of the software and hardware requirements and tool evaluations.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units  • Tested/De-bugged on browser using Firebug  Environment: HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX and Windows XP. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills .net (1 year), Ajax (8 years), Css (7 years), Db2 (1 year), Html (8 years), Html5 (5 years), Javascript (8 years), Jquery. (5 years), Json (6 years), Mysql (1 year), Photoshop (1 year), scripting (1 year), Sdlc (1 year), Subversion (Less than 1 year), Ui (8 years), Unix (1 year), user interface. (8 years), version control (1 year), Visual studio (1 year), Xml (5 years)