Sr. Front End UI Developer - React JS Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> - React JS Sr. Front End UI Developer - React JS Columbia, MD ? Over 6+ years of experience in developing professional web applications which include Front- End designing and hand coding with solid proficiency in usability, web and client application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Semantic-UI, Node, React and Redux.  ? Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training Documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Proficient in designing single page applications using React and Redux.  ? Proficient in designing and developing front end using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for both desktop and mobile browser users.  ? Strong Experience on working Cross Browser issues handling.  ? Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, CSS Box Model, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  ? Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  ? Good understanding and experience with Object Oriented Programming concepts.  ? Highly exposed to various databases such as My SQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.  ? Knowledge in developing applications using SCRUM methodology.  ? Good understanding of GIT source for version control management.  ? Experience in performing unit-testing using Jest and Jasmine  ? Experience in optimization of front end code for multiple browsers, platforms, and devices with a keen focus on accessibility, site performance and scalability.  ? Excellent communication skills and can work in a team as well as an individual. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End UI Developer - React JS Dealer Track Technologies - Lake Success, NY May 2016 to March 2019 Description: E-menu that shows the aftermarket products of vehicles for different types of contracts. And presentation of app shows the customer version of menu. Customer can edit the electronic menu on their pages.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with UI designer and product manager to make React UI components for the app.  ? Used HTML5, React, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript and D3 to develop single page responsive Web UI.  ? Developed modular ReactJS services for reusable functionality.  ? Developed a mock API's to make the UI components  ? Added react-router with secure navigation and unsecure navigation  ? Created a state management in application using redux for the data flow with in the application  ? Used react-bootstrap and CSS media queries for handling responsiveness of the application  ? Involved in agile process, two week sprints to discuss the development of the application  ? Used redux thunk to work with RESTful web services and middlewares.  ? Extensively used GIT for version control and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  ? Worked on Cross Browser Compatibility and maintain apps.  ? Interacted with other development teams for fix the issues.  ? Performed unit testing using Jest.  Environment  React, Redux, npm, react-bootstrap, git, CSS, visual studio editor Front End and UI Developer John & Johnson - Jersey City, NJ August 2015 to April 2016 React JS  Description: Johnson & Johnson is a holding company, which is engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a range of products in the healthcare field. It operates through three segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices. Project was to develop an application for portal development using front- end technologies HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery and SASS.    Responsibilities  ? Created Front- end applications using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and Jquery.  ? Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI Designer.  ? Extensive usage of Bootstrap and SASS for responsive web design.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser Compatibility and fixed the bugs and maintain pages for various browsers  ? Configured web pack and babel presets to use modern javascript syntax for wider browser compatibility. Added CSS-loader and sass plugin for pre-compiling SASS to CSS.  ? Used Git for version controls  ? Used Jquery to make HTML and CSS code interact. Added dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Development of Client side Form validation.  ? Used Node package manager NPM to manage modules and used it to install useful tools as babel.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's with RESTful web-services.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to module javascript files that could be reused in other application    Environment  HTML, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, GIT, Atom, SASS, NPM, Webpack, Bootstrap. Web developer N.B InfoTech Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP January 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  • Involved in the design and development of user profile planning for those accessing the system.  • Analyzed user requirements and converted into use cases.  • Created a website using HTML, designed all pages using CSS and Java script.  • Designed layouts on the front- end using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • The new website has made it much easier for the users to access the page and check the required information.  • Developed web and service layer components using MVC Architecture.  • Created Stored Procedure for database access and events.  • Used Oracle Database in the project and developed the Admin screens using JavaScript.  • Developed SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MVC, SQL Server, DOM, XML, Ajax, WIN2000/XP, Net beans, Photoshop. Education Bachelor Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Kathmandu University application Created a state management Skills .net (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Git (3 years), Html5 (3 years), Javascript (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap.  JavaScript Libraries React, Redux, React Native, Node.js  Version Control Tools Git, SVN  IDE & Editors Visual Studio, Sublime Text and Atom  Database My SQL, Postgressql and MongoDB  Testing Tools Jest, Jasmine, Mocha and Chrome Developers Tool  Programming Javascript, C, C++, Python