Sr. Front- End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End Developer - Wells Fargo San Francisco, CA Sr. Front End Developer/ React JS Developer/ Angular Developer  Translating UX/CX designs and wireframes to high quality front- end code usingJavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Angular JS    • Senior Front- end Developer with 7+ years of experience leveraging JavaScript to build responsive websites, mobile/ tablet apps, and interactive features that drive business growth and improve UX.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, JADE, JavaScript, jQuery, React JS, Redux, Angular, Node.js, JSON, XML, Ajax, Bootstrap.  • Good Experience in React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux. Also, familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Hands on experience in using Angular JS Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    • Experience in all phases of SDLCmethodology like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single - page applications (SPAs).  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP, XML)  • Good experience on customizing CSS framework like Bootstrap using CSS pre-processors LESS andSASS.  • Implemented easy to use customBootstrapplugins for building carousel, accordion, modal,windows etc.  • Experience in implementing the CSS techniques like Media Queries and Flexbox for developing hybrid applications.  • Experience in creating visual representations of data using D3.js  • Good Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Firebug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Familiar with newer specifications of ECMAScript (or ES) and good hands on experience with ES6/ ECMAScript 2015.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in working with Reduxarchitecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux.  • Expertise in using Angular JS to build Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Experience with data structure library like Immutable.js and templating library Dust.js  • Experience in working with Node.js and NPM modules. Also experience with common front- end development tools such as Babel, Webpack etc.  • Experience in using JavaScript Task runners Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bower.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTfulWebServices using AJAX, JSON.  • Experience with front- end development with back- end system integration.  • Involved in optimizing custom UI Components/ Plugins for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers.  • Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karmatest runners.  • Experience in performing Accessibilitytesting using JAWS, Voiceover and Talkbackmultiple screen readers and fix the accessibility defects by following ADAstandards.  • Good Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA,HP Quality Center and Clear Quest.  • Experience in Version Control tools like GIT andSVN for Source Code management.  • Experience in Jenkinsto trigger the feature environment builds and deploy the code for higher environments (F-DEV to F-SIT).  • Experience in using maven to build the front-code and generate the WAR file.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad++, WebStorm, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor and Visual Studio Code.  • Proficiency in debugging the Front-code using Chrome Dev Tools, Web inspector and in-build dev toolsin order to analyze the legacy code and fix the defects.  • Familiarity with modern front- end build pipelines and tools.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Work Experience Sr. Front- End Developer Wells Fargo January 2015 to Present Location: CA/NC    Project Description:  • Accounts:Account Summary is the landing page of Wells Fargo online banking application where Customer can see all his account(s), balance information, Offers links, Rewards links, FICO score link and many other useful links. Customer is navigated to Accounts Details page where the complete transaction(s) history, Fee(s) links, account summary table and other important data is displayed  • Servicing: There are 60+ use cases within Servicing platform, the most visited pages are Update Contact Information (UCI), Create PIN Online (CPO), Activate Credit Card (ACC), Order Checks and Deposit Slips, My Travel Plans (MTP), Setup Touch ID/ Figure Print and so on.  • Framework: Contributed to UI framework team in developing core components which are used across multiple platforms.  • Internal Baking Application: Banker application is used to view (only) basic customer information and issues related to account.    Responsibilities:  • Participate in meetings with Business to understand the requirements and provide technical feasibility by representing the technical team.  • Developed pages using JavaScript, jQuery, React JS, Angular JS, CSS3 and HTML5 by referring mock-ups, wireframes, BRD, Redlines, Copydeck, Visual Specs provided DXD.  • Designed base CSS templates to use across the WF banking application using different CSS style properties Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table etc.,  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites and JS & CSS minifying techniques.  • Migrateduse cases developed in legacy code using React JS.  • Implemented React JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in chrome, Mozella, IE, Safari and FF and across different devices.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application (SPA) by specifying multiple paths to different pages.  • Developed from the scratch pages using React JScomponents, Forms, Events, Keys, lifecycle methods, props system, state system, Router and Redux.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Created and consumed Reducers the Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single HYBRID responsive application that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionalityonly for desktop users in one of the use cases using React-Draggable  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating maps location search on the webpage for locating near-by ATM using React JS.  • Built a core Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom core Components, library Components and mock/ real-timeJSONs.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRAfor tracking stories, spikes, defects on everyday basis.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Developed a core component to record BEV Events and display the content from CMS.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as chrome Dev Tools, Web Inspector, Firebug and IE Dev tools to debug the issues and fix them.  • Monitoring and providing technical support to the offshore team for their JIRA tickets.  • Performed the Device Testing, System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by QA/SIT Team.  • Performed high level Accessibility testing and fix the issues reported by Level Access team referring Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JADE, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Angular JS, Dust.js, Redux, JSON, gulp, Git, Restful API, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom. UI Developer ZionTech Solutions December 2013 to November 2014 Client: American Express Location: AZ  Responsibilities:  • Built UI pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSONby referring to the mock-ups.  • Developed Hybrid responsive web pages using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Used AngularJS to create Single Page Applications which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked on creating log-in authentication modules using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on custom directives withDialog/popupfunctionalities with DXD specific requirements.  • Used UI Router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Created custom directives and filters using AngularJS built-in $http service from controller through dependency injection.  • Used Angular $http to send GET/POST request to fetch data from server.  • Used open source library like Angular material to create customized components.  • Worked with Karma and Jasmine, supporting QA team to debug and write tests.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing Stories in sprints.  • Maintained the code using SVN version control system.  • Self-learned Angular JS on demand and implemented in real-time.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, WebStorm, GIT, clear Quest, Grunt, Jasmine. Jr. UI Developer ITC Infotech April 2011 to May 2012 Location: BLR, India    Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML, CSSand JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the business logic implementation by referring the BRD and specifications.  • Used CSS3 styling and Bootstrap for responsive design of web pages.  • Developed page layouts, navigations and CMScontent using jQuery plugins.  • Created forms for user input.  • Involved in consuming RESTful Web services to render the data to the front page.  • Debugged the UI codeusing Dev toolsto fix issues.  • Used AJAX for requesting data and response processing.  • Developed with IDE like Eclipseand Notepad. Jr. UI Developer Mphasis April 2011 to May 2012 Location: BLR, India    Responsibilities:  • Turned Design pages and specific components into HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Analyzed UI/UX design to develop Responsivelayout for improved usability.  • Developed, tested and maintained legacy applications.  • Analyzed and fixed the defects raised by Testing team.  • Worked closely with multiple teams in order to resolve the tickets raised in Remedy.  • Installing Windows, Software, applications, antivirus, patches and all developers' tools needed for every PC in the company. Education Master's in science International Technological University - San Jose, CA 2014 Bachelor of Technology in (ECE)Electronics and Communication Engineering MITS 2008 Math Physics Chemistry Vikas Junior College 2004 Skills Visual studio, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, D3.js, Node.js, Webpack, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Ajax, Css, Html5, Eclipse, Jaws, jquery, Bugzilla, Jira Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JADE, LESS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, React JS, Angular JS, Express JS, Node.js, Immutable.js, dust.js, D3.js  Development tools: Eclipse, Web Strom, Sublime, Visual Studio Code, and Notepad++  Debuggingtools: Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, Web inspector Debugger  Frameworks: React JS, Angular JS, Node.js  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux  Methodologies: Agile, SDLC  Testing Tools: Jasmine, Jest, Karma, Istanbul  Other Front- end Tools: NPM, Webpack, Gulp, Grunt, Jenkins, Maven, JAWS (for ADA testing)  Version control Tools: GIT, SVN  TicketingTools: HPQC, Remedy, JIRA, Clear Quest