Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Erie Insurance Harrisburg, PA Company Name Duration Designation  Erie Insurance, PA Jan 2015 to Till now Sr. UI Developer  Life Lock, AZ June 2013 - Dec 2014 Sr. UI Developer  Liberty Mutual, NH Jan 2012 - May 2013 UI/ Front EndDeveloper  Wells Fargo Bank, AZ June 2010 - Dec 2011 UI Developer  JP morganChase, NJ March 2009 - June 2010 UI/Application developer  Hp, Seattle, WA Jan 2008 - Feb 2009 Web/UI Developer  Icloud Infotech, India July 2007 - Dec 2007 Web Developer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Erie Insurance - PA January 2015 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology by breaking down the project to several sprints.  • Developedapplication using Angular JS  • Developed the application by using HTML5, Java/J2EE  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, Angular JavaScript  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSON, AJAX  • Used EXTJS, SASS and LESS extensively for Rich UI experience.  • Developed an application which runs on various platforms such as iOS and Android.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP technologies.  • Contributed as key resource of the Angular JS Framework Team in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular JS based UI.  • Involved in development of commonly used angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations.11  • Developed the high-quality code which runs across multiple browsers using WebSockets  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web services using SOAP, WSDL, Local Storage, UDDI and XML  • Converted the XMI code to Angular JavaScript.  • Used Grunt to perform repetitive tasks such as minification, compilation, unit testing  • Worked on Karma and Jasmine.  • Developed Billing API's based on the user stories and exposed them Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) for the Business logic.  • Implemented Maven build tools to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.  • Have worked on Oracle10g, Local Storage data base for storing and retrieving the application data.  • Written migration/deployment shell scripts on Linux/Unix platforms using VI editor  • Configured Data source and connection pool settings by usingWebSphere server Admin console  Environment  Ext-JS 4.x, Unix, Maven 2.2.1, XML Schemas, SASS, AJAX, LESS, XML, HTML5 APIs, CSS3, Angular JS, JSON, iOS, Android, JQuery, Webstorm 7, Restful services, Design Patterns, JUnit, Canvas, Web Services, Windows XP, Karma and Jasmine.    Company Name Duration Designation Liaison International UI Development - Dallas, TX June 2013 to December 2014 Sr. UI / Front End Developer    Responsibilities  • Worked on presentation layer, developed dynamic UI modules using Canvas, Backbone, JSP/JS pages along with JQuery and DWR (AJAX) calls. All the modules are roles/permissions driven  • Worked on service layer logic and DAO layer  • Worked on Python for generating few modules  • Used SOAPUI for testing web services and verifying the request and response XML.  • Experience in working on GIT, UI Development using Angular Jsand Bootstrap on HTML5.  • Implemented marshalling and un-marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology by breaking down the project to several sprints.  • Developed front- end UI using ANGULARJS, HTML5, CSS3, EXT JS 4.0, BOOTSTRAP, CANVAS, JAVASCRIPT, SASS, JQUERY, and AJAX.  • Involved in writing MAVEN & ANT script for creating destination folders  • Developed generalized script functions written in JavaScript which are used throughout the application.  • Worked on Logger Factory object to log messages using SLF4J/Log4j framework  • Redesigned JPQL queries & written stored procedures to improve performance of queries.  • Involved in Application Support during the initial deployment of the application in production environment.  • Developed automation test cases using Selenium, Testing, Page Objects and Sikuli frameworks  Environment  AngularJs, Bootstrap, EXT JS 4.0, HTML5, SASS, LESS, HTML5 APIs, AJAX, Source Control Git, JPA, Maven, JavaScript, JQuery 1.4.3, JSON    Company Name Duration Designation UI Developer Liberty Mutual, NH January 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities  • Design & develop supporting components for rule authors  • Design & enhance execution model based on requirements of business object model  • Design & develop Dynamic domains for rule authoring & testing using rule studio/RTS  • Meetings / Discussions with CE (Customer Experience) / dev. team for design changes, control changes, cross impact changes, queries.  • Used HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, EXTJS, AJAX, JQUERY, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages.  • Assisting other team members for any UI related resolutions. Verifying the fixes in IST and QA environments and accordingly flipping the status to ready for re-test.  • Worked on Socket IO for Cross-browser compatibility.  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and usedJDBC as Model Component.  • Experience in working on GIT.  • Working on CSS code framework.  • Web component development like creating data grid, modal fly out, calendar component, buttons, multi-layer drop-down, mega menu.  • Managing the project work-load as a tech-lead.  • Implemented Webservices using SOAP messaging and WSDL.  • Developing code for Mac OS X, Windows XP and Windows 7.  • Implemented the application using spring concepts - DI/IOC, AOP, Batch implementation and Spring MVC.  • Writing code for cross-platform use and middleware applications.  • Creating different types of models. One for dynamic content for Ajax call having both modal header as well as modal body content together inside one modal content body.  • And another with static content with modal header outside modal body content.  • Working on Date Picker.  • Working on Content column with 3 column layout using CSS 3.  • Working on Edit in Place element.  • Working & completing different Sprint Planning tasks.  • Worked on Quick pay: Non Chase: Show a list of transactions.  • Created different modal windows.  Environment  Visual Studio 2010, Tomcat, Source control - Clearcase, HTML 5, EXTJS, CSS 3, JQuery, Agile, JIRA on both platforms Windows and Mac OS, iPad Simulator    Company Name Duration Designation UI Developer Wells Fargo Bank - AZ June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities  • Authored and created marketing materials and business-to-business presentations.  • Created, maintained and direct the overall design elements of corporate media, projects and products.  • Implementing User Interface for the Google analytics data visualization. Used ExtJs graphed in an AJAX driven user interface.  • Developed java script functions to fetch the data from the Google analytics API.  • Developed JavaScript functions to make AJAX calls to Google analytics visualization API to render the graphs.  • Implemented key UI elements for interaction with Google visualization graphs.  • Implemented CSS and JavaScript for dynamic loading of the data and page UI.  • Fixed IE CSS issues and java script performance increase for loading pages with lots of images.  • Configured Google visualization chart API to customize to the clients requirement.  • Implemented AuthSub authentication for user side client login for seamless user login without prompting Google authentication.  • Configured and rendered the Annotated timeline chart with month, year, and six month views. Live interaction with the chart. Fixed IE CSS issues regarding height of the block elements on the Data table page.  • Used Action Script in Flash and also worked on Tweening - Motion Tween and Shape Tween.  • Used Masking in Flash to merge one or more animations with each other.  • Used Symbols in Flash like Movie Clip, Shape and graphic - converted objects to symbols to create instances and reusable components  • Worked closely with other designers and developers to ensure both well-designed and fully-operational websites.  Environment  JavaScript, Flash, CSS, ANT, Ajax, JDK1.5, JQuery, script.aculo.us, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Jasmine and Karma SQL, Sun Solaris, Linux, Windows, Photoshop, IDE- Eclipse, Source Control - SVN.    Company Name Duration Designation UI/Application developer JP morganChase, NJ March 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities  • Executed approved design, developing both applications with JSP, JavaScript, and HTML, generating reports with SQL, PL/SQL, and HTML/JavaScript, MS Query/MS Excel or Oracle Reports.  • Worked on applying UI Principles and Human Factors Principles and Factors for all the web and application products of CDC both Internal and external domains.  • Ongoing new requirements gathering and updating on regular basis.  • Played a programmer role in UI design and development of the front- end architecture.  • Developed user interfaces involving HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developing complex user interfaces involving HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed HTML pages using HTML and JavaScript for front- end validation.  • Used Rational Rose for creating the class diagrams, use cases, sequence diagrams.  • Expertise with CSS Selectors, classes, ids, pseudo classes, Inheritance and concepts  • Improved Web applications by analyzing user feedback  Environment  JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS    Company Name Duration Designation Web/ Front End Developer Seattle, WA January 2008 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  • Creating Front- end Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Worked closely with other senior developers, product managers, system architects, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations following MVC architecture, under the Rational Unified Process (RUP  • Contribute to the design direction of our product set.  • Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3  • Contribute positively to the overall team dynamic; participate in stand-up meetings, planning and design sessions and other business-development working.  • Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development (Angular JS)  • Designing and implementing functionality using technologies including JavaScript, AJAX, and JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery;  • Leading technical projects with a focus on quality and improving the user experience.  • Working directly with clients to design and develop elegant solutions.  • Tested cross-browsers compatibility on a range of projects.  • Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular JS, JQuery, JSPs, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Subversion, Windows    Company Name Duration Designation Web Developer Icloud Infotech July 2007 to December 2007 Responsibilities:  • Used HTML, DHTML, CSS, Dream weaver, JavaScript to develop frontend web pages  • Involved in all SDLC phases Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment  • Developed cross browser compatible HTML and CSS reusable templates and integrated the UI with the application.  • Participated in bug fixing with QA team, which involved cross browser testing as well as load and performance checking  • Kept track of different versions of files using VSS content management system, and uploaded the developed pages in accordance with the new standards.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Actively used XML (documents and transformations) for creating templates with dynamic data from XML file  • Using Google analytics reports optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS and fixed the issues for the pages with low traffic and high load time. This directly increased traffic & sales; which decreased maintenance and capital expenditures for department.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Eclipse, JQUERY, SVN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies: HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT-JS 4.0, JQuery,  JSON, JSP, CSS, , UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, GIMP,  Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Core Java, Java, .NET, C#, Python, Restful  Webservices  IDE, HTML Editor: Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, WIX, Photoshop, Express, MS FrontPage,  MSVisual Studio, Socket IO  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 7.0.34, HTTP Web Server, Team Foundation Server  Database: ORACLE, MYSQL, SQL SERVER  Operating Systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Win 7, Mac OS X  Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML