Caveo Caveo Caveo Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Caveo Microsoft November 2016 to October 2017 Front End web developer  • Designed a process to programmatically update approximately 150 courses to the current branding by writing a script  using the command line.    • Design & create custom pages based on Instructional Designers storyboards.  • Collaborate and consult with instructional designers to confirm configuration of course materials prior to posting  SCORM to LMS. Data Analyst Front End web developer Microsoft July 2015 to July 2016 Across multiple teams created complex spreadsheets by combining data from multiple sources (OLAP Cubes, SQL, SharePoint, static sources) into a single source workbook or dashboards utilizing Excel power pivot, pivot tables, VBA,  complex formulas (VLOOKUP SUMIF nested IF and IFS..), and conditional formatting.  • Delivered a streamlined process of tracking third party vendor costs including a refreshable workbook programmed with all business rules.  • Design & create custom pages based on Instructional designers' storyboards.  • Front End Development collaborate and consult with instructional designers and stake holders to program and test  courses prior to posting SCORM to LMS for targeted audience to consume  • Troubleshoot material posted on the LMS prior to escalation to tier 2 support Data Analyst and Front End Web Developer Microsoft January 2011 to July 2015 Across multiple teams created complex spreadsheets by combining data from multiple sources (OLAP Cubes, SQL, SharePoint, static sources) into a single source workbook or dashboards utilizing Excel power pivot, pivot tables, VBA,  complex formulas (VLOOKUP SUMIF nested IF and IFS..), and conditional formatting.  • Delivered a streamlined process of tracking third party vendor costs including a refreshable workbook programmed with all business rules.  • Design & create custom pages based on Instructional designers' storyboards.  • Front End Development collaborate and consult with instructional designers and stake holders to program and test  courses prior to posting SCORM to LMS for targeted audience to consume  • Troubleshoot material posted on the LMS prior to escalation to tier 2 support Data Analyst Project Manager Clearwire - Bellevue, WA February 2010 to December 2010 • Creation of tools either in Excel or Access or both for Engineers to use to track their project status.  • Developing SQL queries using either the Graphical interface or hand-written queries.  • Import preselected columns of data needed from the Excel Workbook into an Access database using an Append  query(T-SQL), using an Update(T-SQL) to several tables and a Select Case statement(T-SQL) to transform predetermined  network sites from one Market to another Market name in those tables(T-SQL).  • Using an ODBC connection to supply data to several Excel Pivot Tables and Pivot Charts based reporting tool that allows  the Engineers, as well as managers, to select markets, engineers, or sector carriers for reporting or troubleshooting.  • Delete queries (T-SQL) are run twice a month to ensure data integrity within the tables is maintained.  • Update those tools with daily weekly or semi-weekly data from an Oracle database download  • Send notification emails to the concerned team(s) informing them what/where latest data and updated tool are located.  • Track high T1 utilization and error reporting. I utilize the information to follow the progress of having the T1's assessed  and fixed, through daily or semi-weekly emails for status updates. Education Certificate University of Washington - Seattle, WA September 2017 to June 2018 Certificate Bellevue College - Bellevue, WA June 2007 to October 2009 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/brian-prater-csm-69b9007 http://www.brianprater.com