Remedy/Web Developer - Contractor Remedy/Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Contractor Web Developer Alexandria, VA • Ability to develop new and maintain existing sites according to pre-established specification, maintaining  quality control and a consistent overall look and feel.  • Examines and analyzes site traffic with Google Analytics and other webmaster tools.  • Source material from internal and external providers and work with designers, photographers and writers to create  content that is optimized for the Web.  • Provide and manage web support for employees and business development functionalities.  • Building responsive driven websites for view on Desktop and Mobile devices.  • Serve as the server administrator. Ensuring the web servers, hardware and software are operating accurately.  • Familiar with cloud based platforms such as Azure.  • Web Applications in JavaScript, jQuery, Java, PHP, VB Script, HTML, HTML5, CSS and CSS3.  • Technologies used: Remedy, Kinetic, Visual Studio (.NET), WordPress, Content Management Systems, Windows  Sever 2012 R2, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe Premiere. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remedy/Web Developer - Contractor clearAvenue - Washington, DC April 2018 to Present • Develops, reviews, and presents deliverables with project stakeholders, web development staff, and the customer which includes modifying 'out of the box' features within Kinetic using Java, jQuery and  CSS3.    • Modify or create customer requested services in Kinetic's environment to create tickets in Remedy.    • Aligns deliverables with overall user experience strategies (e.g., information architecture, copy and content, application user interface, web presence look-and-feel, creative elements of interactive  multimedia, desktop and mobile layouts, etc.).    • Ensures completed work is 508 compliant. Full Stack Developer - Contractor NCI, Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2017 to April 2018 • Maintain optimal site performance for the maximum number of users.  • Test content to ensure clear display and fast page loading times using different browsers on desktop  computers and the growing range of mobile devices.    • Ensure the web servers, hardware and software are operating accurately.    • Develops websites and web applications.    • Maintain browser compatibility and functionality in Wordpress and CMS sites.    • Utilize languages such as JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, PHP and VB Script.    • Source material from internal and external providers and work with designers, photographers and writers  to create content that is optimized for the Web.    • Ensuring the smooth migration of websites to a cloud based platform and maintaining administrative  control.    • Examples of applications created: www.leonatus.com/portfolio and www.leonatus.com/newPortfolio. Web Developer - Temp ISRI - Washington, DC April 2016 to January 2017 Responsible for designing, building, updating and maintaining visually appealing digital  communications using a variety of software applications and programming languages such as HTML, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap and PHP.    • Converts hard copy or electronic documents to web format.    • Proofreads and/or applies quality control procedures to own work and that of others.    • Assist with network configuration, troubleshooting, and installation.    • Maintain browser compatibility and functionality in Wordpress and CMS sites.    • Regulate and manage access rights of different users on website.    • Source material from internal and external providers and work with designers, photographers and writers  to create content that is optimized for the Web.    • Examples of sites created or worked on: www.isri.org and www.leonatus.com/Wordpress2. Web Developer - Contractor Serco - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2015 to April 2016 • Responsible for development, implementation and testing of various DoD systems and applications.    • Design new and maintain existing sites according to pre-established specification, maintaining quality  control and a consistent overall look and feel.    • Maintaining the compatibility and functionality of websites on hosted web servers.    • Advanced web designing, building, and maintaining dynamic websites using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, C# and ASP.Net    • Test different browsers and ensure people with different computers can access a website.    • Serve as the server administrator. Ensuring the web servers, hardware and software are operating  accurately.    • Ensuring the smooth migration of websites to a cloud based platform (Azure) and maintaining  administrative control. Front- End Developer/Designer ACCE - Alexandria, VA February 2014 to June 2015 • Responsible for layout and graphic design for quarterly magazine, convention notebook and brochure, membership marketing materials and other design projects.    • Coordinated development, design and maintenance of the ACCE website(s) while working  collaboratively with website vendor and other ACCE staff to ensure that content on the entire website is  accurate and up-to-date.    • Examine and analyze site traffic with Google Analytics and other webmaster tools.    • Assist with network configuration, troubleshooting, and installation.    • Regulate and manage access rights of different users on website.    • Examples of sites created: www.acce.org and www.acce.org/centennial. Print and Web Designer Twinbrook Floral Design - Fairfax, VA March 2013 to February 2014 Redesigned the store's corporate branding, maintained company website and designed promotional  material to increase further business.    • Design and configure websites and its ecommerce system.    • Assist with network configuration, troubleshooting, and installation.    • Examples of sites maintained: www.twinbrookfloraldesign.com. Print and Web Designer Early Steps Pre-School - Arlington, VA April 2012 to December 2012 Created and designed brand logo, designed the preschool text books for various age groups, calendar  events and handbooks as well as other miscellaneous promotional print and web materials.    • Managing web content using Drupal. Coding done using HTML, CSS and PHP.    • Provide and manage support for employees and business development functionalities.    • Examples of sites maintained: www.earlystepsbilingual.com. Education BFA in Graphic Design in Graphic Design George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Php, Java, jquery, Css, Microsoft office, Mac, Wordpress, HTML5, Bootstrap, Front End Additional Information • The ability to develop new and maintain existing sites according to pre-established specification, maintaining  quality control and a consistent overall look and feel.    • Examines and analyzes site traffic with Google Analytics and other webmaster tools.  • Source material from internal and external providers and work with designers, photographers and writers to create  content that is optimized for the Web.    • Provide and manage web support for employees and business development functionalities.    • Building responsive driven websites for view on Desktop and Mobile devices.    • Serve as the server administrator. Ensuring the web servers, hardware and software are operating accurately.    • Familiar with cloud based platforms such as Azure.    • Web Applications in JavaScript, jQuery, Java, PHP, VB Script, HTML, HTML5, CSS and CSS3.  • Technologies used: Remedy, Kinetic, Visual Studio (.NET), WordPress, Content Management Systems, Windows  Sever 2012 R2, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe Premiere.    COMPUTER SKILLS:  Microsoft Office Adobe Creative Suite Visual Studio HTML/CSS/JavaScript/jQuery/PHP/VB Script/Java PC/MAC  Platforms My salary requirement is $135,00-$145,000 View samples of my work at www.leonatus.com