Front end developer Intern <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Intern Front end developer Intern Union, NJ ? Over one year of experience in front- end/ UI development and web-based application.  ? Good work experience in using the web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular2/5 and ES6.  ? Practical knowledge in Model-View-View Model (MVVM) framework and Single Page Application (SPA) such as AngularJS.  ? Experience in any JavaScript frameworks and libraries like Node, Angular and knowledge of how to do responsive design for web, mobile or hybrid applications.  ? Experience in working with Angular2/5 modules, services, templates, directives.  ? Hands on experience in IDE tools such as Eclipse and Webstorm?IntelliJ.  ? Involved in phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Agile workflow.  ? Familiar with both technical and non-technical concepts and requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end developer Intern Groupon - Chicago, IL May 2018 to September 2018 Groupon is an American worldwide e-commerce marketplace connecting subscribers with local merchants by offering activities, travel, goods and services. The project was to develop and maintain the internal test website. My main duty is developing customers modules which allows customer to manage their personal information and track their order status. My team also use new front end technologies (from AngularJS to Angular5) to improve the website performance. Enhances the design, development, and operations of our systems using HTML5, JavaScript and CSS3. Front end developer Meituan-Dianping - CN May 2015 to January 2017 Meituan-Dianping is a Chinese group buying website for locally found food delivery services, consumer products and retail services. My duty is using new front end technologies to develop new user-facing features for our customers by using AngularJS. My team worked on website UI provided the marketing initiatives and advance search like searching by years and price range. I developed of components using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS Material.    TECHNOLOGIES/SKILLS:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2/5  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS, Linux  Web Services XML, JSON, AJAX, Restful API  Databases MySQL, MongoDB  Tools SASS, LESS, NPM Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Skills API, JSON, XML, SASS, AJAX, WEB SERVICES, MONGODB, LINUX, MYSQL, MAC, MAC OS