Creative/Full Stack Developer Creative/Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Creative/Full Stack Developer - Tinkering Designs Llc Los Angeles, CA Mariela is a creative, self-taught and focused Full Stack developer with 5+ years of experience. She's also an  expert in digital marketing with an eye for design. She specializes in making abstract concepts come to life using  technology. Mariela is looking for a position where she can apply her growing skill-set, business marketing, and  development experience to solve unique, interesting and complex challenges. she can create html5 responsive  design from scratch. She's aiming to leverage her skills to successfully fill the Front End Engineer/ UI Designer  role at your company. Work Experience Creative/Full Stack Developer Tinkering Designs Llc - Los Angeles, CA December 2018 to Present Discuss with the client the product, advertising themes and methods, and any changes that should be  made in advertising copy.  Consult with sales, media and marketing representatives to obtain information on product or service and discuss style and length of advertising copy.  Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  Write, design, or edit web page content, or direct others producing content.  Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  Analyze user needs to determine technical requirements. Full Stack Web Developer/UI Designer Haliburton International - Los Angeles, CA April 2018 to December 2018 Design, build, maintain web site build from scratch, using authoring or scripting languages,    Work along with marketing team for the creation of creative content for the website, SEO keywords  research for the new products catalog.    Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems. Full Stack Web Developer/UI Designer Molcajetedominguero.net - Los Angeles, CA March 2017 to April 2018 Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  Collaborate with management or users to develop e-commerce strategies and to integrate these strategies with web site.  Integration with authorize.net API for payment system Front End Web Developer Solo Condesa - Mexico City, MX January 2013 to January 2015 Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  Develop web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards. Education Mexico City Nutrition Food Montrer University August 2013 Skills React, Javascript, PHP, Python, Creative Suite (5 years), HTML (5 years), Java Additional Information Spanish, Business level reading, speaking and Writing  Highly Creative  Critical thinking  Communication