Marketing Manager Marketing Manager Digital Marketing & Web Development Miami, FL I have over 7 years experience in the web development and digital marketing fields, and enjoy the creative aspect online marketing allows me to explore. I've grown from an intern to a marketing manager in this time, and have taken many companies' business vision to reality by providing a high volume of inbound online leads, and established websites with traffic increases of 30% month over month.    Outside of work I enjoy exercising to stay health, such as lifting weights, running, biking and kayaking. Camping and hiking are also two of my favorites activities to partake in on weekends or vacation. I also try to keep my creative mind sharp by painting, and writing short stories. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marketing Manager CarBrain - Miami, FL September 2017 to May 2019 My responsibilities included handling business conference management, which I helped design and order our marketing materials for including brochures, flyers, promotional posters, an 8' x 10' banner, a custom designed table throw, pens, shirts, hats and other branded goods. I personally attended these conferences and signed up many businesses with our company.    I also managed many email marketing campaigns that were B2B and B2C to great effect. My daily tasks also included performing technical SEO on our two primary domains, and overseeing the SEM for them as well, which had a budget of $70,000 / month.    During my time at CarBrain I also helped design, build, and launch 5 new online brands to help increase inbound leads. I also did some conversion optimization for these new sites, as well as the 2 pre-existing domains.     The primary site grew from 10,000 visitors a month to over 85,000 a month in organic traffic in my time working there, and the conversion rate went up 10%. These were highly qualified leads, which had a direct impact on the growth of the company.    I also received a 'Positive Impact' award for my positive attitude around the office, and the ease in which it is to work with me. I believe I contributed to the companies yearly growth, and I surpassed my quarterly targets 100% of the time. Front End Developer Rocket Marketing & Design - Miami, FL August 2015 to September 2017 Primarily set up customized Wordpress sites, tailoring the styling and functionality to each client’s whim. Ensured on-page SEO was up to industry standards, and each site was mobile responsive on every device. Also managed some social media marketing campaigns for clients. SEO Admin OptFirst Web Marketing - Miami Shores, FL August 2014 to June 2015 Created & installed custom wordpress, joomla and drupal websites. Used SEO, Google AdWords and Facebook Advertising extensively to market businesses across many industries including real estate, ecommerce, health & fitness and others. Also undertook graphic work in Photoshop and Illustrator. Education AA in Computer Science Miami Dade College - Miami, FL August 2014 to April 2017 Skills HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), PHP (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Photoshop (4 years), Illustrator (4 years), SQL (3 years), C++ (1 year), Wordpress, HTML5, Front End, Marketing Strategy (5 years), Conversion Optimization (5 years), Google Analytics (6 years), Google Data Studio (2 years), Google Adwords (4 years), Google Webmaster Tools (6 years), Adobe Premiere (1 year), Digital Marketing, SEO, Social Media Marketing, Copywriting (4 years), Customer Service, Advertising, Email Marketing (5 years), Content Marketing (3 years), Google Docs (7 years), Event Management (2 years), Management (2 years), HTML, Social Media Management, Marketing, Graphic Design Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ylloalz1se1qdean Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2vsacxi4mbfotxgz Market Research — Highly Proficient July 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/br6vqvq1peebeuxy Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zkymluiz3u91m7ji Teamwork: Interpersonal Skills — Expert July 2019 Resolving disputes, solving team problems, and understanding nonverbal cues. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ph4augsbmskr8p3r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.