Front End Developer and Team Leader <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Team Leader Front End Developer and Team Leader - Dealer Inspire Work Experience Front End Developer and Team Leader Dealer Inspire - Naperville, IL 2016 to Present Automotive website platform that are Wordpress based that include custom  code and functionality.    ? Produced the idea and code of a wordpress plugin. This allows our  customer service agents to have the ability to do certain tasks that used to require a developer. This decreased the requested coming into our team, which allows for us to focus on bigger projects.  ? Also created custom JQuery plugins in order to increase coding  productivity and efficiency.  ? Conducts team meetings to update members on best practices and continuing expectations  ? Provides encouragement to team members, including communicating  team goals and identifying areas for new training or skill checks  ? Generates and shares comprehensive and detailed reports about team  performance, mission-related objectives, and deadlines  ? Build custom features thats would allow the site to have a better user  interface.  ? Translate mockups into seamless web pages with perfect visual and functional elements.  ? Used Bootstrap to make the site responsive for mobile and tablet.  ? Using PHP to be able to pull information from inventory, and be able to pull  and manipulate information set within the wordpress platform.  ? Use AJAX to interact with APIs (such as google geolocation).  ? Created a training program to help new hires learn our processes quicker  and be able to have material to have as reference.  ? Maintain websites and implement any necessary additions or enhancements  ? Identify and troubleshoot various website issues and coding problems Front and Back End Developer (Freelance) 2015 to 2017 Created a web based program that would allow the client to be able to manage  day to day sales (create Invoices), inventory and expenses. Also be able to track and maintain client information.    ? Created a responsive website by using Bootstrap that would allow for it to be accessed in multiple platforms.  ? Create website layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS  practices  ? Created the web applications with programming languages such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP.  ? Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to back- end  ? Created a database in order to maintain all the records.  ? Build reusable code and libraries for future use Application developer and Team Leader AT&T - Arlington Heights, IL 2014 to 2016 SASHA is a web based software used for customer service representatives in order to troubleshoot issues.    ? Worked in an agile project management methodology.  ? Determine operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions.    ? Develop software solutions by studying information needs; conferring with users; studying systems flow, data usage, and work processes; investigating  problem areas; following the software development lifecycle.    ? Develop, implement, and monitor training programs within an organization.  ? As a team lead I provided direction, instructions and guidance to a group  of individuals to successfully complete the work at hand.  ? Code Reviewing/ Quality Assurance developers work in order to assure  that best practices have been used, and they have abide by AT&T  standards before release.  ? Update and modify SASHA work flows depending on the business  requirements.  ? Write well designed, testable, efficient code by using the best software  development practices.  ? Maintain working code in the repository by using Git in order to be able to manage multiple commitments. Jr. Front End Developer HSBC - Elmhurst, IL 2014 to February 2014 2014  The Customer Onboarding project was intended to update HSBC's existing  banking system in order for other countries to be able to use it as a template for their own development.    ? Determines operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem  definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions.  ? As a team lead I provided direction, instructions and guidance to a group  of individuals to successfully complete the work at hand.  ? Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  ? Developed the UI functionality and look of the banking online system. This  was done by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript/Dojo.  ? Maintain documentation of the current and existing UI work in the project.  This consisted of changes and additions to the code (SharePoint).  ? Merge files of code from SitePen to the existing flow of the project. Education BACHELOR OF ART in ART Saint Xavier University - Chicago, IL 2008 to 2013 Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Html5, Ajax, Css, jquery, Sql, Ftp, Wordpress