Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Janya It Technologies I'm a Versatile and Pro-active Front- end Developer/UI Developer.Innovative, creative and a proven team  player, Having total 3.10 years' experience of designing and developing Responsive web  applications.Designed and Built Websites and Web Applications Meeting Users Expectations and User-  Friendly with uniqueness. Work Experience Front End Developer Janya It Technologies September 2018 to Present Focused on Developing Web Application For a Product Using Foundation Framework From Scratch.    Implementing New UX and UI Changes to Challenge Competitors.  Upgraded systems application for maximum speed.    Managed multiple projects with a team of back- end engineers and QA from planning to website launch.    Built and installed reusable codes and libraries for future reference.    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  Presented web-site mock-ups to clients to give them better visual of the end product and to ensure that all  parameters were met. Front End Application Developer DRIVEGAADI June 2018 to August 2018 Created an Organised Upgraded Angular 6 Application with UI changes Using Bootsrap 4 Node Package  Modules. UI developer FOREY SOFTWARE PVT LTD April 2018 to June 2018 Resolved design issues through root cause analysis and performed data cleanups    Utilized HTML, CSS, Javascript, SASS, Post-CSS, NPM.  Coordinated with team of UX designers to create new Web Content Management system UI developer MANKRAFT TECHNOSOFT SOLUTIONS June 2015 to March 2018 Designs, develops and relaunches responsive websites and e-commerce sites of clients.    Builds codes for Shadowboxes, Slider Carousals, Tickers, Rotating Headers, Validation and JS animations.    Executes full-stack website launches specializing in front- end features, browser manipulation, and cross- browser compatibility.    Oversees creation and maintenance of front- end standard documents    Coordinates with copywriters and graphic artists on integration of images, icons, banners, audio and other  features of the website. Education B.Tech GMR Institute of Technology - Razam, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2008 to 2012 Links https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar Additional Information Proficient in HTML5, CSS 3, Javascript, AJAX  Well versed with modern Javascript libraries - Jquery.  Well Experience in Handling With Frameworks - Bootstrap 3, 4, Foundation 5, 6.  Adept in using Front End frameworks - Angular 2,4,6  Keen understanding of responsive design principles  Experienced in using Functional and Unit Testing methods  Creative problem solver  Possess a knack for teamwork and comfortable working cross functional    Skills    HTML/CSS    Bootstrap,Foundation,  Build a website from scratch, many frameworks are available for  Material UI Frameworks  designers and developers. Frameworks are used to consolidate the  design process of a project.    Javascript  JavaScript (JS) is a lightweight interpreted or just-in-time compiled  programming language with first-class functions. While it is most well-  known as the scripting language for Web pages    JQuery  jQuery is a JavaScript library designed to simplify HTML DOM tree  traversal and manipulation, as well as event handling, CSS animation,  and Ajax    Angular 2, 4, 6.  Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework  led by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals  and corporations.    Ajax Calls, JSON  JSON with Ajax. According to the AJAX model, web applications can  send and retrieve data from a server asynchronously without  interfering with the display and the behavior of the existing page.    Cross-Browser  Cross-browser compatibility is the ability of a website or web  Compatibility  application to function across different browsers and degrade  gracefully when browser features are absent or lacking    Azure Git  private Git repositories and code collaboration in the cloud.  Create Git pull requests and review code with Azure Repos, formerly on  Visual Studio Team    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  RWD  Responsive web design is an approach to web design that makes web  pages render well on a variety of devices and window or screen sizes.    Css Preprocessors  A CSS preprocessor is a program that lets you generate CSS from the  preprocessor's own unique syntax.  Sass.  LESS.    Projects    Project #9 RECRUIT (Vultus)  Role UI Developer  Involvement    An all-around workforce management solution tailor-made for you. Manage your Employee  Database, Time, Benefits, Documents Management, and Expense Management all in one  place. Ensure legal compliance with utmost confidence and ease. Cash Flow - Monitor and  Forecast it like never. We help you make strategic and confident business decisions by giving  you actionable data points, sensible analytics, and centralized financial information.    Responsibilities:    Advanced HTML5, CSS3 For Building responsive Web Page.  Used Foundation Framework for Building this application.  Providing Better UX/UI to Compete with Competitors  Functionality Client-Side Validations by Using JavaScript.  Cross-browser functionalities.  Event-handling, Animations with J Query.  Designing Email Templates  Practical Experience in Maintaining search engine optimization (SEO).  Attending Client Meetings and development by their requirements.  Task Followed by KT which is done every Week based on Components Restructure.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. Azure Dev-ops  Software & Servers  Development Visual Studio 2017  tools  Technologies Azure Dev-ops, HTML5, CSS3, J Query, C#, Asp.net and Bootstrap Framework    Project #8 Connect (Vultus)  Role UI Developer    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  Involvement    An all-around workforce management solution tailor-made for you. Manage your Employee  Database, Time, Benefits, Documents Management, and Expense Management all in one  place. Ensure legal compliance with utmost confidence and ease. Cash Flow - Monitor and  Forecast it like never. We help you make strategic and confident business decisions by giving  you actionable data points, sensible analytics, and centralized financial information.    Responsibilities:    Advanced HTML5, CSS3 For Building responsive Web Page.  Used Foundation Framework for Building this application.  Providing Better UX/UI to Compete with Competitors  Functionality Client-Side Validations by Using JavaScript.  Cross-browser functionalities.  Event-handling, Animations with J Query.  Designing Email Templates  Practical Experience in Maintaining search engine optimization (SEO).  Attending Client Meetings and development by their requirements.  Task Followed by KT which is done every Week based on Components Restructure.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. Azure Dev-ops  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio 2017  tools  Technologies Azure Dev-ops, HTML5, CSS3, J Query, C#, Asp.net and Bootstrap Framework    Project #7 DST-AWD Reengineering  Role UI Developer  Involvement An Internal application for a client Migrating From CPP To Java Platform. It has 9  Components In Which I Used to design and develop front end, It compares Old Database To  newer One and Approves The data through Different Process Types. I Used advanced HTML5,  Bootstrap, CSS3, and J Query AJAX.    Responsibilities:    Advanced HTML5, CSS3 For Building Web Page.  Functionality Client Side Validations by Using JavaScript.  Cross-browser functionalities.  Event-handling, Animations with J Query.  Practical Experience in Maintaining search engine optimization (SEO).  Attending Client Meetings and development by their requirements.  Task Followed by KT which is done every Week based on Components Restructure.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT, Eclipse  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP,HTML5,CSS3,J Query and Bootstrap Framework    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  Project #6 VISHWAM EDU    Role UI Developer  Involvement An Educational application for a client to tell about their educational details  (Viswam Educational Institutions) online. Viswam eduTech is a leading educational website  based in India. Recently they underwent a complete design and functionality change and I  was lucky enough to be a part in it. Used advanced HTML5,Bootstrap and CSS3    Responsibilities:    Advanced HTML5, CSS3 For Building Web Page.  Functionality Client Side Validations by Using JavaScript.  Cross-browser functionalities.  Event-handling, Animations with J Query.  Practical Experience in Maintaining search engine optimization (SEO).  Attending Client Meetings and development By their requirements.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP,HTML5,CSS3 and Bootstrap Framework  Website http://www.vedutech.com    Project #5 AMAZE PREFAB  Role UI Developer  Involvement It is an integrated engineering solutions company, established in 2014 by a team of young & enthusiastic entrepreneurs. They provide end-to- end solutions to various industries in -  Containerized, Prefab, Conventional PEB. They also provide Log home solutions    Responsibilities:    Building and designing Web Pages based on their scope Using HTML5,CSS3.  It is integrated Engineering Solutions So developed Appearance and Functionality  according to it.  Cross-browser functionalities are Maintained to make user accessible in any browser  Developed responsive website with Bootstrap and Media Queries    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP,HTML5,CSS3 and Bootstrap Framework  Website http://amazeprefab.com/    Project #4 Greek Bill  Role UI Developer    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  Involvement GreekBill is a web-based billing and financial management service catering exclusively  to the Greek Community. GreekBill's secure application enables billing,  collecting, budgeting, reporting, online payment options and much more for chapters of all  sizes.    Responsibilities:    Building and designing Web Pages for their Bills and accounting Using HTML5, CSS3.  Simple Pages With Decent Appearance Single Paged  Application With Angular4  Get Calls And Post Calls Done With Angular4  Developed responsive website with Bootstrap and Media Queries.  Inserting Data into tables Through API Calling.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies HTML5,CSS3,Javascript,Angular4  Website http://www.greekbill.com/    Project #3 ETV (Regional TV Channel)  Role: UI Developer  Involvement ETV project is for their Editors, Reporters within the Company. It is about Tasks, User  management, Desk management, Role management, Production, MIS reports and interactive  features of their Activities.    Responsibilities:    Building and designing Web Pages for their INBOUND Staffing Using HTML5,CSS3.  Functionality Using Angular for creating multiple pages  Developed responsive website with Bootstrap and Media Queries.  Inserting Their Employee Data into tables Through API Calling.    Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software &  Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP, HTML5, CSS, Angular2    Project #2 FOCUS FLEXI  Role UI Developer  Involvement FOCUS FLEXI PACK located at Hyderabad is an ISO 9001-2008 certified company engaged in  manufacturing well engineered Automatic Form Fill & Seal Machines commonly known as  Pouch Packing Machine under the brand "FOCUS". This machine are used for packing liquids,  powders, granules and finds wide application in food, chemical, pharmaceutical, agro, Edible  Oil, FMCG etc., industries. Other customized Packaging machines are also manufactured here  Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology    https://www.visualcv.com/bharathkumar/  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software & Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP, HTML5, CSS, Javascript  WebSite http://www.focusflexipack.com/    Project #1 PARKINGPE  Role UI Developer  Involvement Parkingpe is reworking the means to have a tendency to procure parking.Eliminating the  effort of finding parking and parking payments. Parkingpe's effective platform  connects with customers to the parking areas accessible within the town. No Cash, No  Hassle.  Methodology Agile Flow Of methodology  System GIT. XAMP,TOMCAT  Software & Servers  Development Visual Studio  tools  Technologies XAMPP, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, jQuery  WebSite http://www.parkingpe.com/