Content Analyst Content Analyst Austin, TX Result oriented individual with a strong passion for technology and excel at creating and maintaining user-friendly and visually appealing applications in line with client specifications. Possess good knowledge of browser compatibility testing and experience in determining and resolving browser inconsistencies to achieve an improved user-centered experience. Familiar with the best practices of web development and the ability to brainstorm, recommend, and implement new and effective ideas to improve enhance functionality.     KEY COMPETENCIES:  -Self-motivated and always stay abreast of new and relevant trends in the web development and general technology field.   -Proactive and experience in identifying and resolving functional and layout issues to improve website speed and efficiency.   -A clear understanding of responsive web design principles and knowledge of page speed optimization and SEO.   -Working knowledge of the Internet. Proficient knowledge of JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap3, Bootstrap4, Sementic UI, WordPress, jQuery, Node Js, Git, SQL, Express, Angular, JSON, XML, MongoDB, Mongoose, AWS c9, Postman and so on .   -Resourceful and experience in managing web development projects from conception to delivery.   -Thrives in a fast-paced IT environment and possess a clear understanding of -----Windows and MAC Operating System.   -Proficient in Microsoft Office, Google Docs, PhotoShop, AutoCAD, text recognition systems, etc.   -Ability to establish and maintain positive working relationship with a team to meet and exceed project goals.   -Multilingual ability: English, Russian, Ukrainian, and Polish.   -Detail oriented with great communication, multitasking, analytical, strategic planning, organizational, and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Content Analyst BC Forward/Accenture (Google contractor) - Austin, TX December 2017 to Present • Assume responsibility for the implementation of content moderation strategy as well as train machine learning systems to enable them to identify and remove anti-policy content using Microsoft Excel and internal tools and systems.  • Undertake the tasks of monitoring and moderating content manually to ensure compliance with guidelines and ascertain eligible channels and videos for advertising.  • Suggest improvements to the review process and provide insights and trends on all reviewed content.   • Assist with the tracking, analysis, and optimization of content metrics.  • Utilize Microsoft Office, Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides to create and distribute content reports.  • Review contents on a scheduled basis to ensure compliance with updated company policies/guidelines.   • Acquire, convert and load legacy content for online platforms.  • Identify, record, document thoroughly and track bugs Manager, System Administrator The Russian House - Austin, TX August 2016 to July 2017 • Coordinated business activities and implement best business practices to improve productivity level on a daily basis.  • Controlled inventory level to prevent insufficiencies and unnecessary surpluses.  • Provide technical support for both hardware and software issues our users encounter  • Performing system upgrades following new releases;  • Led marketing and promotional efforts to increase awareness for the business by reaching a larger audience.  • Administrate infrastructure, including firewalls, databases, malware protection software and other processes   • Identified and capitalized on various business opportunities to achieve growth and profitability objectives.   • Maintained a friendly, courteous and professional relationship with customers and ensure their maximum satisfaction.  • Identified areas for improvements in the business process and implement vital changes to achieve operational excellence.   • Recruited new personnel to meet the staffing needs of the business.  • Trained new and existing employees to improve their competence level.   • Attended to all customer inquiries and provided timely resolution to all complaints.  • Monitored compliance with licensing, hygiene and health and safety legislation/guidelines.  • Planned and managed the budget efficiently and resolved complex business issues to improve business performance.  • Set targets as well as identified and implemented effective strategies for meeting and exceeding targets.  Front End Developer StartWeb - Rivne, Ukraine November 2013 to April 2015 • Scheduled and organized meetings with clients to identify and understand their requirements.  • Translated design mockups and wireframes into efficient or high-performing code.  • Identified and removed errors or abnormalities in codes to improve program functionality.  • Create Dynamic Websites that were user-friendly, effective, and appealing for the front end as well as fluent in the back end  • Maintained a strong eye for details and built responsive websites that align with the requirements of clients.  • Performed usability testing of client websites to identify ensure compliance with user experience standards.  • Create graphics including icons and logos using Fireworks and Photoshop  • Provided efficient, cost-effective web hosting to exceed client's technical needs  • Design and create optimized landing pages in HTML5, CSS3 via BootStrap3,4 and Semantic UI to support company' s marketing and promotional needs which includes SalesForce integration and cross-browser compatibility  • Evaluated website structures and old codes for improvement.  • Created custom HTML emails for clients/in-house newsletters and invitations for distribution. Education Bachelor's in Urban Planning National University of Water Management and Natural Resources Use - Rivne September 2012 to September 2016 Skills Windows, MAC, Microsoft Office, Office 365,Google Docs, PhotoShop, AutoCAD, ArchiCad, 3DMax, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap3, Bootstrap4, Sementic UI, WordPress, jQuery, Angular, JSON, XML, Node Js, Git, Express, MySQL, MongoDB, Mongoose, AWS C9, Postman and so on. (5 years) Links https://www.pz-dev.com Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics for Beginners Present Udemy - The Web Developer Bootcamp Present Rivne Computer Science School "Step" - Web Development Present Driver's License