Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - MedShorts LLC Winter Park, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer MedShorts LLC - Altamonte Springs, FL June 2018 to Present Developing Fully Functional RESTful services in Python and Flask  ? Converting Raw SQL queries to SQLAlchemy queries.  ? Experienced in object-oriented programming; developing, testing and debugging code.  ? Develops monitoring and automation tools for system health and deployment.  ? Monitor, measure, and report metrics based on the results of all tests. Graduate Teaching Assistant University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL January 2017 to December 2018 ? Conducted Doubt Sessions for the Object Oriented Programming, Internet Applications and resolved student queries.  ? Taught Oops Concepts using interactive projects and also assessed the course assignments. Front End Intern MedShorts LLC - Altamonte Springs, FL July 2017 ? Design SPAs using AngularJS concepts of Directives, Services, and two-way data binding.  ? Use Bootstrap and Shared CSS Media Queries to develop a single responsive application.  ? Perform triage, troubleshooting and analysis of issues and failures reported by team members to determine if the issue is a defect, enhancement, or user-error. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science University Institute of Technology August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Git, Hadoop, Javascript, Bootstrap, Python, Flask, Mysql, Angularjs, Hadoop, Java, jquery, Selenium, CSS, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sangeetasati http://github.com/Sangeetasati Additional Information SKILLS  Technologies: Python, Java, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AWS Services.  Frameworks/Libraries: Flask, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Hadoop.  Tools: Selenium, Git, Vagrant, Postman, Ansible, SourceTree, PyCharm, Photoshop.  Operating Systems: Mac, Ubuntu, Windows.