Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end developer Albany, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Logic Technology Inc - Schenectady, NY October 2018 to Present •  Designed the story board and concept for GE Global Research Center’s Software Digital  Thread For Design(DT4D) User Interface.   • Directly worked with clients for approval and design theme of DT4D UI   • Built user experience and user interface for front end of DT4D software using React.JS  • Use Fetch in React.JS to pull from data API’s and async end points  • Work with various React.JS templates and widgets to create various widgets for front end  • Built DT4D to be responsive for desktop and mobile devices  • Work closely with Back End team for pulling APIs and end points  • Quality assurance testing of user interface to ensure the entire user interface was working  correctly  • Run Python tests with team for testing back end and front end usability Graphic Design/ Web Development team OOMDO LLC - Albany, NY June 2016 to Present Graphic Design: Create website graphics from banners, to widgets, and over lays, as well has email campaigns. Also design social media posts/advertisements, and google ads. I also create print ads, from full page pieces to quarter pages for magazines and newspapers. All while keeping within brand specific compliance restraints.  Web Development: Help upload website graphics to clients websites and uploading landing pages. Front End Web Developer/Designer Oomdo - Albany, NY April 2016 to Present I maintain and implement graphics and landing pages for our clients. Front end website build outs from start of project to completion. Experience with html, css, and medium level of JavaScript are jquery and bootstrap. Graphic Designer San Truth Threads April 2014 to May 2014 April 2014 - Graphic T-shirts: Meet with owner created concepts for t-shirt designs,  created sketches, executed digital, designs approved by owner.  Adjust designs for manufacture to be set for print. Lead Graphic Designer Lo Key T Company August 2011 to July 2012 August 2011 - July 2012  Graphic T-shirts: Meet with owner created concepts for t-shirt designs,  created sketches, executed digital designs, approved by owner.  Posters and Advertising: Owner gave requirements, copy, and images,  layout created and approved buy owner.  website: www.locket.co Freelance Daigle Cleaning Systems Inc December 2011 to January 2012 Logo: Meet with owner, created sketches, chose sketches,  created digital drafts, approved logo, chose colors, approved colors.  Business Card: Created digital sketches, approved card,  made copy layout, put copy into layout.    Founder of Triple Sin Clothing  Owner: Created name, created sketches for logo,  created digital logos, chose one logo.  Graphic T-shirts: Created concepts, drew sketches,  created digital rough drafts, chose final drafts.  Setup Prints: Meet with printer, made designs print ready,  emailed to printer. Education Bachelor's in Graphic Design Sage College of Albany - Albany, NY September 2008 to April 2012 Skills HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, React.JS, Graphic Design, Photoshop, Illustrator. (3 years), Graphic Design, Photoshop, Adobe, Javascript, UI, Front End, React, Front-End, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, CSS3, Bootstrap Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/duswnozjny3dwb4l Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Computer Skills  Skills in Photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, React.js