E-Commerce Specialist - Part Time E-Commerce Specialist - Part Time Los Angeles, CA Motivated, quick learning, energetic person with ambition to work and learn from the best in    field.Person with great interest in IT world with bright vision in future and motivated to cover    different targets.To work for a growing up company that will provide me with the possibility of growing within it and will allow the development my abilities and skills in favor of the company’s mission and my environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience E-Commerce Specialist - Part Time Cloph LLC - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 to Present • Administers E-Commerce website and online marketing initiatives.  • Manages and monitors online content and marketing promotions.  • Proactively identifies sales trends and creates forecast based on customer, vendor and industry research.  • Acts project manager and coordinator.  • Creates and updates listings in Amazon and Ebay marketplaces.  • Keeps track of inventory and ordering stock from current vendors.  • Manages follow up customer emails and providers customer service. Front- End Developer - Internship Adler & Associates Entertainment INC - West Hollywood, CA February 2019 to April 2019 • Collaborated with senior-level developers to develop projects for website throughout various phases of project life cycle  • Maintain websites, including content updates,account administration, debugging, feature enhancements and documentation, testing and regular upgrades to ensure web security and system usability  • Analyze design requirements and recommended technical solutions.  • Create custom Logo  • Convert PSD to HTML/CSS.  • DOM manipulations  • Present and communicate project ideas to the creative teams  • Deliver on-time, high-quality and error free work that gets results. Front End Developer - Internship Proxiad Bulgaria - Remote November 2018 to February 2019 • Collaborated with senior-level developers to develop projects for website throughout various phases of project life-cycle.  • Maintain websites, including content updates, account administration,  debugging, feature enhancements and documentation, testing   upgrades to ensure web security and system usability.  • Analyze design requirements and recommended technical solutions.  • Integrate, code, technology, art ,and copy and ensure brand standards are upheld.  • Convert PSD to HTML/CSS.  • Present and communicate project ideas to the creative teams.  Present and communicate project ideas to the creative teams.  • Deliver on-time, high-quality and error free work that gets results. Education Associate in Front- End Developer Telerik Academy - Bulgaria October 2017 to November 2018 Master's in Financial Control and External Audit D.A. Tsenov Academy of Economy September 2011 to July 2012 Bachelor's in Public Administration University of National and World Economy September 2007 to June 2011 Skills HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), SASS (1 year), Javascript (1 year), JQuery (1 year), Responsive Web Design (1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Wordpress (1 year), Adobe Photoshop (1 year), React.js (Less than 1 year), UI Links https://github.com/tonyo88/portfolio https://www.linkedin.com/in/tonyo-vanov-850657148/ Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Exam 480: Programming in HTML with JavaScript and CSS3 July 2019 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/50bed4f8-3ced-4969-ba18-baef88cc05d3/public_url    Microsoft Certification ID: 17595988  • HTML5;  • CSS3;  • JavaScript;  • jQuery;  • Data Security;  • Data Validation;  • Web Developer;  • Web Application;  • Application developer;  • Object-based Programming;  • Visual Studio; Front End Developer Telerik Academy Bulgaria(Europe) October 2018 to Present https://www.telerikacademy.com/  Proficient in:  • HTML5;  • CSS3;  • SASS;  • JavaScript;  • jQuery;  • Responsive Wed Design;  • AJAX & JSON;  • UI/UX Design;  • WordPress;  • Bootstrap;  • Adobe Photoshop;