Sr. UI/Angular developer Sr. UI/Angular <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI/Angular developer - United Health Group Eden Prairie, MN Work Experience Sr. UI/Angular developer United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented an application from scratch using Angular 5, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript and Bootstrap.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation within the forms.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 5, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular 5 framework.  • Research existing web applications and customers, then analyze and create efficient UX solutions for Web Application.    • Used the concept of promises to improve the RESTful APIs functionality.  • Maintained and developed responsive web properties and content channels using CSS, JavaScript and HTML. The main goal was to create solutions that are device-agnostic which will allow page display to function perfectly on every resolution spectrum.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 5.  • Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  • Developed custom NodeJS proxy used to send requests to client's API's, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Many jQuery libraries were used to implement the functionality.  • Done unit tests in TDD format using Angular 5 testing library.  • Involved in building single page web application using Angular 2/ 6 javascript framework.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular 2/ 6 framework along with HTML 5, CSS3,Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node js, NPM.  • Extensively used JavaScript and jQuery for functionality.  • Developed and utilized UI reusable components through Angular 5.  • Used pre-processor LESS to generate and manage CSS.  • Work in Scrum Agile using Gitlab, developed and adjusted user stories appropriately.  • Experience in assessments workflow in design patterns in cross browser functionality.  • Apache Cordova extends the features of HTML and JavaScript to work with the device.  • Developed Mobile web application using native JavaScript and Angular JS by using existing hybrid Mobile application code base.  • Debug the application using Chrome Developer tools to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Designed and developed Mobile Applications using JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS.  • Implemented styling Presentation layer using Bootstrap, Angular JS and HTML5.  • Developed cross-browser compatible website using MySQL and jQuery.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created the test cases using Karma, Jasmin as the platform for testing the application on Phone-gap and the desktop version of the application.  • Developed all the UI pages using, HTML, DOM, JSON, and AJAX.  • Created the test cases using Karma, Jasmin.    Environment: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular5/ 6, Typescript, Jasmine, Bootstrap, ChromeDeveloper Tools NodeJS, AJAX, Atom, GIT. Sr. UI/Angular Developer CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ August 2014 to October 2015 Description: CVS Health Plan is an independent public agency created by the state to provide health coverage to low-income County residents. The Project is PASC-SEIU Plan it is also known as Homecare Workers Health Care Plan. This plan is tailored for Homecare workers. To find out qualify and to check out the benefits offered, including how to find a doctor or pharmacy.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with engineers and product managers to create user stories and scenarios used for intuitive websites and mobile designs.  • Implemented Angular2/4 Services for connectivity between web application and back end API's.  • Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4 with Typescript.  • Used rxjs catch library and catch functions to handle error handling in angular2 application.  • Used TSLint tool that checks TypeScript code for readability, maintainability and functional errors.  • Used SASS, SCSS for code minification.  • Perl scripting with Linux based web hosting environment.  • Used task runner to minify CSS files, Concatenate JS files by using Grunt and Gulp to improve developing efficiency.  • Used Webpack to bundle TypeScript and JavaScript modules.  • Used Scaffolding tools like Yeoman to create skeleton of web application.  • Used package mangers like Bower and NPM.  • Used a full complement of Express, Angular, NodeJS and MongoDB to store and present assessments.  • Used Mongoose for NodeJS which makes easy to access the database from Express application  • Managed source control and version control using GIT.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and Acceptance testing.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Implemented end to end test with Protractor.  • Experience in Designing and build components, templates, dialogs, Tagging, User creation, Custom widgets and workflows using the Adobe Day CQ5/ Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  • Involved in deploying applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx and Git.  • Experienced in using JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management purpose.  • Experienced in Agile Software methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 2/4, NodeJS, ExpressJS, MongoDB, REST API's, Webpack, Yeoman, Babel, npm, Bower, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Grunt, JIRA, GIT, AWS, Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx, AEM/CQ5 and Visual Studio Front End/Angular Developer Morgan Stanley - Chicago, IL January 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities  • Developed a web application by using Angular4 as front- end by using Web API to receive and pass data to back- end.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and for project setup with scaffolding features.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Built Angular 4/2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular 4/2 component router for navigation, Angular 4/2 services to connect the web application to back- end APIs made use of ES6 features.  • Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  • Implemented Angular, Bootstrap, LESS, and many JQuery plugins wrapped in Angular directives.  • Used Nodejs for adding dependencies to project.  • Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using CSS and Angular.  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involve In daily stand up meetings.  • Configured typescript application through tsconfig file for various purposes like transpiling, debugging, tracing, generating separate folder for distributable etc.  • Used Filters to change modify data.  • Committed code change into repository by using version control tool Git.  • Implement Services to store shared data between sibling Components and inject in to it for passing data purpose.  • Transfer data between parent and child Components by using @Input and @Output.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to import and applications.  • Worked with task runners like Gulp in deploying and testing the application.  • Knowledge in creating Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.    Environment: Javascript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.JS, Ajax, DHTML, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, PL\SQL, Oracle, DB2, MongoDB, NOSQL, SOAP, REST, Eclipse, JBoss, CVS, SVN, Selenium, Waterfall, AWS, JSON, XML, JIRA, Linux, Hipchat Front- end Developer JP MORGAN Chase - Columbus, OH June 2011 to January 2012 JP Morgan and Chase is a multinational banking and financial services company. The chase brand is used for credit services in the United states and Canada. It is used by the investment banking, asset management, private banking and treasury divisions. UI Developer Digital Mojo - San Diego, CA March 2010 to May 2011 • DigitalMojo is the smart alliance of performance-driven marketing and proprietary technology. Operating with an entrepreneurial spirit, the company partners with Fortune 500 brands to boost awareness, increase lifetime-value customers and achieve maximized sales results.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C Standards.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS (2), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality.    Environment: HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, SOAP Web services Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology Skills C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, IONIC Additional Information Skills    Web Technology HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, TypeScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2.0,Angular 5/6  Ionic, JSON, PHP, Bootstrap, Backbone.JS, ReactJS, Redux, Agility.JS, Knockout, ExtJS.    Web/App Servers Weblogic Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Node.JS, jBoss, Jenkins.  IDE & Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Brackets, Dreamweaver.    Version Control GitHub, SVN (tortoise SVN), Perforce, Bitbucket.  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Safari Web Developer,  Batarang.  Java Frameworks JSP, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, UDDI, Hibernate, Design Patterns, EJB, Swing, Servlets,  Web Services, Struts, Spring, MVC, ATG, Junit, Easy Mock, AJAX.  Other Tools/Libraries JUnit, Microsoft Office 2010, Bower, Grunt, GULP.JS, Karma, Jasmine, C++/C.    Database PL/SQL(oracle), MongoDB, MySQL, MSSQL, Shell-scripting.