Freelance Marketing & SEO Consultant & Web Development Freelance Marketing &amp; SEO Consultant &amp; Web Development Escondido, CA To become an integral part of a growing business development team.    Certifications & Experience  ? SEO / SEM ? Google Analytics  ? Graphic Designer ? Adobe Suite  ? Video Production ? Wordpress  ? CCNA ? Hootsuite  ? Brand Identity Developer ? HTML5, PHP, CSS Work Experience Freelance Marketing & SEO Consultant & Web Development 2012 to Present MARKETING & SEO CONSULTANT. Providing full service marketing insight to established corporate identities, start-up companies and small businesses. Services include:  Initial business concept and design, Staff Training, Implementation of SEO and SEM  Campaigns utilizing White Hat SEO techniques, Social Media strategies, Email Marketing  strategies, Lead Generation and Advertising source tracking, among others.  WEB DEVELOPMENT. Web Site development from scratch as well as re-designs, database  building, reporting and ranking optimization. FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER Jingoli Power and Associates 2016 to 2018 My responsibilities entailed Web Design, Video  Production and using MS Sharepoint to build the User Interface for a suite of applications  including personnel timesheets, shipping, receiving and inventory management among others. MARKETING DIRECTOR The MIAMI Institute for Age Management & Intervention - Miami, FL 2014 to 2016 This is a multi-facet cosmetic medical facility located inside of the Four Seasons Hotel & Tower in Brickell. Managing the marketing for a company of this  magnitude required me to implement short-term and long-range marketing strategies based on analyzation and interpretation of market forecasts and reporting of acquired market data.  This lead to a record-high increase in qualified leads over 11 months. Responsibilities  included: Staffing and implementing directives to my team of copywriters, designers, programmers and developers; Managing the marketing budget; Organizing  Internal-marketing training sessions, cross department sales and incentive programs;  Creating B2B marketing programs as well as organizing luxurious social events; Website  maintenance, application development, and graphic design skills. SALES MANAGER Real Wasabi, LLC - Hilton Head Island, SC 2009 to 2015 With a main focus in operating trade shows, working with this  developing organic food company involved: Surpassing sales goals; Properly training, leading  and staffing; Managing organizational resources. Consistently increasing profits by a minimum of 8% each quarter with an unprecedented 30% increase in profits at the end of the  3rd quarter. Links https://elliott.pb.design Additional Information Skills  ? Highly adaptable to change in programs and schedule requirements  ? Exceptional attention to detail  ? Able to handle monetary transactions with a high level of accountability and  accuracy.