CONSULTANT/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER CONSULTANT/ <span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Web Designer Hyattsville, MD Work Experience CONSULTANT/ FRONT- END DEVELOPER Deloitte Consulting - Rosslyn, VA May 2016 to June 2019 • Develop custom portals for each client division using Oracle Web center and HTML  • Designed custom wireframes and templates for optimized usability and user experience  • Consulted with division members and leaders about portal requirements  • Preformed UAT testing for various division portals INTERACTIVE DESIGNER Boat U.S - Alexandria, VA July 2015 to May 2016 • Translated functional requirements and wireframes into visual designs  • Designed layout and templates for optimized usability and focus on user  • Work with development team to apply style and user interface design to web applications  • Keep abreast of emerging trends and their practical implementation.  • Work collaboratively with other members of the team in developing online offerings.  • Collected and analyzed research data of assigned projects, compiled findings and prepared reports to help inform UX strategies. USER EXPERIENCE (UX) DESIGNER Dante, Incorporated - Alexandria, VA July 2014 to March 2015 • Collaborated closely with customers and key stakeholders on product planning execution to determine project requirements and specifications of front- end user interface for client web sites.  • Effectively communicated with managers, collaborators, and clients by conducting remote and in-person interviews and meetings to share information and keep all stakeholders actively engage with project progress.  • Created unique, customer-focused wireframes and multiple visual design concepts models to produce clickable mock-ups and finished products for the overall skeletal framework on multiple projects.  • Served as User Advocate and coordinated the development phases and processes of multiple UX projects.  • Conducted early-stage designs to test usability and accessibility functions.  • Provided clients with user-centered perspective for creation of unique products to optimize the user experience.  • Collected and analyzed research data of assigned projects, compiled findings and prepared reports to help inform UX strategies.  • Prepared/contributed significantly to many intuitive, inspiring, and informative client presentations  • Utilized Dante's Allegory and Salesforce platform software to develop many design campaigns, demonstrate company products, and prepare layouts of several wireframe alternatives for client consideration.  • Spearheaded major initiative to redesign the front- end of the Dante Inc., website, enhancing user interface, internally and externally, while navigating existing content on the Dante site. Added new concepts and completely coded a new storefront to the Dante web site. As a result, was recognized by management for significant contributions to Dante's website that improved aesthetics, navigation, usability, accessibility, functionality, and impact. Following upload of modifications, percentage of monthly hits on the Dante website increased by over 95%. PROGRAM/VISUAL DESIGN COORDINATOR Montgomery County Medical Society - Rockville, MD October 2013 to May 2014 • Conducted full-scale event planning coordination of over 60 medical association events, both small and large operations that involved planning, management, and day-of execution activities. Conducted research to identify/validate target audience, develop/execute logistical plan, and implemented robust communications plan to ensure full participant and attendance.  • Designed and prepared supporting materials for each event using Adobe Creative Suite to include correspondence, handouts, procedural guidance, evaluations, and reports as required.  • Utilized collaborative tools such as email, instant messaging, announcements, surveys, discussion forums, wiki pages, and dashboards to manage and execute event coordination plan.  • Perform myriad number of administrative functions to support MCMS Senior Director and smooth business operations to include: management of event schedules, coordination of staff workload, conduct research on items of interest to the professional association, and arrange facility tours. Served as primary point of contact for all MCMS activities GRAPHIC DESIGNER Norfolk State University Public Broadcasting Station - Norfolk, VA March 2010 to May 2012 WNSB is a student-operated radio station on the campus of Norfolk State University, Norfolk, VA and licensed by the Federal Communication Commission. WNDB provides hands-on experience to students while serving the University and local community.    • Lead Graphic Designer responsible for oversight, management, and maintenance of radio website and managed customer service center  • Designed radio station logo  • Organized site map and wire framing for radio website.  • Designed and implemented assets for in use web sites, online advertising, and social media platforms within existing design standards using Adobe Creative Suite  • Completed projects by coordinating with outside agencies, art services, printers, etc.  • Managed customer service  • Maintained calendar and scheduled on air interviews.    FREELANCE GRAPHIC DESIGNER AND WEB DESIGNER  Bowie, MD  Mar 2010 - May 2014    • Produced identity and branding packages.  • Provided and organized web design layouts to clients to include wire frames, site maps and drafts.  • Designed and hand coded HTML/ CSS web sites using Javascript, Jquery, search engine optimization and content management systems (Wordpress).  • Processed all customer service requests in a timely manner and served as primary liaison to all other university departments. Education Web Design Certificate Boston University Center for Digital Imaging Arts - Washington, DC June 2013 BFA in Graphic Design Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA May 2012 Skills Information architect, Prototyping, Interaction design, Product design, Usability testing, User research, Wordpress, Illustrator, Usability, Javascript, Oracle, Css, Dreamweaver, jquery, Html5, Adobe illustrator, After effects, Adobe after effects, Indesign, Adobe indesign, Front End, UI, CSS3 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    PRODUCT DESIGN SOFTWARE LANGUAGES  Interaction Design Adobe Photoshop HTML5  Rapid Prototyping Adobe Illustrator Javascript  Visual Designs Adobe After Effects JQuery  User Research Adobe InDesign XHTML  Information Architect Adobe Dreamweaver CSS  Usability Testing Text Editor  Omnigraffle  WordPress  Oracle