Web Designer/ Developer Web Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer West Jordan, UT Highly competent and deadline driven web designer with 7  years experience in various positions and environments ranging  from Freelance work, Independent Government contractor,  Small Business and Non Profit. My expertise is in customer  relations, branding, identity and marketing with the use of the  Adobe Creative Suite. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer Loveland Living Planet Aquarium - Draper, UT July 2015 to June 2019 • Charged with creative direction to establish and  strengthen brand recognition as an industry bench  mark.  • Developed marketing products in the form of print and  interactive media to promote customer foot trac  through the door.  • Updated and redesigned the website consistently to  match new trends and keep the user engaged. Front End Web Developer Osha.gov - Sandy, UT February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Updated templates and added content to the OSHA.gov Website  Received Emails from customers and other OSHA staff updating daily content and working with them on adding content to their specifications  Evaluated other web content editors webpages making sure it was OSHA compliant before publishing it on the server  Worked with staff and other members of my team coming up with ideas and utilizing tools to make web development faster and more efficient    Accomplishments  Letting the other web developers know about new software that could potentially help our team become more proficient    Skills Used  Html, Java, Css and Layout Design. Using Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Photoshop and excel. Image Editor Backcountry.com - Salt Lake City, UT October 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities  Photoshopped vendor and model images to go on the website using our requirements for pictures    Accomplishments  I edited the most images out of anyone on my team.     Skills Used  Adobe Photoshop and a keen eye for details utilizing all tools to make sure the pictures were of high quality and framed correctly to the companies standards. Education Bachelor of Science in Web Design and Interactive Media The Art Institute of Salt Lake City - Draper, UT August 2009 to September 2015 Skills MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, Adobe Creative Suite, UX Design, Wordpress, Joomla Additional Information :  • Audio and Video editing for site content and personal podcasts.  • The ability to make E-learning courses and other interactive educational material.  • Some SEO and Marketing knowledge  • Ability to make Animated Gifs, Lyric Videos and other animations using Photoshop CS6