Front End Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Front End Engineer ? Over 8.5 years of experience.  ? C# / Visual Basic .Net Developer.  ? SQL Server Developer & Analyst.  ? Web Developer (ASP MVC 5 C#, PHP5/MySQL, NodeJS, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Query, Ajax, AngularJS and React).  ? 4D Developer and Database Designer.  ? Good knowledge in database structure, optimization and management (Backup, Restoration, Indexing, Roles, Login).  ? Extensive experience in Different RDBMS technologies (Access, SQL Server, 4D, MySQL).  ? Advanced T-SQL programming (Queries, Cursors, Transactions, Views, Functions, Stored Procedure, Triggers and Performance Improvement).  ? Technical Support (MS Office Products, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, Printers, VPN, Local Networks, Antivirus, Programs install and upgrades).  ? Self-motivated, hard-working, professional team player with strong problem-solving skills.  ? Ability to learn quickly and adapt to a new environment.  ? I have a full understanding of a software development life cycle. Work Experience Front End Engineer Robert Half Technology - Raleigh, NC May 2019 to August 2019 I have developed a proof of concept that covers all the major features of the application and had it packaged to work on MS Surface Pro / Windows 10. Using React, Bootstrap, Electron JS and NodeJS.    Responsibilities:  ? Design, development of UI using React and Bootstrap 4.  ? Building the Web Application on top of Electron and Deployment for win 10 - Microsoft Surface Pro.  ? Development of reusable components using React.  ? Development of modules to access MS Surface device-specific hardware and software.  ? Collaboration with other team members to understand the needs and business logic  ? Work alongside the UX Designer to design good UI.    Environment: Windows 10  Programming Languages and Frameworks: NodeJS, Electron JS, React, .Net Core  Web Technologies and Languages: HTML/ CSS, JavaScript ES6, jQuery, Ajax, Twitter Bootstrap, React, ASP MVC5(C#)  Tools, MS Azure, GIT, VSCode, Visual Studio Full-stack Web Developer - Consultant KOURTIM September 2018 to April 2019 Project: Development of Kourtim.com, a digital platform for the planning and real time management of transport flows.  Programming Languages:  Web Technologies and Languages: 4D Database, HTML/ CSS, JavaScript, Twitter Bootstrap, Angular 5. Ionic 3 for the Mobile App. .Net Software Developer / .Net Web Developer Sitelink - Raleigh, NC March 2014 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Design, development, debugging, maintenance of software components using .Net Technologies.  ? Design, development of web applications.  ? UI development using HTML/CSS (Bootstrap) and AngularJS.  ? Design and development of new reports as well as improvement of the existing ones using VB.NET/ Crystal Report.  ? Development, performance and security improvement of Data Layers.  ? Interact with customers, internal testing and Technical Support to improve the product.    Environment: Windows 10/8/7/XP/VISTA, Windows server 2008 and 2012, Programming Languages: VB.NET, C# and T-SQL  Web Technologies and Languages: HTML/ CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Twitter Bootstrap, AngularJS, ASP MVC5(C#)  Tools: Visual Studio 2008/2013/2015, MS Team foundation Server 2013/15, MS SQL Server Management Studio, IIS6/7.    Project: Design and development of a Phone Integration Feature using TCP/IP .NET Sockets  Objective: add a feature to track calls and measure marketing campaigns to our existing product.  Solution:  ? Added a functionality to our existing API in order to communicate with the Client Application as well as Functions to interface with industry-typical number tracking providers.  ? Created a new report that provides a Campaigns Summary and Call Tracking Log.  ? Provided support and troubleshooting to our VoIP partners.    Project: Data Layer Improvement  Objective: Improve the Security and performance of our Data Layer.  Tasks:  ? Convert all the static queries in the program to dynamic SQL Stored Procedures.  ? Optimizing and performance improvement of the existing SQL stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Improving the way, we are passing parameters in the program.  ? Data Access Layer Security Improvement.  Project: Reporting (Crystal Report, VB.net / SQL Server):  ? Designing and maintaining reports, mostly financial reports  ? Created complex reports that calls third party APIs and gather data from multiple sources.    Project: Converting our existing Windows Application (VB.net / SQL Server) to a Web Application (ASP MVC 5/ C# and AngularJs)  Tasks:  ? Analyzing and Migration of the existing Business Logic (VB.net) to our new Web Application.  ? Development of new Web Services and Business Models.  ? UI Migration using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and ASP.NET Razor / Views  ? Working on Front End Architecture and Development of Generic Reusable functions to handle out front end Business logic.  ? Working on Data Binding Using AngularJS 1.5 (Modules, Services, Factories, Directives and Dom Manipulation)  ? Development of Shareable and Reusable UI Components using Custom Angular Directives. Technician Support USmibn Inc - Cary, NC June 2013 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Provides PC hardware, software and Network technical support (printer issues, hardware and software install and maintenance)  ? Installation and configuration of the new Computers and devices.  ? Server backup and management.  ? Company Website update and Development.    Environment: Windows 8/7/XP/VISTA, Windows server 2008 and 2012, Tools: Ghost & Acronis, AllWay sync, Kaseya, VNC & Terminal access, Auto-task, Active Directory. Web Developer Euro ERP - Paris, FR January 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Web based application development.  ? Development of Business desktop application.  ? Database Design, development and management.  ? Project coordinator.  ? Testing.    Environment: Windows 7, Windows server 2008.  Tools: 4D v11, v12 and v13, Team Speaker, Thunderbird, Filezilla, Notepad++, Twitter Bootstrap library.    Project: Customized CRM & ERP projects.  The project was a Browser based CRM & ERP Application. that enabled the Company to organize, automate, and synchronize sales, marketing, customer service, also it gives the company a big vision of its core business processes such as production, order processing, and inventory management, including Custom Models for every different company upon request  The majority of these projects were for French and Belgian companies.    Responsibilities:  ? Database Structure Design.  ? Development of Specific CRM Models.  ? Web interface design.  ? PHP & JavaScript developer (JQuery, Ajax, Bootstarp.js)  ? Project Coordinator.  ? Crossed tests.    Project: 4D Web Framework.  The project was 4D web framework. It is a complete library of Functions and Methods that allowed the programmers to create web applications based on 4D programming language, 4D database and JavaScript in an easy way.  Responsibilities:  ? Creating of generic functions & methods using 4D.  ? Development of PHP, JavaScript /JQuery functions.  ? Web Layout design.  ? Testing. Security Systems installer DIGITECH Electronic March 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Alarm System installer and cabling.  ? Fire detector cabling and Configuration.  ? TV distribution.  ? Surveillance Camera installation and configuration.    Project: Installation of ESSERBUS plus fire detector system in Hotel Palace of Roses Agadir/Morocco.  The project was a fire detector system installation and configuration system in Hotel Palace of Roses in Agadir, Morocco. Over than 550 detectors.  Responsibilities:  ? Cabling and testing.  ? Configuration. .Net Developer LuxCompta, Agadir. Morocco August 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Development of Business desktop applications Using VB .Net.  ? SQL Server database design, development and management.  ? Testing.    Environment: Windows 7/XP.  Tools: SQL Server 2005/2008, Visual Studio 2005/2008, Crystal Report    Project: Desktop management application.  The project was a Complete Management Software for the National Office of Electricity and Drinking water (ONEP/ Morocco), that offers Billings, Contracts and Customers Management and various Reports.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the design and development of the database.  ? Creating SQL Server Views, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers.  ? Creating User Interfaces and implementing the Business Logic.  ? Development of a Data Access Layer Using of ADO .NET  ? Creating Reports using Crystal Report. PC Technician SYNAPSES, Agadir - MA July 2009 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Install, troubleshoot and optimize user desktops and laptops.  ? Local network installation and troubleshooting.  ? Hardware issue troubleshooting and part replacement.  ? Printers Install and troubleshoot.    Environment: Windows 7/XP, VISTA. Education Associate degree in private law in private law University of Legal Sciences, Economic and Social IBNOU ZOHR University July 2011 Bachelor Degree in Computer Science in development The French School for Technical Training July 2010 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, PHP, CODEIGNITER, VB.NET, ANGULARJS, HTML5, MVC, SOAP, AJAX, ASP, DREAMWEAVER, IIS, INTRANET Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming C#, VB.Net, Basic C++, basic level in JAVA, T-SQL, 4D.  Web Technologies  ASP.NET MVC 5/ C#, JavaScript, AngularJS, React, NodeJS, jQuery, Ajax, Json, Rest API, Soap API HTML5, CSS3 Twitter Bootstrap, PHP, ElectronJS, CodeIgniter WordPress, Open Card, Prestashop, Responsive design. FTP    Database Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008R2/2012/2014, MySQL, 4D, Access. UML, Merise  Tools  Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010/2013,2015, Microsoft Team foundation Server 2013/15, GIT, SQL Management Studio IIS, SQL Profiler, SQL Execution Plan, Dev C++, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Wamp server, PhpMyAdmin, FileZilla, BIDS, VMware player, 4D v11, v12 and v13, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Outlook), Photoshop    Networks Internet/Intranet, LAN/WAN, VPN, TCP/IP, and FTP.