Consultant Consultant Graphic Designer/ Developer Elk Grove, CA Visual Designer and Developer with 15 years of experience creating solutions for digital and print production with a proven ability to manage multiple projects, teams, and clients to deliver projects on brand and on time. Work Experience Consultant Flightworks Design Studio - Sacramento, CA 2018 to Present As a freelance consultant, I have had to be a project manager, designer, developer, and marketing coordinator to help clients succeed. I have extensive experience working with local businesses, design studios, and Fortune 500 companies.    Web Design/Development  • Design wireframes and full mockups using Adobe XD, Photoshop, and Illustrator  • Develop using Frameworks such as Foundation and Bootstrap  • Develop on CMS platforms like Wordpress, and Joomla  • Maintain client websites including content updates, SEO, and security updates.    UI/UX  • Wireframes  • Sitemaps  • Mobile App Design    Videography  • Business Promos  • Social Media Campaigns  • Documentaries Principal Designer Mystery Machine Creative - Sacramento, CA 2016 to 2018 In my time with Mystery Machine Creative I was responsible for design and development of web and print solutions for clients. I was also the director of photography and videography.    • Front- end Wordpress Development  • Web design  • Print design  • Branding and collateral  • Photography  • Videography Lead Graphic Designer Sacramento Metro Chamber of Commerce - Sacramento, CA 2009 to 2010 My responsibility at Sacramento Metro Chamber of Commerce was to create all of the marketing materials for their events. This included updating previous years event materials for 2010, creating fresh takes on various projects, and designing new pieces from start to finish.  • Posters and signage  • Email Blasts  • Flyers and Brochures  • Stationary  • Ad's Web Designer/ Front- End Developer BlueMango Creative Group - Sacramento, CA 2006 to 2009 I helped build online solutions for clients such as Intel, McAfee, Numonyx, Cisco  Systems and other industry leading clients. My role as a production artist included  Flash, HTML, Video production and User Interface development.  • Flash animation production  • Content management  • HTML and Flash website production  • UI Design Production Artist Aaronmatthew Interactive - Sacramento, CA 2005 to 2006 My time with Aaronmatthew Interactive allowed me to produce Web projects for industry leading clients such as the LAPD, ABSOLUT, AOL, Yamaha and others. With Aaronmatthew Interactive I was key in producing Flash based animations and  maintaining client websites.  • Flash animation production including Swift 3D, Swish, and Actionscript 2.0  • Content management  • HTML and Flash website updates  • Encore DVD assets and video production Production Artist Anderson Solone, Inc - Rancho Cordova, CA 2004 to 2004 While at Anderson Solone Inc., I helped produce a Flash based marketing sales tool and worked on var ious tradeshow  demos for Microsoft Windows Embedded.  • Content management Education Associate Skills HTML, Bootstrap, Web Design, UX, UI, Print Design, Wordpress, Branding, Marketing, Photography, Adobe Lightroom, Adobe After Effects, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe XD, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Foundation, Invision, WooCommerce