Claims Outcome Advisor Claims Outcome Advisor Claims Outcome Advisor - Verisk Analytics Around 6 years of experience in UI using like Angular5, TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, IOC/DI) and Database (Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server and DB2).  In-depth knowledge in Java/J2EE technologies specializing in all phases of software development lifecycle Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Maintenance of application software.  Proficient with Angular5 such as building nested components, interpolation, data binding & creating pipes, build- ing, and testing with CLI.  Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  Working knowledge in HTML5 new features like Form Validation, Media (Audio & Video), Canvas, SVG, Web Worker, Local Storage, Session Storage, Web Socket, Application Storage (Offline) and Indexed DB API.  Extensively worked on coding using core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections, Serialization, Synchro- nization, Exception Handling, Generics & Database Connections.  Hand-on experience in create responsive layouts, navigation, tables, and bootstrap components like Carousel, Modal Popups, Tabs, Tables, Auto complete.  Extensive experience with Java EE design patterns - MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object, Factory, Adapter, Value Object, DTO, Command and Factory.  Good experience in software configuration/change control process and tools like SVN, GIT and TFS.  Working experience in JavaScript and Angular testing library framework such as Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and debugging tools like Fiddler and Postman.  Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated, Self-Starter, and Team Player, can work with minimal supervision. Effective Communication, Organizational and Time management skills Work Experience Claims Outcome Advisor Verisk Analytics - Jersey City, NJ March 2019 to Present Verisk Analytics, Inc. is an American data analytics and risk assessment firm based in Jersey City, New Jersey, United States, serving customers worldwide in insurance, natural resources, financial services, government, and risk management. The company uses proprietary data sets and industry expertise to provide predictive analytics and decision support solutions in fraud prevention, actuarial science, insurance coverages, fire protection, catas- trope and weather risk, data management, and other fields. Claims Outcome Advisor is an application, provides claim management and advanced risk reports. Users can see all claim information easily and track the progress of every involved party including claimant, law firm, and etc. Involved Parties Modules helps to manage all involved parties in the claim. Prognosis Module helps to record the permanent disease or disability and future treatment for each claimant.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing application using Angular7, TypeScript, HTML5, SCSS, and Bootstrap4.  • Writing components in Single Page Application with Angular7 UI-Route, Dependency Injection design pattern.  • Interacted with components using Observable wrapped in Services and use operators in RXJS to chain Observable.  • Fetched data through Services with HttpClient Module and use Async Pipe to show it asynchronously.  • Combined HTML5 validation and Angular Form for client-side presentation and data validation in the forms.  • Integrated SVG file to select different body parts in medical modal and fetch list of subparts from database.  • Utilized NGXS in project to store and fetch data globally in NGXS Store and seperated them by modules.  • Worked on JIRA as the system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on an everyday basis.  • Utilized version control tool GIT to work on the same code-base in the repository with the other team members.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the project implementation with day to day updates through SCRUM.  Environment: Angular7, HTML5, SCSS, Bootstrap4, TypeScript, RXJS, NGXS, VS Code, GIT, Agile, C#,  .NET. Fullstack Developer Square, Inc - San Francisco, CA May 2018 to March 2019 Square, Inc. is a financial service, merchant services aggregator, and mobile payment company based in San Francisco, California. The company markets several software and hardware payments products, including Square Contactless and Chip Reader, Square Stand, Square Register and Square Magstripe Reader. Square Dashboard is an internal application, provides quick insights and advanced sales reports. Employee can see all transactions and deposits easily. Track the progress of every invoicesee the clients who owe money, and know whos already paid. Location Management Module helps to compare sales across multiple locations and edit your menu and prices for all locations. Manage employee timecards, too. Inventory Module, change item details like price, name, or quantity in real time. Upload groups of items faster, track stock quantities, and get email alerts when items run low. Customer Engagement Module helps to download a detailed customer directory, view feedback from receipts, build and send email marketing campaigns, and track it all with customer insights.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Developing Application using TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Angular5.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular5 UI-Route, Dependency Injection design pattern on Con- troller and Services for shared data between controllers.  • Used Http Services to fetch external data and used Angular CLI, NPM for environment setup for application using Angular5.  • Created Typescript Reusable multi-slot content projection, parent and child components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular5.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked on JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on an everyday basis.  • Provided support during the UAT process and post production deployment and Working on live production servers on daily basis.  • Conducted tests on the web service by using Fiddler web debugging proxy.  • Utilized version control tool GIT to work on the same code-base in the repository with the other team members.  • Performed Unit testing on Angular application using tools like Karma, Jasmine and worked with Maven tool for build automation.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the project implementation with day to day updates through SCRUM.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Angular5, VS Code, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, UAT, GIT, Maven, Karma, Jasmine, Agile(Scrum), Spring Framework, JIRA, Fiddler. Front- end Developer Magyar Bank - New Brunswick, NJ December 2016 to May 2018 Magyar Bank is banking based company, headquarters in New Brunswick, NJ. It offers Debit/Credit cards, Loans, Mortgages, Online Banking, Insurance and etc., Asset Tracking System helps to track and manage the assets through different steps of life-cycle. It offers integrated accounting features and multiple methods to track asset depreciation (straight line, ACRS, modified straight line, declining balance). The Planning module helps users to account for multiple projects and includes functionalities to manage and report on progress in different projects. The Depreciation module allows users to manage fixed-asset life-cycle. Users can keep track of their inventories with the help of the tracking module.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with client for requirement gathering and analysis and provided desired solution to client in time limits.  • Used React with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer.  • Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, React, Bootstrap, Node.JS and AJAX  • Used lazy loading the components so that the initial load of the js will be reduced and the components js will be loaded on demand when user start interacting with it.  • Worked on React Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tag  • Implemented Spring Security for OAuth authentication, by configuring Spring Security into Spring MVC appli- cation.  • Managed high scalable asynchronous fetching account information and order data with Redux  • Implemented Data Access Layer using Entity Framework with Web API to connect, retrieve and update the data from SQL Server.  • Utilized Postman to test Web API services with varying parameters, and capturing the response.    • Worked on unit testing for React application by using Jasmine to improve the coding quality.    Environment: Spring MVC, React, Redux, Node.JS, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Eclipse, SQL Server, TFS, Jasmine, Postman and Web API. Front- end Developer China Gezhouba Group Company Limited - Wuhan, CN April 2015 to May 2016 China  China Gezhouba Group Company Limited is a Chinese construction and engineering company based in Wuhan, Hubei. According to 2014 numbers, the company is the 33rd largest contractor by revenue in the world. Field In- spection Management offers features for automated site paperwork and compliance management. it enables users to create any type of form including site diaries, engineering calculation sheets, progress reports, and timesheets. Users can also create safety forms such as incident reports, site inductions, pre-start checklists, toolbox talks, per- mits to work and job safety assessments. It provides simple redline markups, which can be shared as annotation layers, or snapshotted for inclusion in any form. The solution can be set to capture any kind of action item such as non-conformance, defects and fault reports, either directly or from a checklist. When completing a checklist, users can automate the creation of a corrective action, pre-filled with relevant data. Key features include form creation, document management, noncompliance notifications, markups, and API-supported integration.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in front- end design development using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript Event model along with dynamic grid creation and Layout management.  • Used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms Layout.  • Used jQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Consumed Spring IOC (inversion of control) to remove the object dependencies across the application.  • Performed Spring Boot for creating a decoupled architecture and a non-boiler plate code that enhances flexibility and removes code redundancy.  • Developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Used Hibernate for accessing database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  • Utilized Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  • Developed Mocha test cases for integration testing and integrated with ANT build tool.  • Fixed many bugs and handled interfacing issues while deploying application on Tomcat application server.    Environment: C#, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, SVN, Mocha, ANT, JIRA, Tomcat. Front- end Developer Wuhan Construction Engineering Group - Wuhan, CN December 2013 to March 2015 Wuhan, China  Wuhan Construction Engineering Group Co. Ltd. offers infrastructure construction services. The Company de- signs and constructs houses, squares, and other related projects. Construction Cost Estimation is web application designed for contractors to estimate construction costs for a specific project. A cost estimator will typically use estimating software to estimate their bid price for a project, which will ultimately become part of a resulting con- struction contract. Some architects, engineers, construction managers, and others may also use cost estimating software to prepare cost estimates for purposes other than bidding.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC Framework with Struts, Web Services (SOAP & REST).  • Worked on the application using JSP's for Front End, Spring to manage business layer components and JDBC for performing database transactions.  • Involved extensive usage of HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and Ajax for Client Side Validations and used AJAX for invoking server calls.  • Develop JSP for the multiple views in the Presentation layer and Domain objects for Model layer.  • Implemented object-relational mapping in the persistent layer using Hibernate framework in conjunction with Spring MVC.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Designed Hibernate entities that map database tables, implemented inheritance strategies using Hibernate inher- itance strategy.  • Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application.  • Consumed Git for version control, and used Git Bash to pull and push the code into the repository.  • Involve in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology' and tested the application in each iteration.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, HTML, CSS, Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, ANT, GIT, Agile(Scrum), Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rutgers University August 2016 to June 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Wuhan University - Wuhan, CN August 2012 to June 2016 Skills Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Typescript, Svn, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jdk, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Database Additional Information SKILLS  Enterprise Technologies JDK, J2EE, Servlet, Spring Framework, JSP, ASP.NET, Web API2  Web Technologies Angular5+, React, Redux, Node.JS ,TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap  Test Mocha, Chai, Fiddler, Jasmine, Postman  IDE Toos & Web Servers Eclipse, Intellij, Visual Studio 2013, Visual Code  Language & Database Java 8, C#/C/C++, SQL Server 2014/2012, T-SQL, Oracle 11g/12c  PL/SQL, MongoDB  Others ANT, Maven, TFS, SVN, GIT, JIRA