Freelance Designer Freelance Designer Digital Designer St. Louis, MO Work Experience Freelance Designer Alexander Manufacturing - St. Louis, MO 2016 to Present Design print and digital content for marketing and sales. Concept, design and render photorealistic promotional and retail products presentations for major clients including Anheuser Busch, Coca Cola Company, and Caribou Coffee. Adjunct Professor - Graphic Design St. Louis Community College - St. Louis, MO 2013 to Present Taught Computer Art Studio / Graphic Design I & II / Web Design 1 & II    Developed engaging lectures, video tutorials, skill building projects based curriculum. A big focus was to guide and challenge students both with limited to highly proficient knowledge of course subjects. Incorporated lab times in all classes with one-on-one sessions. Emphasis on creative problem-solving, design theory and strengthening technical application skills. Guided students in developing their design career path.    Collaborated with art department chair to schedule courses and oversee, manage and hire other design instructors. Graphic Designer & Front End Developer iU Creative - St. Louis, MO 2014 to 2019 Lead designer on print, digital, video, web design, social media content for medium to large scale projects. UI/UX web design from wireframing, prototyping to final design working in photoshop, Adobe XD, dreamweaver, css, html5, and javascript/Query. Clients include St. Louis Public Library, Field House Museum, Campbell House and Birthright. Education Graphic and Web Design St. Louis Community College 2008 to 2011 Bachelor of Art in Fine Arts with emphasis in Computer Graphics Marygrove College 1991 to 1996 Skills CSS, Dreamweaver, Web Design, HTML, Javascript, Illustrator, Wordpress, Graphic Design, Adobe, Indesign, Photoshop, Typography Links http://jbruengergraphics.com/ Assessments Graphic Design — Expert July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oc9-4ay3gql3xvgq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.