Self-Employed Self-Employed Self-Employed - Self-Employed Innovative tech mind with 13 years of experience working as a web and  mobile developer. Capable of working with a variety of technology and  software solutions, and managing databases. Valuable team member who  has experience diagnosing problems and developing solutions. Extensive  expertise in networking systems and working with mainframe computers.  Talented leader with unique ideas and a history of successful contributions  in the field. Work Experience Self-Employed Self-Employed October 2018 to Present Caaguazú, Paraguay  - Analyzed systems administration tools and programming input to help  improve the software design of a product.  - Documented each new update and revision of any type of software project  by using comments in the instructions area of the code.  - Improved the efficiency of an e-commerce suite of enterprise software by more than 60% with revisions and workflow changes. Web Front- End Developer Pedro Juan Caballero esq - Dhaka, BD March 2014 to August 2018 - Solve software errors by running extensive testing processes and analyzing details about the program settings.  - Review computer software program functionality and adjust capabilities to Contact reflect project objectives, management input, or other feedback.  - Lead the building process of new program development by managing all  Address tasks and supervising the team of analysts and operators.  Pedro Juan Caballero esq. Juan  Manuel Frutos, Caaguazú, March 2014 - August 2018  Paraguay Dhaka Bank Limited Dhaka, Bangladesh  Software Programmer  Phone - Revised programming and software development projects by updating  55 67 3431-6040 code and working to improve functionality.  - Constructed workflow documents before beginning a new project in order  Email to map out program design and ideas visually.  motinmia9056@gmail.com - Lowered a software packages error and bug rate by 87% with a new  series of updates and programming revisions. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Systems in Certified Computer Professional University of Dhaka Dhaka 2007 to 2010 Skills Javascript, Android, MYSQL, Git, PHP