Software Developer & Integrator Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Integrator Software Developer & Integrator - USAA Plano, TX Work Experience Software Developer & Integrator USAA 2018 to Present Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive features, using HTML/CSS and JavaScript  ? Leveraged React and JavaScript to build presentation layer for EVA sentiment analysis dashboard  ? Constructed Terraform AWS modules for automation pipeline usage  ? Utilized RedLock to minimize and remediate threat alert against company's cloud environment  ? Work with agile team to ensure safe-landing stability in cloud environment Front- End Web Developer Jinju-Beauty Corporation 2016 to 2018 Created and maintained the front- end standards document of Javascript, HTML, CSS, and jQuery  ? Constructed custom React components for internal framework  ? Architected and developed intranet applications using JavaScript and Node JS for internal use  ? Worked in a team environment with Agile Methodology  ? Collaborated with a team of developers to resolve front- end and CSS issues  ? Prioritized and managed multiple tasks across multiple projects, under tight deadlines Assistant Manager Jinju-Beauty Corporation 2013 to 2016 Organize and facilitate team meetings with managers to converse on future tasks and provide updates to team members regarding the current status of the overall workflow and project development  ? Participated in cross functional team collaboration with technical lead developer  ? Lead the replenishment of inventory based on latest inventory report through procurement with constructions supply chain management    Applications  Spadey, Software Engineer  Voice journal that provides sentiment analysis and tracks user emotion over time  ? Architected React component structure and flow of data using states, props, and Redux store  ? Mapped React Router client-side routing and server-side routing for enhanced user experience  ? Utilized Node.js with Passport to implement local Auth and open Auth functionality for users  ? Implemented Socket.io to stream audio files from client to server and used Convert.io for type conversion  ? Used Watson Sentiment Analysis and Google Speech to Text to analyze the structure of the audio  ? Created graphs using Charts.js to show emotion over time based on audio analysis  ? Design front- end application layout and user interface with Material-UI    Mixr, Software Engineer - Tinder-clone app for drinks, provides drinks suggestion based on preference  ? Integrated React components to conditionally render in single-page application  ? Created front- end component that renders randomized data from API call using Node JS/Express  ? Utilized Sequelize with Passport to implement local Authentication functionality  ? Constructed database tables using PostgreSQL with Sequelize Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX 2010 to 2014 Skills Api, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, HTML 5, CSS, Git, AWS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jakehsiao0909 http://www.github.com/jakehsiao0909