Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Entrepreneur.com Irvine, CA Work Experience Front End Developer Entrepreneur.com - Irvine, CA August 2018 to Present • Build, test, maintain and enhance front end development for Entrepreneur.com using the best practices and web standards in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP.  • Ability to turn Photoshop mockups into robust web pages and other assets  • Devise, develop and maintain custom microsites for popular brands such as: Staples, FedEx, UPS, Samsung, Capital One and more  • Design creative assets such as banner, skin and interstitial mockups for sponsored ad campaigns  • Create and code mobile responsive and cross-client compatible newsletters.  • Maintain self-discipline and focus to effectively manage, meet, and exceed aggressive deadlines Front- End Developer Cornerstone Payment Systems - Tustin, CA July 2016 to August 2018 ? Over 2 years of progressive experience in front end phases of software developing life cycling including application design, development, maintenance, and testing.  ? Work with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, & Vue.js.  ? Primary role is to convert our pages from jQuery to Vue.js.  ? Experience in Vue.js for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  ? Extensively using JavaScript in every day’s project. And expertise in client-side validations using JavaSCript.  ? Maintain web pages and coding for our clients.  ? Collaborate with a small team to build front- end aspects for a variety of clients.  ? Work with designers and developers to meet all goals and deadlines.  ? Experience in using various jQuery controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  ? Develop solutions to meet the specific needs of client requests.  ? Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Keep up to date with new technologies, libraries, framework and software revisions.  ? Ensure code compatibility and continuity across current and future operating system and browser versions. Education westmoor high school 2001 to 2005 Skills HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SASS, jQuery, Vue.js, PHP Additional Information Top Skills • See all