Senior Front- End Developer/Web Designer/Graphic Designer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>- <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Web Designer/Graphic Designer Senior Front- End Developer/Web Designer/Graphic Designer - SOLARA GROUP Bowie, MD Front End Developer / Web Designer with over 6 years' experience designing and developing responsive  websites, maintaining its internal and complex framework and using interactive features and system to  improve productivity of the website. Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer/Web Designer/Graphic Designer SOLARA GROUP 2014 to Present Using both WordPress and Drupal platforms, I design and create applications for different types  of website such as E-commerce sites. While continuing to Integrate and maintain its important  components such as shopping carts, checkout pages, ensuring smooth customer experience on the website.  ? Designed and developed website for medical billing companies, colleges, government  contractors, non-profit organizations, NGOs, law firms, real estate companies amongst others  ? Served as lead project manager, coordinating and managing all web platforms and designs. Also  served as liaison between clients and different departments  ? Site administration by creating and modifying content, creating layout of all sites, and modifications to features and properties of all sites.  ? Created custom web development using Drupal as well as using composer to manage Drupal  modules.  ? Designed and customized templates for WordPress. Integrating plugins and necessary  extensions to the website  ? Worked on client's existing Drupal modules as well as migrating existing sites to the Drupal  platform and updating necessary Drupal 7 sites to Drupal 8 as requested and needed  ? Worked on client's existing WordPress accounts as well as creating and developing new  WordPress platforms  ? Worked on the servers to ensure security and no loss of database  ? Collaborated with other Angular developers to use Angular JS as a framework to develop web  applications, pages, html extensions, modules and directives  ? Manage and administer creation of projects, workflow, reports and documentation within JIRA  and Confluence  ? Version control with GitHub  ? Create and integrate social media accounts for clients and designed marketing strategies to increase SEO and client-customer interaction  ? In collaboration with other skilled LAMP developers on LAMP projects. Using LAMP severs for website development (PHP, SQL, Linux, Apache). Familiar with LAMP tools such as Ajax and  JQuery,  ? Fix various bugs that typically occur in the admin/back- end of the website  ? Assist with review and quality assurance of completed website developments and design  ? Design and create registration forms and membership forms for clients  ? Create artwork designs including logo designs for clients using Adobe illustrator and Adobe  Photoshop  ? Design and create Marketing campaign and short ad videos for clients using Adobe Premiere  ? Manage and guide a team of other developers to create and maintain rebranding for corporate  clients across all web-based platforms. Supervise the work and project assigned to each person, handle reviews, approve time sheets,  ? Manage all phases of each project from development to quality tests, through to live site  testing.  ? Maintain 508 compliance for website especially for non-profit organizations and government  projects  ? Managed daily ticket issues with systems and facilitated enhancement and processes of each  ticket and system. Also worked with Jira using it to monitor and track any bugs or issues  submitted and completed.  ? Extensive experience using major content management systems such as Drupal 7, Drupal 8, WordPress, Joomla and familiar with Sharepoint Web & System Analyst DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 2013 to 2014 Performed daily site maintenance and testing to ensure efficient user functionality  ? Worked with senior management to give regular system reports and analysis  ? Assisted user with their web and system accounts to ensure smooth user experience with the HUD system  ? Ensured the 508 compliance for all systems  ? Obtained and maintained a security clearance Analyst AEROTEK STAFFING 2011 to 2013 Provided administrative support to various clients at different time on different projects  ? Coordinated company-wide activities, various organization events, conferences and orientation  ? Worked as technical assistant providing part time technical support to employees  ? Worked with a team of 4 to create and design E-Marketing campaigns    Degree: Education BS in Chemistry Manchester College 2011 Skills Ajax, Css, Lamp, Html, Javascript, Php, jquery, Jira, Seo, Illustrator, Wordpress, Indesign, Photoshop, Premiere Additional Information SKILLS    HTML Drupal 7 & 8 JQuery JavaScript  CSS PHP CSS3 Ajax  WordPress Jira Confluence GitHub  Angular JS LAMP SEO Content & Project Management  Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Premiere)