Sr. Java Front End /UI Web Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> /UI Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Front End /UI Web Developer - Farmers Insurance Group Wilmington, DE • Have 7+years of IT professional experience with full project development, implementation and deployment on Windows/Unix using JAVA/J2EE technology stack.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, Node.JS, AngularJS, Angular 2, React.js, Bootstrap, Ext JS.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Agile/Scrum methodologies and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Expert level skills in application development using J2EE technologies like Java Beans, Struts, JSP, JSF, EJB, JPA, Servlets, JDBC compliant application servers, multi-threading, client/server, design patterns of J2EE architecture.  • Significant experience in Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Strong hands on writing AngularJS code for developing Single page applications (SPA) and experience with several in built AngularJS directives, expressions and modules.  • Experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), web service applications.  • Proficiency in developing web services (SOAP, RESTful) that include several components like WSDL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JAX-RS and JAX-WS. Also Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC architecture using Spring Framework and used different Spring modules like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC and Spring with ORM Framework.  • Knowledge in implementing MEAN Stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngualrJS, NodeJS) with RESTful stands.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EC2, AMI, EBS, Cloud watch.  • Extensive experience in working with different databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, PL/SQL and writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Joins and Triggers for different Data Models.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts like OOP'S design, Multi-threading, Generics, Exception handling, Collections, Java reflection, Annotation.  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Experience in using assistant tools such as Git, GitHub, CVS and SVN for version control.  • Extensive working experience in Unit testing experience with Jasmine, Karma.  • Experienced in writing and implementing test cases using Junit.  • Developed application on servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and React.js.  • Good exposure on using IDE'S like Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, My Eclipse, RAD and NetBeans.  • Experience in using build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle, logging with Log4j, Test Driven Development using Junit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Front End /UI Web Developer Farmers Insurance Group - Wilmington, DE January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement, Analysis, design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Interacted with the system analysts, business users for design and requirement clarifications.  • Used J2EE patterns such as Controller, Singleton, factory, MVC architecture is used in this application.  • Implemented Spring Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern for relationship between application components.  • Working in AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) components, including user, groups, roles, policies and password policies and provide the same to end user.  • Deploying the application on AWS cloud platform by configuring REDHAT server on EC2 instances.  • Used Spring Framework IOC to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Used Spring ORM module along with Hibernate to deal with database operations.  • Used Spring core, Spring Context, Spring MVC Framework for the application configuration of different components, services in the application.  • Used Hibernate for mapping claim data by connecting to Oracle 11g database.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Used Hibernate extensively to have Database access mechanism with HQL (Hibernate query language) queries.  • Resolved Runtime Errors and Application Bugs in the Production environment and enhancing the existing application.  • Backend Integration testing of micro services and API services.  • Implemented log4j for logging purposes and debug the application.  • Created micro services using Spring Boot for a new public facing application.  • Involved in production support for maintaining the system developed and resolved the complexities and bugs.  • Implemented the project using the agile methodologies. Leaned and migrated the old codes into Angular JS.  • Extensively used Apache Camel for transformation and used both Java DSL and XML DSL.  • Fixed bugs during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing.  • Created responsive reusable UI components for ABC's SiteCore migration project using CSS3 and HTML5.  • Implemented Angular 2 Routing and navigation, Components, Services.  • Used SVN repository for version control.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Security, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebLogic, JSP, jQuery, XML, CSS, Junit, Maven, Oracle11g, AngularJS, TOAD, Log4j, UML, Apache Camel, Agile, Microservices, Jenkins, Splunk, Cucumber, Griddle, POM, Rollup, Gulp, Grunt, bootstrap, HTML5 and AWS. UI Web Developer Farmers Insurance Group - Boston, MA July 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Worked on the REST/Web API to create the services and used in Angular HTTP service calls and bind the data in the table using ng-repeat attributes.  • Used Angular as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, Bootstrap, Angular2/4.  • Created pages for login using single sign on, main page containing favorites and page for continuous integration configuration.  • Working experience with modern JavaScript libraries and tooling, including Node.js.  • Developed front- end using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Redux and Bootstrap.  • Involved in using React JS components, React-DOM, Babel-webpack concepts.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client side.  • Used NPM packages to get the dependencies.  • Designed server-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular.  • Worked on Mongo DB Concepts. Familiar with MongoDB environment  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals.  • Improved the performance and response time of the application by implementing AJAX.  • Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML5 to create web interfaces.    Environment:JavaScript, Angular2/14, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, NPM, SVN, JIRA, Rally Java Web Developer Southern Glazers Wine and Spirits - Miramar, FL August 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • As a Java Programmer, Implemented front end with JSP, JavaBeans, Struts Tag libraries and JSTL.  • Competency in using XML Web Services by using SOAP to transfer data to supply chain and for domain expertise Monitoring Systems.  • Experience in Locator, Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO), Factory and Singleton design patterns.  • Designed the page flow using struts, server-side components for DAO layer  • Worked on Maven to build tool for building jar files.  • Implemented Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application error and info.  • Provided support for deployment of the application in multiple environments includes SIT, UAT and Production Environment.  • Used the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with the database.  • Worked with XML by using SAX and DOM parsers to transfer the data between different components.  • Knowledge in struts tiles framework for the layout management.  • Implemented Stateless Sessions by using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to encapsulate business logics.  • Implemented Web interface with the help of and Struts, JSP and Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL).  • Performed Performance Tuning on Web-logic server, Java JDK and Unix Operating System and Database Tuning.  • Developed functions, procedures, and packages to implement the system's business logic using PL/SQL.  • Responsible for fixing all bugs encountered and communicating back over to the QA team.    Environment: J2EE, Java 6, Hibernate, Struts, SOAP, DAO, DTO, EJB, Oracle 10g, JDK 1.6, JSTL, XML, XSLT, HTML, XHTML, Java Script, jQuery, UML. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA April 2012 to July 2014 Description: Thermo Fisher Scientific is a leading biotechnology firm in the genetic testing of Laboratory equipment its Headquarters is located in Waltham, Massachusetts. It's a provider of cloud based platform for scientific data management support through e-commerce.Phase one of the laboratory informatics application was completed in a short span of two months to aid market expansion of growing business after acquiring Core informatics.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding and analyzing business requirements. Participated in all phases of SDLC.  • Involved in designing Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams as a part of design phase.  • Configured Spring framework using the Spring core module to inject dependencies and configured Oracle, MySQL, Mongo in the module.  • Developed the application by using JSP, Servlets, Web Services, JavaScript, WebLogic, JAX-RS and SaaS.  • Developed RESTful Web Services using Jersey, JAX-RS to perform CRUD operations on the database server over HTTP and to consume web services for transferring data between different applications.  • Used Spring Boot for developing micro services, REST to retrieve data from client-side using Microservice architecture and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) for deploying microservices.  • Used Singleton, Session Facade, and DAO patterns in implementing the application.  • Used Java 1.8 and Spring 1.5 to perform CRUD operations on the SOLR engine to create hassle free transactional models.  • Extensively worked with XML Schemas (XSD) for defining XML elements and attributes.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in WebLogic Application Server.  • Used RabbitMQ as the message broker to convert the entire flow as a SOA based architecture.  • Implemented Multithreading concepts in Java classes to avoid deadlocks.  • Created build environment for Java using Git and Maven.  • Developed the test cases with JUnit for Unit testing of the built components.  • Contributed to standardizing project coding, code review guidelines and checklist.  • Build CI/CD using Jenkins, GIT, JFrog Artifactory, saving the image in Docker Private registry.  • Used JIRA to keep track of the project, bugs and issues.  • Followed Agile/ Scrum methodology to track project progress and participated in Scrum meetings.    Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, Microservices, Spring MVC, IntelliJ Idea, AWS, Tomcat Application server, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, REST Webservices, SOAP Webservices, APIGEE, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JUnit, RabbitMQ, Maven, Gradle, Dockers, Oracle, MongoDB, MySQL, JIRA, Jenkins, Spring Cloud, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, JavaScript, JAX-RS. Java Developer Chase wealth Management - Manhattan, NY August 2011 to March 2012 Description: J P Morgan Chase Bank is the wholly owned banking of J.P.Morgan &Co, a bank holding company headquartered in Manhattan, New York. Web Based enterprise application offers services to member banks to assist their cardholders with credit card transaction disputes. The application provides functionality that benefits member banks and allows them to provide accurate answers and quick service to cardholders.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Adapted Agile Methodology from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Involved in daily standup meetings to provide regular updates on individual tasks and progress of user stories.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used Angular 2 and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using Angular JS and used various predefined components.  • Capable to automate the process of testing of application using JAVA script and Spring framework.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back- end component, one thread will be running for each.  • Implemented Restful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Used Micro services to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and test automation. Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Use Maven to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used GITHUB as version control tool.    Environment: Java 8, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, AWS, jQuery, Ajax, Rabbit MQ, Angular JS, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Hibernate 4.0, Docker, Micro Services, Kafka, , Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Bootstrap, Web services, Restful, RAD, Python, Web Sphere, , Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, GITHUB. Senior Java Developer State of WI, Wisconsin August 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Used JBoss Application Server for deploying various components of applications. Worked on log4j for logging errors, info, and exception. Deployed the application in JBOSS EAP Application Server.  • Designed the user interface of the application using Angular JS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Worked on MySQL database to store data and used MYSQL workbench for query optimization. Built the application using ANT scripts and deployed using JBoss Application server.  • Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application.  • Involved extensively in developing a POC for adopting Angular 2.0 as front- end framework using RxJs library. Ivy, Jenkins used for continuous integration and build. Experienced in using Log4j and good expertise in Ant tool and IVY tool. Used ANT as a build tool and IVY as dependency tool.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience in Management tools like Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Hands on experience using Source Code Control Systems like Team Foundation Server (TFS) to build schedule. Having good experience in developing an enterprise MERN Stack applications by writing server-side code with Node.js.  • Basic knowledge in programming language such Java, Bash shell scripting. Involved in front- end development using Visual Studio 2010 and CSS.  • Used Log4j logging framework in the application to store log messages. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems. Worked extensively with front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JQuery mobile frameworks. Used HTML5, JavaScript, and jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, Ajax, XML and JSON to create a rich, interactive UI.  • Knowledge on CORS (cross-origin resource sharing) mechanism. Utilized Java and spring frameworks for development of enterprise applications.  • Developed integration solutions and prepared programming code. Extensively worked with HQL and hibernate criteria queries.  • Wrote unit testing codes using JUnit, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug and Eclipse's debugging tool.    Environment: Java 1.6.0, java 8 JBoss eap 4.3, apache ant 1.7.1, apache ivy 2.4.0, My SQL workbench 5.2 CE, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012(TFS), Bootstrap, JavaScript, jquery-ui- 1.10.3, Log4j, SoapUI. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java1.8, J2EE, SQL, C,python  Web Technologies XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Catalyst, Template Toolkit, Django, Angular.js, Node.js ,React.js  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JPA, Struts, JMS, Spring, JSF and Web Services  Frameworks JSF, Spring, GWT,HIBERNATE, SPRING SECURITY,SPRING AOP,SPRING BOOT  Testing Tools JIRA JUnit, Jmeter.  Markup Languages HTML, XML, SAML, UIML  IDE/ Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA 14CE, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio 2012  Database Server Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, Postgres, No SQL, MySQL, MongoDB  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, MVC, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, TFS, Bucket, Selenium  Operating System MAC, Windows 07/10, IOS, Android, UNIX  Browsers IE, Mozilla, Firefox, Safari, Chrome