Sr. UI developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI developer - Assurant Solutions Pittsburgh, PA ? Interactive UI Developer with Around 8+ years of experience in UI Design, Software Design, Development,  Implementation, Testing, and Documentation of Web & Client Server Applications using Microsoft & Adobe Technologies.  ? Hands on experience in front- end development utilizing JavaScript framework like jQuery as well as front end technologies HTML5/4, CSS3/2, Angular JS, AJAX, and JSON.  ? Experience working with Bootstrap, Backbone.js, node.js, React JS and Polymer.js.  ? Good understanding and working experience in Object Oriented Java Script programming and JavaScript MVC frameworks  ? Experienced in implementing different features of Bootstrap. Work Experience Sr. UI developer Assurant Solutions - Wayne, PA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Created Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS UI-Route, Dependency Injection design pattern on Controller and Services for shared data between controllers.  ? Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  ? Used AngularJS as the development framework and done CRUD operations with HTTP service.  ? Worked on the XML data that gives the information about store transaction information and created an application that contains the information based on the stored system categories and their related trackers of shipping information.  ? Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server. Us Designing and implementing functionality using technologies including JavaScript, AJAX, and JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery.  ? Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  ? Actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design, Development, Bug fixing and Enhancement in Agile methodology.  ? Used GIT for version controlling in designing.  ? Developed form validation with AngularJS $valid, and data validation.  ? Worked on Oracle database to pull out the information in ticket printing application.  ? Created Tables, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and Triggers for different data operation on the database using SQL server.  ? Involved in sprint planning, code review, and daily standup meetings to discuss the progress of the application.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, D3.js, RESTful, Express JS, ES6, JSON, SOA, Mongoose, Webpack, SVN. Sr. UI developer Catalina Marketing - Saint Petersburg, FL October 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Experience in building E-Commerce applications.  ? Used AngularJS to bind HTML to JavaScript Objects and develop Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, JQuery, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  ? Developing custom HTML elements using AngularJS directives.  ? Used to redesign or update User Interface in view of changing needs and requirements.  ? Design and develop webpage components to improve user experience and features using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS,  ? JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experience in using the latest approaches including event-driven applications using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, and JSONP.  ? Responsible for all client side UI Validation and Business logic implementation based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and AngularJS.  ? Experience in implementing the Bootstrap components like Thumbnails, Progress bar, and Carousel in the product details.  ? Developed handy version applications using Bootstrap Framework, HTML5 and CSS3  ? Responsible for initiating, planning, construction, execution, monitoring and controlling Web applications.  ? Worked on enhancements to optimize user experience.  ? Developed a fully functional login page for a website with complete UI and validations.  ? Worked closely with the production, QA teams and supported UI implementation efforts.  ? Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application.  ? Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  ? Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  ? Experience applying the latest development approaches event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script , JSON.  ? Developed jQuery methods to support the dynamic nature of the web-site elements.  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Designed the dynamic and web compatible pages using the HTML5, CSS, JavaScript,Angular2, Bootstrap  ? Performed unit testing using the open source Karma/Jasmine framework.    Environment:Angular 2,Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5, DOM, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap. Angular JS Developer American Standard - Piscataway, NJ July 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed UI for a dashboard using Angular framework for a database of  ? Re-platformed three web applications to integrate them into one GUI using Angular JS  to provide ease of access to the students.  ? Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to- operate and eye-catching  web applications using EXS JS, Angular JS and React JS.  ? Used Angular JS in the app for an efficient MVC implementation.  ? Worked with geographical dispersed online team converting user submitting designs into Angular JS code.  ? Displayed tabular data using Angular Js by applying filters on the table data.  ? Used Angular Js Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI. Responsible for developing all the UI pages using React, Redux, Mongoose, Express JS,  ? Used React-Router to turn the web application into single page Application and to route among different components.  ? Developed Navigation bar, menu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  ? Used react-autocomplete-input library to find the appropriate option for completing words when typed in input  ? Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015 (ES6) used Babel.  ? Extensively used map State to Props map Dispatch to Props and connect to connect application to store.  ? Fetch the services API call from backend and map in front using ReactJS and Worked with react-virtualized library to display lists.  ? Used ReactJS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  ? Worked on SOA Cluster, high availability from both Web logic and SOA Suite.  ? Performed migrating Web Logic Configurations and SOA server configurations to different environments.  ? Utilized Thunk to dispatch actions and combine Reducers to work with multiple reducers.  ? Worked extensively on react strap library, Restful web-services, HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JSON, Media queries for Responsiveness and pre-processes like SCSS for quickly and proficiently styling components.  ? Created Server-side code with Express, created API in back- end and used Express framework to set up Middleware to respond to REST API calls like PUT, GET, POST, DELETE.  ? Used Server-side technologies like Mongoose for database Express JS for making API calls.  ? Used CORS to allow websites to share resources across domains safely and securely.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Opera, Firefox, Google Chrome, and Internet Explorer.  ? Used GIT as a version control and collaboration.  ? Expertise in using D3.JS for dynamic data visualization in reporting module.  ? Developed in TDD creating and executing Unit Test Cases using Jasmine & Karma.  ? Worked in Agile Scrum Methodology Environment.  ? Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Angular js, JavaScript, Ajax, Web API, NPM, Agile, office 365 integration Maven, GIT, Gradle, Azure, MAC, UNIX / Linux, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), XML, SQL Server 2012. UI Developer Technik Inc - Arlington, VA March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  ? Worked Closely with Designers to Understand and redesign the Package Customization and Service Locator Modules using HTML 5, CSS3 and JQuery.  ? Worked on creating HTML pages from the PDF given by the UX and used AngularJS to retrieve data from the rest services.  ? Used AngularJS for developing applications in front end.  ? Used Polymer JS for data binding  ? Used advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used AngularJS to develop client-side applications using JavaScript in a clean Model View Controller (MVC) way.  ? Created user interface using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models  ? Developed different page layouts and leveraged Bootstrap grids, pagination, charts, and form controls.  ? Used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  ? Worked on various breakpoints within the application for optimum layout and functionalities on we, tablets and desktops.  ? Used JQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQuery and JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Polymer JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, MS Office and SVN. UI Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA November 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed front- end screens with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Utilized JavaScript library jQuery for form validation and interactive features.  ? Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Used MySQL database to store all the data related to banking centers and ATM's in all the locations.  ? Consumed RESTful Web Services using jQuery Ajax call to get the information of ATM location based on the customers input.  ? Used PHP to develop components in the server side of the project to support deployment.  ? Created unit test cases using PHP Unit.  ? Bugzilla was used to report and track bugs.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Eclipse, MySQL, PHP, PHP Unit Agile. Front End Developer Conduent - Austin, TX January 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the front- end by doing hands-on coding using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery. Leverage knowledge of cross-browser development techniques.  ? Worked on project following Scrum Agile methodology that included iterative application development, weekly  ? Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.  ? Created the UI interface using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery UI to provide UI functionality.  ? Development of Form Validation techniques using JavaScript.  ? Use field-tested best practices for packaging and deploying jQuery applications  ? Implemented data binding and used asynchronous services to parse API through jQuery.  ? Used Bootstrap framework and custom CSS3 to develop Responsive web pages.  ? Involved in creating and executing Unit test cases using Jasmine.  ? Involved in unit Integration, bug fixing, Design Reviews, and Code Walk through Client interaction and team support.  ? Used GIT for Version Controlling.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Agile, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Windows, Jasmin Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), jQuery. (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License