Software Engineer II Software Engineer II Atlanta, GA Work Experience Software Engineer II Health Quest Systems - Poughkeepsie, NY November 2016 to Present Main resource for the Infor/Lawson ERP suite (HR/Payroll). I am responsible for any requests, problems, or maintenance for the system. I work regularly with 4GL (COBOL), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL and a small amount of Python. I assisted with upgrade from v9 to v10, overseeing upgrade to all process flows and custom forms. The company has a heavily customized code base so it was a highly involved process. Website Manager Campbell Hall Tree Farm - Campbell Hall, NY January 2012 to July 2019 Family-run tree farm. Aside from labor/maintenance on the farm, I was responsible for updating and overseeing the farm websites, handling client requests, and managing the sales and budgets. Co-founder/Design and Development Bluesail Marketing - Poughkeepsie, NY April 2017 to October 2018 Co-founder, in charge of design and development of custom wedding websites to pair hand in hand with save the dates and wedding invitations. Created a one-stop shop for anybody to be able to view wedding info regarding date, location, hotel booking, local attractions, and to RSVP to the invite online. Front End Developer Potratz Partners Advertising - Schenectady, NY November 2013 to November 2016 Front end developer at an automotive ad agency responsible for the full life cycle (design to development) of custom websites for clients. The job consisted of predominantly HTML and CSS, with JavaScript, jQuery and a smaller amount of PHP as well. Created custom plugins alongside back end developers in order to provide a higher quality product for our clients. Education Bachelor's in Electronic Media, Arts, and Communication (EMAC) Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute - Troy, NY August 2010 to December 2013 Skills Javascript, Lawson, COBOL, HTML 5, CSS, JQuery, PHP, 4GL, Photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign, ProcessFlow Designer, Lawson Interactive Desktop (LID), Infor Security, Infor Rich Client, Lawson GRID, MySQL