SENIOR DIGITAL DESIGNER SENIOR DIGITAL DESIGNER SENIOR DIGITAL DESIGNER - Caesars Entertainment Las Vegas, NV Senior Digital Designer with 8 years of experience in digital marketing  developing and growing digital presence across multiple channels for industries  in gaming, entertainment, hospitality, and small agencies. Collaborating in  expanding brand in digital platform. Work Experience SENIOR DIGITAL DESIGNER Caesars Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV 2014 to Present I am working on multiple homepage redesign projects, menu boards, interactive games. Creating UX design and prototypes with low to high fidelity wireframes. Testing all informational architecture for design validation. Designing monthly promotional AD, banners, web, emails, and social.    • Presenting design concept to internal teams, senior leadership, and stakeholders.  • Art Directed all room product photography for Caesars Palace, Harrah's, Ballys  and Flamingo to create better brand presence across all platforms.  • Creating brand marketing strategy and testing different solutions to achieve better social media presence.  • Leading and developing brand creative concepts for all digital platform  such as video blogs, website commercials, cinemagraphs, and other digital interactive display.  • Redesigning and modernizing all brands' emails to gain better engagement.  • Developed a program to help junior designers grow and expand their talents.  • Developed wireframe for Desktop and Mobile to illustrate user needs, structure and FRONT- END DEVELOPER/DESIGNER Searchcore Inc - Las Vegas, NV 2013 to 2014 Developed CSS and HTML5 code for all webpages and mobile.  • Produced and created digital Web solutions including Web and landing pages.  • Mobile App design, email templates, banners, etc..  • Created wireframes, site maps and navigational flows for web and mobile apps.  Coordinated team events, celebrations, milestones, offsite activities.  • Front- End developer CSS and HTML5. Troubleshooter for the company’s websites  and mobile application. SENIOR WEB AND GRAPHIC DESIGNER Interchanges - Jacksonville, FL 2012 to 2012 • Designed mockups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Fireworks;  • Developed and design e-newsletters and other web-based communications  using online marketing best practices.  • Created and implemented intuitive, functional websites, purchase pages  and other web-based assets using HTML/CSS to accomplish marketing goals.  • Provided informed recommendations for design and layout, behavior  and functionality of websites through a general knowledge of UI best practices.  • Created styles in the content management system (CMS), and assist in administering users as needed, troubleshooting bug fixes and deploying builds.  • Assisted in testing cross-browser, cross-platform, and/or cross-device  compatibility for inconsistencies.  • Social Media Marketing (Facebook, LinkedIn, Google +, Twitter)  • Marketing Strategy such as Analytics, PPC, Heatmap  • Designed sites from start to finish (Design to Code)  • Banner Ad Design and Implementation Education BACHELOR OF ARTS in INTERACTIVE MEDIA DESIGN Art Institute of Jacksonville - Las Vegas, NV 2013 to 2014 Skills Marketing, Brand marketing, Digital design, Front-end, Marketing design, Graphic design, Css, Html, Ux, Ui, Html5, Concept design, Adobe, Wordpress, Typography, Advertising, Web Design, Photoshop, Illustrator Links https://www.behance.net/ncorpuz Additional Information SKILLS  UI/UX Designer  Front- End Developer  Digital Design  Social Media  Brand Marketing Design  Adobe Creative Suite  Cinemagraphs  Photography Art Direction  Concept Design