QA Tester QA Tester QA Tester - Apple Sunnyvale, CA ? 9 years of solid experience testing web based software applications.  ? Strong working knowledge of HTML and CSS.  ? Experience in preparing Test strategy, Test plan, Test methodology, Test scenarios, Test summary reports, Test cases and Test documents for both automated and manual testing based on User requirements, System requirements and Use case documents.  ? Experience in Entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Test Development Life Cycle (STLC), Bug Triage in Agile environment.  ? Solid Experience with Cross-Browser and Compatibility Testing to test whether the web applications are working as desired in different browsers and environments.  ? Analyzed application business requirements, technical specification and installation guidelines.  ? Having strong experience in, Feature testing, Functional testing, System testing, Compatibility testing, Retesting, Regression Testing, Performance testing, Internationalization Testing, Localization Testing, Performance testing, Acceptance Testing.  ? Experience in Handset Testing, writing Test plans, defining Test cases for various module screens of the application, developing and maintaining Test scripts, analyzing results and reporting defects.  ? Experience in Database Testing using SQL Queries with multiple Databases, SQL Server, and MySQL.  ? Work with engineering to triage inbound bug reports, reproduce reported issues and verify bug fixes. Experience in Bug Tracking and Reporting using Jira, SBM, VersionOne, HP ALM.  ? Working Knowledge with 21 CFR Part 11 Electronic Records and Electronic Signatures and 21 CFR Part 820 Quality System Regulations and HIPAA Compliance in FDA regulated environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QA Tester Apple - Cupertino, CA April 2017 to Present Working in Siri Cloud Services Localization Team  ? Co-ordinate the QA activities, perform testing in iOS and MAC devices, write detailed bug reports, analyze the test results, perform functionality, Regression testing and Localization Testing.  ? Log and report defects. Software Test Technician Cepheid - Sunnyvale, CA July 2015 to September 2016 Worked in a highly dynamic Agile environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.  ? Created and executed software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  ? Performed defect tracking and management in JIRA.  ? Performed Load Testing, GUI testing on web applications.  ? End to End testing on cloud based applications.  ? Co-ordinate with the team and developers to discuss and narrow down the issues in the AUT.  ? Analyzed the Log files to verify the processes for debugging and or test data verification purposes.  ? Conducted Smoke testing for build verification, end- end functionality testing, Regression testing. Developed, updated and executed test protocols.  ? Performed GPS Testing to track the GPS path of the mobile laboratories. Updated the test cases to improve the workflow of the GPS testing.  ? Loaded builds to handsets. Test mobile app's behavior under various interruptions. Performed Testing with both wired connection and wireless connection.  ? Performed Localization Testing on web app and scanner app in mobile(Android) in English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Russian and Chinese languages. Generated many different strings in Scanner using all the different languages.  ? Performed Internationalization testing with test approach pertaining to Resource Bundle loading from server pertaining to the locale setting, UI display pertaining to the locale setting, culture specific date, time, monetary formats.  ? Performed device specific, app specific and network specific checks during mobile testing. QA Test Analyst IIT WorkForce - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to April 2015 Created HTML email templates and newsletters for e-mail marketing campaigns.  ? Played major role in stabilizing the production platform through quality testing of healthcare web portal.  ? Performed back- end operations using SQL queries for manipulating and testing data.  ? Wrote and executed test plans and test scripts using HP Quality Center.  ? Analyzing of web services/API functional and design documents and prepared test cases based on User requirements.  ? Performed Localization Testing on web app in English, French, German, Spanish languages. Logged defects and performed Regression testing on them once they were fixed.  ? Logged and reported defects using Jira. Junior QA Analyst Yahoo - Sunnyvale, CA November 2013 to May 2014 Analyzed system specifications, requirements and developed detailed Test Plans and Test cases.  ? Performed backend testing using SQL queries.  ? Prepared Bug reports, test reports on the test results.  ? Participated in bug triage meetings to set priority on bugs.  ? Conducting functional, ad-hoc and exploratory testing across different operating systems, browsers, mobile devices. India - Front End Developer Gauri Enterprises - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2010 to March 2013 Built HTML pages that use best practices for layout, navigation, tables, forms, images and multimedia.  ? Created HTML email templates that improved the email CTR rates.  ? Write CSS to layout, format and enhance the display of a web page applying industry best practices.  ? Responsible for the test cycle portion of the Software Development Life Cycle, including: requirements reviews, test case creation/execution, installation processes, defects, and beta support.  ? Create test plans and traceable matrix to map test cases back to requirements.  ? Conducting functional, ad-hoc and exploratory testing across different operating systems, browsers, mobile devices.  E-commerce testing done on: http://www.annekoplik.com/ http://uktrace.co.uk/  http://www.pandkjewelry.com/index.php http://www.namebrandsperfume.com/ Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2004 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/amruthasomu