Senior UX designer and Front - end developer Senior UX designer and <span class="hl">Front</span> - <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior UX designer and Front - end developer - Motorola Solutions Chicago, IL • Senior web designer with more than 8 years of experience, currently working freelance for several companies both private and public  • Experience in web design, microsites and mobile applications area to the Ministry of Economy.  • Strong conceptualization, communication, presentation and storytelling skills, including bringing concepts to life.  • Solid knowledge in user research, interviews, surveys, user persona profiles, user scenarios, customer journeys, card sorting, storyboarding, contextual inquiry, diary studies, usability testing, benchmarking, etc.  • Strong passion for data and willingness to utilize data-driven insights to inform creative design.  • Visual design expertise in prototypes, mockups and style guides for branding, web and app.  • I'm fluent in best practices for web-based information architecture and UX design, as well as strong knowledge of usability principles and techniques.  • Proven experience on the Adobe's software  • I've the ability to work leading a team, independently as well as part of a team. Work Experience Senior UX designer and Front - end developer Motorola Solutions - Chicago, IL January 2019 to Present Project Description:In charge of modernizing the systems of the procurement area to optimize the time and resources of the area.I was also in charge of doing graphic design projects.    Responsibilities:  • Define the project goals based on the stakeholders.  • Develop the Brand and the architecture.  • Design promotional materials and stationery.  • Design the UX/UI strategy.  • Plan the development calendar.  • Research and analyze the competitors with Benchmarking and Trend Analysis.  • Define the Audience with Interviews from patients and stakeholders and then create User Personas and their scenarios.  • Analyze with a Heuristic Evaluation all the business objectives and divide them in task to reach them, also, define the screens to do does tasks.  • Plan the Navigations Flows to reach any conversion in as less as possible clicks.  • Define a Content Inventory and created the Information Architecture to get a better picture of the flow and the usability.  • Create Wireframes and a low fi prototype to get any task clear and define before the design is ready.  • Define and design the UI.  • Test with users the usability of each task and redesign the UI to get a better performance.  • Created animations for transitions and the Splash Screen.  • Developed the High Fi Prototype in Sketch, Photoshop, Illustrator and InVision.    Environment:Web design, Graphic design, HTML, CSS, Photoshop Senior UX designer INFOTEC September 2014 to January 2019 Project Description:Responsible for designing and HTML developing for web pages and systems for different clients, including the federal government    Responsibilities:  • Making the graphic design to apply to information systems or websites  • Perform maintenance to project graphical interfaces  • Attend and apply the guidelines to comply with established work plans  • Interact with developers to coordinate the implementation of graphic design in software solutions  • Implement standards of the W3C 's CSS and standards of usability and accessibility of HTML.  • Interview the stakeholders, owners, drivers, andmanagers.  • Plan a strategy that priorities the work and theurgencies.  • Define different strategies for thebranding.  • Design the logo, stationery and presentationtemplate.  • Research the competitors and made a trendanalysis.  • Define the Audience and create analog tools organization forcontrol.  • Interview stakeholders and define the content for awebsite.  • Define de InformationArchitecture.  • Design the wireframes and the flow for thewebsite.  • Do the UX/ UI for the Website and the WebApp.  • Create High FiPrototype.    Environment:Web design, Graphic design, HTML development, CSS development, Photoshop, chrome, firefox, Joomla Sr UX designer Ministry of Economy - Mexico City, MX June 2011 to September 2014 Project Description:I was coordinator of the area of web design and mobile applications, I was in charge of creating a new design for the official website and making the sub-pages adopt the design line    Responsibilities:  • Coordinate the team that generates graphical elements for the website of the Secretariat.  • Coordinate the image of the microsites of the Secretariat.  • Coordinate publishing content and creating new sections of the page.  • Designed to create new microsites  • Stream important messages from the Secretary to the internet  • Coordinate the development and implementation of mobile applications developed by the Secretariat to a third party.    Environment:Web design, Graphic design, HTML, CSS, Photoshop, chrome, firefox, Joomla. Education Graphic Design Universidad del Valle de Mexico Skills Illustrator, Architecture, Information architecture, Prototype, Prototyping