Front End Software Engineer, Contractor <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer, Contractor Front End Software Engineer, Contractor - Express Scripts Rutherford, NJ Work Experience Front End Software Engineer, Contractor Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ December 2018 to Present • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Used Redux for state management of the application.  • Developed data visualizations using D3.js and e-charts. Front End Software Engineer, Contractor Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2018 to November 2018 • Built Responsive Single Page Applications with RESTful services using React JS and Redux JS.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-Vie, and Table Grid.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable component. Web Engineer Technical Consulting & Research - New York, NY February 2018 to May 2018 • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Designed interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using ReactJS Software Engineer Intern Quicken Loans Inc - Detroit, MI September 2017 to December 2017 • Worked on composing minimal code to build reusable forms with validations using React with Redux Architecture.  • Used Python to pull Docker images of analysis tools from Docker hub and containerizing those tools  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages Software Developer Intern Achievement First - New York, NY June 2017 to August 2017 • Designed various screens using React JS and prebuilt components from NPM and Redux Libraries.  • Composed stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Research Assistant NYU School of Business - New York, NY January 2016 to June 2017 • Developed non-functional web pages from mock-ups and performed UI review with UI architect and Business Units  • Designed UI for Web applications with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and resolved cross browser compatibility issues Software Engineer Zeus Learning - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to December 2015 • Created 2 D vector graphic interactions using Paper JS  • Performed Data Visualization using D3.js to graphically explain the mathematical data Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering New York University January 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics Engineering University of Mumbai May 2014 Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Backbone (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), IIS (Less than 1 year), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (1 year), Selenium (Less than 1 year), Testing (Less than 1 year), Unit Testing (Less than 1 year), Web Services (Less than 1 year), Front-End, React, UI, Front End, CSS3 Links https://github.com/akshaynarvekar