Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer - Supervalu Inc Eden Prairie, MN • Over 6 and half years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML4.0/5, CSS2/3, XTHML, XML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, JSTL and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages. Good experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Good knowledge in Responsive Design and Mobility based applications.  • Good Knowledge on how to implement User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQuery, Angular.js & Twitter Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM)  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and ClearQuest for bug fixing.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Experience working with various Web and Enterprise Application servers, WebLogic and IBM WebSphere.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance with extensive experience with agile methodologies.  • Experience in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project and Access)  • Excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal skills.  • Involves in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Work Experience Front end Developer Supervalu Inc - Eden Prairie, MN September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked closely with Web services team and made use of AJAX calls.  • Worked on Foundation CSS for private brands and banner sites of Supervalu Inc.  • Worked on JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Good experience on Gulp and preprocessors - SASS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Used Adobe Experience Manager CQ5 as a supported application for Front end and worked on Creating template and components.  • Used Maven and Jenkins build for continuous integration.  • Worked on media queries for styling and making the websites responsive.  • Worked on AEM 5.6 and AEM 6.1.  • Tested cross browser compatibility and modified the UI according to the business requirement.  • Worked with QA team in fixing bugs.  • Used GitHub for file management and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Actively participated in Agile Scrum meetings, Crucible code reviews and planning poker.  • Coordinated with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application.  • Well versed with Adobe Photoshop and Fireworks.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, AJAX, JSON, XML, GitHub, JIRA, Maven, Adobe Photoshop, Fiddler, Postman. Sr. Web Developer Harley Davidson - Milwaukee, WI May 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented applications using Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Involved in meetings with business customer and technical team for implementing the application.  • Used JQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  • Created XHTML pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  • Debug the application using Firebug too traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked in a team with mySQL.  • Used GIT.  • Component level design and defined the usage of AJAX to reuse the network bandwidth efficiently and making feel that the user resides in the same page of our website.  Environment: HTML4.0/5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSTL, AngularJS, XML, XHTML, Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver, JIRA, GIT, JAVA, Clear Quest, Soap UI, Mobility, Adobe Photoshop and MS Office. UI Developer BCBS - Detroit, MI July 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:    • Worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Responsive design approach using HTML5 and CSS3 to support device integration  • Rapidly prototyped interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Worked on debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Used Data Tables, a table plugin for JQuery, to display the data in tables along with pagination.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration using XML and JSON  • Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  • Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 based on the W3C standards.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, XML, Apache, MAC OS, ECLIPSE, SVN. Senior UI Developer Entertainment Partners - Burbank, CA February 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, and jQuery, Ajax.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging java script and fixing issues.  • Implemented responsive web design using media queries and bootstrap.  • Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features as a light box, galleria, sliders and other intuitive features.  • Converted wire frames to HTML prototypes.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing web Page Applications using AngularJS.  • Worked closely with back- end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, Thyme Leaf, firebug, Apache Maven, Eclipse, Notepad++. Web Developer Consumer Finance Systems - Euless, TX August 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX.  • Developed front end along with pages for user interactions; for the entire website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Defined new validations through Angular JS for the form field validation implemented through HTML.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery, plugins for Drag and Drop, Validator, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS and Bootstrap  • Applied jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  • Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on SQL database.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3, JSON, ANGULARJS, jQuery, XML, SQL. Web/UI Developer Qualcomm India Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka December 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MySQL.  • Developed portals for implementing health care benefits of the employees.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, Firebug, SQL, Windows XP and MS Office. Education e-commerce Chico's FAS Inc. Fort Myers - Fort Myers, FL February 2015 to August 2015 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML, HTML 5, CSS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, Bootstrap, Foundation  IDE, HTML editor Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, Brackets  Application servers WebSphere, WebLogic  Database Oracle11g, SQL Server    Operating Systems Windows 2000, 2003, XP, Vista, Windows7, Mac OS, Unix  Version Controls SVN, CVS, GIT.