UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Dtcc Boston, MA • Over 7+ years of experience in web development, designing user interface applications, testing and documentation of professional web applications using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Proficient in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, RWD(Responsive Web Design) and MV* frameworks such as AngularJS, BackboneJS.  • Possess extensive knowledge on OOPS concepts, JAVA, JDBC technologies and their implementation and hands on experience with object oriented JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface (form validations).  • Resolved complex issues related to browser and network performance, cross-browser and legacy IE compatibility, client-side scaling, data modeling, usability and testability.  • Strong development skills including RESTful Web Services.  • Experienced on implementing Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using JavaScript,JQuery, AJAX calls and JSON data from the server.  • Diverse experience in the field of Web Application Development using HTML 4.0/5, CSS(2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, DHTML, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, XML, JSON, AngularJS  • Developed JSP pages using tag libraries and presentation layer using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, and AngularJS.  • Developed Web 2.0 applications to consume JSON response using callback functions.  • Implemented easy-to-use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc.  • Designed and implemented an Ecommerce Website withnode.js, socket.io, AngularJS.  • Used AJAX and JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Worked proficiently in various IDE's including NetBeans and Eclipse.  • Good experience in establishing/configuring the application infrastructure using application servers like Apache, JBoss, Web Logic, Web Sphere.  • Expertise in handling Twitter Bootstrap framework i.e., the concept of Grids, making using of advance components like Navs, Navbars, Pagination, Alerts, Progress bars etc.  • Worked on Angular JS markup and expressions and experience using Angular UI components like GRID.  • Work experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, and Pseudo Elements.  • Used the best practices of SDLC as well as Agile/SCRUM methodologies. Involved in Waterfall based approach to UI Development.  • Designed web contents and web applications utilizing various SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (SEO) techniques.  • Solid design skills in Java Design Patterns, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Object Modeling Technique (OMT).  • Involved in development converting the static HTML mark-ups to JSP's using JSTL.  • Designed the wire frames using MS PowerPoint and Balsamiq.  • Used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Familiar in writing custom directives in AngularJS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.).  • Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards with great craftsmanship.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the efficiency of web pages  • Good experience in writing PL/SQL queries, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 9i/10g and MYSQL 5.1.  • Experience in understanding Document Object Model (DOM), DOM Functions and Implementation of user-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Created dynamic web pages making AJAX Calls, using the XML Http Request Object.  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12 column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of Object Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  • Experience with JavaScript task runner using Grunt, unit testing framework using Jasmine and JavaScript workflow tool like Yeoman. Dependency management tools NPM and Bower.  • Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with DB2.  • Used SVN for version control and analyzed the performance of JSON.  • Extensive experience in working with version, controllers like Gitand SVN.  • Communicate effectively, to work collaboratively to resolve problems and to motivate team members as well.  • All the DML operations are performed on the MySQL database by executing the corresponding queries.  • Adaptable to new software technologies, quick learner and also can work efficiently as an individual as well as team member.  • Excellent technical, problem solving, Interpersonal Skills and communication skills with strong Customer Orientation, Client Interfacing Skills..  • Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Dtcc - Boston, MA January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Participated in the life cycle development (SDLC) from implementation phase through testing and deployment.  • Developed the complete design for the front end and the entire website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Service calls are created to interact with the server through jQuery and AJAX.  • Different browser properties like boxModel, htmlserialize, style etc. are all tested through the property methods in JQuery.  • Used Backbonejsfor making AJAX calls (GET, POST) for triggering or fetching data from Restful API's provided by the backend team.  • Actively involved in using AngularJS, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client side data to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variable.  • Used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Used the nodeJS, AngularJS, MVC framework for the development of web applications.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps using RESTful services.  • Performed the DML operations on MySQL database by executing the corresponding queries.  • Used JDBC-ODBC Bridge for Database Connection.  • Used AngularJS properties and directives for form validation and created custom directives for custom validation to verify the user information.  • Used React JS in decoupling the component and built layout responsibilities through it  • Used each HTML element having a certain set of events being developed which triggers the corresponding JavaScript code for the corresponding event to take place.  • Used SVN for version control and analyzed the performance of JSON.  • Made changes in the CSS properties as per the client requirements.  • Setup Jasmine for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript.  • Used React js for creating reusable components with well-defined interfaces.  • Mainly used it for making the website more User Interactive and display data in an user friendly way.  • Implemented the application by using core Java (OOPS), JDBC, JSP, Servlets, WebServices, Restful, SOAP and WSDL.  • Applied various Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Extensively worked on implementing the AngularJS based on CSS functionalities.  • Checked functionality of the website by sending the request to the server through AJAX, JSON.  • Coordinated team application oftest-driven-development (TDD) strategies to optimize system quality and to enable rapid refactoring and Agile Methodology.  • Extensively worked in maintaining the websites, software, modifying and understanding the existing code.  • Used advanced javascript techniques with Dojo and AJAX. The JQuery get () and post () methods are used to request the data from the server through HTTPGet or Post request.  • Involved in implementing all components of the application including Database Tables, server-side Java Programming and client side web programming.  • Implemented navigation bar as a custom directive of AngularJS framework so that it can be reused on different templates.  • Worked with my team member to add mobile support using jQuery Mobile and Knockout.js. This was used as a selling point for our software.  • UsedGRUNT, GULP task runner to compile and generate the code.  • Proficient in database development: MySQL 5.1  • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Successfully handled and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Used AngularJS HTTP request to read data from web services and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through AJAX calls using JQuery.  • Used Git for version controlling.  • Responsible for designing the single page application using JQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap3.  • Used D3.js for manipulating documents based on the data provided.  • Events are used to execute the JavaScript coded responses and any other types of responses as per the functionality provided.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JSON, REST, Java/j2ee, Git, MVC, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, SQL Plus. UI Developer Patterson Companies - Effingham, IL November 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI applications for the business and software systems having IEEE standards.  • Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Developed JQuery code using XMLHttp Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side code and implemented a callback function for handling results.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Designed user friendly navigation to display various sections of data using JQuery.  • Created Dynamic Web Pages with Web Controls and developed forms with HTML5.  • Developed server side REST web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Application implemented as a single-page, angular.js client.  • Developed Unit test cases for the Angular controllers using Jasmine.  • Designed, developed and implemented Single Page Application (SPA) in Angular JS by consuming JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the application.  • Enhanced the presentation layer using JSP, JSF 1.2, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS  • Used Selectors, Events, Ajax and Dom Manipulation modules in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Worked with Backbone and Node to give a structure with rich API over a RESTful JSON interface.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQueryevent handlers and call back functions.  • Created an interactive SVG bar chart with different transactions and interactions.  • Involved in migration of project from Spring, Hibernate, My SQL based framework for JDBC, Oracle.  • Used SVN, Gitfor version controlling.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap for HTML and CSS-based design templates for typography, forms, buttons, navigation and other interface components.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • To create new website features wrote Angular controllers, views and services.  • Worked on coding, styling, testing on reusable JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 libraries for complete UI controls.  • Used AJAX Calls $.get, $.post, $.ajax to make request to the backend and fetch the data in JSON format.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing by using Angular Js testing frameworks like Karma.  • Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular js) to see software extensions through to completion.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6  • Implemented Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX calls and JSON content type between client and server communication.  • Developed the web applications for backend system by using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, Java/J2EE, JSON, Usability Testing, Agile, Adobe AEM 5, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MVC, RestWeb Services, Eclipse, MySQL Server, Git. Front End Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN November 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client to understand their existing applications and design the site according to their system requirements.  • Used JavaScript, HTML and JQuery for forms validations.  • Used JSON for faster data interchange and can be parsed using JavaScript  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table, CSS background, border and transitions.  • Used the JQuery widgets like Accordion, Datepicker, Draggable, Droppable, Resizable JQuery interactions.  • Designed and developed AngularJS components such as controllers, directives and services.  • Involved in SDLC of application developed using AGILE.  • Developed JSP pages using tag libraries and presentation layer using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, and AngularJS. Used Ajax for populating the list/drop down box with data.  • Worked with JQuery UI plug-in like widgets, interactions and effects.  • Used extensive Java Collection framework, exception handling classes.  • Designed the wire frames using MS PowerPoint and Balsamiq.  • Wrote JDBC statement, prepared statements and callable statements for various DDL and DML operations. Worked on AngularJS to combine web applications with model view controller capability for making the code development and testing efficient and also worked with JQuery Message plug-in, JQuery validation plug-in.  • Hands on experience with object oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validation using Angular Directives and JQuery functions.  • Used YUI library for building richly interactive web applications using techniques such as DOM scripting, HTML, AJAX.  • Maintained cross browser compatibility and implemented responsive design using Bootstrap.  • Designed user interface for users to interact with system using JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS and Bootstrap. Developed JSP's for the presentation layer.  • Involved in structuring and facilitating Rapid Application Development sessions.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML, DHTML and XML.  • Wrote Oracle PL/SQLprocedures, triggers, views for the back- end database access.  • Designed graphics, buttons, and logos for the website to enhance the application features for the user.  • Worked with No SQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations.  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  • Used Node JS for developing single page applications as well as server side applications.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags using box model.  • Effective communication with the UX designing team.  • Used package managers like NPM/Bower to manage dependencies.  • Used debugging tools like Firebug and Web Inspector for debugging and testing of the web pages.  • Issues were tracked in Mantisbugtracker and was successfully debugged  • Collaborated with the design team to ensure web products and design visions are maintained, final markup is standards compliant and UI deliverables are completed on time.  • Used AjaxXMLHttpRequest to post chat messages and to periodically check the server for new chat messages and update the chat window.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.    Environment:HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, XML, MV* Framework, YUI Library, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MySQL, PL/SQL, NPM, Microsoft Azure, Balsamiq, Tortoise SVN, Mantis Bug Tracker. UI Developer Walmart 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Backbone.js and Bootstrap with My SQL database.  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using JQuery functions.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery. Ajax () calls.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Implemented JQuery frontend for Insurance policy display for employees using JQuery.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Java Server Faces (JSF) framework, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Web Flow.  • Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API using Backbone.js.  • Implemented JQuery frontend for Insurance policy display for employees using JQuery.  • Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  • Implemented JQuery frontend for Insurance policy display for employees using JQuery.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  • Extensively worked on Core Java( Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, JDBC, I/O).  • Implemented Restful web service in YUI Grid Data and YUI Menu.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags using box model.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, XML, SASS, MV* Framework, YUI Library, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, My SQL, Tortoise SVN. Front End Developer Innovative Solutions - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh February 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more versatile.  • Analyzed the requirements and designed the flow of task using flow charts and dependently designed flow between pages of the UI.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the load time of web pages.  • Created master pages and style sheets using Bootstrap.  • Developed windows forms for the windows based system using JavaScript.  • Converted the mock-ups in to hand-written HTML, CSS and JavaScript code.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces  • Involved in developing a user centric market driven site redesign.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Used Oracle Database in the project and developed the Admin screens using JSP, JavaScript.  • Involved in writing procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from database and to delete the data and to reload the data on Oracle.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Test-driven-development (TDD) approach was utilized and the test coverage was always maintained and validated using Clover and Cruise Control.  • Used tools like Grunt, Gulp along with AEM for the application on the client side.  • Created marketing kit handouts with Illustrator and Photoshop and presentation using PowerPoint.  • Code sites according to SEO, and keyword analysis, Social Network and Google Search Appliance (GSA)  • Developed and maintaining the layouts using CSS2 for all intranet applications compliant with W3CStandards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, Photoshop, XHTML, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Oracle, JSP, Oracle, PL/SQL, ANT and Log4j Jr. Java Developer CMC - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2009 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding functionality at client side.  • Designed the web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with business analysts to understand the business models and goals and help define strategy, content and features.  • Involved in the design and analysis of the application.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture.  • Used JavaScript, CSS, and HTML to create the front- end screens of the module.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Designed and developed the UI using Java Swing components like JScrollPane, JTable, JPopupMenu, JFrame, JButton, JCheckBox, JComboBox, JList, JRadioButton and JSlideretc  • Used UI Development using HTML, and coded Java components which Retrieves data using SQL from Oracle database.  • Wrote back- end SQL, PL/SQL queries for fetching the data  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL server.  • Interacted with the clients to get site-specific requirements and perform analysis and design for client specific requirements.  • Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc.).  • Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Wrote code to fetch data from web services using AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Designed the web pages and used an application that meets business and user goals through a positive user experience.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JDBC, JSP, Eclipse, AJAX, JSON Skills HTML 5 (7 years), CSS3 (7 years), Javascript (5 years), Angular JS (4 years), React JS (3 years), Node JS (2 years), Agile (2 years), Ajax (2 years), Java (3 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Karma (1 year), Jasmine (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating System Windows XP/Vista, Mac OS, Unix/Linux.  Programming Languages Java, J2EE, C++, C, JSP/Servlets, SQL,PL/SQL.  Web Development Technologies HTML,HTML5, CSS2.1/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, DHTML,XML,XHTML  JavaScript Library jQuery,Angularjs,Node.js,Backbone.js.React.js  IDE  Eclipse, NetBeans, Eclipse Kepler, SublimeText2, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, IntelliJ IDEA, Jira, Ant, Maven, WinSQL, spring suite, DBVisualizer    Database MySQL5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g, MS Access 2007.  Application servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss  Testing Frameworks Jasmine, JUnit, Fitnesse, Selenium  Version control SVN, Git, CVS  Web services RESTful, SOAP, XML  Workflow and Delivery Responsive web design, Mobile Development,Single-Page Applications, cross-browser compatibility