Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Fishers, IN A creative, talented, and ambitious web professional with 4+ years' experience in designing and coding for the web who seeks to apply those skills and improve every day in order to provide quality products and grow both self as a professional and clients. Work Experience Front- End Developer BitLoft - Indianapolis, IN August 2016 to July 2019 A software development company based in Indianapolis offering software and business solutions to large and small businesses.  Created and developed over 20 quality websites for a wide variety of clients following user experience best practices. Developed in Laravel for our flagship product, a student information system and designed the interface for version 2.0. Designed print material and event planned for 4 events, including Indy Pop Con and Carmel Fest. Created 10 internal trailers for the game department to show investors and 5 hype trailers for our esports partners. Freelance Graphic Designer JC Marketing - Lake Mary, FL July 2014 to August 2016 Digital and social media marketing company specializing in Facebook advertising and product sales.  Worked remotely to provide social media graphics and web design consulting. 4Media, Deerfield, FL - Web Designer A Digital February 2015 to May 2016 marketing and consulting firm specializing in landing pages and user interaction.  Created dating and corporate websites, as well as over 20 interactive landing pages to drive web traffic. Designed various banners and forms utilizing CSS, jQuery, and HTML. Art Designer Univision - Doral, FL August 2012 to December 2012 Multimedia entertainment company based out of Florida that provides news and entertainment across their television network.  Created over-the-shoulder graphics as well as various Photoshop assets for national news program Primer Impacto. Education Bachelors of Science in Visual Effects and Motion Graphics in Visual Effects and Motion Graphics Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2009 to 2012 Skills Prototyping, Web design, Front end, Wordpress, Interaction design, Git, Bootstrap, Laravel, Cms, Jira, Version control, Mapping, Frameworks, User experience, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Front-End, UI Links http://Robertkregloh.com Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) April 2018 to April 2020 Additional Information CREATIVE SKILLS    Responsive Web Design, User Experience, Front End Development, Interaction Design, Communication, Frameworks, Version Control, Testing and Debugging, Browser Developer Tools. Command Line, Video Editing, Prototyping, Planning. Story Mapping    DESIGN/DEV TOOLS    Adobe Suite, Sublime Text, GIT, Jira, Google Analytics, Wordpress CMS, Laravel, Lumen, Bootstrap, Google Cloud Platform, Trello