UI/ Mean Stack Developer UI/ Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/ Mean Stack Developer - Canyon Community Bank Tucson, AZ ? 5 Years of experience in the IT industry working with Web Based Applications and mobile applications in various domains.  ? Expertise in all phases of the software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, and documentation.  ? Experience in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular2,Angular4, Angular6(updated) , ReactJS  ? Extensive experience in developing web and web 2.0 applications using Ajax, OO Java Script, jQuery, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3 and MVC framework.  ? Experience with developing responsive web design by using various front- end frameworks such as Bootstrap, Material Design.  ? Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap. Good knowledge in Ext JS, Backbone.js, Require.js and Responsive Design.  ? Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and JQuery Light box.  ? Hands on experience for HTML/CSS/JSP direct coding with focus on Cross-browser/Cross-platform compliance.  ? Experience in Developing Applications Using CSS3 Media Queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design making the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices. (Grid, Fluid layouts and Break Point Approaches).  ? Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  ? Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using Angular.JS and Node.JS.  ? Excellent Knowledge of multi- tier Web Based application development.  ? Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  ? Working experience in Core Java with strong understanding & working knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and also API's like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception.  ? Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  ? Experience in developing applications using AngualrJS-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  ? Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  ? Strong Knowledge in JavaScript, especially using JQuery in AJAX-driven web applications.  ? Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  ? Designed web applications and web contents utilizing various SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (SEO) techniques.  ? Strong analytical and problem solving skills, self-starter and good team player.  ? Excellent ability in communicating designs through scenarios, prototypes, and UI specs as well as Liaising with Business Analysts, Designers, and Developers in order to create functional specifications.  ? Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Problem Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.  ? Excellent Leadership, organization, planning and co-ordination skills developed from managing teams, working in groups and working with complex projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/ Mean Stack Developer Canyon Community Bank - Tucson, AZ December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed user interactive (UI) web pages using HTML5, Angular 4.0/5.0, Angular Material, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Created reusable components used across various modules using Angular and RxJS.  ? Created reusable Components, Custom Directives, Controllers, Services, Pipes and Service Workers.  ? Used various NPM modules like watchify, babilify, browserify, http-fetch, body-parser are used to build the application.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  ? Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  ? Used Platform as a Service with AWS Elastic Beanstalk to host Node.js and used Infrastructure as a Service with AWS Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) to host Angular application.  ? Followed reflux architecture in creating the actions, stores and controller components for callbacks.  ? Used Angular Material for dialogs, tabs, and date picker, model pop up's and advanced components to implement UI model.  ? Used Angular Flex Layout for designing views.  ? Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front- end development frameworks including bootstrap.  ? Used Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS) to deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications.  ? Developed routing components in the application using Angular Router module for various components and views.  ? Used a microservice architecture, with Node.js-based services interacting through REST endpoints.  ? Created topics in SNS to send notifications to subscribers as per the requirement.  ? Interacting with the offshore team to assist them in the development and help them understand the requirements and performed code reviews.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of MongoDB on different platforms. Designed and developed custom Full Stack applications specific to clients' needs.  ? Developed custom Angular directives, services and integrated with reactive forms.  ? Implemented web user interface design using HTML, Master Pages, Themes, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code.  ? Understanding system requirements and execution of tasks allocated to maintain and develop Web pages.  ? Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  ? Integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests and code reviews.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular Flex Layout, Angular Material, Angular4/5, JSON, RxJS, NodeJS, ExpressJS, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Git. UI/Web Developer Lucky Brand - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the document upload application.  ? Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  ? Used RWD (Responsive Web Design) techniques to enhance user's behavior based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  ? Used Ajax, JSON with JQuery for request data and response processing.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  ? Used Html5 Api reader to preview the upload files like .txt, .rtf, .tif, .tiff and.csv.  ? Used ng2-pdf-viewer from Angular2 npm package to preview the pdf files  ? Created many components with Angular2 for each single page application.  ? Used Angular2 camelCase syntax for built in directives.  ? Used router module from Angular2.0.  ? Used Angular2 npm packages like ng2-datepicker, ng2-pdf-viewer, ng2-auto-complete etc., to meet the requirements of the project.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web Application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Prototyped the new features and ideas using HTML5 and CSS3 (SASS).  ? Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  ? Used Dreamweaver for designing, coding and development applications.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JQuery and Backbone.js and connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  ? Involved in finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  ? Developed Core Java classes and methods for handling data from databases.  ? Prototyped the new features and ideas using HTML5, CSS3 (SASS) and D3.js.  ? Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? Used Git to maintain feature, develop and hotfix branches.  ? Worked on documenting complex UI layouts and designs in Intuit's wiki.  ? Enhanced website by creating new static models pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3,JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0, Node.js, Agile methodology, Responsive Web Design, Adobe Dreamweaver, Windows, Perforce, Git, Windows. Front End/ Web Developer Camico Mutual Insurance - San Mateo, CA March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  ? Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, Node.js, Ext.js and Jquery.  ? Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side.  ? Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  ? Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  ? Created RESTful APIs using ExpressJs and NodeJs.  ? Reviewed and created Development Plan, Test Strategies and other related documents.  ? Involved in writing various SQL Queries and stored procedures to satisfy various business requirements of the application.  ? Responsible for cross browser compatibility and hence exposure to popular browsers.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, XML, Bootstrap, angular.js, Node.js, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Dreamweaver, Agile, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JSON Additional Information Skills:  Languages JavaScript, Ruby  Frameworks Rails, NodeJS, Angular JS  WEB HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, Express Bootstrap, jQuery, DOM, AJAX, JSON, Wordpress  Testing Mocha  SDLC Agile(Scrum), TDD, BDD  Tools Bower, SublimeText, Git, GitHub, Heroku, Slack  Design Patterns Photoshop, Template Method, MVC, Factory and Singleton  Databases MySql, MongoDB, Postgresql, Active Record