UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Atlanta, GA • Over 6 years of experience in developing User Interface and Web Development specialized in front- end UI development with JavaScript frameworks and libraries.  • Expertise in developing web-applications using HTML5, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, Angular JS 1.5, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Node JS, React JS.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as LESS and SASS.  • Have a Strong knowledge on Angular4 & Angular5 Components.  • Proficient in developing responsive Single Page Application (SPA) and Dynamic Web Applications using MVC Architecture Using Angular framework.  • Have a Strong knowledge on Angular 2 Components, Building Prototypes and Services.  • Experience in Producing RESTful Services using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular 2.0.  • Proficient in integrating visualization for UI reports using Jasper Reports and D3.js for Dynamic Data Visualization.  • Experience in unit testing the application using Junit and in Test Driven Development (TDD). Hands on experience in writing unit testing incorporating Jasmin.  • Experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD) using Jenkins application server.  • Worked with Java framework Hibernate and spring.  • Experience in Developing Custom Widgets using DOJO.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Testing application using Jasmin Test Framework and Karma.  • Hands on experience on defect or Issue tracking tools like Jira, Remedy and Bugzilla.  • High level proficiency with distributed version control tools such as Git and Svn.  • Deployment of Web services for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP.  • Hands-on experience in using IntelliJ, WebStorm, Eclipse, Brackets, Atom and Visual Studio .net for web application development.  • Proficiency in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Scrum for development process.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for IE6 & IE7.  • Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions. Experience in Implementation of user-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Experience with different type of services - Batch, RESTful, SOAP services.  • Experience in working with testing tools like Firebug, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Experience using all popular text-Editors like Eclipse, Komodo Edit, Sublime Text, and Notepad++.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Involvement in using various IDE's, Notepad++, Eclipse, Net Beans, Microsoft Visual Studio. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Sharecare - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Responsible to design and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, Bootstrap and Angular 2.0 & Angular 4.0.  • Designed and implemented full stack throughout entire website along with Angular MVC and used it for storing huge payloads of data in a JSON format.  • Developed login system and implemented input validation with Angular, CSS classes and JavaScript Regular Expressions.  • Pages are implemented with Angular JS routing and custom directives for the associate profile.  • Used Angular Http Services which are responsible to return JSON object which are compatible with all mobile, web, mobile web and tablet platforms which also serves Built rich prototypes for designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6 and JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0 and Bootstrap.  • Developed search pages with pagination, sorting and search functionality with Angular Http Service.  • Designed Dojo widgets and reusable modules with Dojo.  • Used Angular built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Consumed the RESTful web services to address the needs of mobile applications where each service can construct JSON, XML and HTML response.  • Worked with D3 for generating reports.  • Experience with creating DOJO Custom widgets and good understanding of DOJO widget lifecycle.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision using GIT version control system.  • Performed cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and Integration using Protractor.  • Interacted with the back- end staff and scrum master at the daily meeting for new features in this web app using Agile software development methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, Angular2.0, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, Protractor, Git, Agile. UI Developer Trepp LLC - New York, NY October 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, DOM, CSS3, JSON, TypeScript, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, TypeScript, and React JS.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using React JS framework and TypeScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using React JS and HTML.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Used React JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented TypeScript Framework like React JS.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and React JS.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, TypeScript, React JS, JSON and HTML5.  • Used JSP, TypeScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.    Environment: TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, React JS, JQuery, Redux, Ajax, DOM, Web Services. UI Developer December 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of software development. From requirement gathering to deployment and warranty.  • Represented team in daily and weekly business call to discuss requirement changes and teams approach in going ahead with requirements.  • Responsible for coordination of project development team and business team.  • Involved in day to day Agile SCRUM meetings, to discuss the daily project status and blockers.  • Designed User Interface for PDP (Product Detail Page), CVS Extracare pages using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS (Writing Custom Filters, Directives, Controllers, Angular factories and custom services)  • Involved in multiple projects taking care of major Angular JS work in addition to helping out other developers having dependency on angular components. Used angular modules like, angular-animate, angular-cookies, angular-filter, angular-mocks, angular-resource, angular-route, angular-sanitize, angular-touch, ui-bootstarp.  • Worked closely with backend teams like Vordel, DBPL, Akamai to integrate RESTFUL web services with front end and resolving different roadblocks in integration. Used angular custom services and factory modules for API integration.  • To achieve responsiveness and develop pixel perfect design as per business requirements used angular UI bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and media queries.  • Developed modular angular code keeping loosely coupling between components.  • Handled different user scenarios using angular controllers and directives. Developed custom filters for representing conditional data on page.  • Used angular feature flags to fulfill business requirement to dynamically change component behavior in future.  • Written configuration file which can dynamically provide service URL's to angular components.  • Developed reusable pure angular components using concept of Browserify.  • Created and implemented unit test cases using JASMINE for different components and handover to QA team for further testing.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Used grunt, gulp, yeoman, npm and bower.  • Used SVN, GIT for Source code management.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular JS 1.5, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, LESS, DOM, Firebug and Chrome. Front End Developer Tech Mahindra - IN December 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JSON, JQuery and AJAX  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery  • Used JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Working knowledge of Ecommerce Application and Ecommerce Application development and deployment, and familiarity with Merchandising and Supply Chain systems.  • Working knowledge of Ecommerce Order Management and Content Management.  • Created Responsive web-design, which is accessible for web and mobile using Bootstrap  • Used Twitter Bootstrap and media Queries to create Responsive Web design working with CSS3 pre-processors such as SASS.  • Used micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST, MQ.  • Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller and Service classes.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular JS 1.5 and Bootstrap.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS  • Extensively used Angular UI components like Calendar, Grid, Select and Uploader etc.,  • Developed Angular JS services for reusable functionality  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON  • Participated in client meetings and resolving client and management project issues  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status  • Worked with Development and Requirement Analysts to ensure that the Test Requirements are correct and complete    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular JS 1.5, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, LESS, DOM, Firebug and Chrome. Java UI Developer Tectoro Consulting - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to November 2013 Responsibilities:    • Involved in designing and implementation of application flow.  • Involved in Developing UI screens in Administrator module.  • Developed Servlets and JSP pages for displaying both dynamic and static pages using HTML and CSS.  • Developed Action and Form Bean classes to retrieve data and process server-side validations.  • Used JavaScript for performing client-side validations.  • Imported external data into new system using SQL and python scripts.  • Wrote python routines to log into the website and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in implementing Internationalization for supporting different country languages using Unicode formats.  • Involved in Code Reviews to make sure best coding standards and java best practices are used before placing the code in version control    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Design patterns, HTML, java script, python, Eclipse IDE, Ant, Clear Case Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), Backbone (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (3 years), Css (3 years), Database (Less than 1 year), Dreamweaver (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Html (4 years), Html5 (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Jquery (4 years), Json (3 years), Sass (2 years), Sql (Less than 1 year), Subversion (Less than 1 year), Svn (Less than 1 year), web services (4 years), Xml (2 years)