UX / UI Design / Graphic Design UX / UI Design / Graphic Design Work Experience UX / UI Design / Graphic Design RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS - Austin, TX October 2018 to Present • Analyse existing sites for usability issues to prepare for improvement and redesign.  • Plan an audit and usability study for a redesign of web site.  • Creating wire-frames, prototypes and mock-ups based on study results for redesign  • Video for Social Media and internal training.  • Designing web assets - landing pages, graphics, web ads, banners, business cards and logos. FREELANCE Austin, TX June 2017 to Present UI/UX/Web/ Front- End Developer/ Graphic Design and Freelance Consultant  • Analyse existing sites for usability issues while providing recommendations for improvement.  • Design and develop responsive websites for small to medium sized businesses.  • Collaborate with Stakeholders, Creating Mock ups, Wireframes, Workflows and Prototypes.  • Troubleshoot existing websites, Isolate and correct display and performance issues.  • Design and Create new custom WordPress templates.  • Help develop online digital storefronts for print clients.  • Designing web assets - landing pages, graphics, web ads, banners, business cards and logos.  • Photography for web assets and professional portraits. UI/Web/ Front- End Developer/ Graphic Designer SOTERA DEFENSE SOLUTIONS - Austin, TX September 2015 to May 2017 • Designed and developed modern responsive online open source library UI for a large Federal Agency.  • Designed and maintained web and application assets  • Designed and produced marketing materials with illustrations and photography for Sotera's data analytics services and applications.  • Designed Conference booth displays and collateral handouts  • Produced and created videos with animation and branding for prototyping, marketing and capabilities demonstrations.  • Creative illustrations for proposals and presentations, both classified and unclassified.  • Resolve business needs and requirements into intuitive interaction and online experiences.  • Helped Administer public web site, intranet, SharePoint sites and Salesforce.  • Developing wireframes and built web-based prototypes for customer testing and User Experience refining.  • Wrote code with CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, and began learning the Angular framework.  • Used Adobe Creative Cloud- Illustrator, Photoshop, Premiere Pro, After Effects InDesign, Git UI/UX Designer/ Front- End Developer XTIVIA - Austin, TX September 2014 to July 2015 • Collaborated with the technical team and clients in an agile environment to efficiently create, design, and implement solutions for client projects including portals, shopping carts, mobile apps.  • Gathered feedback from project stakeholders in order to translate business requirements into user-centered UX/UI design artifacts, analyzed user research, competitive web sites and applications, and prioritized requirements to design the user-experience, page elements, layout, interactions, graphics and user-flow.  • Conceptualized and designed wireframes, translated the wireframes into visually appealing UI designs.  • Designed and developed progressive web and mobile interfaces for market leading clients.  • Built web and mobile applications focusing on modern front- end technologies and frameworks managed through Git.  • Built themes for web portals using HTML, CSS, LESS, Liferay.  • Wrote code with CSS, LESS, HTML5 and JavaScript, Cordova, PhoneGap. Pushed to GitHub after testing. UI/Web/Graphic Designer TOLTEQ - Cedar Park, TX June 2012 to September 2014 • Used research in personas, wireframes, prototypes, and feedback from users to apply creative vision to re-design look and feel, usability for software interfaces for both desktop and responsive web applications insuring an easier to use and understand product.  • Designed and implemented new UI standards, visual branding, colors, and logo guidelines.  • Designed and established an overall consistency for all new products.  • Created supporting graphics and photos.  • Designed, developed and administered internal and customer facing websites with custom WordPress and SharePoint.  • Coded prototypes and mockups for testing interaction as well as graphic design look and feel for new desktop software, web apps and MWD products with an overall visual brand of the company.  • Began an exceptional product photo library.  • Tracked issues and planned sprints with Jira.  • Helped build a Knowledgebase interface connected with Jira.  • Designed and illustrated manual covers, brochures, Data sheets, sales sheets etc.  • Used Adobe Creative Suite's Illustrator, Photoshop, Premiere Pro, After Effects and InDesign  • HTML, CSS, LESS, jQuery, WordPress, SharePoint, Jira and Git. Education Associate Links http://www.phleep.com