Senior Software Engineer - Remote Senior Software Engineer - Remote Senior Software Engineer - Remote - Rosie Rochester, NY Results-oriented Software Engineer with seven years experience in web development, application architecture, and test-driven development. Proficient in the core elements of front end web development. Skilled at leadership, problem-solving, and team collaboration while working independently in remote environments. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer - Remote Rosie - Ithaca, NY June 2019 to Present Lead team to rewrite a legacy application in Angular v.8  ? Implement new CI/CD pipeline using CircleCI  ? Focus efforts on making new application ADA Compliant for WCAG 2.1 level AA  ? New application is a retail shopping app that allows users to search for and order groceries from a chosen grocery retailer Front End Web Developer Be Local Now - Rochester, NY October 2012 to Present Building and maintaining websites for local non-profit organizations, e.g. Doula Cooperative    ? Built website for local survey company: Rochester Parks  ? Rebuilt a Wordpress website using the headless CMS pattern with Angular on the front end, Firebase Firestore (NoSQL database) on the back end  ? Used Hugo and Forestry.io to build a static site for a local Church Senior Software Engineer - Remote MedChat October 2018 to May 2019 distributed company    ? Worked on a HIPAA-compliant real-time chat application built with Angular v.8  ? Collaborated with UX/UI Designer to create clean, simple, and accessible interfaces  ? Improved application architecture by fixing existing circular dependency issues  ? Moved to a new CI/CD integration through Azure Devops  ? Developed unit tests with Jest, e2e testing with Cypress  ? Part of a small team of Angular engineers  ? Added a new pattern for state management using NgRx Facades Front End Software Engineer EagleDream Technologies - Rochester, NY October 2017 to September 2018 Lead software engineer on enterprise order processing portal  ? Immense amount of application state, managed using NgRx  ? Trained six other developers on best practices in Angular web development  ? Implemented an internationalization solution that allowed the portal to be used in other  languages  ? Ordering portal allowed Fortune 500 company to save thousands of hours of manual labor by allowing vendors to order product themselves instead of calling or faxing  ? Reactive Forms used to provide a sophisticated level of validation and business logic throughout the ordering process College Instructor Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY July 2017 to January 2018 Taught 180 hours over 45 classes of instruction to students  ? Brought students from a level of zero experience to being "industry ready" in 6 months  ? Class instruction started with HTML foundations and ends at Javascript Framework  implementations  ? Three of 11 students had jobs before the course was over with an additional 5 finding work after the course ended Education Techdegree in Front End Web Development Treehouse - Work at Home March 2016 to January 2017 Master's Degree in Education in Music University at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY July 2011 to May 2013 Bachelor's Degree in Music Education in B.M.E SUNY Fredonia - Fredonia, NY August 2004 to May 2007 Skills Javascript (7 years), Angular (3 years), Web Development (5 years) Links https://github.com/markgoho