UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Charter Communications Rockville, MD • 7 years of solid experience in User Interface and Web development in telecommunication, banking and e-commerce background.  • Proficient in UI application development using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS, React.Js/Redux, AJAX and JSON.  • Hands-on experience on creating Single Page Application by Angular 2.  • Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, directives and customizable directives, factory, services, customizable filter, $http and $resource CRUD methods to realize functionalities like RESTful service with Ajax calls, input validations, drop-down lists and sortable contents.  • Hands-on experience on building application by Angular Material and UI Router.  • Hands-on experience with integration with Java back ends API by Angular http service.  • Experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling such as SASS, LESS.  • Experience in consuming RESTful Web Services to implement AJAX calls and updating dynamic functionality of HTML in JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.JS.  • Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for Chrome Inspector, IE tester and Firebug.  • Unit testing experience with Jasmine, Karma by TDD for developing web application.  • Familiar with Grunt task runner to manage project. Using NPM package manager to install libraries such as jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Experience in Database development and implementation using different RDBMS such as SQL Server and MySQL. Have the knowledge of working with NoSQL databases such as MongoDB.  • Good understanding in new web technologies like Lodash, Babel, ES6 and Typescript.  • Use Bitbucket as version control tool and be familiar with GIT commands.  • Hands on using Express.js to build web framework in Node.js environment and connect with MongoDB to test our application data.  • Extensive working experience in various SDLC methodologies, especially Agile Scrum and Waterfall.  • Strong communication, problem-solving ability, excellent performance in teamwork, Solid organizational, project and team management skills, Reliable, motivated, hard-working, and attentive to details. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Charter Communications - Denver, CO November 2018 to Present Experiences in development of a well responsive Single Page Application using Angular framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front- end UI team.  • Created multiple Typescript modules to manage written codes in angular project.  • Worked closely with the end users / business analysts to gather the requirements of the project and was responsible for the delivery of technical design document and implementation.  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular2/4 to design UI.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular2/4 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Compiled Typescript files to produce equivalent ECMA5 JavaScript files.  • Restricted member fields and methods access using access modifiers like public, private and protected in Typescript file.  • Accessed and manipulated private member fields defined in Typescript file using get and set properties.  • Using Web pack to generate static assets representing modules from dependencies.  • Expertise in creating responsive style sheets using CSS with SASS.  • Created type script reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Classes to interact with business logic &used Spring Frame work for Angular layer design patterns.  • Wrote AJAX calls to populate tables, tab menu and other components with JSON data in Angular2.  • Extensively used HTML5, Angular, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations.  • Developed web API using Nodejs and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Experienced in Model View Controller (MVVM) frameworks such as Angular for creating SPA.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular4/5 for our prototype- working model.  • Integrated the UI code with Backend, Used JSON for data exchange between the client and server.  • Created middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Created React/Redux based components for display and input of economic data.  • Built highly reusable UI components with React and Styled Components to increase scalability and reusability.  • Extracted reusable logic from components as Higher-Order Components such as infinity scroll to achieve more flexibility.  • Use React JS to create more responsive webpages, which can be compatible with all the browsers and compatible with the different devices.  • Experienced in developing web applications using latest JavaScript ES6 features and framework/Libs such as React and Redux.  • Wrote unit tests with Karma, Jasmine and Enzyme.  • We used jasmine and karma frame works for writing test cases and used to take care of unit test coverage for the functionalities developed.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Following agile methodology with daily standups and regular sprints and used JIRA for tracking tasks and bugs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular2/4, Typescript, Agile, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Web-pack, Jasmine, Node.js, React, Redux. Front end Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX January 2018 to September 2018 • Involved in designing and developing cross-browser web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular 2, MEAN stack.  • Involved in Agile/Scrum based approach to UI Development and Waterfall for seasonal general version update release.  • Used Observables imported from Rxjs and Subscribe method to trigger the code.  • Created several forms that take user input and performed client-side validation using Angular form reactive method.  • Implemented Bootstrap3 features such as grid-system, tables, date picker and tooltip to enhance user experience of the application.  • Implemented Angular components, directives and routing to create components and add meaningful behavior to those components in sub-modules under Home and Orders.  • Involved in building and maintaining backend API's that exposed RESTful data to be consumed by theUI client using Node.js.  • Performed token based authentication to authenticate Node.js API with JSON Web Tokens.  • Experience with Postman for API testing to verify the CRUD operations.  • Implemented Node.js server side code along with Express framework to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose package.  • Implemented MapReduce operations in MongoDB to condense large volumes of data by using the map and reduce phase.  • Implemented TDD (Test-Driven Development) by focusing on writing code that is necessary to pass the test cases utilizing Karma with Jasmine.  • Worked with version control tool Bitbucket as a code repository. Used Jenkins for Continuous integration purpose, which triggers a build for every change made in source code repository for example Git.  • Involved in development and initial testing phase of the modules by using JIRA as the SDLC tool.  • Involved in Agile Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, JSON, AJAX, Express, MongoDB, TDD, Karma, Jasmine, SVN, Grunt, JIRA UI Developer and Designer UBS Bank - Weehawken, NJ August 2017 to October 2017 • Involved in designing and developing wire frames and mockup screens for an internal UBS compliance application.  • Used Microsoft Visio in designing flowcharts and mockup screens for the DQ Portal APP (UBS Compliance Application).  • Participated in daily meetings with the team members in discussing and analyzing the application workflow and UI design. Worked in Agile environment.  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle preparing Requirement specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis and User Training documents.  • Used UBS Single Sign On (SSO) and BBS to design and implement authentication and authorization for the DQ portal Application.  • Implemented Session management using UBS iSAC API, which is REST, to reduce having to query back to database.  • Implemented the required wire frames into the Single Page Application (SPA) using HTML5, CSS3, UBS Bootstrap (UBS Standard Look-Feel), Angular, LESS and Tomcat Web Server.  • Developed Responsive web pages for the application maintaining cross browser compatibility.  • Implemented Form validation on the Front End Layer using Angular and HTML5.  • Designed Templates for various form components to ensure a consistent design across multiple form templates.  • Worked closely with Backend developers in developing Spring Hibernate application.  • Used JAWS, NVDA, and Voiceover to check and test accessibility of the web app to ensure they follow WCAG guidelines.  • Worked with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA.  • Used various Angular features like Routing, component based architecture, Two-way binding, Directives etc.  • Implemented Web services (REST) for transmission of JSON data over HTTP.  • Used GIT for concurrent development in the team and code repository.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, Agile, JIRA, XML, REST, GIT, Tomcat. Web/UI Developer Wells Fargo Advisors - St. Louis, MO March 2016 to March 2017 • Involved in designing wire frames of the new web pages for their brokerage web application.  • Implemented the given wire frames into dynamic and responsive web pages using the available web technologies like JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Less, JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Involved in migrating some of their old legacy webpages into newer responsive pages for their brokerage web application.  • Member of the UI team which over saw the accessibility of new web pages developed, if they are following the WCAG 2.0 guidelines. And, if not then trying to solve those with appropriate design.  • Coordinated with backend developer in migrating from legacy codes, and with testers and business to make sure all the pages are as according to the customer needs.  • Participated in Agile Development methodology and Attended Scrum Meetings, Retrospective meeting and Sprint Planning meeting.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content Managers, copywriters and designers to resolve issue in the development cycle.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, and JQuery meeting W3C standards.  • Developed pages using JSP, JSTL and spring tags, JQuery, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Used HTML5 and JavaScript for client side validations.  • Has worked on AngularJS, which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Worked with REST web services to communicate with third party vendors (API calls).  • Used CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap framework along with CSS pre processor LESS to define various components of User Interface design.  • Planning accessibility at each step of the web development lifecycle.  • Used JAWS and NVDA to test web applications in order comply with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).  • Identify, implement and oversee tools for monitoring website accessibility.  • Optimizing application for maximum speed and scalability.  • Participated in Designing, Implementing and Testing new pages functionality and maintaining existing code.  • Ability to recognize issues in existing software and put together improvement plans.  • Contributed to and enforced existing front- end style guides and pattern libraries.  • Modify internal program structure of files and records and determines sequence of actions.  • Helped to modify internal program structure of files and records and determines sequence of actions.  • Work with colleagues in the institution's web services to develop accessible templates and tools for web production.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Used SVN as a version control tool.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, W3C standards, JSP, JSTL, spring, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX. Web and Inventory Management System Developer 79th Street Wine and Sprits - New York, NY May 2012 to February 2016 • Involved in development, design and implementation front- end layer of the web application using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AngularJS, AJAX and JSON.  • Involved in development, design and implementation backend layer of the web application using PHP and MYSQL.  • Created Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Mockup Screens and Sitemaps.  • Used detailed Wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, handling multimedia files and many others.  • Developed pages using PHP, JavaScript and used JQuery to make AJAX calls.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to web page. Used AngularJS to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to web page.  • Created and tested scripts on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Safari, IE, etc.  • Maintained cross browser compatibility and implemented responsive features using Bootstrap.  • Implemented MEAN STACK application using AngularJS, NodeJS, Express, MongoDB.  • Used Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design to develop complex page layouts including various sections such as headers, footers, left sidebars, content area and marketing area.  • Developed a dynamic and secure front- end that consumes our API.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility.  • Adherence to standards while coding with a keen consideration to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) for accessibility purposes.  • Designed and develop relational database to store inventory using MYSQL, and follow normalization rule to ensure the database tables are structured properly.  • Developed and maintained backend development life cycle, and worked on the front end development integrating modules, assure integrated code is tested, and rework any errors on the modules to fix the problems.  • Designed and developed custom JQuery components for the front end client side validations.  • Experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Worked with clients and gather requirements and developed as per their needs and requirements.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, PHP, MYSQL, Bootstrap, NodeJS, MongoDB, UAT. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science TRUMAN STATE UNIVERSITY - Kirksville, MO Skills Visual studio, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Angularjs, Html5, Ajax, Tomcat, Websphere, Eclipse, Jboss, jquery, Teamsite, Version control, UI, React, Front-End, Angular, Front End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML4/ HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, React, Redux, NodeJS, Express, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2/5/6, Typescript.  IDE s Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, WebStorm, Sublime.  Debugging tools Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools.  Operating systems Linux - Ubuntu, Mac OS, Windows.  Servers Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere.  Version Control GIT, SVN, TeamSite  Build Tools Jenkins, Maven, Ant, Gradle  Database SQL Server, MYSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra