Front End Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Front End Engineer - Humana Inc Miramar, FL Around 8 years hands on experience in IT industry, worked in all phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects with responsibilities as developer at different locations.  • Experience in Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML5, CSS3, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, Angular6, Typescript, ReactJS, Redux, Bootstrap 3, jQuery, jQuery UI, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, Node.js.  • Proficient in end-to- end development of software products (SDLC) from requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding, testing, de-bugging, documentation and implementation.  • Experience in designing websites with W3C Web standards using HTML5, CSS3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around user interaction models, workflows, wireframes, screen flows, mockups and prototypes.  • Experience with Angular 6 development using Typescript or ES6.  • Strong experience in MVVM and MVC using, Angular6. Experienced in Angular 6 Templates, directives, Routing and navigation, Components, Services and Data binding.  • Expertise in React JS and working with Redux architecture.  • Experienced in working with redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Pleasant Experience in React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) and DOM functions to use in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents  • Expert in using JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), a lightweight data-interchange format to build collection of name/value pairs and ordered list of values.  • Experience working with Twitter Bootstrap 3 and 4 Framework, and JavaScript.  • Hands-on operational, development, and management experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Familiar with creating S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Extensively used GIT as a version control. Used GIT for version controlling, chrome developer tools for Debugging and Azure for deploying the code to different environments.  • Experience in resolving Cross Browser compatibility issues (IE 7 & 8, chrome, Firefox and Safari).  • Ability to work independently and in teams while also managing and handling multiple projects. Ability to work in a Linux / Open Source environment.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • A result-oriented professional with good communication, team management, analytical and co-ordination skills.  • Strong team player and coordinated on-site and offshore teams. Work Experience Front End Engineer Humana Inc - Miramar, FL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed a Customer based application based on Angular6, NodeJS, Spring Boot and MySQL.  • Working with the UX team in designing the wireframes and building the UI based out of the wireframes.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6.  • Focused on UI development for large scale CMS website.    • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Angular material components to implement common interaction patterns like form controls, Buttons and Popups.  • Extensively used Model Driven Forms for more control and better validation on the user input data.  • Created the custom directives to access the DOM elements and Custom pipes to format the data into required format across the applications.  • Implementing Dependency Injection and Providers to maintain the reusable services in the application.  • Using Input and Output decorators for communicating between the Parent child components.  • Worked on Lazy loading which loads the module on demand. Creating many feature and shared modules which makes the code more readable and maintainable.  • Creating and building package for CICD and migrating the app into Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Generated Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular6.    • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Worked on proxying the spring boot REST API on IBM API Connect platform.  • Worked on version control systems like GIT and Azure DevOps.  • Worked on Unit testing the Angular application and used Jasmine and Karma to run the tests.  • Documenting all the functionalities, Validations and purpose of validation in the confluence pages.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular6, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Media Queries, DHTML, AJAX, JSON, DOM, XML, Jasmine, Karma, Redux, Visual Studio, Azure, Pivotal cloud foundry, GIT. UI Developer Anthem Inc - Indianapolis, IN July 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experience in creating Web Portal using React.js and Redux.  • Extensive knowledge in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX.  • Used React.js with Redux to separate data and presentation layer. Utilized redux stores to handle the states.  • Focused on helping agile teams with UI development for large scale CMS websites or client-side web apps.  • Experience in Web technologies using React.js and Material UI.  • Developed service infrastructure components in React.js/Typescript for a unified web UI initiative.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Familiar with the Flux architecture and components involved (Stores, Dispatchers, Actions) thorough knowledge Virtual Dom implementation within React.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as React.js and D3.js. Experience in developing Pie-Charts with D3.js.  • Wrote the views using JSX and had used flexbox for proper styling.  • Responsible to create React JS workflows such as Redux.  • Setup production dependencies for application and functionalities using Redux, Webpack, Grunt, Babel, Node JS, SAAS framework.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using D3, React JS.  • Used Jira as a device for venture following and administration where we refresh the day by day undertakings performed.  • Involved in configuring the git repository and maintained the version control using GIT.  • Worked with architects & Developers to enhance application functionality and add new features.  • Worked in Agile methodology for on time delivery of the project.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, JavaScript, Typescript, D3.js, Restful Web Services, MySQL, Bootstrap 3, Webpack, GitHub, Node JS, Agile, HTML5, CSS3, Karma, Jasmine. UI Developer Micro semi - San Jose, CA February 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed cross-browser platform HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Worked on migration from Angular JS 1.x to Angular2 to implement new features and increase the application performance to desired design specifications for single page layout using code standards.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic web page at the user interface and adaptive free layout using Bootstrap.  • Extensively used jQuery, Jasmine, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX and DOM (Data Object Modeling) scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form for secured validations.    • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5 (new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON, SASS.    • Developed server-side REST style web services and called them from backbone collections    • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.    • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.    • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. Worked on large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity using preprocessors like SASS.    • Worked in Agile Environment and attended meetings regularly to show the functionalities implemented and worked closely with business analyst and solution architect  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular2, Angular JS, Media Queries, DHTML, AJAX, JSON, DOM, DHTML, XML, Atom. UI/Web Developer Big Lots - Columbus, OH December 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Developed front end along with pages for user interactions for the entire website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Lightbox effect for landing page using JavaScript.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery, plugins for Drag and Drop, JQuery Validator, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Responsible for migrating from old look of the application to Web 2.0 components and widgets using AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, vanilla JavaScript, and another plug-ins.  • Applied JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  • Used JQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other features.  • Wrote page level code using JavaScript framework along with jQuery and other JavaScript libraries  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  • Extensively used Debugging Cascading Style Sheets to change the styles now and in the future.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular 2, NodeJs, JAVA, JSP, MySQL, Webpack, Mocha, GIT. UI Developer Semantic Bits - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements  • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using a variety of technologies  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Implemented User Friendly UI design with HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side validation and form submission functions and PHP for server-side scripting for web development.  • Assisting the onsite consultants to consume data from legacy system using Web-Services using REST.  • Created both client and server-side validations.  • Design and implementation of new feature or software components for the front- end of a large Web application  • Used MS Visio, Dreamweaver and Photoshop tools for web application development  • Developed front- end UI pages and necessary backend JAVA classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant based page layouts.  • Designed/modified Images/Banners as per the client requirement using Adobe Create SuiteCS5.  • Ensured Web Content follows W3C and Section 508 accessibility standards  • Created / updated system documentation.  • Used Firebug tool for debugging.  • Interacted with User Experience teams to understand customer needs to design online user experiences, ensuring ease of navigation and simplicity of design  Environment: HTML, JSON, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Front End, React, Angular