ReactJS Web Developer ReactJS Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> ReactJS Web Developer - Verizon Arlington, VA • Over 8 years of extensive experience in designing User Interface applications and Proficient in developing webpages using HTML4.0/5.0, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, ReactJS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JavaScript, jQuery, Rest AJAX and JSON  • Developed cross browser compatible pages using Modernizer to ensure proper working of CSS3 and HTML5 features.  • Sound Knowledge and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap  • Decent experience in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications  • Experience in working with third party Web Services API's and web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Expertise in Client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap, React JS, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Experience in developing web applications using MVC & MVVC Architecture  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such LESS and SAAS  • Experience on working with AngularJS to develop single page along with dynamic web applications.  • Profound knowledge in AngularJS concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Good understanding on Typescript and running on different browsers.  • Customized the NodeJS server to pick the local Package. And run the application without changing the local paths and variables.  • Expertise in using source code control system such as SVN, GIT.  • Prepared test case scenarios and internal documentation for validation and reporting.  • Experienced in using UI editors like Sublime Text Editor, Eclipse and STS.  • Used Karma for unit testing and Protractor for end to end testing.  • Experience in taking performance optimization measures for website/web applications to reduce the response times and hence enhancing the end user experience.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience with Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira and Confluence.  • Experience in working with Agile Development Method  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ReactJS Web Developer Verizon - Irving, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept  • Responsible for React UI and architecture.  • Involved in the development of the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, ReactJS and worked on JavaScript framework to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI  • Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, and Java Script  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript  • Used ReactJS with Material UI to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery, ReactJS.  • Design, develop and build application using React and Redux consuming the payloads received from the Java Web API Core 2.0.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in ReactJS  • React and Functional Driven JavaScript expefrt in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization  • Involved in developing presentational and container components using React and JSX  • Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Developed the application on Node JS platform using JavaScript programming  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target  • Designed and built up the UI design and front- end programming for application that matches the wireframes utilizing the most recent HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Developed front- end components using HTML5/CSS3 and Angular.  • Developed applications using latest JavaScript features and frameworks such as React and Redux to build dynamic web pages.  • Worked with React-router, JSX, Babel, and React bootstrap.  • Used twitter Bootstrap for making responsive website architecture for changing screen sizes and gadgets.  • Good involvement in actualizing MVC systems like Angular.js for AJAX information calls utilizing the $http benefit.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Analyzed and parsed the reaction of JSON/XML to refresh DOM. Worked with the SASS/SCSS pre-processor to rearrange composing the CSS stylings.  • Supervised the daily set-ups and start-ups of production equipment.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.    Environment: ReactJS, Mongo DB, Gulp, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Spring MVC, Responsive Design, Eclipse. Angular 2 Web Developer Voya Financials - West Chester, PA August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS.  • Developing presentation layer with JSP's, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Form tags, Tiles, JSTL tags etc.  • Hands on JavaScript/ES6 development on Node.JS platform with React, Redux libraries.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Involved in writing the front- end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation.  • Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, and pipes, injectable.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Worked with advanced JavaScript concepts like Closures, Prototype and Inheritance.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Worked with Angular.js routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Hands on Experience with AWS Cloud system and data security implementations.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using Node.js, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used Node.js to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable network application.  • Involved in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services and writing logs to Amazon Redshift.  • Extensively used JavaScript for adding dynamic web content to Web Pages.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node Js.  • Created various Mongo-DB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the application.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of attributes using jQuery.  • Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using AJAX.  • Written unit test scripts for controllers, filters and services using karma and Jasmine.  • Used GitHub as a version control and used JIRA for bug management.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2, Node Js, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React JS, Bower, AWS, JIRA, AJAX, PHP, jQuery, JSON, Grunt, Ext Js, Stash, Source Tree, Jasmine, Karma and Brackets. UI Developer AIG - Houston, TX July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, React. JS, Redux, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created customizable components for the new website using React. JS and React-Routes to create a single page web application. Developed various screens for the front end using React. JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single page responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React. Js.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Worked on Bootstrap, SASS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Created responsive layouts for mobile platforms by following grid model in bootstrap.  • Used Selectors to compute derived data, allowing Redux to store the minimal possible state.  • Designed front- end user interfaces with React. JS by creating many components and modules.  • Replaced legacy custom state management system with Redux & Redux.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and redux concepts.  • Extensively used core features like Props and State and worked on React JS for developing UI using sorting, Pagination and rendering for search product page.  • Used React JS with Redux to create a single page web application with efficient data flow between the client and server and used to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used Redux to maintain the entire State. Developed well designed Store, Actions, and Reducers.  • Utilized a concept called Virtual DOM in React JS to create in-memory data structure cache, enumerate the resulting differences, and then update the browser's displayed DOM efficiently.  • Used Babel to transpile advanced ES6 syntaxes and JSX into ES5.  • Performed the Synchronous/Asynchronous file operations and created web server Using Node. JS.  • Worked on Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node. JS.  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Worked with Package managers NPM, Bower and build tools Webpack.  • Worked on Karma and Jasmine to write for unit and integration tests for the app.  • Wrote a tracking wrapper, that will act as a single point function for handling all the track events throughout the application.  • Accessibility WCAG 2.0 guidelines incorporation while development of the website.  • Involved in Production Support and enhancements as per application requirements.  • Good working experience using Jira and GIT.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React Js, Redux, JSON, GIT, Restful API, JIRA, Jasmine, Karma, AEM, ALM. Front End Developer KCG Group - North Arlington, NJ June 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups and interface design specifications.  • Developed web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap.  • Created Angular JS custom directive which is restricted to being used as an attribute.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) from Angular JS factories and services.  • Implemented data-binding and MVC using AngularJS for front- end development of a current web application.  • Interacting with backend/middleware REST API to communicate with frontend.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages and developed responsive interface using Bootstrap and media queries.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML and JSON to update UI.  • Responsible for migrating from old look of the application to Web 2.0 components and widgets using HTML, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Used Knockout JS to simply the complex data-based for user interfaces.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Actively involved in deployment Application WAR files in Web Logic Application server.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, Knockout JS, JIRA, Firebug, IE Developer Tools, GIT/GitHub, Eclipse Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Json