Systems Developer Systems <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Developer - Quogen, Tempe Tempe, AZ Work Experience Systems Developer Quogen, Tempe 2019 to Present • Maintain and develop client-facing Laravel web-application look, feel and interactivity using technologies such as Bootstrap, Sass, Vue.JS, Webpack & Docker  • Create lead generation workflows with highly optimized web pages and UX/SEO friendly sales funnels  • Integrated with various lead tracking software such as TUNE, HasOffers, in order to further optimize web traffic funnel and increase conversions for existing verticals.  • Work in a Test Driven Development Ecosystem utilizing Laravel Full Stack Test Suites  • Server Administration Nginx AWS products and services (S3, Queues, SNS, etc.)  • Customized membership software with API to integrate with 3rd party applications, CRMs and digital performance measuring systems. API integration with Twilio, Nexmo, Plivo or Tropo integrations.  • Optimize web applications for maximum speed and scalability. This is done by building efficient, testable and reusable PHP modules  - Create pixel-perfect front- end pages for different web environments - including iPad's, Mobile Phones & Laptops Freelancing 2013 to Present Southern California (2013-Present)  Developed custom solutions for startups and online marketing companies. Managed teams of developers, designers, and marketers in the US, India and the Philippines. Active in every stage of software development; from scope discovery, to setting expectations and deadlines with stakeholders and developers, to hands-on development of proprietary and open source software. Developed small scale to enterprise level solutions responsible for $100,000 in sales, and hundreds of thousands of page views, including:  • GameRights.net - Developed customized payments integration with Assembly Payments to create a fully functional escrow services integration for the videogame marketplace. By utilizing Laravel's platform, was able to develop & design a beautiful state of the art web application. Managed complete build, from inception to launch to scale. Used a plethora of Dev-Ops skills including continuous integration & continuous deployment as well as load balancing web traffic. Fought Fraud using PCI level 1 standards for the merchant account service integration.  • VideoCheckout.com - Managed design and deployment of responsive WordPress theme to increase EPV (earning per visitor) and product conversions. Consulted on server infrastructure responsible for hundreds of thousands of pageviews while maintain server integrity through a custom Varnish caching service on a load balancer ubuntu 16.04 instance via Apache/NginX.  • Statpedia.com - Modified the existing Laravel platform utilizing best practices in their custom Laravel-MVC framework to overhaul their web-app. Ensured the feasibility of mechanical UI/UX through rigorous front end development utilizing D3.js for graphing and charting of big data. Consulted on landing pages and best SEO practices. Managed and deployed application side code, ensuring the seamless interactions of the client's view and the company's data.  • Mojopay.com - Managed design and deployment of responsive WordPress theme to increase EPV (earning per visitor) and product conversions. Did custom PHP/JS WordPress shopping cart solution that integrates with WooCommerce shopping cart.  • Xfire.com [Web-App] - Developed custom PHP/JS solutions for the gaming web application. Development Team Lead The Torkzadeh Law Firm, Irvine 2018 to 2019 -Responsible for planning, organizing, and directing all operations and personnel in the companies forward facing websites & inhouse development projects  -Responsible for excellence in technology solution creation; contribution to delivery of projects to market on time, budget, quality and technology that meet and exceed patient and customer expectations.  -Drive the technology phase for various legal projects and work effectively with the Marketing and Legal  -Develop improved technology readiness approaches and processes, ensuring effective monitoring of time and budget in the product development cycle.  -Create valuable IP both for our products and solution offerings; collaborate and liaise with the IP department, enabling freedom to operate and excellence in creativity.  -Deploy & develop code (Laravel, WordPress) to aid in the development environment.  -Maximize revenues at the lowest possible expense; develop and implement a development work plan to work within budget  -Creates processes, procedures, forms, and/or rules necessary for work completion, efficient workflow, and/or service delivery  -Lead all 'Agile ceremonies': Release Planning; Sprint Planning, Demo and Retrospective give approval where necessary  -Review and Approve Sprint Backlogs, Features and user stories. Where multiple teams are involved in a sprint create and prioritize joint sprint backlog Lead Front End Web Developer Synrgo, Brea 2017 to 2018 Maintain and develop client-facing Laravel web-application look, feel and interactivity using  technologies such as Bootstrap, Vue.JS, Sass, Webpack & Docker.  • Develop and maintain numerous pages that live in the Laravel environment. This includes  multiple ajax calls to custom routes and controllers which seamlessly deliver and generate  information on the fly.  • Customized membership software with API to integrate with 3rd party applications, CRMs and digital performance measuring systems. These include specialty software that creates  government ready PDF's on the fly using PHP.  • Optimize web applications for maximum speed and scalability. This is done by building efficient, testable and reusable PHP modules.  • Have regular exposure to meetings from marketing to management, as well as the authority  and scope to apply my expertise to many technical problems Full Stack Web Developer Total-APPS 2016 to 2017 • Maintain & develop customer-facing websites look, feel & interactivity  • Develop and maintain numerous custom WordPress plugins for custom shopping cart, custom  user registration/login plugin, load balancer & Apache WordPress support, custom WordPress  SSL plugin to automatically secure webpages, enhancing existing shopping carts to better  integrate with our native API, custom shortcodes to implement GET, POST and user meta  information in-post for tracking  • Customized membership software with API to integrate with shopping carts and CRMs/  along with scalable code/libraries for future use  • Worked on custom solutions for payment processing integration in a strict PCI compliant  environment.  • Create and optimize campaign ready landing pages by ensuring the technical feasibility of UI/UX  designs from the marketing team  • Optimize web applications for maximum speed and scalability.  • Ensure the security across all websites as well as active hardening against vulnerabilities.  • Establish and contribute best practices to the company including Code Practices, VCS, Browser  Testing & Debugging, and SEO. Monitoring done using NewRelic/AWS.  • Aid the team in development and planning in DB Administration, System Administration and MEAN/LAMP full stack development Junior Full Stack Web Developer Total-Apps 2015 to 2016 • Maintain & develop customer-facing websites look, feel & interactivity  • Take existing wireframes and develop landing pages to funnel session traffic to.  • Worked with Rest API's to securely send session data, user data and monitor UTM campaigns.  • Aided Existing WordPress Development where needed  • Developed solutions to various problems in payment facilitation API development. Education Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Arts Thomas Aquinas College 2013 to 2015 Skills API, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS Links https://github.com/MatthewMariner