Software Engineer Software Engineer Developer West Chicago, IL Developer looking for opportunities. Proficient in .NET, Nodejs, javascript, and frontend development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer APPLIED COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES Inc - Aurora, IL October 2018 to Present Maintain current software as well as developing features and other products. Utilizing .NET Framework, Javascript, and C# Freelance Front End Developer Freelance - West Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Freelance front developing. Creating web apps and sites on and off for a few years. Utilized Nodejs, Reactjs, and Mongodb Dealer Grand Victoria Casino Elgin - Elgin, IL June 2016 to October 2018 Deal cards and money transactions Bartender Grand Victoria Casino Elgin - Elgin, IL February 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  Bartend, handle money, customer service, clean very well, and be professional     Accomplishments  i learned how to be an A+ bartender and A+ at customer service. Im fully able to handle from kindest to the rowdiest patrons. Also learned how to deal with very very large crowds while keeping complete composure. And how to expertly handle miney.     Skills Used  -customer Service  -money handling  -bartending Server/Bartender/Assistant Manager 40tude Bar & Bistro - Schaumburg, IL May 2013 to February 2014 At 40tude I am incharge of the bar and making sure the servers are on par with our standards. I serve regularly and bartend very well as well. As assisting manager, I do various tasks as inventory, check outs, and other various managing duties. Education BA(not obtained yet) in History and Computer Sciences Davis and Elkins College - Elkins, WV 2008 to 2012 Diploma in General Studies Westminster Senior Highschool - Westminster, MD 2004 to 2008 Skills Bartending (5 years), Python (1 year), HTML/CSS (4 years), Javascript (1 year), NodeJs (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), JQuery (2 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (8 years), GIMP/Photoshop (6 years), React (1 year), Linux, XML, HTML, SQL Links http://Jordonbuchanan.com http://Github.com/jordonbuchanan Certifications/Licenses Food Handler