Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Portfolia Inc Glendale, AZ • 5+ years of experience as Front- End developer developer across multiple domains.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and Handlebars.  • Experience in using various tools for development and design like Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools that includes Chrome Developer tools, Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow  • Experienced hand coding HTML and CSS code from scratch for mobile  responsive landing pages and emails.  • Developed User Interface as well as back end operation using JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed Mobile Site, compatible with all latest mobile phones for the re-launch of Hindu website.  • Possess excellent interpersonal, communication and organizational skills with proven abilities in handling team, training & development, customer relationship management and planning.  • Proven skills to work in sync with the corporate set parameters.  • Keen strategist with expertise in managing strategies with key focus on ensuring optimal utilization of resources.  • Proficient in developing & streamlining systems with proven ability to enhance effectiveness and meet operational goals within the cost, time & quality parameters.  • Proven track record of managing processes and streamlining workflow & creating team work environment to enhance productivity innovatively.  • Hard working and willing to work as a key player in challenging & creative environment.  • Successful track record in ensuring that the process surpasses achievement of delivery & service quality norms for all clients.  • Excellent Client Interfacing and communication skills  • Excellent analytical and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Portfolia Inc April 2019 to Present Portfolia Inc    Working as a Independent Contractor for Portfolia Inc    Scope: Web Page Redesign  Technology: HTML5, CSS3 , Jquery and Squarespace.  Responsibilities:  • Made design changes as per client requirement using custom coding  • Populated content on the website on need basis.  • Wrote Custom CSS code for styling the webpage.  • Wrote Custom coding using Javascript & jquery to customize the templates.  • Created Custom anchor links for various pages.  • Added Custom pop-up on the page.  • Integrated member space plugin on the square space website.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed QA to ensure everything looks and works correctly on all relevant devices and on all relevant browsers Front End Developer Upwork December 2016 to Present Profile link: https://www.upwork.com/o/profiles/users/_~01dc74319b9e758e45/    Working as a Freelancer for multiple Projects.    Scope: Web Page Redesign  Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript and Jquery.  Responsibilities:  • Create a New Web Page as per mockup.  • Integration of Responsive Image slider  • Integration of Responsive table.  • Implemented Social Media Share functionality for the webpage.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.    Double Gemini  Scope: Web Page Redesign  Technology: HTML5, CSS3 and Squarespace.  Responsibilities:  • Made design changes as per client requirement using custom coding  • Populated content on the website on need basis.  • Wrote Custom CSS code for styling the webpage.  • Created Custom anchor links for various pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed QA to ensure everything looks and works correctly on all relevant devices and on all relevant browsers    Scope: OHorizons Mobile performance optimization    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Squarespace, Jquery, and SASS    Responsibilities:  • Performed mobile optimization by reducing the number of HTTP requests required to fetch the resources for each page.  • Linked the Google+ Publisher to the Google plus page of the website.  • Improved Search Engine Rankings and adopted SEO best practices.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Optimized the mobile site.  • Fixed META tag issue, image to be displayed while sharing webpage in social media (face book, twitter).    Scope: Web Site Restore - Rebuilding website from internet archive.    Technology: HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript.  Responsibilities:  • Restored word press interface.  • Uploaded blog posts that have been archived.  • Created page to scroll between pictures.  • Ensured site is properly uploaded to web server. Front End Developer Journey blooms - Phoenix, AZ February 2017 to February 2019 Project Summary: Objective of this project is to redesign the existing funstampersjourney.com website to new Rich UI using the Prowess proprietary CMS.    Main aim of the project is to enhance the ability to access webpage load faster, SEO friendly and also editable for journey coaches.    Scope: To develop Rich UI webpages as per the requirements using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript and Jquery. Adopted Process model is Agile development model.    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery and PROWESS CMS.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Created a New Custom Theme for the Website in PROWESS CMS.  • Involved in Preparation of layout as per mockup.  • Performed Functional Specification Analysis.  • Prepared the base cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Used Bootstrap grid system to make website responsive.  • Created Responsive Navigation menu for the website.  • Implemented bootstrap carousel for the home page.  • Developed various Email templates by Hand coding HTML/CSS for coach welcome letter, New Sign-up email and Promotional emails.  • Tested email templates to ensure it renders properly across multiple email clients.  • Created various reusable modules for the pages in the PROWESS CMS.  • Created various modules for the page depends on the user roles.  • Implemented all pages 100% responsive and resolved cross browser issues.  • Implemented User Experience page for shopping cart functionality.  • Created separate website for each Journey coach.  • Implemented third party font in PROWESSS CMS.  • Created separate blog module in WordPress CMS.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch etc.).  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Used Image Sprites to reduce the Http Request.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.    Project Summary: Objective of this project is to redesign the funstampersjourney.com website using the WordPress CMS.    Scope: To develop Rich UI webpages as per the requirements using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery and WordPress theme    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery and WordPress CMS.    Responsibilities:  • Identified WordPress theme as per the requirement.  • Worked on DNS settings to make the domain live.  • Installed and uploaded the WordPress theme  • Worked on customizing the look and feel of the WordPress theme as per the requirement.  • Implement all the main pages and subpages for the website  • Implemented Contact Form, Newsletter subscription, Instagram feed and gallery features.  • Implemented akismet for the anti-spam.  • Implement blog Module  • Taken care of the regular updates of the plugin and themes.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.    Project Summary: Objective of this project is to update and to create new functionality on the Spellbinders website and Spellbinders wholesale website on Big commerce CMS    Scope: To develop new functionality and to work on customizing the existing theme on Biocommerce CMS    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery, Handlebars and Big commerce CMS.    Responsibilities:  • Installed Capacity theme on the website.  • Customized the look and feel on the website using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery and handlebars.  • Implemented payment functionality on the website by integrating with Braintree.  • Integrated Order desk with big commerce for tracking and updating the inventory.  • Added a new Popup functionality on the spellbinders wholesale website by customizing the big commerce theme  • Integrated Klaviyo Sign-up form for Newsletter sign-up.  • Taken care of the regular updates of the website.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing. PROBONO WEB DEVELOPER Taproot Foundation - New York, NY February 2016 to February 2017 PRO-BONO WEB DEVELOPER  Scope: OHorizons Mobile performance optimization    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, and SASS  Responsibilities:  • Performed mobile optimization by reducing the number of HTTP requests required to fetch the resources for each page.  • Linked the Google+ Publisher to the Google plus page of the website.  • Improved Search Engine Rankings and adopted SEO best practices.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Optimized the mobile site.  • Fixed META tag issue, image to be displayed while sharing webpage in social media (face book, twitter).    Scope: Migrate "She's the First" website to National Builder    Technology: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, Jquery, SASS and LESS.    Responsibilities:  • Create a New National Builder Custom Theme for the Website.  • Developing separate page for Home, Donate, Blog and Volunteer Module.  • Developing and the customizing Stylesheet using SASS.  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.    nPower Community Crops    Scope: Website Updates and Enhancement Project  Technology: HTML, CSS Javascript, PHP, Jquery  Responsibilities:  • Involved in enhancement of existing Pages "hayiti Now Crop"  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Suggested Solution for faster accessing of pages in Mobile site  • Removed unwanted plugins for faster accessing of webpages.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch etc.)  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing. Associate Cognizant Technology Solutions December 2010 to October 2012 Client: E*TRADE FINANCIAL    OFAC Country Login Phase2  Project Summary: Main aim of the project is to determine if they are login from OFAC restricted countries. Automatically block users who attempt to login or call from OFAC restricted countries.  Prevent customers who access E*TRADE platforms from OFAC restricted jurisdictions by placing type 7 trades via Serena, Genie and IVR.  Scope of Project: To develop User Interface Customer screen to place restriction on OFAC restricted country login.  Technology: JQuery, HTML, CSS, XSL    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Prepared clean hand code cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow etc.)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Used Image Sprites to reduce the Http Request.    Prospect Site Redesign  Project Summary: Prospect Site Redesign project is to convert the existing E*TRADE prospect pages to new Rich UI Web pages. Main aim of the project is to make page loading faster, SEO friendly and pages to be made easily editable for future changes. It has modernizer support in NEO with symbolic link to the library.  Scope of Project: To develop Rich UI web pages according to mock-up using HTML5, CSS3 and to integrate JQuery Plugins  Technology: Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, XSL2.0    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Prepared clean hand code cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow etc.)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Used Image Sprites to reduce the Http Request.  • Integrated Jquery Plugins with Static HTML.    CSG Translation Project  Project Summary: CSG Translation project is to Provide Multi lingual support for the following E*TRADE modules: Employee Stock Plan, Real Time Account Activation, and W-8 Ben Participant Certification process  Scope of Project: To translate the content of some of the E*TRADE modules to ten languages: French, Italian, Spanish, German, Chinese, Traditional Chinese, Japanese, Portuguese, Korean and Russian using SDL tool and to develop UI to display the content in ten languages for E*TRADE modules.  Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Prepared clean hand code cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow etc.)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Used Image Sprites to reduce the Http Request.    Web Request System  WRS is the system that is used by our Web Development team in E*TRADE to manage small one-off requests that come to us for development apart from major projects.    Alibaba.com  Project Summary: Alibaba.com is a B2B application i.e. a common gateway between buyers and suppliers. As a part of their expansion plan they are planning an India site targeting Indian market. The project includes development and also reengineering existing functionalities for Indian Business.  Scope of Project: To implement a valuable and entertaining User Experience for the website.  Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, YUI.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Involved in bug fixing for sprint1.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow etc.)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue. Team Member Echidna Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to December 2010 BzzShop - Social Media Site  Project Summary: BzzShop is a digital shopping tool designed to help shoppers instantly find the item they are looking for shopping. By aggregating User Generated Content (UGC) from various sources (for example, Twitter, Face book, Blogs), BzzShop is able to discern which products are highly regarded, popular, new - as well as other key characteristics that enhance the shopping experience.  Scope of Project: To implement a valuable and entertaining User Experience (UX) across multiple channels (web site, mobile, in-store digital signage, etc.). To provide memorable experience for its users.  Technology: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and JSP.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Converting PSD into HTML.  • Prepared clean hand code cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch, Yslow etc)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Used Image Sprites to reduce the Http Request.  • Integrated Jquery Plugins with Static HTML.  • Performed Code Optimization and Image Sprite optimization. Lead Team Member The Hindu - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2009 to June 2010 BUSINESSLINE ONLINE WEB SITE DEVELOPMENT  Project Summary: The online site is developed using Content management system - ESCENIC V4.3 (running on J2EE Platform). News Gate which is online package system is integrated with Escenic for publication of articles. New development site uses Escenic for back end operation.  Scope of Project: Re-Launching of Business line site using Escenic, Exporting the articles from News Gate to Escenic using XSLT Transformation. Adopted Process model is Agile development model.  Technology: JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, XHTML, HTML, CSS    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of Layout and Wireframes as per mockup.  • Performed Functional Specification Analysis.  • Prepared clean hand code cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Test Cases were prepared based on the Functional Specification  • Developed User Interface as well as back end operation for business line site using JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed tables less layout using div and span tag.  • Developed RSS Feeds (developed two feeders with image and without image).  • Developed rich display of slideshow.  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Developed change Text size functionality using java script and without java script.  • Wrote XSL to transform XML documents in appropriate format  • Gained exposure on Yahoo UI framework  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch etc.)  • Checked the health of the site using W3c Validator and steps taken for faster accessing of web pages.  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.  • Performed Sprint demo for developed functionality at the end of each sprint.    THE HINDU ONLINE WEB SITE DEVELOPMENT  Project Summary: The online site is developed using Content management system - ESCENIC V4.3 (running on J2EE Platform). News Gate which is online package system is integrated with Escenic for publication of articles. New development site uses Escenic for back end operation.  Scope of Project: Re-Launching of Hindu site using Escenic, Exporting the articles from News Gate to Escenic using XSLT Transformation. Adopted Process model is Agile development model.    Technology: JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, XSL, HTML, CSS  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Preparation of layout as per mockup.  • Performed Functional Specification Analysis.  • Prepared the base cascaded style sheet as per mockup.  • Test Cases were prepared based on the Functional Specification  • Developed User Interface as well as back end operation for Hindu site using JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed Mobile Site (compatible to all latest mobile phones) for relaunch of Hindu website.  • Image size was compressed in mobile version to decrease the download size of page and faster accessing of web pages in mobile phones.  • Audio player installed and developed using Jquery  • Video player installed and developed using Jquery  • Developed RSS Feeds (developed two feeders with image and without image).  • Resolved Cross browser issue.  • Search functionality developed with user friendly pagination.  • Developed calendar using Jquery date picker.  • Debugged CSS problems using relevant tools like (Firebug, Http Watch etc.)  • Performed Unit Testing and System Testing.  • Performed Sprint demo for developed functionality at the end of each sprint. Team Member L&T InfoTech July 2007 to October 2008 Client: Hitachi Ltd., Hitachi, Japan  Project: HiCommand Global Link Availability Manager  Scope of Project:  Brand Name Change: Hitachi(client) requested to Change the product name HiCommand Global Link Availability Manager to Hitachi Global Link Availability Manager  HBase Agent: Prior to HGLM6.0, the product uses the HDvM Agent. In HGLM6.0 HBase Agent was used.    Technology: HTML, JavaScript and JSP  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis of HGLM5.7 source code and prepared Investigation report for brand name change.  • Involved in External Specification and Functional Specification study  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSP.  • Eclipse has been used for application development.  • Involved in Module Checklist and Program Checklist Preparation using CLMAN tool.  • Involved in Module Checklist, Program Checklist and Total Checklist testing.  • Involved in Performance Analysis Process Education commerce and MODX JIRA and HP Quality Center Skills Front End, UI, Javascript Links https://vithyaswaminathan.com