Project Attorney Project Attorney Charleston, SC Work Experience Project Attorney MOTLEY RICE, LLC - Mount Pleasant, SC June 2018 to January 2019 ? Managed a team of attorneys through the discovery phase of the largest  class action lawsuit in the United States.  ? Reviewed, analyzed and classified thousands of confidential and privileged documents.  ? Drafted and maintained a privilege log of rolling productions while advising  co-counsel on privilege-related issues. Front End Software Developer PAYNEARME, INC - Sunnyvale, CA August 2014 to September 2017 ? Implemented the UI for a hybrid financial services application which enabled users to pay their bills by cash at several retail locations.  ? Created and deployed web pages for company's Wordpress site using  browser and platform compatible markup to increase brand awareness.  ? Maintained consistency in the UI between prototypes and products under tight deadlines within an Agile workflow. Staff Attorney/Discovery Counsel NELSON MULLINS RILEY SCARBOROUGH/ENCOMPASS - Columbia, SC June 2010 to June 2013 ? Coordinated and managed 200+ attorneys and legal personnel, including  managing processes and production of millions of pages of data to meet  opposing counsel and court demands.  ? Implemented project training and monitored progress to ensure adherence  to quality and production deadlines set by federal and state courts and co-counsel. Associate Attorney SVALINA LAW FIRM, PA - Beaufort, SC September 2008 to February 2010 ? Litigated civil and criminal cases in South Carolina's state and magistrate  courts.  ? Managed clients, assistants and paralegals throughout a variety of lawsuits. Law Clerk THE HONORABLE JAMES W. JOHNSON, JR., STATE OF SC - Laurens, SC August 2007 to August 2008 ? Researched, analyzed and wrote proposed orders and legal memoranda  based on substantive legal issues in the South Carolina Court of Common  Pleas and in the South Carolina Court of General Sessions.  ? Assisted judge in mediating and holding in-chamber meetings between counsel in civil and criminal court. Education JD in Law Charleston School of Law - Charleston, SC Bachelor's in Spanish Presbyterian College, linton, SC - Clinton, SC Certifications/Licenses South Carolina Bar License ACE Certified Personal Trainer February 2018 to February 2020 Registered Yoga Teacher