Web Manager Web Manager Web Manager & Front End Developer Arlington, VA Detail-oriented, adaptable, and dependable, I value high standards in any task I undertake. With 8 years of experience in web management, front- end development and customer service, I make a valuable cross-functional collaborator and team member. I am a quick and exhaustive learner and a passionate innovator. I am always looking for ways to expand my knowledge and grow my talents. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Manager United Way Worldwide - Alexandria, VA January 2019 to Present -All previous role duties and the following. Conducts CMS trainings for support staff. Creates processes, best practices, and website documentation for internal and external use. Provides in-person and virtual trainings and consultations on shared digital products for United Way clients.  -Acts as liaison between the IT/Development and web project teams, ensuring brand consistency and web integrity across the entire scope of United Way’s web presence and lending UX and technical expertise. Is the SME on United Way's digital presence and sets and tracks goals and KPIs.  -Oversees API and product integrations  -Manages a small team (Web Content Specialist and Web Developer) in prioritizing and executing web tasks for United Way’s external-facing web properties.  -Identified the need for and created an auditing and cataloging system to track existing web properties and determine their value to the organization, set development/sun-setting timelines, and reduce inefficiencies. Manager, Web Experience and Development United Way Worldwide - Alexandria, VA May 2016 to December 2018 -Manages United Way.org and a portfolio of more than 10 secondary websites. Deploys regular feature sprints and larger development projects with outside vendors. Consults internal teams on website utilization and analytics.  -Helped oversee the rebranding and upgrade of United Way.org and the rebuild of MyFreeTaxes.com, providing technical expertise and guidance to outside vendors and internal development support.  -Designed and developed three award-winning mobile-friendly digital annual reports to illustrate United Way’s global impact. Junior Front End Developer Hobsons - Arlington, VA April 2013 to May 2016 -Created and configured client application web pages, inquiry forms, and other content. Edited existing client page- and email-styling using standards-compliant HTML, CSS, JavaScript and responsive design where needed.  - Designed, coded and tested multiple cross-platform compatible email newsletters with company-wide scope.  -Executed a system redesign to make product portfolio mobile-friendly. Used cross-browser/platform testing to QA. Product Specialist Hobsons - Arlington, VA April 2013 to August 2014 - Served as a product expert for all major technology products and as a resource and mentor for new team members. Promoted and encouraged client understanding of technologies and product usage and worked with Account Managers to provide best practice suggestions. Troubleshot and implemented solutions for time-sensitive issues  - Adeptly and efficiently conducted detailed application updates for higher education institutions with high satisfaction rates. Supported the overall satisfaction of the higher education client experience while providing ways to make products scalable. End User Support Analyst The Common Application - Arlington, VA November 2011 to March 2013 - Assessed and responded to incoming technical support requests via e-mail, telephone and web applications and troubleshot  complex technical support requests  - Participated in the development of new resources to help drive an efficient and current end user support model Logistics and Program Intern The Dignitas Project - Nairobi May 2012 to October 2012 - Successfully designed, initiated and led a ongoing program whereby slum students were brought together for weekly art  lessons at the Dignitas Project offices in cooperation with local Nairobi organizations  - Assisted staff in writing reports, grant proposals, data analyses, and learning and teaching materials, provided logistical and administrative support, participated in field operations, planned and wrote monthly newsletters Education Bachelor of Arts in Government and American Studies The College of William & Mary - Williamsburg, VA May 2011 Skills Email Development (3 years), Responsive Web Design (5 years), Javascript (4 years), JQuery (4 years), ExpressionEngine Development (3 years), Product Management (1 year), Project Management (2 years), SCSS (2 years), Google Analytics (3 years), Wordpress, Website, HTML (7 years), Drupal, CSS (6 years) Awards Above and Beyond the Call of Duty Award 2015-07 Peer-nominated award given for exceptional dedication to client-driven innovation and teamwork. 2017 Gold Stevie Award, Best Annual Report - Online/Electronic. 2017-05 Planned, built and released United Way Worldwide's first ever digital annual report which won at Gold Stevie Award in the Publications category of Best Annual report - Online/Electronic. Judges Comments:    "One of the most impressive, powerful, immersive, annual reports I've seen online. Objectives were not only met, but exceeded. Brilliant work."    “This is a truly excellent, next-generation annual report that exposes the United Way's vital work in a highly engaging manner.” MarCom Awards Gold Winner 2017-10 Awarded for outstanding E-Annual Report