Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - VMS Technologies, LLC Bradenton, FL Work Experience Web Developer VMS Technologies, LLC - Bradenton, FL June 2015 to Present • Managing and overseeing projects from the proposal to customer or business to the completion phase.  • Computer troubleshooting and maintenance for small businesses.  • Creating and maintaining websites for small businesses using WordPress, plain HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JS and JQuery.  • Digital Media Design and optimization of images for online advertising.  • Digital Marketing campaign creation and optimization among different social media platforms but mainly Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram.  • Digital advertising management and optimization with Google Adwords and Bing. Front End Web Developer Gabotronics - Sarasota, FL December 2009 to June 2015 • Designing, coding and implementing email marketing campaigns  • Website design, configuration and maintenance  • Social media management: Google + and Facebook  • Translation of technical specifications and other documents  • Development of business strategy  Technologies Used: Joomla, Drupal, Adobe CS4, HTML, CSS and JS, VB. Application Developer Star2Star Communications LLC - Sarasota, FL August 2013 to May 2015 • Application development with HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JS libraries such as: jQuery, frameworks such as: Bootstrap. Templating Engines: Handlebars.  • Application testing, debugging to meet requirements  • UI/UX design analysis and reviews for further coding and implementation  • Mentoring  • Agile development  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (JS), jQuery, Handlebars, SVN, Agilefant, JSON, Bootstrap, MAMP server, Java, Eclipse Luna, Cordova, MySQL. Online Marketing Specialist Grand Incentives, Inc - Sarasota, FL May 2011 to September 2012 • Email marketing design, coding, implementation and testing on email clients such as: Gmail, AOL, Outlook, Hotmail  • Email marketing reports generation to evaluate campaign performance  • Email marketing web version testing and debugging on Google Chrome, Safari, IE, Firefox, and Opera  • Interacting with other members across the company in multiple locations such as: Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador and the US  • Social networks set up, maintenance, and monitoring in multiple languages  • Customer Service in Spanish and English Translator  • Writing of travel special and hotel accommodations descriptions  • Graphics and photo acquisition and editing Technical Support  • WordPress Blog design and maintenance  Technologies used: ASP.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, Silverpop, Adobe Creative Cloud, WordPress, HubSpot, AddThis. Education Bachelor of Science in Web Development and Design University of South Florida - Sarasota, FL Associates of Science in Information Technology State College of Florida - Bradenton, FL Links http://www.behance.net/mdscardigno http://www.codepen.io/mdscardigno http://www.github.com/mdscardigno http://www.flgulfcoastlife.com Certifications/Licenses Real Estate License February 2016 to September 2020