Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Zebra Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Developer Zebra - Lincolnshire, IL July 2017 to Present • Build campaigns that include web pages, landing pages, html emails, digital print ads, and marketing collateral.  • Use online tools such as BrowserStack.com and Litmus.com for quality control, and AEM to upload and get assets URL's.  • Translate mockups from (Photoshop, illustrator, InDesign) to HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Upload, publish, QA, and maintain assets within the Digital Asset Management system.  • Manage, train, and collaborate with team members.    Skills used: Adobe Creative Suite, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AEM, Litmus, BrowserStack, windows PC, Mac OS Proofreader/production Designer Kaleidoscope - Chicago, IL March 2017 to July 2017 • Proofread English to Arabic collateral.  • Layout and manage packaging production for the Middle East market.    Skills used: Adobe Creative Suite, CSM, Window PC, Mac OS CMS Developer / Proofreader Shure Inc - Niles, IL February 2016 to January 2017 • Accurately proofread and translate over 90 user guides from English to Arabic while assuring completeness and comprehensiveness; worked on updated content in a CCMS XML database application.  • Successfully triaged over 150 user guides, made revisions as needed, and finalized layouts and design of over 60 guides using  InDesign.  • Effectively planned and illustrated concepts by studying information and materials to design a rough layout of art and copy  regarding arrangement, size, type size and style, and related aesthetic concepts.  • Identified issue affecting graphics at the time of exporting from DITA to HTML or print format (InDesign).  • Created DITA and XML files to correct user guides or to replace missing user guides.  • Assisted developers with script writing for Illustrator and InDesign.    Skills used: HTML, XML, jQuery, XHTML, Adobe Creative Suite, CSM, Window PC. Production Graphic Designer FASTSIGNS - Chicago, IL May 2015 to October 2015 Demonstrated expertise in design and computer applications to review final designs and layouts while suggesting improvements  and modifying formats to increase the quality of production.  • Tasked with scaling, cropping, retouching, repositioning and preflighting, or eliminating defective and excessive imaging; worked  on Image retouching and editing, prepare files printing or make Print ready files.  • Proofed, designed, and installed graphic art and promotional materials such as flyers, banners, and vehicle wraps while establishing  new vendor relationships for outsourcing purposes.  • Assists with online sales and email campaigns, by creating/sending graphics and mockups.    Skills used: Adobe Creative Suite, Window PC. Graphic Designer Reesha Printing - Bridgeview, IL January 2013 to May 2015 • Managed project timelines and budgets for numerous clients at a time.  • Created, edited, and added graphics to the company WordPress website.  • Designed and maintained company advertisements on Facebook and Instagram.  • Designed flyers, signs, vehicle wraps, etc. using Adobe Creative Suite.  • Maintained relationships with a large client base covering multiple industries.  • Create designs and graphics to be sent over the email as a part of marketing plan.    Skills used: WordPress, Adobe Creative Suite, Window PC, Mac OS Graphic Designer Frontrow - Amman, JO January 2012 to November 2012 • Layout design and managed photo editing for several company magazines.  • Collected advertisements and collaborated with marketing department for client projects.  • Worked closely with copywriters to obtain and review articles.    Skills used: Adobe Creative Suite, Window PC, Mac OS Graphic Designer Trinet - Amman, JO January 2011 to January 2012 • Designed large-scale projects, such as billboards, store- front window stickers, and other advertisements.  • Created marketing materials and handled layout for Trinet.    Skills used: Adobe Creative Suite, Window PC, Mac OS Education B.A. in Graphic Design Petra University - Amman, JO Skills Front End, Javascript, CSS3, UI, Bootstrap, Front-End, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface Links http://www.adamragheb.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/adamragheb