Senior Software Developer – Front End Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> – <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Front End Software Engineer Mechanicsville, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer – Front End Magellan Health Services - Richmond, VA May 2019 to Present • Built React views for a new single page healthcare sign up application. Integrate Rest API calls and manage side effects using Redux saga.  • Mentor junior developers and back- end developers who are interested in learning front- end technologies.  • Worked on fixing bugs, refactoring and optimizing code base for end user registration portal and Admin console React applications. Applications Engineer II Tridium-Honeywell - Richmond, VA May 2015 to May 2019 • Developed a React application for commissioning HVAC equipment hosted on a Niagara framework station.  • Created Applications in Niagara Framework to monitor and improve manufacturing processes at Honeywell plants. These applications give operators better visibility to sensor values which improves operators' ability to reduce scraps and improve yield.  • Created java classes to manipulate, transform and join part ID data with sensor data csv files. End game is to match part serials and sensor readings to identify ways to improve the process.  • Imported and transformed data from MS SQL, MySQL and oracle databases to java. Systems Integrator MacDonald Miller Facility Solutions - Seattle, WA July 2014 to April 2015 • Developed a web application using html, PHP, MySQL and JavaScript to generate history reports to be submitted to utility companies from the history database.  • Developed an automatic link creator object to streamline the workflow of HVAC technicians working in Niagara Framework. It helps reduce manual labor-intensive task hours.  • Fine-tuned various other tasks in commissioning new controllers for efficiency and accuracy.  • Developed a custom login screen for BMS to display current weather, accept service requests and display current tweets from company twitter page Product Specialist Home City - Yangon, MM January 2013 to May 2014 • Did market research for introducing a new retractable mosquito screen.  • Designed marketing and promotion materials including flyers, newspaper ads and tradeshow booths for a variety of products using Adobe Illustrator and photoshop. Controls programmer Transformative Wave Technologies - Kent, WA December 2011 to November 2012 • Developed components in Niagara Framework for calculating energy usage and energy savings.  • Developed components in Niagara to automate part of the commissioning process which eliminated human error and reduced commissioning time for new projects.  • Developed components in Sedona to calibrate damper controls.  • Developed an easy to follow commissioning process and check list to be used for new projects.  • Designed UI and custom graphics for Building Management System control dashboard and Rooftop Unit detail views.  • Commissioned and programmed JACEs, Easy IO controllers and Wireless Networks. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering Ohio State University - Columbus, OH June 2011 Bachelor of Arts in Physics Wittenberg University - Springfield, OH May 2009 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, React (2 years)