Front End / UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End / UI Developer - Walmart, AR Arkansas City, AR • Around 5+ years of front- end Web Application Development experience in technologies HTML4/5, XHTML, XSLT, DHTML, Java Script, AngularJS, EmberJS, ReactJS, JQuery and CSS2/3 with proficiency in Adobe Photo Shop and illustrator.  • Extensive programming experience in writing web application programs covering front- end /UI JQuery and AJAX for building rich user friendly, high performance web applications.  • Designed web applications and web content and used various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Extensively applied W3C web standards with great skill and craftsmanship in achieving the best cross-browser user experience for the sake of long-term user retention and engagement. Worked in responsive web application development (RWD)  • Excellent experience in developing applications that meet the requirements as specified by Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 and include the levels and techniques as specified.  • Familiar with build system, task runners (Gulp and Grunt), module bundler (Webpack and Gradle).  • Experience in handling Cross-Domain requests and Remote Scripting with JQuery UI and JSON.  • Extensive creative experience in editing both scalar and vector images using respective photo-editing tools.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS, EmberJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, SASS, Less and Bootstrap  • Analysis and design of user interfaces and databases with emphasis on best user experience and eye-candy design.  • Validate and verified testing including functional, regression, unit and system testing.  • Worked in theSoftware life cycle phases like UI Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, SIT, UAT, Production and estimating the timelines for the project.  • Managing and supporting multiple projects and also to see to it that the design and brand consistency is maintained.  • Highly adaptable in quickly changing technical environments with excellent writing skills and good verbal communication along with strong organizational, analytical skills as well.  • Ability to work as an individual and a collaborative group environment as well with experience in successfully meeting the project deadlines. Work Experience Front End / UI Developer Walmart, AR September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible to create prototypes / mockup interaction designs, including user interaction models, wireframes and screen flows that match user expectations, technical capabilities and business goals.  • Responsible for capturing UI requirement, designing, developing, documenting, testing, and debugging new and existing software systems and applications.  • Document functional/business requirements, user stories and prototype user experience and interaction specifications.  • Used ReactJS to optimize application view that was too heavy to render and used basic render component  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Working on building a custom CMS to move off of existing web pages and being built using ReactJS to increases performance of web page (SPA).  • Worked in IAAS and PAAS, cloud platform services and worked with end user to create prototype, refine, test, and debug programs to meet needs.  • Extensive experience with AngularJS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Worked in design, user interfaces, web interfaces, user experience and information architecture. This involves creating mockups, wireframes, functional spec, technical spec, visual assets and prototypes as well as presenting designs, mockups, and prototypes to stakeholders.  • Worked as RFC engineer where deployed multiple RFC's to lab, beta and production environment.  • Created PSD files for team review for further discussion and offer multiple version/option to the business validator so SME can have look and feel of the web page.  • Created web content and tested all the websites with multiple browsers, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  • Developed and maintaining the layouts/style using bootstrap, CSS3/Sass for all intranet applications compliant with W3C.  • Performed validation of completed sites, which included the debugging, and testing of code.  • Extensively used JavaScript widget J-query for Rich Internet User Interface and accessibility.  • Validated and verified for cross browser compatibility to ensure look and feel of the UI designs worked the same in various versions of different browsers (IE, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Opera).    Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe XD, RTView, ReactJS, CSS 2/3, Sass, DHTML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, Linux, AngularJS, Jenkin, Splunk, Bootstrap, Java, TFS, GIT, JIRA, STS, Bracket, Atom, firebug and JavaScript Front End / UI Developer Barclays June 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experience in designing, developing, documenting, testing, and debugging new and existing software systems and applications.  • Designs develop and implements user interfaces for websites and applications to fulfill user interface business requirements.  • Responsible for designing from scratch including capturing user requirement, develop presentation spec, functional spec, visual assets, user interaction models, wireframes and screen flow that match user expectations.  • Worked as RFC engineer where deployed multiple RFC's to lab, beta and production environment.  • Used ReactJS, Java Script and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Created web content and tested all the websites with multiple browsers, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  • Developed and maintaining the layouts/style using bootstrap, CSS3/Sass for all intranet applications compliant with W3C.  • Used ReactJS to optimize application view that was too heavy to render and used basic render component  • Migrate the current JQUERY to an AngularJS and have SPA working with Angular routing and MVC control that it provides.  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, bootstrap, DOM and DHTML.  • Performed validation of completed sites, which included the debugging, and testing of code.  • Extensively used JavaScript widget J-query for Rich Internet User Interface and accessibility.  • Tested X-browser compatibility as per industry standard to ensure look and feel of the UI designs worked the same in various versions of different browsers (IE, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Opera).  Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe XD, Adobe Illustrator, ReactJS, CSS 2/3, Sass, DHTML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, Linux, ReactJS, EmberJS, Jenkin, Splunk, jQuery, Bootstrap, Java, GIT, STS, Atom, firebug, VersionOne and JavaScript Front End / UI Developer WinMind Technology Solutions - IN July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements and designed the flow of task using flow charts and dependently designed flow between pages of the UI.  • Worked in the development and adherence of User Interface look / feel, schemes and layouts.  • Prepare and defined required tasks, estimating durations for tasks, sizing team for allocation effort for all phases of SDLC, deliverables and other digital activities.  • Provide assistance and technical leadership in the areas of JavaScript, Single-Page Architecture, User Interface and User Experience.  • Executed and performed scripting and supporting of applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX.  • Responsible for ongoing technical maintenance and support for assigned applications.  • Analyze, debug and revise existing system logic difficulties and documentation as necessary.  • Designs and creates standards-compliant web pages that are interactive, attractive and intuitive.  • Creates HTML pages from mockups and visual wireframes, working closely with design / product team.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces  • Used Java Script and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Created web content and tested all the websites with multiple browsers, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  • Developed and maintaining the layouts using CSS2/CSS3 for all intranet applications compliant with W3C  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, DOM and DHTML.  • Performed validation of completed sites, which included the debugging, and testing of code.  • Extensively used JavaScript widget J-query for Rich Internet User Interface and accessibility.  • Tested cross browser compatibility to ensure look and feel of the UI designs worked the same in various versions of different browsers (IE, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Opera).  Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, CSS 2/3, Web RTC, DHTML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, AJAX, Linux, Omniture, Itrack, jQuery, Bootstrap, Java, SVN, AJAX, firebug, Yslow, WinSCP and JavaScript Front End Developer / UI Developer Verus Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyze, debug and revise existing system logic difficulties and documentation as necessary.  • Provide assistance and technical leadership in the areas of JavaScript, Single-Page Architecture, User Interface and User Experience.  • Worked on performance tuning using GZip, reducing number of nodes and Iframe, minified all files, used CDN (Content Delivery Network), Optimize image etc.  • Responsible for ongoing technical maintenance and support for assigned applications and followed guidelines from WC3 standards, accessibility, worked on prototyping, Usability Testing, Web analytics, SEO, and performance optimization.  • Analyze, debug and revise existing system logic difficulties and documentation as necessary.  • Analyzed the requirements and designed the flow of task using flow charts and dependently designed flow between pages of the UI.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the load time of web pages.  • Produced JavaScript in developing DOM directory structure.  • Created and developed new user interfaces for the clients to enable better sharing of the data.  • Created templates, brochures and magazine layouts using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces  • Involved in developing a user centric market driven site redesign.  • Used Java Script and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Created web content and tested all the websites with multiple browsers, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  • Created marketing kit handouts with Illustrator and Photoshop and presentation using PowerPoint.  • Involved in developing prototype and RIM (Rich Internet Media) using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, DOM and DHTML.  • Performed validation of completed sites, which included the debugging, and testing of code.  • Extensively used JavaScript widget J-query for Rich Internet User Interface.  • Tested cross browser compatibility to ensure look and feel of the UI designs worked the same in various versions of different browsers (IE, Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Opera).    Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, MS Office, DW, CSS, DHTML, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, TFS, JIRA, Firebug, Yslow, Omniture, Java, JQuery and JavaScript Skills .net, Visual studio, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Json, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Iis, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Apache, Linux, Solaris, Unix Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Linux, Windows95/NT/2000, XP, Vista and windows 7/8, Mac, UNIX, Solaris.  Languages .Net, JAVA, XML, JSON, C++  Databases MYSQL, SQL, PL/SQL, and Oracle.  Web Technologies CSS2/3, XML, XSLT, D/HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, EmberJS, Angular JS, ReactJS, AJAX, JSON, SQL, Java, MySQL, Omniture, ITrack, RTView  Web Servers Apache, and IIS.  Version Tools CVS, GIT & SVN.  IDE STS, Eclipse, Notepad++, Komodo edit, Atom, Bracket, DW, Visual studio & Zend  Debugging tools XPressScan, Omniture, Itrack, Yslow, Firebug and web development tools