Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Design Intern Atlanta, GA Assist in organization of nonprofit events and community outreach. Use Beaver Builder Add-On for WordPress to create functional websites. Work Experience Front End Developer PsxDigital March 2019 to Present -Support the Digital Support Team in the following:    • Dedicated Support Person for Digital Support Queue  • Landing Page Creation  • Website Page Template Creation and Editing      • Email Marketing Campaigns  • Troubleshooting client sites  • Client Onboarding  • Social Media Advertising  • Web/Campaign analytics Volunteer Atlanta Radio Theatre Company - Tucker, GA 2011 to Present Multiple audio technology and voice acting roles for a non-profit theatre group. Web Design Intern 48in48 - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to February 2019 Assist in organization of nonprofit events and community outreach. Use Beaver Builder Add-On for WordPress to create functional websites. Web Development Intern GarageWorx - Snellville, GA February 2018 to June 2018 Assisted in the creation of Divi WordPress websites for the Garageworx Incubator, Behavior Analytics services, and Venture Development Firm. 2 Paws Up Inc - Snellville, GA June 2017 to June 2018 • Entrusted with the security of keys to over 30 residential homes  • Fed, walked, and administered medication to a wide array of animals Travel Consultant American Express - Lawrenceville, GA September 2016 to March 2017 Worked with the Sabre System to plan and organize trips for American Express Platinum Card Holders over the phone. Resolved customer issues with airlines and hotels. Sales Associate and Front- End Manager Buy Buy Baby Retail Big Box Store June 2015 to September 2016 Responsible for all aspects of front end sales and customer service. This included customer assistance and checkout, answering telephones and face-to-face inquiries. Student Advisory Committee Dickinson College September 2013 to March 2015 Committee Member: Selected from over forty junior English majors to help organize events for the English Department, assist with publicity, advise on new faculty hires, and recommend actions on relevant academic issues. Outbound Sales Development Office September 2012 to March 2015 Called alumni on behalf of the Development Office to ask for financial contributions. Value-driven sales approach to encourage generous donations. Women's Center Internship Dickinson College March 2013 to May 2013 Intern: Conducted research on topics related to the interests of the Women's Center. Provided administrative support, identified software resources, and put the center's library on-line. Designed media campaign to encourage Gender Studies research. Education B.A. in English in Liberal Arts Dickinson College - Carlisle, PA May 2015 Skills Website, Web Design, Photoshop, WordPress, HTML, BeaverBuilder, Divi, Bootstrap Certifications/Licenses The Fundamentals of Web Design and Development Certificate, Emory, GA October 2017 to Present