Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - TMLIRP Austin, TX • 7+ years of Professional experience as a Front End UI/Web Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules in Java.  • Expertise in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using, HTML4/5 DHTML, CSS2/3, DOM, XHTML, JavaScript, JSP, XUL jQuery, and AJAX.  • Professional understanding of Software development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Hands on experience in generating Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Extensively worked onAngular.js, Backbone MVC Framework using Bootstrap, CSS & JQuery.  • Hands on Experience in building responsive UI Screens using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries like angular.js, Require.js, backbone.js, React.JS and Node.js and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Extensive experience of OOAD, OOPS, Design Patterns, MVC Frameworks, Multi-tier and distributed architectures in developing web-based and client-server application.  • Professional Experience in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Experience in working on unidirectional data flow using flux concepts, component life cycle, props and states in React.JS and Redux.  • Worked on RWD (Responsive Web Design) and implemented Modules, Controllers, Services and Filters of Angular.js.  • Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript MVC framework such as AngularJS.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Ext JS, D3JS and Responsive design.  • Good understanding in TypeScript and ECMAScript 6/ ES 2015.  • Wrote client Side code using ReactJS and used NPM & gulp directories to generate the server environments used browserfiy, flux to manage with targeted URL's (Uni-Directional data flows) and to monitor the application.  • Extensive experience using AJAX and JSON as data interchange format.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards.  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and JQuery Light box.  • Experience with Version Control tools like GIT, CVS, VSS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS/Gradle.  • Proficient in working with Agile/SCRUM methodology and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience in database development skills like MySQL, Oracle, and Mongo DB.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's- Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans &RAD.  • Excellent experience in Restful/SOAP Web services and Big Web service development and consumption.  • Experience with Performance tuning tools like IE8 JS Profiler, Fiddler and Debugging tools like ULS viewer.  • Good Experience in working with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, Web Inspector for Safari, Developer Toolbar for Chrome.  • Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine, karma and worked on tools like NPM, Bower.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX and Cross-Browser Compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.  • Excellent Technical and analytical skills and ability to deliver in fast paced, high stress environment. Work Experience Front End Developer TMLIRP - Austin, TX April 2018 to Present Description: Serving the public good, for the benefit of local governments and their tax-paying citizens. Responsibly managing our members' pooled funds for the protection of their financial stability. Delivering excellent member service in all components of our risk financing and loss prevention services. Serving with honesty, integrity and professionalism.    Project: MEMBER PORTAL  Developed a web application with a fresh look and feel and improved functionality to make the user experience easier and more enjoyable for TMLIRP members. The application (Member Portal) will allow members to: Submit insurance claims, View current claims, View the looker.com dashboard, Contact administrators, View training videos, Implement schedule changes,etc., Responsibilities:    • Developed application using HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, express.js, Angular.js, Typescript, Bootstrap  • Participated in designing, developing, enhancing and maintaining website  • Strong understanding on client-side application and very good at attaining the architectural design for Angular.js  • Implementation of the design wireframe using Angular 6  • Made use of Reactive Forms using Angular 6 where most of the validation is done using component rather than using template-driven which provides in HTML.  • Worked on PDF rendering.  • Involved in writing test cases using jasmine-karma and maintained a stable code coverage  • Involved in web services design and development.  • Responsible for creating and consuming web services using REST and XML.  • Extensively worked on agile methodology.  • Possess excellent communication and Problem-Solving skills and the ability to work as a team member, as well as independently.  • Great Knowledge in using the Chrome Developer tools for debugging and troubleshooting the front end code.  • Good experience in documenting and refactoring the frontend codebase.  • Experience working with a wide range of applications in all phases.  • Known for ability to multi-task and work on different applications at the same time.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla, FF, and Chrome.  • Highly experienced with using Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer  • Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).    Environment: Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, Karma, Jasmine, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Typescript, AJAX, jQuery, Jenkins, VS code, Eclipse IDE, Oracle SQL Developer, Source Tree ,SVN , Full Stack Developer Biogen - Weston, MA January 2018 to March 2018 Description: With over 30 years of clinical excellence in Multiple sclerosis, Biogen is a leader in multiple sclerosis (MS) research. Biogen continues its commitment to patients through ongoing research, solutions and services to support unmet needs in the management of MS. Biogen currently has the broadest MS portfolio in the industry with products that help treat across the spectrum of relapsing forms of MS. Through affordability programs, we are committed to continuing to improve access to products for patients who need them.    Project: Zinbryta Rems Portal  The ZINBRYTA REMS portal allows physicians the ability to enroll, train and certify for ZINBRYTA REMS Program, It will also offers the physician with ability to monitor patients to meet the compliance requirements for the ZINBRYTA REMS.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Extensively involved in business users requirements gathering and technical walk-throw  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Developed user interface using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5, and JSON.  • Developing the web applications using Spring Framework, Hibernate.  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Core layer(IOC), Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch to develop the application  • Used Apache Tomcat as application server to build the web applications.  • Fixed defects required during SIT and UAT phases.  • Involved in Java web portal enhancements and new integrations required during the engagement  • Primary technical support resource for deployment configurations and go live activities.  • Updated documentation as required  • Involved in maintenance of API's and BPEL process  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Involved in Performance Tuning of the application.  • Actively participated in estimation  • Review of deliverables (program code, unit test plans and testing)  • Implemented Restful web services to perform some business activities  • Used Jenkins tool for continues integration and build and deploy the applications  • Involved in coordinating with testing teams to resolve defects.  • Implemented logging and Exception Handling.  • Used Maven as build and configuration tool.  • Implemented Agile development methodologies - Scrum, Kanban  • Used JIRA tool for creating change tickets and handling production bugs and development tasks.  • Responsible for closing the backlog of production related issues.  • Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day direction to the project team and regular project status to the customer.    Environment: JAVA, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Web Framework, Restful, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Servlets, JDBC, Java Server Pages (JSP) JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Jenkins, Eclipse IDE, Oracle SQL Developer, Tomcat, Source Tree ,GIT ,Apache HTTP Server UI Developer Merck & Co., Inc - Boston, MA August 2017 to December 2017 Description: It is a premier, research-intensive biopharmaceutical company which provides leading innovations and solutions for today and the future.    Project: IMAGE ANALYTICS GATEWAY PROTEIN CRYSTALLIZATION CLASSIFICATION (IAG-PCC)  Developed a web application for the scientist to examine images along with the results of automated images classification algorithm (scoring) using HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and ReactJS  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UIarchitect and Business Units.  • Involved in designing the CSS templates, CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Interacting with the client to understand the requirement.  • Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES2015 (ES6) used Babel, webpack.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules and used it to install useful tools.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Involved in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used ReactJS for passing data between components. Used Prop for parent to child, Used Callback and states for child to parent transfer and between child to child used both prop, callback and states.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used ReactJS for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Used Node JS to run Web pack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements  • Worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Added dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Worked with Restful web services to call POST, PUT, and DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Bitbucket.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9, FF, Safari and Chrome  • Knowledge on Node.js environment set-up and interacted Node Service team to get the Service.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Involved in project planning, writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues, reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flux, MySQL, JSON, Bitbucket, JAVA, Restful API, Jenkins, Maven, Agile, and Web Strom UI Web Developer TiVo Inc - San Jose, CA October 2015 to July 2017 Description: Its primary product is to provide marketing and subscription services for its TiVo branded digital video recorder. TiVo also provides a range of features when the TiVo DVR is connected to a home network, including film and television show downloads, advanced search, personal photo viewing, music offerings, and online scheduling.    Project: TiVo UES - TiVo Unified Entertainment System  Working on enhancing the functional modules of the website by rewriting the non-responsive modules to completely responsive by implementing bootstrap, css3, media queries, Angular.js and NodeJS.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Used D3.js library for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers.  • Designed Frontend for Administration Portal with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like react.js and Node.js.  • Used Node.js to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implementing React components into our existing Angular App and complete the whole transition.  • Worked on Virtual DOM creating an in-memory data structure cache, computed the results and updated the browser's displayed DOM efficiently using ReactJS.  • Developed the Single Page Application (SPA) using ReactJS, Redux.  • Architecting an Angular 1.5/2.0 hybrid using Typescript and Component Design.  • Implemented Responsive web Design to the Administration Portal using Bootstrap.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Integrated D3.js reporting component for statistical information display.  • Used D3.js for manipulating documents based on data and bringing data to life using HTML, SVG and CSS.  • Setup framework for all current and future front- end projects to use backbone.js, require.js and jasmine for framework, organized module definitions and unit tests.  • Created Images, Logos &Icons used across web pages using Adobe Flash & Photoshop.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using angular.js, react.js and node.js.  • Implemented Events, Forms and Animations using React.js and Redux  • Wrote client Side code using React S and used NPM & gulp directories to generate the server environments used browserfiy, flux to manage with targeted URL's (Uni-Directional data flows) and to monitor the application.  • Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 &JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Implemented view part by ECMAScript 6/ES6 with React framework, designed web  pages by React-Bootstrap, SCSS and controlled state of the application by using Redux.  • Designed the User Interface using use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  • Used Github for version control.  • Experienced working with Maven for Project Dependency and Optimization.  • Experienced working with Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) of the project.  • Extensively worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Manipulated DOM to update UI using react.js and Redux.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.    Environment: Java, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, MSOffice, JavaScript, ECMAScript 6/ES6,Webpack , Babel,JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, Angular.js, React.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, JSP, AJAX, Spring REST, Jenkins, Maven, Jasmine, Rational Rose, XML, XPATH, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, PLSQL, backbone.js, require.js, Maven,Github. Java/ UI Developer Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH May 2014 to October 2015 Description: It is an American diversified global insurer which offers wide range of insurance products and services, including personal automobile, homeowners, workers compensation, commercial multiple peril, commercial automobile, general liability, global specialty, group disability, fire and surety. It remains a mutual company where policyholders holding contracts for insurance are considered shareholders in the company.    Project: Insurance Claim Development Program  Supported applications for claims department by passing data from upstream to downstream through checking responses and filtering unwanted data.    Responsibilities:  • Programmer Analyst responsible for development, support and enhancement of Administration Portal system.  • Designed and developed JSP pages and Security Realms for Admin login and logout.  • Implemented YMER an internal Ericsson framework for business logic at client side.  • Used JSTL core and custom tag libraries in the JSP pages.  • Used AJAX, Java script and JQuery to create and implemented UI.  • Used Firefox Firebug for JavaScript debugging.  • Implemented GUI interface using tiles, CSS3 and webkit layout engine.  • Analyzed and identified components for the Presentation, Business, Integration, Resource and Service Layers.  • Developed Administration Portal using HTML5,Nodejs,jQuery and Java Script Frameworks like BackBone.js and require.js  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Node.js using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Experience in developing web applications using frameworks Spring Core , Hibernate, JSF  • Involved in the development of the entire Front- end part of the system, using AngularJS MVC framework, JQuery, JSP and AJAX.  • Working on GUI tool like Kibana to view generated logs and other tools like logstash, Elastic Search for log management.  • Implementing unit testing using TestNG.  • Working on tools like Eclipse,Jenkins,putty, secureRT, CYGWIN, ZooKeeper, ZooViewer, GitCli and Clamshell Cli.  • Implemented RESTful based Web Services using Jersey.  • Working in a SCRUM based Agile Environment.  • Implemented logging service using slf4j to RESTful APIs.  • Implemented APIs to interact ZooKeeper.  • Have worked on packaging Nodejs application.  • Created customized plugins for Jenkins.  • Worked on Front end automation using selenium.  • Implemented Page Object Mode (POM) in Maven.  • Hands on Experience with Source code management tools like GitHub.  • Have worked on Tuning of Jboss AS and its JMX console.  • Developed Administration Console for Jboss AS using Clamshell-Cli.  • Worked on CVS tasks like branching, merging and tagging.  • Developed Maven scripts to support multiple OS.  • Experience in creating RPM packages using Maven RPM plugin and writing Post Install and Preinstall scripts for them using Shell.  • Worked on JavaScript tools like Grunt, NPM and Bower.  • Demonstrated expertise with data extract and query tools (SQL/Oracle).  • Configured and Monitored AWS EC2 instances.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, MVC, Node.js, Angular JS, backbone.js, Require.js, Ext.js, XML, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, JSON, Bootstrap, DOM, Kibana, Agile methodology ,SCRUM, REST, Firebug, SQL, Oracle, GRUNT, bower, Maven, GitHub. Java/UI Developer (Offshore Team) Nike Inc - Memphis, TN September 2012 to April 2014 Description: It is engaged in the design, development, manufacturing and worldwide marketing and sales of footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. In addition to manufacturing sportswear and equipment, the company also operates retail stores under the Niketown name.    Project: Benefit Management System  Project dealt with services like report collection, scheduling, and single sign-on security link/integration with the Nike web portal. Delivery and notification options, multi-browser support, scalability to add products and functionality affording business community with the ability to develop new reports as and when needed.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete life cycle of design, development, testing and deployment of application.  • Developed Stateless Session beans to manage the control flow.  • Implementation of MVC Architecture using Struts.  • Developed views using JSP, Struts tag libraries.  • De-bugging and bug fixing Production problems.  • Worked on several java design pattern (DAO, Value Objects).  • Mentoring the team members and execute the assigned tasks with their co-ordination.  • Developed Struts filters for various server side processing modules.  • Implemented transferring of XML data to the database using JDBC.  • Supported email communication through JAVA application.  • Developed using IDE Eclipse3.1 for building business components.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Used Microsoft SourceSafe for source control.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, XML, JDBC, JMS, Java Mail, HTML, JavaScript, log4j,Tomcat4.0, Eclipse 3.1, MySQL. Education Master's Skills Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, jquery, Jsp, Css, Dreamweaver, Oracle, Sql, Cvs, Version control, Flash, Ms office, Linux, Flash professional, Front End, React, UI, Angular, Front-End Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pramodha-rangu-89344418a