Senior Full-Stack Developer Senior Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full-Stack Developer - Pilgrim Surf + Supply ? 7+ years of strong experience on object-oriented requirement gathering analysis and implementation of client/server, distributed, internet and E-commerce applications.  ? Expertise in the field of web application development including client/server communication.  ? Extensive experience on modern front- end template frameworks for JavaScript - Including Angular 4, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS.  ? Proficient in setting up Angular 4 framework for UI development, developed html views with HTML 5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  ? Extensive experience in modeling applications using MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture.  ? Experience with event driven application using AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON.  ? Extensively worked on Core Java, J2EE, including Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  ? Strong experience on core Java concepts such as Spring, Hibernate, Collections, etc.  ? Solid understanding of J2EE design patterns: POJO, MVC, DAO and DTO.  ? Hands-on experience in JDBC and creating Data Source to communicate the DB through SQL.  ? Strong Database skills with Oracle and MySQL.  ? Experience in databases such as Oracle to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences,  ? Experienced in Apache Tomcat application server.  ? Hands-on experience in version control tools GIT and package manager NPM.  ? Self-motivated, able to set effective priority to achieve immediate and long-term goals. Proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly. Good in communication, I am a  fast learner and hard worker. Work Experience Senior Full-Stack Developer Pilgrim Surf + Supply - New York, NY June 2017 to Present Project: E-Commerce Website development  Pilgrim Surf Supply sells the highest quality products to customers, such as surfboard. My main responsibilities are creating the website by using Angular 4 and taking part in redesigning and improving the overall website. I also build back- end service based on Spring MVC and Hibernate, and resolved data transfer between front- end and back- end.    Responsibilities:  ? Participating in Agile software development, attended daily Scrum meeting, involved progress checked meeting every two/three weeks.  ? Working with UX team to implement the UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Angular4.  ? Using TypeScript, ES6 to build Components, Directives, Services and Pipes based on Angular4.  ? Applying responsive web design with CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Designing and implemented loading module using CSS3 Animation.  ? Implementing login component for login and sign up page. Used LocalStorage to save some insensitive user information.  ? Coding navigation bar using Angular Router to navigate and pass data between different components.  ? Creating user interactive HTML page using Structural Directive and Attribute Directive.  ? Implementing rating system component to rate products using Eventemitter.  ? Communication with server-side and interface using AJAX.  ? Using Observables to resolve data transfer between front- end and back- end.  ? Developing the back- end application using Spring Framework, which is based on the MVC design pattern.  ? Configuring Hibernate XML mapping files to implement Object Relational Mapping(ORM) using Hibernate to build connections between POJO and Oracle database.  ? Developing Data Access Objects(DAO)using JDBC API for database access.  ? Configuring different beans using Spring IOC to inject common services and configurations.  ? Constructing controller class and coded SQL queries for mapping and responding to the requested from front- end.  ? Utilizing Spring Security to provide authentication and authorization for users to sign in and sign up.  ? Using CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing) Filter to enable cross origin requests.  ? Creating JUnit test for Unit Testing on Java class.  ? Tracking the entire developing process with JIRA.    Techniques: Agile, Scrum, Sprint, HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular4, TypeScript, ES6, Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JDBC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, SQL, CORS Filter, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, JIRA, NPM. Full-stack developer Park To Shop - Chicago, IL October 2015 to May 2017 Project: Employee Internal System  This project is to build an internal system to help supervisors manage employee information. Designed and developed web page using Angular 4, implemented functions on the front- end for user to add, delete and update information. I also built back- end service to support the front- end function using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile software development, attend daily Scrum meeting.  ? Built internal website for employees using HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  ? Developed Single Page Application using Angular UI-Router, Dependency Injection, Service and Factory.  ? Maintained web pages that include forms, scripts, tables, images and multimedia components by Angular 4.  ? Implemented front- end component such as Navigation bar, Dropdown menu, Pagination, Modal, Form, and Table.  ? Grouped information using FormGroup and FormBuilder.  ? Created Login/logout page in the Navigation bar component.  ? Created Filter like type filter, singleton filter, alpha filter and word filter to filter row data based on different keywords.  ? Utilized JSON as data format and resolved data transfer between back- end and front- end using Ajax promise.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  ? Utilized Maven to build project and configured pom.xml to inject dependency.  ? Deployed Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping) to map data in Oracle database.  ? Configured different beans using Spring IOC to inject common services and configurations.  ? Built controller class and coded SQL queries for mapping and responding to the requests from front- end.  ? Used Spring Security to provide authentication and authorization for users to sign in and sign up.  ? Utilized CORS(Cross Origin Resource Sharing) Filter to enable cross origin requests.  ? Created JUnit test for Unit Testing on Java class.    Techniques: Agile, Scrum, HTML, CSS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSP, JQuery Ajax, JSON, Java, Spring MVC, Servlets, Maven, Hibernate ORM, Spring IOC, SQL, Spring Security, CORS Filter, JUnit. Front- end Developer Somerset Savings Bank - Somerville, NJ October 2014 to September 2015 Project: Customer Account Information System  This project is to design the customer login online account, do order check and show transaction statement. Handling different backing functions to save customer time and money.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design  displaying properly on different devices.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the user input.  ? Good knowledge and exposure in REST web service and handling Restful API methods  around MVC framework.    Techniques: Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, J2EE, Eclipse, MS Office, Chrome, JIRA. Full-stack back- end developer AAA - Chicago, IL October 2013 to September 2014 Project: Employee Information Message System  The Application provides a module to help the client to manage his account including payment, mortgage, transactions, account settings, alerts etc. This module is heterogeneous in nature and uses legacy code from previous projects. Security is the priority.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all stages of software development Life Cycle which is Requirements Gathering, System Analysis, System Design, Development, Unit Testing Performance testing and Production Support.  ? Extensively implemented presentation layer, controller layer, service layer, and DAO layer using Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  ? Used Hibernate techniques: optimistic locking, association mappings, second level cache and lazy Loading.  ? Configured Spring AOP for declarative transaction management, Configured Spring AOP to do Logging.  ? Built the MVC architecture, implements actions class, implemented and configure internationalization.  ? Worked in Agile software development methodology.  ? Implemented business logic with POJO using multithreading and design patterns.  ? Designed Database tables, SQLs, stored procedures, triggers. Designed mapping between relational database tables and object oriented Java objects using Hibernate.  ? Worked on Unit testing with JUnit.  ? Provided support to production deployment team to deploy the application in production environment.    Techniques: Java 8, Spring3, Framework (Core, Context, Security, AOP, ORM, DAO), Hibernate, Maven, JavaScript, Web services, XML, Eclipse IDE, UNIX, SQL. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL Additional Information SKILLS  J2EE: JSP, JPA, Servlets, Web Services, JDBC, XML, Log4j  Java Frameworks/Libraries: Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, RESTful Web Service, Hibernate  Web Technologies: HTML/HTM5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX  JavaScript Frameworks: jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5/7, D3.js  Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat 9.0, HTTP Web Server, REST  Database: Oracle 12c, MySQL, MongoDB,  Development Tools: Git, Maven, Jenkins, Sourcetree, JUnit, Docker, Amazon Web Services EC2/S3  Project management tools: JIRA, Slack