Full Stack Web Development Teachers Assistant Full Stack Web Development Teachers Assistant Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Full Stack Web Development Teachers Assistant U2 education services - Westwood, CA June 2019 to Present • Help students learn and think like Full Stack Web Developers.  • Assist instructor in activities and students with questions about the class topics.  • Review and grade students homework.  • Approve student portfolio projects. Front- End Developer Adler and Associates Entertainment - West Hollywood, CA March 2019 to Present • Build stable and maintainable codebase using PUG, SASS, CSS, JS, jQuery, AJAX, Node.JS and MySQL.  • Recommended solutions for a streamlined, user-friendly interface with the design team.  • Created modular, responsive templates using CSS techniques and Javascript libraries.  • Collaborated with designers to ensure designs were efficient and technically sound. Lab assistant Cedars Sinai Medical Center - Los Angeles, CA 2013 to Present • Assisted scientists in the lab.  • Communicated and help RN's with lab orders.  • Verified patient information before drawing, while providing great patient service.  • Entered specimens in the system.  • Taught and trained new co-workers. Quality Assurance Analyst Sunrise Integration - Los Angeles, CA November 2016 to December 2016 • Used HTML, CSS and Javascript to identify and fix inconsistencies according to design requirements.  • Checked software quality by attempting to break and find bugs within the app.  • Provided testing feedback to web developers and UX/UI designers.  • Tested software in different browsers and verified mobile responsiveness.  • Set daily goals in daily morning SCRUM meeting. Education Certification UCLA Extension - Los Angeles, CA CPT Certification Charles R. Drew University - Los Angeles, CA Skills React, UI, Javascript, Front End, Front-End, Node, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Links https://github.com/digibite https://www.linkedin.com/in/irwinggameros Certifications/Licenses Certified Full Stack Web Developer February 2019 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills: Javascript, React.JS, jQuery, Node.JS, MongoDB, Express, MySQL, HTML, CSS.  Full Stack Web Developer with a background in healthcare and life-long dedication learning. Effective at combining creativity and problem solving to develop. user-friendly applications. Known among staff for strong wit and attention to detail no matter the complexity of the project. Resourceful and efficient problem solver skilled in developing innovative solutions while effectively collaborating with others to ensure goals are met. Pro-efficient in building cross-functional relations across levels of management in the company.