Drupal Consultant Drupal Consultant Drupal Consultant East Orange, NJ • Extensive knowledge of scaling infrastructure, platforms, and management systems.  • Launched enterprise level applications.  • Ability to synthesize inputs from diverse groups of stakeholders into a coherent roadmap.  • Ability to effectively interface with technologists, business owners, and end-users.  • Ability to ensure application support processes and standards are established, well documented and communicated; and are in-line with leadership expectations for standards and operations processes.  • Specialty in improving people and technical processes to match agile development milestones.  • Skilled in translating business goals into software solutions through system analysis, programming, troubleshooting and quality control.  • Demonstrated ability to provide team building techniques and relationship building skills with cross functional and culturally diverse groups.  • Specialties include requirement gathering, SCRUM, software architecture, database design, software engineering, software development, technical reviews, project management techniques and performance tuning.  • Experience consuming RESTful APIs  • Experience with Scrum Project Management best practices.  • Entrepreneurial spirit.  • "Can-do" attitude and self-starter.  • Comfortable dealing with ambiguity and able to adapt to change  • Capable of maintaining thorough knowledge of systems capabilities including new technology.  • Act as a technical resource, set priorities to satisfy business commitments and SLA's.  • Comfortable dealing with ambiguity and able to adapt to change.  • Strong experience with Object Oriented Design/Programming.  • Served as the IT Chair for the National Urban League Young Professionals from 2017-2019.  • Launched national platform to aggregate and generate reports for non-profit data.  • Extensive experience working with consumer web applications. Work Experience Drupal Consultant Advance Technologies LLC - Long Island, NY March 2017 to April 2019 at Citibank  • Key member of Citi's Open-Banking team that launched v5 of Citi's DevHub Portal http:// developer.citi.com  • Wrote a security module that prevented admins from logging onto the site if they were off network.  • Worked with Data Scientist to refactored how Citi was site tracking data which led to improved data reporting to Ernest & Young and wiser business decisions.  • Developed enterprise level custom Drupal 7 modules.    Job Skills: RTC, JIRA, SITE CATALYST, GIT, WINDOWS, AEGIR, MySQL, DRUPAL 7, CSS3, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, MSOFFICE    Sogeti Raritan, NJ August 22nd,2016 - October 28thth, 2016  Senior Drupal Consultant  • Developed custom Drupal 8 Modules (Custom Domain Redirection and Language Menu Modules).  • Worked on multi-lingual Drupal 8 website.  • Worked on Drupal 8 front- end theming.  • Worked on-site at Johnson & Johnson's IT's building.    Job Skills: JIRA, STASH, GIT, PHP 5, ACQUIA, MySQL, DRUPAL 8, CSS3, LESS, GRUNT, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY S.T.E.M. Instructor Duties New York Urban League - New York, NY March 2016 to June 2016 • Created curriculum for the program.  • Taught students about databases and how to manually run SQL statements.  • Taught students how to use the Infor's Mongoose Platform.  • Mentor the students. Senior Software Engineer Duties CLASSROOM MANAGEMENT - New York, NY September 2015 to January 2016 • Participated in daily scrum meetings.  • Primarily worked on Quizlife,com.  • Assisted front- end and back- end dev with trouble shooting development issues as they.  • Built custom Drupal 7 Modules.  • Build custom Drupal 7 themes.  • Created UX Wireframes with Lucidchart illustrating custom user story.  • Improved UX with custom JavaScript on targeted forms.    Job Skills: JIRA, GIT, GITHUB, PHP 5, ACQUIA, VAGRANT, MySQL, DRUPAL 7, CSS3, SASS, COMPASS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY Senior Developer Duties Relay Graduate School of Education - New York, NY September 2014 to August 2015 • Responsible for teaching the Engineering Department Drupal 7 best practices.  • Improved the interview questions and process for developer candidates.  • Tech Lead on three projects which used Drupal 7 and Symfony 2.  • Introduced code review process into SDLC.  • Facilitated methodologies meetings for the Engineering Department.  • Implemented sprint debriefs to ensure continuous improvements.  • Introduced Behavior Driven Development methodologies into development workflow.  • Advocated team building exercises.  • Advocated using less in-line Jquery and more front- end MVCs which lead to the team using React.js in their latest project.  • Reported to the CTO.  • Lead the Drupal Architecture work to ensure the UX was in parallel with the business requirements needed for the projects.  • Improved the efficiency of the front- end development workflow by introducing the dev team the power of Grunt which influenced them to use Gulp and Bower on another app.  • Integrated 3rd party APIs into the website.  • Created custom Drupal modules that matched Relay GSE's specific needs.  • Provided technical leadership for administration and developers.  • Provided technical architecture, and programming expertise across my projects.  • Worked with Directory of Technology to ensure deployment across Amazon Web Services scaled as needed.  • Worked closely with managers to minimized risks that threatened meeting significant milestones.  • Produced technical documentation which provided knowledge transfer to other team members.  • Mentored Devs across open-source technologies and strategies.    Job Skills: JIRA, GIT, GITHUB, PHP 5, AWS, APACHE, MySQL, DRUPAL 7, SYMFONY 2, CSS3, LESS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, NODE.JS Software Engineer Duties DNAinfo - New York, NY November 2013 to June 2014 • Presented technical and team empowerment solutions to department heads.  • Set the standard to how company handled featured request.  • Trained entire IT departments in New York, Denver and Chicago in how to use Apache.  • Mentored Devs and provided tips and tricks to team for improve workflow.  • Managed several projects/requests simultaneously.  • Actively monitored project risks and scope to recognize/predict potential problems and proactively identified solutions to address.  • Implemented Behavior Driven Development across proprietary websites.  • Provided leadership, vision and set milestone for the IA and UX teams.  • Developed responsive visual designs.  • Researched industry trends and best practices to develop solutions for our brand.  • Addressed complex and diverse set of interaction problems.  • Developed expanding global code libraries across sites and environments.  • Made architectural decisions that maximize performance.  • Taught best practices and standards with working examples.  • Provided application architecture guidance.  • Wrote unobtrusive OO Javascript.  • A part of the team that increase website speed by 80% using WPO techniques.    Job Skills: JIRA, UBUNTU, LAMP, JAVASCIPT, HTML5, CSS3, VIM, ZEND FRAMEWORK, PYTHON, MYSQL, BACKBONE.JS, GRUNT, SASS, CHARLES, DRUPAL Lead Web Developer Propeller Communications LLC - Summit, NJ January 2013 to June 2013 • Created a RESTful e-commerce web api for trade show which grossed the highest profits in company history.  • Rebuild an E-Commerce application from conception to completion in 5 months less time than it took create all previous version while removing all of the previous bugs.  • Presented graphic designer with modern front- end tools and techniques.  • Set up cloud environments.  • Created technical documentation for REST API.  • Remained on-call during weekends for live production support.  • Researched technical solutions that would best fit business requirements.  • Created a repository when needed to managed development releases.  • Helped project manager set up virtual machine and learn basic system monitoring skills.  • Implemented automatic deployment to speed up current deployment process by 50%.  • Proposed vendor monitoring solutions which helped diagnose, monitor and prevent system disasters.  • Called vendor's technical support to troubleshoot business requirements in a timely manner.  • Provided Director of Digital technical solutions to expedite team workflow throughout departments for future projects.  • Resolved mission critical system administration duties to meet business requirements and deadlines.    Job Skills: TRELLO, UBUNTU, LAMP, JAVASCIPT, HTML5, VIM, COFFESCRIPT, JADE, EXPRESS, NODE.JS, STYLUS NIGINX, REDIS, MONGODB, APC, SYMFONY, XDEBUG, MEMCACHE Senior Developer Duties Studio LLC - Hoboken, NJ March 2012 to October 2012 • Build Drupal 6 & 7 custom modules to meet client's business needs.  • Developed and documented workload estimates.  • Scoped WordPress and Drupal projects providing ETAs and various technical solutions.  • Answered technical questions for Director of Production to relay to client.  • Attended weekly phone conference meetings with clients.  • Presented how to work more efficiently by harnessing Drupal's Features module to entire development team.  • Reported directly to Senior Technical Project Manager and Director of Production.  • Build custom module for award winning website and their international sites.  • Build a custom importing module for an ivy league school's art gallery that imported over 300,000 nodes.  • Mentored Jr. Developers with working on larger projects and communicating with project managers.  • Implemented some light QA and functionality for http://zippoencore.com/  • Build out several microsites for Kelton Global Marketing.    Job Skills: DRUPA 6 & 7, LAMP, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, CSS, HTML VIM, BASECAMP, LIGHTHOUSE Web Engineer Duties Code And Theory - New York, NY July 2011 to October 2011 • Learned Drupal 7 Core Concepts  • Created themes for AETN corporate and Ad Sales Websites.  • Converted PSDs and UX designs into AETN Corporate and AdSales websites.  • Themed Drupal Modules to match design layouts.  • Created custom Drupal module code to match business needs.  • Reported directly to the Tech Lead and Project Manager.    Job Skills: AGILE, SCRUM, BASECAMP, LAMP, DRUPAL, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, CSS, HTML, VIM Web Developer Duties Innovation Ads - New York, NY May 2008 to December 2008 • Created new OOP modules.  • Parsed and created numerous CSV files for financial reporting.  • Reverse engineered open source software to meet company's requirement.  • Designed Ajax-driven graphical user interface for dev and financial department.  • Developed tools for the production and marketing department to automate daily processes.  • Optimized and documented legacy code.  • Reported directly to the CTO and Project Manager.    Job Skills: LAMP, ZEND STUDIO,, AGILE DEVELOPMENT, JAVASCRIPT, EXTJS, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, CSS, HTML, SMARTY Front- End Developer Duties E-Fashion Solutions Seacaucus , NJ November 2007 to March 2008 • Designed web pages for seasonal launches.  • Created e-mail blasts for http://www.rocawear.com http://www.babyphat.com , http://www.kls.com , http://shop.orangecountychoppers.com/merchandise.php , http://www.mandee.com , http://www.playboystore.com , http://www.shopthebunny.com http://shop.applebottoms.com/shop.php , http://www.enyce.com/shop.php and many more sites.  • Fixed outstanding bugs.  • Mentored other developers in PHP and Smarty.  • Minimized development time by optimizing legacy code.  • Reported directly to project manager.  • Implemented marketing department's business requirements into in-house PHP application.    Job Skills: PHP, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, PHOTOSHOP, SMARTY Jr Web Designer Duties Vitamin Shoppe Industries - North Bergen, NJ February 2007 to November 2007 • Optimized search page to reach a 10 percent increase in profits after A/B testing.  • Fixed outstanding bugs.  • Updated static pages for monthly releases.  • Reported to project manager.  • Coded business requirements into PHP portion of application.  • Protected code against SQL injections.  • Reported to VP of Customer Care on PHP's ability to cater to business requirements.  • Studied JSP and ATG to help aid other developers with their workload.    Job Skills: HTML, JAVASCRIPT,CSS, ECLIPSE, DHTML, MySQL, JSP, ATG, ,AGILE Education Information And Computer Science University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA 2001 to 2004 Skills Scrum, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master