Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer/Designer Scottsdale, AZ React | Redux | Node | JavaScript | PostgreSQL    I consciously work to level up my skills every day, and am confident in my ability to learn what I don't yet know. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Programination - San Diego, CA May 2019 to Present Developer on projects with a variety of clients. Build custom websites (some from scratch, some total re-brands) and provide additional services such as customizing API endpoints and JavaScript functions to retrieve JSON for use in mobile applications. Attend client meetings as point person on the projects and provide feedback regarding best practices and recommendations for optimized client success.  Act as Lead Developer overall on select projects. Most recently acted as Lead Front End Developer & Lead UI/UX Designer on large ground-up project using React.    Front End Web Designer/ Developer Freelance/Self employed - Remote May 2018 to Present Consult with clients about their needs for a website and offer a fully custom static website or a website/theme through a CMS system (such as Wordpress), customized if desired by client. Utilize SEO best practices for best visibility. Offer additional consulting on brand management and social media content creation/management. Web Developer DevMountain Student Developers - Phoenix, AZ January 2019 to April 2019 buzz.    React | Redux | Node | JavaScript | PostgreSQL | Express | Auth0 | Google Maps | Socket.IO | Stripe | HTML | CSS | Adobe XD    Group Developed Project - A fully responsive geolocation-based chat app, where users can enter chat rooms (called "Hives") based on venues in their area, if they are within an 800 ft radius of that venue. They are removed from the room if they leave that location. Users may upvote, downvote, and comment on each other's posts. They may also send users a drink (called "Honey") from a predetermined list of options, set by the venue management.    furever    React | Redux | Node | JavaScript | PostgreSQL | Express | Bcrypt | Stripe | HTML | CSS | Adobe XD    Personal Project - A fully responsive, full-stack app designed to connect future pet adopters with animal rescues/shelters. Utilizes a card swipe based interface to enhance user interaction and experience. Users can see their saved matches on their profile.  Office Manager Vaco - Phoenix, AZ September 2017 to June 2018 Performed Office Manager duties including, but not limited to: High levels of support to executive C-Suite staff and 15+ internal employees. Support 90+ consultants at any given time. Managed all front- end operations for company branch. Utilized Bullhorn software for all aspects of recruitment process. Worked with corporate office to handle all AP/AR. Ran payroll and timesheet duties weekly. Processed all new hire duties for internal employees and consultants regularly - benefits, onboarding, background screenings, etc. Assisted with IT related issues and helped upgrade the office's technical systems. Purged files of old documents and kept new organizational standards. Ensured I-9 and E-Verify compliance. Coordinated regular events for internal purposes, as well as client and consultant events. Assisted both internal employees and consultants with expense reports. Office Manager Why Hospitality, LLC - Tempe, AZ September 2016 to September 2017 Used AIA to create official project documents. Applied for project permits and inspections. Managed 8-10 email accounts. Compiled meeting minutes and took letter/email dictations multiple times daily. Transitioned company online/cloud-based services to increase team efficiency from multiple offices. Performed HR duties such as posting job openings, interviewing and hiring. Traveled to jobsites out of state to assist with operations and to hire staff at project offices. Managed employees in several office locations. Kept track of all billing and disbursements. Ensured compliance with contractor's license requirements, OSHA and other specifications. Office Manager & Tax Preparer Olson Private Registrar, LLC/Compass Tax Services - Mesa, AZ February 2015 to September 2016 Utilized Drake software for tax preparation, ensuring the best return for the client while remaining compliant to government requirements. Monitored changes to tax forms and requirements. Used the utmost confidentiality with highly sensitive information to guarantee client privacy. Ensured that each client’s forms were filed by the proper deadline, or an extension was filed per request. Kept an organized calendar for all staff. Implemented new policies to increase office efficiency and improve client experience. Facilitated change in ownership and office renovations. Brand Manager and Social Media Strategist Tipsy, LLC - Tempe, AZ May 2015 to December 2015 Monitored marketing trends and ran social media accounts for multiple regions, regularly posting content during peak times for each platform. Grew social media footprint by 300%+. Developed and executed marketing campaigns and events. Created original content and diligently ensured content was always within the brand’s identity. Supplied sales team with leads on B2B partnerships. Strengthened relationships with current venues/brands by giving them exposure through company's platforms. Created and established a brand ambassador program, interviewed, trained and monitored new employees. Drafted documents to be used internationally by company for training. Front Desk Agent Moonlight Bay Hostel - Fajardo, PR August 2014 to January 2015 Implemented new policies for key deposit and checking in, making it easier for guests to return keys after office hours, and relieving company of liability for damages. Managed reservations through HostelSystems operating system. Gave tours of the facilities upon check-in and took guests on weekly tours to local attractions. Overnight Logistics Team Member Target - Brentwood, MO October 2013 to May 2014 Worked new items into the store per company's marketing guides and determined best selling locations for newly launched products. Worked with nightly freight to keep newly delivered items organized and properly stocked/stored. Front Desk Agent Ramada Plaza Hotel - St. Louis, MO April 2014 to April 2014 Managed reservations, inquiries and cancellations in an attentive, courteous and efficient manner.Operated hotel switchboard. Maximized room revenue by offering upgrades to guests while still fitting their needs. Planned and prepared for large groups, conventions and events. Utilized Opera operating system for all hotel activities. Executive Assistant and Brand Ambassador Treehouse Enterprises, LLC - St. Louis, MO June 2012 to February 2014 Managed company’s social media. Sought out and implemented marketing strategies. Managed both B2B and B2C transactions. Planned and executed company sponsored events. Attended events and trade shows on behalf of company. Wrote and delivered press releases. Education Web Development DevMountain - Phoenix, AZ January 2019 to April 2019 Criminology and Criminal Justice University of Missouri-St Louis - St. Louis, MO August 2011 to 2013 Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Google Suite (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (4 years), Office Administration (5 years), Javascript, React, HTML 5, CSS3, Marketing, User Experience Design, PostgresSQL, Git, Redux Links http://brittany-french.com Certifications/Licenses Notary Public January 2016 to January 2021 Notary Public, State of Arizona