Digital Marketing Consultant Digital Marketing Consultant Digital Marketing Consultant Clover, SC Currently a Digital Marketing Consultant and software developer. I help companies develop lead generation programs for long term client growth.    Looking for a Digital Marketing/Analyst position in the Charlotte, NC area or Remote. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Marketing Consultant Buz Marketing - Clover, SC October 2018 to Present Consulting on UI/UX development and managing a small team of developers designing web platforms for InvestorLink’s customer portal.  ? Developed audience frameworks and a content matrix that set guidelines for a team of  three content creators at Open Source ERPs, whom I managed.  ? Networked with influencers and created commission guidelines for event signups. Sold  out May 2019 Hackathon in NYC using content and influencer marketing.  ? Leveraged Hubspot, Google analytics, EventBrite, and other tools as needed to execute  and track the success of programs.  ? Executed a strategy to turnaround failing PPC and SEO campaigns for SCPS&DW. Created top 5  search ranks of primary keywords, increased conversions by 127%, and reduced CPC by 90%. Developer/Data Analyst HumaniFund - Clover, SC August 2018 to Present ? Lead database integration with Alphavantage API to manage and store 12 years of stock data into an SQL database.   ? Created web interface with PHP, HTML, CSS, and JS to store bought and sold stock data  ? Developed machine learning algorithms with Tensorflow(Python) to predict stock market volatility with 30+ input signals  ? Developed AI to work cooperatively with trained models and real time market data  ? Created input signals that correlated significantly with stock market volatility and contributed to 30% returns in 5 year back testing simulations Digital Marketing Manager V&B Mobile Labs - Andover, OH February 2017 to January 2019 ? Planned and executed company’s digital marketing strategies, which contributed to a 105% increase in sales within budget in 6 months.  ? Designed and optimized website to improve UI/UX design and implement SEO strategy.  ? Developed a scheduling software with HTML, PHP, MYSQLI, and Google API to optimize screening scheduling, which reduced time spent on scheduling and invoicing  ? Managed PPC campaign and designed landing pages to create a leads funnel integrated with CRM Hubspot and Mail Chimp. Grew leads database by 200% and landed company largest client to date.  ? Analyzed google analytics and KPIs to forecast and track marketing trends which were reported and presented. Digital Marketing Specialist Voodoo Brewery - Meadville, PA June 2018 to December 2018 • Managed the pre-order campaign for a previously failed product release of Cowbell and interviewed brew-masters and production supervisors for feedback on repositions.  • Gathered data on accounts, created marketing materials, and networked with distributors to acquire new clients in South Carolina  • Managed, created, and scheduled drip email campaigns using HTML to nurture leads and generate sales through story brand marketing techniques  • Expanded CRM capabilities to optimize client acquisition and leads retention  • Oversaw the marketing and promotions of Voodoo's 2019 Good Vibes Fest and redesigned the events website in preparation of the event Front- End Developer Brawta Network - Pittsburgh, PA April 2018 to June 2018 • Developed sub-modules within a sports website as a remote front- end UX/UI developer  • Built reusable code and libraries for future use with HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap  • Optimized application for maximum speed and scalability  • Worked with back- end engineers to assure that all user input was validated and secure  • Handled cross-browser compatibility issues and ways to work around them  • Orchestrated design that adhered to SEO principles to ensure digital search presence President Overkill Magazine, Allegheny College February 2016 to May 2018 • Coded website to facilitate issue submissions and build membership base  • Planned and coordinated social events and PR stunts to promote magazine releases  • Organized and led weekly staff meetings for the board and members  • Managed publication staff to orchestrate the completion and distribution of the magazine Multimedia Producer Empire Brewing Company - Cazenovia, NY May 2017 to August 2017 on Empire Brewing  • Developed storyboard and production timeline for a 3 day shooting schedule  • Arranged and shot interviews with managers, employees, and customers  • Redesigned company website and created media content from b-roll and footage  • Edited content and footage for documentary and social media briefs Design Manager Allegheny Review, Allegheny College August 2016 to May 2017 • Organized and maintained publication deadlines and oversaw layout and design practices  • Led staff meetings outlining the magazine's schedule, deadlines and publication direction Marketing Intern Drusky Entertainment - Pittsburgh, PA August 2016 to January 2017 • Created new show announcements and scheduled briefs for social media  • Implemented strategic internet marketing on Facebook ad manager and google AdWords  • Promoted upcoming events at shows by running the Drusky Entertainment booth  • Created marketing plans for select shows and created targeted email campaigns  • Managed local artist database and booked local artists on Drusky Entertainment events Education Bachelors of Science in Managerial Economics Allegheny College - Meadville, PA May 2018 Skills Digital Marketing (3 years), Marketing (3 years), Google Analytics (2 years), SEO (3 years), SQL (3 years), Video Production (5 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), PHP (3 years), Javascript (6 years), Python (1 year), Email Marketing (3 years), Web Development (6 years), Google Adwords (2 years), Data Analysis (4 years), CRM (2 years), MySQL (3 years), Social Media Marketing Links http://Buz-Marketing.com