Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Bank of America Charlotte, NC * 6+ years of experience in the field of web application development including client/server communication  * Proficiency in HTML4/5, CSS2/3, DOM, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, responsive web design, Bootstrap.  * Extensive experience in UX, UI designs.  * Extensive Knowledge in CSS2/CSS3, LESS and Twitter Bootstrap Styling Modules.  * Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS  * Experience with event driven applications using AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON  * Experience in cross browser compatibility amongst major browsers like Chrome, Safari, Firefox and IE  * Experience in AngularJS 1x and 2x along with Karma-Jasmine Unit Testing.  * Good professional AngularJS 1x and 2x experience including knowledge of Directives, Services, and Filters  * Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using Java Script, XML, DHTML, JDK 1.4/1.5, Java Beans, Ajax, JSP, Servlet, Hibernate, Struts, JDBC, Weblogic, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  * Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  * Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  * Created Mobile Web Solutions using Responsive Web Design (RWD), Twitter BootStrap and JQUERY MOBILE.  * Using Bootstrap to implement mobile apps, web browser support applications  * Proficient on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  * Experienced in front end and middle ware frameworks like JSF, Wicket, GWT, AJAX, EJBs and JUnit.  * Excellent debugging skills and understanding of OOP, MVC  * Experience working in an IDEs like Eclipse as well as text editors like vi or Notepad++,Sublime Text, Eclipse.  * Experience providing and consuming SOA Web services, Restful web services, SOAP, XML-RPC, and JSON.  * Experience with Application Servers like Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  * Experience working in a waterfall, agile, scrum environment  * Experienced in database like SQL, Oracle to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  * Experience in Content Management Systems.  * Very Good Knowledge about the Oracle tools like SQL*PLUS, TOAD.  * Excellent communication skills, proven track record and experience collaborating with team members to drive results  * Highly motivated, strong analytical skills and ability to deliver in fast paced, high stress environment.  * Good Knowledge of Balsmiq, Adobe Photoshop and UX design tools.  * Ability to rapid prototype with wireframes or visuals.  * Hands on experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome and checking cross browser compatibility  * Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using core JQuery along with AJAX/JavaScript.  * Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC March 2017 to Present Description: Symphony is a distributed enterprise solution (developed on AGILE/SCRUM methodology) that automates existing Personal and Real Estate loan management division for BOFA. The functionalities provided by Symphony include management of Loan Application processing; Work List, Branch Administration and Customer Service of BOFA IT. The project is based on MVC architecture developed using chordiant framework, JSF as UI framework and Hibernate as persistence framework Enterprise branch application. Spring web framework was used for development of web application for online customers.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • Involved in developing Classes diagram in UML showing generalization and other relationships, Sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time.  • Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services and Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Wrote and converted HQLs for services and testing.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to connect with Oracle database  • Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external applications and vendors.  • Worked on JBoss locally and Web sphere in higher environments.  • Used SoapUI to manually connect to the web service and check data.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Involved in Writing jQuery based Ajax Requests using jQuery, get(URL , data, callback, type) or jQuery, Ajax(options) and jQuery, post(URL, data, callback, type).  • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Interactive D3.js Graphing framework, able to handle hundreds of lines to visualize big-data network trends.  • Worked with Karma.js in the editorial and layout staff by creating representable pictograms, maps, pie charts and more to illustrate key facts and trends in news stories.  • Implemented as well as exposed web services using Apache Axis.  • Used Spring aspects for implementing cross cutting functionalities like Caching.  • Defined persistent classes that are mapped to database tables based on the analysis of the business domain.  • Implemented Spring MVC Framework.  • Architected front end architecture using angularjs MVC and typescript.  • Designed and developed advanced object oriented JavaScript and Typescript classes.  • Used Spring AOP for the transaction management and logging.  • Wrote hbm mapping files and POJO classes to map database tables with java objects.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate -- Database connectivity.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc.  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit test cases.  • Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa  • JIRA was used for bug-tracking.  • Worked parallel over releases to clean up code and make performance improvements to the application  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i/10g Database.  • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator (javadoc).  • Involved in designing of prototypes and wireframes.  • Used Microsoft Typescript to create client side functions that greatly decreased processing time and resource consumption.    Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.6, IBM WebSphere Application Server, Apache Axis, Spring 3.0, Hibernate3.0, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, Javascript, photoshop, Balsmiq,Typescript, AngularJS, Jquery, JMS, JBoss application server, JDBC, JNDI,XML, XSL, XSLT, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, SOAP UI, Oracle, PL/SQL, UNIX. UI Developer GARP - Jersey City, NJ September 2015 to January 2017 Description: The Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP) is a not-for-profit independent organization and the only globally recognized membership association for risk managers. GARP is redesigning its application to replace its existing FRM (Financial Risk Manager) program with the new web based application. I am working on designing a high profile in house UI application and developing low fidelity and high fidelity wireframes that demonstrate application screen flow, screen layout, styling and usability features.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented login page using HTML5/4, CSS3/2, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Single page application developed using Angular.js, D3.js, Node.js and Meteor.js as the backend and MongoDB as the database.  • Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based using jQuery, and AngularJS.  • Developed and implemented a AngularJS and Ionic based infinite slide box and released back as a directive.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using Ajax, JSON.  • Defining operational workflows using Markit EDM GUI.  • Markit EDM User Interface workflow, Markit EDM Core training advanced and Markit EDM Core training introduction.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Produced and consumed Rest Web Services, developed DAO's and DTO classes for services and consumed through Angular factory service calls from front end.  • Wrote code to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS 3.0 and JavaScript.  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding.  • Knowledge on implementing directives and scope values using AngularJS for an existing webpage.  • Implemented and supported interactive data exploration and entry application using AngularJS, Leaflet.js and D3.js  • Developed the User Interface using JSP including frameworks Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF) 2.0 and AJAX. Used AJAX and JavaScript for Server side/client side validation.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Photoshop, AJAX, JSON,Restful API, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js SVN, JIRA, Mongo DB. Front End Developer McKesson Corporation - Alpharetta, GA March 2014 to August 2015 Description: Project involves for developing application for McKesson Corporation. The project was a health care web solution an e-commerce and medical information portal based on J2EE architecture for the healthcare industry. This system facilitates information exchange and e-commerce among healthcare providers, health plans, participating employers and patients. System handles tasks such as processing specialist authorizations for patients, enabling rapid claims processing, and providing physicians with access to order status for medications and supplies, facilitating e-commerce transactions, and acts as a portal to relevant medical sites and information sources.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather the requirements from the client program manager and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Involved in complete User Interface designing and coded the web site in XHTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using a variety of technologies.  • Used AJAX with jQuery controls for Listing all scripts in a grid and can edit it in the grid which will reflect in the database table as well (like margins).  • Developing templates for multiple screens.  • Extensively used AJAX for data handling with JSON, DOM and XML as data interchange formats.  • Converted business requirements into technical requirements in preparation of High level design document and Functional specifications.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuerylibraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Implemented a common styling with the help of CSS across entire application that controls color, layout, width, height, font size, images size and accomplished other graphic related features.  • Design and implementation of new feature or software components for the front- end of a large Web application.  • Used MS Visio, Dreamweaver and Photoshop tools for web application development.  • Developed front- end UI pages to support data access and user authorization.  • Extensively worked on designing web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Implemented User Friendly UI design with HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client side validation and form submission functions and PHP for server side scripting for web development.  • Created databases in php; MyAdmin for internal projects.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant based page layouts.  • Designed/modified Images/Banners as per the client requirement using Adobe Create Suite CS5.  • Ensured Web Content is in compliance with W3C and Section 508 accessibility standards.  • Interacted with User Experience teams to understand customer needs to design online user experiences, ensuring ease of navigation and simplicity of design.  • Responsible for Unit testing and supporting the UAT & PROD environments.  • Support the deployed applications through debugging, and fixing.    Environment: HTML, JSON, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, PHP,  MySQL. UI Developer Shopzilla Inc - Omaha, NE May 2011 to December 2013 Description: Listofcompanies.co.in delivers comprehensive insight about the companies and industries all over the world. Our database of information includes about thousands corporations and other entities. Company information store in our database are include executive person, phone numbers, board member, leadership names, email addresses , and website url, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Front End Programming for Web applications in JavaScript, PHP & MySQL.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Designed and Developed front- end UI/UX using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY.  • Involved in all SDLC phases Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment.  • Worked with Internal Clients for business objectives, project scope and the requirements of the project.  • Safe Migration of Websites from one hosting to other without loss of data and affecting the SERPs.  • Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript.  • Experience with CMS Theme frameworks like Thesis, Genesis, Elegant Themes, etc.  • Designed CSS based web pages which were cross-browser compatible.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to web.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls.  • Involved in full software development lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Using Google analytics reports optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS and fixed the issues for the pages with low traffic and high load time.    Environment: HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, media queries, jQuery, PHP & MySQL, CMS, Frameworks, Search Engine Optimization, CPA, PPC, Digital Marketing and Adobe Photoshop. Education Bachelors in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management University of Nebraska Omaha - Omaha, NE Skills AJAX. (6 years), database (6 years), front end (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, Javascript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, LESS, SASS, DOM, BOM.  Design Prototyping, Wireframming, Interaction Design, Visuals  Frameworks Angular.js, D3.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Typescript, Material Design.  IDE & Tools  IDE Eclipse sublime, brackets, Dreamweaver Net beans, Maven build script, Photoshop, Balsmiq, Wireframes, Design Patterns MVC, DAO Pattern, MS Visual Studio and Singleton Pattern.    Debugging Tools Firebug, Dev Tools, Fiddler  Languages C, C++, JAVA, SQL, UML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JDBC, JSP.  Front End HTML, DHTML, XHTML, HTML5, XML, JSON, XSL, XPath, XSLT, CSS, CSS3 and FlexBuilder2.0/3.0.  Web/Application Servers IBM Web Sphere (8.X, 7.X, 6.X), JBOSS 5.X, Apache Tomcat (8.0.x, 7.0.x, 6.0.x), Oracle WebLogic Version Control System: SVN, CVS, Clear Case.  Database Oracle9x/10x, MS-Access, SQL PL/SQL.