Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - Assemblix LLC Knightdale, NC Accomplished database professionally with 3+ years of experience in the areas of Data Analyst and a 2 year of web Developer . having years on Quality Assurance, Customer Service, and Manufacturing. Ability to work independently and as part of a multi-functional team, being able to handle high workloads, tight deadlines and open to engaging and learning new technology or any technologies update for new projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Assemblix LLC - Durham, NC 2017 to Present • Knowledge of user interface development using HTML5, CSS and Javascript  • Ability to build interactive user interfaces using JQuery, Bootstrap, React  • Capable of writing clean, well-structured, readable and sharable code  • Possesses verbal, visual and written communication skills to articulate design logic and reasoning across disciplines  • Familiar with what is possible across platform and devices both in technical and experience terms according to web and mobile guidelines.  • Knowledge of responsive design and how it impacts project scope  • Website of work samples or Github Data Analyst Foxconn - Durham, NC 2015 to 2017 • Own all aspects of data mining and interpretation, from descriptive statistics to advanced analytics Exceptional problem solving, technical and data analysis skills  • Ultimate Apache Spark with Java  • Knowledge with practical Data structures and Algorithms  • experience with Relational Database Systems and SQL  • experience Elasticsearch Materclass with Logstash and Kibana  • experience with Oracle SQL and Good knowledge of Databases / SQL Queries.  • Manipulate large data sets using database tools/techniques to uncover patterns and trends that will address Member needs Quality Assurance Team Lead Q-Edge Corporation - Durham, NC 2013 to 2015 • Ensure compliance to regulatory requirements (ISO) and internal policies and procedures  • Assisted with organizing or revising all production records, SOPs, and misc. quality documentation to be ISO compliant  • Preform basic input/output operating system test on various computer servers.  • Perform QA checks on each unit for any visual or quality errors prior to packing and shipping.  • Works with other team members to ensure standard operating procedures and working practices are efficient and effective for running of all tasks associated with operating and controlling the installed hardware and software.  • Uses the available tools to maintain awareness the current state of hardware and OS software. Identifies operational exceptions and error conditions and ensures that all relevant parties are kept informed using appropriate methods. Education BS in Information System Networking Strayer University - Raleigh, NC 2014 to 2017 Associate Degree Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC 2014 to 2016 Skills CSS (2 years), Data structures (2 years), Elasticsearch (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Front End, React, Front-End, HTML5, Bootstrap, Jquery, CSS3