Sr. Front End UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End UI Developer - RTI International Durham, NC ? Over 8 years of experience in Front- end programming experience with technologies like HTML5,AngularJS, NodeJS, PolymerJS, MVC for both web and mobile application.  ? Experience on technologies like HTML, HTML5,CSS,CSS3,XHTML,DHTML,Javascript, JQuery, AJAX.  ? Flexible knowledge on Javascript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, PolymerJS,NodeJS.  ? Excellent working knowledge and exposure on different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla Firefox, Opera and chrome.  ? Good knowledge of responsive web design using Custom CSS and UI widgets.  ? Experience on working with CSS Background, Layouts, Positioning, Animations, Text, Borders, Margin, Padding and Table.  ? Experience with Object-oriented programming and Object-oriented design.  ? Good knowledge on implementation on User Centered Design (UCD) methodologies.  ? Experience in designing using Web standards.  ? Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  ? Worked on mobile UI development for the application.  ? Good experience with form validation by Regular Expression and JQuery Lightbox.  ? Experience in building Cross browser compatibility applications.  ? Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.  ? Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Strong understanding of Web 2.0 standards.  ? Designed web applications and web contents utilizing various SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZING(SEO) technologies.  ? Knowledge in ReactJS and NodeJS.  ? Designed table less layouts on the front end using Javascript, CSS and DHTML.  ? knowledge about MVC/MVVM architecture.  ? Understanding of project planning under Agile methodology.  ? Adapt to new, evolving technologies and implement them in current projects.  ? Worked on distributed applications by using JSP,JDBC, web services, Springs, Hibernate, Servlet.  ? Experience integrating with RESTful APIs for server side functionality.  ? Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse and RAD Experience.  ? Experience in Unix commands to narrow down PROD issue looking into the log files  ? Experience in software testing with load runner, Jmeter, Junit, regression testing, defect tracking.  ? Onsite Coordinator Experience  ? Working closely with line of business to analyze the feasibility of the system requirements and provided suggestions for improvements.  ? Experience in Finance domain. Work Experience Sr. Front End UI Developer RTI International - Durham, NC March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front- end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP and JavaScript.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX and MySQL.  • Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Designing and coding of business layers  • Co-ordinate with UX designers and develop static content using front end with HTML 5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Used JQuery plugins auto complete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Implemented procedures for the development of mobile applications using HTML5.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • worked on application backend implemented as NodeJS express application server.  • Build CSV and XML files for the financial data.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single page Application (SPA).  • Used ReactJS to create controllers to handle events triggered by client and send request to server.    Environment: JavaScript , HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Web services, MVP, XML, AngularJS, ReactJS, CVS, NodeJS, MySQL, Windows. Front End UI Developer Raymond James financial - Saint Petersburg, FL May 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and created a dynamic website model which served as design guide for the development team.  • Worked on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 style sheets, JavaScript and JQuery to tie together a diverse range of sites with an easily understandable structure.  • Strong working experience in solving Cross-Browser Compatibility challenges and processing Responsiveness.  • Redesigned user interface HTML frameworks with Bootstrap and refined CSS styling.  • Applied media queries to created responsive website across different size of screens.  • Conducted unit testing with Firebug, IE Tester and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers and devices.  • Involved in using JQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation.  • Designed navigation structure, interaction and styling for an AJAX environment.  • Focused on resolving cross browser compatibility regarding to redesign of CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJs as the development framework to build a single page application.  • Involved in maintenance, transformation and support appropriate formats for existing applications.  • Worked with back- end side to configured applications with Apache Server.  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Evaluate the phases of client native system and mobile application.  • Experience with working with Hibernate for object relational mapping.  • Experience with integrated development environments like eclipse.  • Involved in configuring hibernate mapping files.  • Designed frontend with in object oriented Javascript framework like ReactJs.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Angularjs, ReactJS, AJAX, XML, XHTML, Chrome Inspector, Bootstrap IE Tester, Firebug, Apache, Hibernate. UI Developer United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN June 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on HTML, CSS, and basic JavaScript to develop web pages.  • Involved mostly in each step of the Software Development Life cycle.  • Worked on cross-Browser compatibility issues and integration of the project.  • Developed CSS templates.  • SQL server was used to get the data.  • Modified designs and templates for better user interaction and understanding.  • Communicated and was involved in testing with QA team which involved cross browser testing, loading and performance checking.  • Designed training materials utilizing UX design principles and provided training using Photoshop, CS4, and Flash.  • UI development and setup Community Server Social Network member and SharePoint sites.  • Used nodejs application server to browse the events in socket.io.  • Developing workflow management using Angularjs.  • Worked with subversion for check in and checkout unit code.  • Developed UI using Angularjs for rich user interaction.  • Implemented AJAX based UI with above said architecture with rich internet UI in modules.  • worked on Jquery extensively for various user interactions, front- end validations and other visual effects.  • Used javascript and css for UI design mockup. Developed custom jquery plugging for custom functionality of the site.  • Did analysis and research about backbone.js and implemented prototype in backbonejs for the profile page module.  • Involved in loading and storing of objects using hibernate.  • Used hibernate for the integration with the database operations.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Ajax, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Office, Windows XP, Angularjs, ReactJS, nodejs, backbonejs, Hibernate. UI Developer Lifetime Fitness - Minneapolis, MN January 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Gathered UI requirement from client through JAD sessions and proposed solutions for any UI related issues.  • Designed wire-frame for creating layout and communicating with clients and development team, the functionalities of accounting module like navigation, help, and search.  • Hand Coded CSS and Java Scripts with Web 2.0 technology.  • Performed validation of developed code for prototypes against W3C standards.  • Worked closely with the application developers during prototypes conversion.  • Created applications with responsive design concepts.  • Worked on application compatible for multiple devices.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using Javascript and css.  • using advanced level of Jquery, Ajax, Javascript, css and pure css layouts.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • creating cross-browser compatible and standard compliant CSS based page layouts.  • wrote application level code to perform client side validations using Jquery and Javascript.  • wrote Jquery functions while implementing various UI screens across the whole web applications.  • Interacted with java controller.  • used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Interactive planning for the product development.  • Designed the front- end application , user interactive web pages using the web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Developed non functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and business unit.  • Coordination in project activities and ensure that all projects phases are followed and documented properly.  • Designed and constructed modules using servlets, JSP and hibernates.  • Developed user interface applications, application modules using JSP, Hibernate, Javabeans.    Environment: Html, XHtml, HTML5, JSP, CSS, CSS3, Ajax, JQuery, SVN, Backbonejs, javascript, Jquery, Angularjs. UI Developer Slk Software Services - Bangalore, Karnataka September 2007 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  • Involved in design and development of server side layer using different layer patterns in Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in building highly interactive portable widgets using HTML, CSS, and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Design and Development of software components like Interface, Action Handlers, client side scripts using JAVA, JSP, and Java Script. Worked with DTE portal on Web Content Management using WCM.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Utilized the mail merge techniques in MS word for the time reduction in sending certificated.  • worked on CSS background, positioning, text and borders.  • worked on javascript event model along with dynamic grid creation and layout management.  • Handed coded XHTML, CSSS and Javascript with web 2.0 technologies.  • performed validation of developed code for prototype against W3C standards.  • Integrated third party API's like google map to provide map view of various locations and paypal for secure checkout for e-commerce applications.  • Worked on mobile RCI website to make some UI chnages.  • Worked on implementing responsive web design to make them efficient for web, mobile, ios and android by using CSS media queries.  • worked on client side form validation using javascript and regular expression.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigations and icons. Worked on implementing CSS smart sprites in the program to reduce the number of HTTP requests to the server.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for the form submissions and DOM manipulations.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, DOM, Bootstrap, MVC, Responsive Design , Mobility, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Windows. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XSL, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX,JQuery,JSON,JSP,CSS,CSS3,DHTML,DOM, GRUNT,NODE JS,GIT.  Web Designing Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime text, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  Web/Application Servers HTTP Web Server, Web logic Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  Frame Works Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS and JavaScript frame works, springs, Hibernates.  Database Oracle 11g,SQL Server 2008 and 2012,MYSQL and MS Access  Debugging Tools Google Chrome Web Debugger, Fire bug  IDE Eclipse, RAD, SoupUI  Testing Tools Quality center 11.0, Junit, Load runner, Jmeter.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall.  Operating system Windows , Mac OS x, Linux