Creative Director Creative Director Front- End Web Developer Orlando, FL Dedicated front- end developer with a main focus on aesthetics and user experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creative Director Global Tech Network May 2019 to July 2019 Successfully managed a small team of designers which focused on marketing and web development.    Planned company advertisements.    Monitored brand & email campaigns.    Shaped brand standards for the company itself and all the clients we worked with. Front- End Web Developer/Lead Designer Global Tech Network - Altamonte Springs, FL May 2017 to May 2019 Created and maintained the front- end standards document and oversaw production of JavaScript, HTML, and CSS and PHP.    Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.    Accessed data from MySQL databases and APIs to build dynamic search engines, account and admin dashboards.    Designed and developed custom HTML emails that are compatible with all the major email clients.    Managed company/client social media and email marketing campaigns with Hootsuite and Mailchimp.    Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.    Created highly effective marketing campaigns, product presentations, and trade show materials. Web Developer/Graphic Designer Smith and Williams Trial Group - Orlando, FL February 2018 to June 2018 Updated company branding and re-designed website with custom HTML/CSS, new user experience with custom JavaScript, integrated wordpress, and optimized search engine Managed company/client social media and email  rankings. Help Desk Specialist Rasmussen College October 2011 to May 2017 Agency: Robert Half Technologies  Help Desk Specialist  Jan. 2014 - Feb. 2014    Worked in the Main all day menu restaurant "Tesoro Cove"  which took care, on average, of 250 guests daily. Duties include receiving phone calls  from staff and students regarding Providing excellent wait service to ensure satisfaction. the online classes, services, books,  grades, or web app complications and Taking customer orders and delivering food and beverages. troubleshooting.    Making menu recommendations and answering questions. In addition to sharing additional information with restaurant patrons Web Developer/Graphic Designer - FREELANCE SKOKLLC.com - Orlando, FL June 2014 to October 2014 Redesigned company website with hi-res stock photography and custom layout. Education Master's in Information Systems University of Phoenix Bachelor's in Graphic Design Hampton University Skills Adobe Creative Suite, After Effects, Social Media Marketing, Video Production, Photography, Front End, UI, Javascript, React, Front-End Groups Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated March 2011 to Present Brother of the Delta Xi Lambda Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated located in Orlando, Florida