Frontend UI Developer Frontend UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend UI Developer - CISCO Systems San Jose, CA 8+ years of progressive experience in developing web pages and front- end user-interface (UI) development, working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML4, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript with ECMA6 features, TypeScript, jQuery, XML and JSON, Bootstrap, Ext.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2/4, React.js, Redux and Node.js.    • Proficient in using AJAX for implementing dynamic web pages via API calls.  • Ability to develop high performance Single Page Application using advanced Angular.js patterns.  • Good experience in Developing mobile application by using JQuery, Angular JS, Angular2/4 and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experience in building scalable MEAN stack applications using MongoDB, Express.js, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages contents with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Strong Experience in using CSS2, CSS3 and dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  • Thorough understanding in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) using Java/J2EE related technologies.  • Expertise in Developing mobile application by using JQuery, Angular JS, Angular2/4 and Bootstrap  • Experience in using CSS Preprocessors like SASS, LESS.  • Proficiency in using tools like TSLint and JSLint to maintain coding standards.  • Extensive Experience in various IDEs like Eclipse, EditPlus, Sublime text, Notepad++, Atom, Webstrom, Visual studio.  • Strong Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Hands on Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQUERY.  • Experience in Test Drive Development by using Jasmin and Karma.  • Hands on experience in using tools Grunt, Gulp, Bower and Angular CLI.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome developer's Tool and Firebug.  • Experience in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  • Proficient in working SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Created front- end user interfaces with React.js by creating many components and modules.  • Experience in UNIX/Linux (LAMP Environment), Windows operating environments.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using AngularJS Working with ECMA Script 6 features.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like Desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery by using tools like Jenkins.  • Strong Experience with Version Control tools like GIT and SVN for Source Code version management.  • Experience using JIRA for project tracking.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process with expertise in Planning, Reviewing Specification, Documentation, Scheduling, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Frontend UI Developer CISCO Systems - San Jose, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Taking the product through the entire lifecycle of analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation, deployment and support.  • Proficiency in web and client / server applications using HTML5, JavaScript, Angular1.7, AJAX, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using web API's.  • Creating several AngularJS Services to get dynamic data from JSON files Or Rest calls.  • Creating several directives and filters to handle the data.  • Used several JQuery plugins for rich UI experience with using Rest calls.  • Good experience in handling client-side events.  • Good experience in using BootStarp and CSS.  • Strong Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Hands on Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX.  • Worked with services to make AJAX calls to fetch the data and injected promises to avoid call-back hell and succeeded in executing the code asynchronously.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, location, route, state etc.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Used AngularJs for Client-Side Validations and AJAX Calls to communicate with REST services with JSON Data  • Good experience in designing the application with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, REST, Jenkins, XML, AJAX, JSON, Git Hub, JIRA, IE, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, VS code, Ansible, Docker. Frontend UI Developer Angular JS - New Bremen, OH November 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Proficiency in web and client / server applications using HTML5, JavaScript, ReactJS, AJAX, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Good working experience in writing Angular JS/JQUERY 2.0/1.0, AJAX based web Applications to improve the response time and extensively implemented update panels and script manager.  • Like -wise all the CSS files are generated through SASS in grunt tasks.  • Used bootstrap framework for responsive website.  • Good understanding of MVC architecture using Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring Framework and Hibernate Framework.  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2/4 to design UI.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/4, Typescript SPA domains.  • Good experience in developing mobile application by using JQuery, Angular JS, Angular2/4 and Bootstrap.  • Used different Angular built in services for all data access, encapsulating URLs and Standardizing data Access interfaces.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in Angular.js.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Angular.js and JavaScript.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Experience in working on Nemo-Testing (selenium-based web Driver) to test web applications.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the Application using the techniques in Angular 2.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Used Github Extensively to Pull, Push and Merge Code and solved various merge conflicts.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining web application using React JS and Node JS.  • Developed retail web page using React JS, Redux and Node JS.  • Worked with services to make AJAX calls to fetch the data and injected promises to avoid call-back hell and succeeded in executing the code asynchronously.  • Used JQuery for Client-Side Validations and AJAX Calls to communicate with REST services with JSON Data.  • Developed micro services using Node.js as a server-side scripting language.  • Taking the product through the entire lifecycle of analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation and support.  • Created an on -the-fly configuration changes set up, with application saved in Node.js.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS, LESS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Used Grunt, to build and deploy code to multiple environments.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA, and Jenkins.  Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, Node JS, ReactJS, Redux, REST, Hibernate, Jenkins, XML, AJAX, JSON, WCAG2, Git Hub, Struts, JIRA, IE, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, WebStorm, Atom. Front End UI Developer AT&T - Chicago, IL April 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Applied Use Cases diagram to validate and test web application design against the UI architecture.  • Involved in client side designing and validations using HTML5 and Angular.js.  • Created an on -the-fly configuration changes set up, with application saved in Node.js.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS, LESS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Used Grunt, to build and deploy code to multiple environments.  • Wrote various classes and methods for data retrieval while implementing Angular components.  • Participated in Agile Process/SCRUM Meetings.  • Worked on the modernization of UI using angular grid with paginations and sorting.  • Involved in development of custom directives.  • Wrote various classes and methods for data retrieval while implementing Angular.js concepts.  • Used Angular.js Frameworks in the development of single page applications.  • Used http for consuming web services.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Used the Mozilla Firefox extension, Firebug to view and debug HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed web page layouts using CSS mechanism to include different colors, layout, width, height, font size, images size to the web pages.  • Worked on spring and Hibernate.  • Used SASS structures for styling.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • The concepts of cross-platform environment Node.js are successfully implemented on the Linux based Grunt (JavaScript task runner).  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Involved in development of TDD using Jasmine and karma.  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript.  • Closely worked with Application using React.js and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directions to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly  • Used maven for building and deploying the application.  • Used GitHub for version management.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, TypeScript, AJAX, BootStrap, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, DOM, maven, Java, GitHub, SQL, Hibernate, Jasmine, Karma, Agile, JIRA, Windows. UI Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL September 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed in the front end.  • Designed pages which are rendered from the custom CSS/CSS3.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS  • Worked in an Agile environment (Scrum pattern).  • Coded extensively using JavaScript MVC Framework to make rich internet web application.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3.  • Worked with various charting JavaScript libraries (High charts, High stock) to display visual data on the dashboard.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing using Jasmine framework.  • Developed UI and pagination using Angular.js and Node.js.  • Administered and supported Ext JS applications within scope.  • Implemented Angular.js client-side validation.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Performing the different modules like login, search and download with tracking. Gained hands-on experience on using Demand ware and added custom logic using pipelines and templates for executing code.  • Worked on extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Git, Bit Bucket, SQL, Demandware. UI Developer Foot locker - Camp Hill, PA November 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked in configuring zebra ticket printer so to format the data and to print the tickets as per the original and promo codes that is to be used in the store.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS UI-Route, Dependency Injection design pattern on Controller and Services for shared data between controllers.  • Expertise in JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, MVC Design Pattern, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, Angular JS, Couch DB, and Socket Stream.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework and done CRUD operations with http service.  • Worked on the XML data that gives the information about store transaction information and created an application that contains the information based on the stored system categories and their related trackers of shipping information.  • Worked on creating MSI file for the web time clock which automatically install the web application in the IIS server from the manger work station.  • Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server. Us Designing and implementing functionality using technologies including JavaScript, AJAX, and JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery.  • Created an online Style/Pattern Guide to define overall look of the platform to keep the design/UX standards.  • Worked on Node.js tools like Grunt, Web pack; Developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  • Developed form validation with AngularJS valid and data validation.  • Responsible for creating database using Code First Approach.  • Worked on oracle database to pull out the information in ticket printing application.  • Involved in sprint planning, code review and daily standup meetings to discuss the progress of the application.  Environment: HTML, CSS, AngularJs, JavaScript, Ajax, Web API, NM, office 365 integration Maven, GIT, Azure, UNIX / Linux, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), XML, SQL Server 2012. UI Developer C-Tel Infosystems - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content Managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Developed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed in the front end.  • Designed pages which are rendered from the custom CSS.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client-side events like quick search.  • Developed data format for the web applications and deployed the script using client-side scripting by JavaScript.  • Created web forms for uploading multiple files to share point document library.  • Delivered the best design aesthetics under tight deadlines, while effectively managing trade-offs between businesses need and portal user benefit. Has worked on JQuery for designing user interfaces for web applications.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Firebug, chrome dev tools Education Bachelor's