RPA UiPath Developer RPA UiPath <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA UiPath Developer - Securian Financial, Minnesota Saint Paul, MN • Around 7 years of experience in IT field which includes 2 years of experience as Robotic Process Automation developer with experience on Blue prism, Uipath(Certified) and Automation anywhere.  • Certified by UiPath as a UiPath Developer.  • Involvedin all phases of software development life cycle including design, development and creating test cases.  • Good understanding of Process Automation Life Cycle.  • Creative in Automation of Web based, Windows, Mainframe Citrix applications using various Automation tools.  • Managed the automation requests that come through COE intake form, review the requirements, assess the suitability and size the number and type of bots required to achieve the automation  • Familiar with UiPath components, feature, methods of automating business process.  • Worked on Available process, available resource in control room.  • Well-versed with the features and utilization of RPA recorder.  • Involved in using mail activities with UiPath. Experienced in using send Email activity to Email reports and errors.  • Hands on experience in building Uipath processes and business objects for various business system robots.  • Automated numerous routine tasks using BluePrism, Automation Anywhere thereby reducing manual intervention also helpful in Error Handling and maintenance of robots.  • Experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and expertise in Automation Anywhere & Blue Prism.  • Automated data transfers, including importing/exporting data between applications or files.  • Configuring new RPA processes and objectives using core workflow principles that are efficient, well-structured and maintainable.  • Experience in configuring SMTP, IMAP or POP3 server configurations.  • Worked on Blue Prism and UiPath work queues to manage BOT workloads.  • Working knowledge of Automation Anywhere, Uipath and UiPath studio for developing front office and back office robots.  • Experience with designing of various kinds of Workflows, sequences, and transactional business processes in Uipath studio.  • Hands on experience in RPA with open span 7.1 across different platforms and successful implementation in product environment.  • Create and maintain documentation related to Robotic Process Automation projects.  • Designed solutions utilizing RPA best practices and maintain technical responsibility for project delivery.  • Preparation of key deliverables such as design documents, test documentation, training  • Design and implement the automation framework for Web / Desktop based applications.  • Experienced in developing API's using SOAP, Restful web services using spring framework.  • Experienced in getting data from the database using Rest web services. Consumed SOAP web services using Restful services and provide the rest URL's for the client to consume.  • Fluent in HTML, CSS, and utilize jQuerylibrary, JavaScript and CSS animations to enhance user Experience.  • Strong working knowledge on HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS.  • Good understanding of Model View Controller(MVC) pattern.  • Experience in using various IDE's like Eclipse, Edit Plus, Sublime text, Notepad++.  • Experience in Agile, Waterfall model and worked extensively in scrum development process.  • Developed UI using jQuery and JavaScript library for web application and mobile application.  • Experience in building Single page applications with Angular JS.  • Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/desktop using HTML5, CSS3.  • Knowledge and experience in SQL database.  • Strong problem solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. Work Experience RPA UiPath Developer Securian Financial, Minnesota February 2019 to Present Description: Securian Financial ia a mutual holding company that provides a range of financial products and services. Founded in St.Paul, Minnesota. Securian Financial provides insurance, investment retirement products and Trust services to more than 19 million clients in the United States, Costa Rica and Canada.    Responsibilities:  • Provided RPA design, development, testing, training and implementation support  • Assist with pilot of Business automation tool upgrades, innovative tool evaluations and configuration of new automation tools.  • Created and maintained technical solution documentation for the most complex processes, recommending improvements, best practices, or changes, as needed.  • Worked with other configuration specialists in the Innovation Lab or other areas to continue to iterate the best practices and guidelines on Robotics.  • Experience with VMware Vrealize and Orchestrator and interfacing with VDI/VMs.  • Working within project planning constraints, communicating any identified project risks and issues to the delivery/project manager accordingly & providing inputs to change control process  • Experience working on different Environments like Windows Application, Database, Web Application, E-mail, SAP, Mainframes, MS Excel, CSV & PDF, OCR integration using UiPath  • Leading and participated in the development of client strategies for the technical and operating models for RPA  • Proactively assisting in the management of several clients, while reporting to Managers and above  • Work collaboratively with Business Analysts and Product Owners during test phases and UAT to test, debug and overcome issues.  • Worked with OCR to scan the entire screen using screen scrapping techniques.  • Creating and Scheduling BOTs in Orchestrator.  • Monitor the changes that happen after implementing the feedback during development or testing phase while keeping the project specifications intact.  • Beyond hands on development worked with other deliverablies such as design documents, test documentation, management presentations and training.    Environments: UiPath, .Net, VBscript, SQL, Python. RPA UiPath Developer MedData, Texas July 2018 to January 2019 Description: Meddata is a leading national provider of technology-enables healthcare services designed to improve financial outcomes for hospitals by enhancing the patient experience and expanding their access to healthcare. It includes a range of patient access & communications, revenue cycle management, including Billing,coding,eligilbility and patient satisfaction.    Responsibilities:  • Resposnsible in implementing full cycle development. Identifying the automation oppurtunities, gathering requiremnets, implement, Test and deploy in orchestrator.  • Worked with business team for identifying and gathering the requirements.  • Worked with solution architect in creating the solution design document( SDD)  • Automated various applications such as mainframe, web application, Citrix automation.  • Communicates daily with the Scrum Master and teammates on progress, plans for the day, and reports any issues blocking progress  • Implememnted End to end in robotic process automation using Uipath.  • Implemented web recording for automating and loging information from webpages.  • Handling exceptions in various levels of activity.  • Developed ROBOTS using UiPath to automate and accelerate 80% of standard business process with minimum human intervention for remaining non-standard processes.  • Deployed the process in UiPath orchestrator and scheduled the execution.  • Provided knowledge transfer to interns, developers and to the supporting team about UiPath and explaining about the bots in orchestrator.  • Worked on Basic, Web, Desktop, and citrix automations and captured the elements with various kinds of recording automations.  • Worked on image and text automation for capturing the elements and selectors. Used OCR for identifying the selectors.  • Creating and documenting test procedures and scenarios for Pre-UAT phases supporting the operational teams during UAT and rollout phases  • Used OCR technology to scan entire screen to find the elements that are displayed and create automations based on what can be seen on the screen.  • Reviewed and fixed bugs in production.  • Used various actions like Conditions and Loops, User prompts, Error Logging and commands like Object Cloning, OCR, Key Strokes etc. for coding the automation process.    Environments: Uipath, C# .Net, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2014, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS. RPA Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co, NewJersey July 2017 to July 2018 Description: JPMorgan Chase is a US multinational banking and financial services holding company headquarters in New York city. It is a leader in financial services offering solutions to their clients in more than 100 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Created Design and Deployment strategy of RPA with bot's execution in parallel running across the production.  • Used blue prism credential manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials.  • Involved in gathering requirements.  • Exposure to Blue prism, single sign-on implementation using Microsoft Active Dictionary.  • Installed Blue prism and configured with SQL server database.  • Used Blue Prism MAPIEX adds on library for manipulating mail boxes.  • Problem solving issues that arise in day to day running of robotic processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required.  • Used process, objects, work queues, calculations stage to perform logical operations in blue prism.  • Handled control room tasks like scheduling the bot, creating users like bot creators.  • Monitored and troubleshoot the environment using Control room.  • Worked on Integrating applications like (Web, Services, Mainframe, MS Office, GUI, Outlook etc.) using workflow, automation tools (Blue Prism).  • Good Knowledge on Running scheduled tasks anytime by using powerful Task scheduling, even when computer is locked.  • Designed automation solutions by using Blue Prism platform.  • Communicating with Blue Prism on software related issues, suggested improvements and participating with other users in the Blue Prism community.  • Worked on reusable components are designed & developed where applicable.  • Develop robots using blue prism for Identifying and debugging the errors using Error Handlers.  • Good Exposure on creating workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Involved in code reviews to check the efficiency of code standards.  • Used blue prism in-built objects, functions in Expression Builder for string operations, collection manipulation to compare and eliminate duplicates from data.  • Involved in spying the elements in each tab of one by JAVA mode from Blue Prism.  • Having strong understanding of product capability    Environment: Blue Prism V5.0, V4.2, Automation Anywhere, Work queues, Web Services. RPA Developer/ Architect Retail Solutions Inc, Rhode Island July 2016 to June 2017 Description:Retail Solutions Inc develops cloud-based applications for consumer goods manufacturers and retailers in the united states and internationally. The company provides software as a service data platform that integrate with enterprise resource planning to capture key data from integrated systems as client organizations. It also offers a suite of analytical platforms and applications.    Responsibilities:  • Created reusable automation framework with Meta Bots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation.  • Excel operations and Mail automation.  • Experienced in building Uipath Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Implemented End to End Robotic Process Automation for 3 processes using Automation Anywhere. Performed process assessment, deep dive RPA feasibility for processes for premier provider services to collapse all the old accounts which has a lot of Electronic Data Interchange areas involving Web, Mainframe and Windows-based applications.  • Develop Automation processes as per the technical Design Document(TDD) to meet the design requirements.  • Used Automation Anywhere Object Recorder to manage and execute windows controls as a background process  • Defined RPA automation strategy for process involving mainframes, web service calls and web applications implemented.  • Hands on in creation of Email, Excel, Image, Process automations in UiPath.  • Automated text in PDF's using screen scrapping to figure the invoices and store them in to the data table using UiPath.  • Worked on different Licenses in Automation Anywhere like Development Client License, Run client License, control room license.  • Strong knowledge and experience in C#.NET, SQL.  • Working within project planning constraints, communicating any identified project risks and issues to the delivery/project manager accordingly and providing inputs to the change control process.  • Communicating with UIpath on software related issues, suggested improvements and participating with other users in the UiPath community.  • Developed robots using automation anywhere in identifying and debugging the errors using error handlers.  • Creating solution on process automation for different Business Applications (Windows based, Browser based, Java and Mainframe).  • Developed code to read data from bulk of excels using C#.NET then injected to automation tool, designed and implemented parallel processing mechanism to achieve less time(customer goal)  • Worked in Robotic Automation anywhere tool to automate various database tasks.  • Used PDF integration tool with automation anywhere  • Created reusable frameworks with Meta Bots  • Used quality center with .NET to log and track defects.  • Implemented Robotic process automation Blue prism and automated front office and back office applications.  • Worked on web recorder, error handling, screen capture and logging in automation anywhere.  • Experience in staging and deploying Automation solution in to test and live environments  • Having strong understanding of product capability, structure protocols, application integration technology, deployment related to Robotic Process Automation.  • Analyzing the user stories and breaking up the user stories into sub-task with estimation.  • Implementation of Business requirements, gap analysis, and technical specifications.  • Involved in validating the Data read Content based on BRD Flow.    Environment: Automation Anywhere 9.0 and 10.5, UiPath 1.2, JavaScript, HTML. Front End UI Developer General Electric - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, Node JS, React JS, and CSS3 based on the W3C standards.  • Gather and analyze user requirements for new projects; transform design mock-ups into cross-browser compatible HTML/CSS layouts, implement dynamic page elements and form error validations using JAVASCRIPT.  • Worked on capturing the user events and rendering the appropriate action and dynamically rendering the UI based on user actions using Angular JS.  • Contributed functionality to the Internal Web Application using Ext JS. (Extended Java Script)  • Implemented AJAX driven UI Element and Search Algorithm using Ajax.  • Used JSON for translating data to and from JavaScript Object Notation.  • Developed the administrative UI and reusable directives using AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Developed a functionally rich User Interface like using JavaScript and CSS framework.  • Designed and Developed code for the XML driven UI using JSP, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Developed AJAX framework for the project using jQuery, Servlet, JSP (for JavaScript event handling).  • Used different Web 2.0 Design patterns such as Navigation Tabs, Item Pagination, Page Grids, Sign-In module, Ranking, Writing a Review, Calendar Picker, Auto Complete  • sUsedjQuery UI to provide abstractions for low-level interaction and animation, advanced effects and high-level, the widgets, built on top of the jQuery JavaScript Library.  • Designed and Developed complex consumer and business applications for a wide range of devices from web and mobile, to kiosk with a focus on web standards, progressive enhancement and accessibility.  • Designed jQuery UI plugins to allow a developer to seamlessly integrate UI widgets into the look and feel of their site or application.  • Involved in front end development using JavaScript, Java, HTML, DHTML, CSS  • Developed search page and several widgets for application using JSP, Struts, JavaScript, YUI, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, front end architecture.  • Experience with visual design and the YUI controls needed to construct a front- end GUI application.  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing  • Developed Ant scripts to build and deploy the application on resin application server  • Worked with the systems team and Quality assurance team in the process  Environment: Java, YUI, Ajax, jQuery, Angular.js, React JS, HTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, Web Developer Apollo Health Care - IN March 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations, AJAX controls and XML.  • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MySQL.  • Developed portals for implementing health care benefits of the employees.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML, CSS and Angular.js.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js,jQuery, Firebug, SQL, Windows XP and MS Office. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, MYSQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chaithanya-k-61a848161 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    RPA Tools UiPath, BluePrism, Automation Anywhere  UI Web Technologies HTML, HTML5,XHTML,JavaScript,AJAX,jQuery,JSON,CSS,CSS3,DOM, Node.js.  Web Designing Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  Web/Application Servers HTTP Web Server, Web logic Apache Tomcat.  Frame Works Bootstrap, React JS, Angular 2.0, Angular JS frame works.  Database Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2008 and 2012, MySQL and MS Access.  Scripting Languages JavaScript, PowerShell, python, VBS, Bash, PHP.  Operating Systems Windows Environment, Linux and Ubuntu.  Debugging Tools Google Chrome Web Debugger, Fire bug,Mozilla Firefox.  IDE Eclipse, Sublime text, Notepad++.