UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Lincoln Financial GroupAtlanta GA Peach Tree, UT • Over 7 years of experience in Designing and Developing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and Hybrid Web Development.  • Extensive experience in Development, Documentation, Object oriented design, Application Software Design, Testing and implementation.  • Expertise in designing user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX, jQuery, Node.JS, Angular 1.x 1.5 1.6, Angular 2/4/5, React.js, ext.JS, Backbone.js and XML related technologies.  • Experience in designing applications using JavaScript, Typescript in developing of Android Applications.  • Worked with ReactJS framework for page rendering and AJAX calls to backend RESTful services.  • Expertise in implementing React JS with Redux and Fluxpatterns to attain MVC functionality  • Used popular NodeJS frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API.  • Sound Knowledge and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Worked with several web application development projects using Responsive web design (RWD) and Used Web Standards to design table less layouts.  • Implemented dynamic web pages using AJAX and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing)  • Concepts on Model, View, controllers, and usage of directives, custom directives, and services.  • Working experience with Node environment using Node JS, NPM, Grunt JS, Bower.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks to minify the project.  • Experience in NodeJS frameworks like Express.  • Developed multiple Angular Applications using Angular CLI, TypeScript, Rx JS.  • Experience in Document object model (DOM), Cross browser development, accessibility, progressive enhancement and Debugging tools.  • Worked with AngularJS, Node JS, jQuery, Nginx, docker, RESTful API Services  • Experience with unit testing and wrote test cases for applications, used to test with frameworks like Mocha, Jasmine, Junit, etc.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like MySQL.  • Highly Curious about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Experience in client-side development with CSS, JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in developing GUIs using Struts, SPRING MVC, SPRING web flow Frameworks  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS (2.1/3) and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, triggers and Query optimization with MySQL, MS-SQL and Oracle Databases. Written queries for insert, update and modification operations. Performed database optimization and normalization using database tools. Work Experience UI Developer Lincoln Financial GroupAtlanta GA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on IOS and Android as target devices.  • Used Visual Studio Code as the IDE to create convenient interface and test the code simultaneously.  • Built Ionic 3 framework targeting Android and IOS Devices.  • Working with latest technologies mainly React and Redux.  • Configured React-Redux for state management and React-Router for programmatic navigation  • Implemented Store-Redux for holding the whole state tree of application and Reducer-Redux.  • Used typescript 2.4 to support Angular 5 to reduce lazy loading.  • Application is redesigned by using Angular4. Web API are used to send and receive data to/from back end, recently started updating from Angular4 to Angular5.  • Since it's a mobile Application of version 3 almost all JavaScript frameworks are being used mainly Angular2, Angular 4 and Angular 5.  • Attending mandatory daily scrum meetings to improve performance and discuss on the deadlines and other requirements of the project.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, and AJAX.  • Followed Agile Methodology.  • Worked exclusively on very recent technologies like NgRx, React.js and Redux.  • Created React Components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow.  • Implemented reusable, testable and stable React.js components and standalone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed JavaScript based components using React.js Framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Used NgRx effects and NgRxstore exclusively.  • Worked on Angular 2, Angular 4 and Angular 5 for building Single Page Applications.  • Used the Build Optimizer in Angular 5 to make the application faster and lighter.  • Updated dates and currency pipes using Angular 5.  • Performed routing using Angular5.  • Built progressive mobile Applications using the push notifications feature of Angular 5.  • Performed testing using jasmine, Protractor.  • The default Browsers for running the application was Internet Explore and Google Chrome.  • Developed a component that varies content based on the user's navigation by using router- outlet directive in Angular2.0  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.    Environment: AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NgRX, React.js, Redux, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, MongoDB, AJAX, XML, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Selenium, ECMASCRIPT 6, Typescript2.8, Visual Studio Code Front End Web Designer Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC February 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Utilized AngularJS to build new MVC structure to set custom filters and directives.  • Developed Java Script applications using Typescript.  • Created Typescript Reusable components and services using component-based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular2.0 framework.  • Developed a component that varies content based on the user's navigation by using router- outlet directive in Angular2.0  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.JS, Angular 2.0, Node.js, jQuery, Webpack.  • Implemented SPA by using several in built core directives, expressions and modules in perspective of Angular2.0.  • Involved in developing the web pages using (Angular 2 and Angular 4) which are powerful in building  • Implemented a graph using D3.js to summarize monthly financial data  • Used GIT for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code.  Involved in developing the web pages using (Angular 2 and Angular 4) which are powerful in building the Single page web applications.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON. MongoDB and AJAX.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Worked with JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Configure the Sprites and incorporate the best SEO practices to make the website Google friendly.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Backbone.js, Require.js and Responsive Design.  • Prototyping the new features and ideas using HTML, CSS (SASS) and D3.js.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Developed SQL Queries to run against database in Microsoft SQL Server for the application.  • Built HTML templates for high traffic and complex data driven websites.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested event handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Programmed standards complaint HTML5 and CSS3 working with jQuery library modules and JavaScript framework libraries.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE9.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js, Ember.js Require.js and node.js to develop User Interface of web pages.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  • Involved in a Waterfall based approach to UI Development.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/3, SASS, Bootstrap, Node.JS, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular5, Typescript, JavaScript, ECMASCRIPT 6 Ajax, JSON, MVC, Restful Webservices, PL/SQL, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Agile, SCRUM, GitHub, JSP, XHTML, DHTML, XML, SOAP, DOM, Gulp, Grunt, jQuery. UI Developer Liberty Mutual - Seattle, WA November 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • The project is built upon the Single Page Application (SPA) criteria.  • Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Used and created AngularJS custom directives to implement form validation and collecting customer's data.  • Created Multiple Re-usable UI Directives by defining AngularJS Directives, Attaching Event Listeners, Controllers and Updating DOM elements.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework while developing the UI modules.  • AngularJS ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Angular JS Factory, Services &Providers created for different modules of Users, Groups, and System & Entities etc.  • Designed website features with Angular.js controllers, views and services.  • Developed a business application to the layout using Grid orientation and Bootstrap framework.  • Used Backbone.js to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data from server.  • Developed UI tests with Protractor and Java tests in JUnit.  • Fixed bugs of an Order Management System (OMS) built in C++ and Win32API and then developed new features.  • Developed and tested from the ground up an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data-structures, common algorithms (sorting, etc.), sockets, threading.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Developed jQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server-side code and implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Enhanced application functionality and added new features with the help of backend developers.  • Developed the jQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Used jQuery UI for screen design and development.  • Tested several reusable JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls.  • Designed web pages using HTML5, coded them using Search Engine Optimization Techniques and displayed various sections of data using jQuery.  • Used CSS3.0 to style pages, create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features developing Java Script for user interfaces.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Excellent Communication Skills, Self-motivated, Quick learner and excellent team mentor & player, ability to meet deadlines    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js,Angular 2, Node JS Require.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, Groovy, Grails framework, jQuery UI, Dreamweaver CS5, and Bootstrap, MS Office. Web Developer Data Cove software labs PVT.LTD October 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Created Multiple Re-usable UI Directives by defining AngularJS Directives, Attaching Event Listeners, Controllers and Updating DOM elements.  • Involved in extensive HTML coding.  • Responsible for developing the pages using JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON to parse on data on the frontend on the fly.  • Used and created AngularJS custom directives to implement form validation and collecting customer's data.  • Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Worked on AngularJS Routes using $scope object to create a Views using Controllers.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Designed the evolution of the Web Service using template-based protocol for better performance and to support unlimited better availability and scalability using C++.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Prepared cases for different functionalities and designs based on the requirements of the client.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service.  • Handled several of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Servlets, JSP, jQuery, OO JavaScript, Dreamweaver, SOAP, Shell, XML, JUnit, IDE - Eclipse, Source Control -SVN, SQL, MYSQL, UNIX. Education Master's Skills Ajax. (6 years), Angularjs (6 years), Apache (1 year), Backbone (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Css (6 years), Eclipse (2 years), Git (1 year), Html (6 years), Html5 (3 years), Java (5 years), Javascript (6 years), jquery (6 years), Json (6 years), Jsp (4 years), Mongodb (2 years), Servlets (2 years), Soap (4 years), Subversion (2 years), Svn (2 years) Additional Information TECHINCAL SKILLS    Language JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Java, JDBC, JSP.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP  Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON,AngularJS 2/4/5, React JS, Backbone.js, JSP, Servlets, Bootstrap, RESTFUL Web services.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, UML, Design Patterns, waterfall, Kanban model.  Databases MongoDB,Oracle11g/10g, MySQL5.0.2, PostgreSQL  Service Oriented Architectures Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSDL  Development Methods UML, OOAD  Application/Web server Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, Web Logic server (Java Portal Environment)  IDEs Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Visual Studio,  Version Controls GIT,SVN, CVS  Operating System Windows XP, Win-07, Win-08, Linux