WordPress Developer WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Tucson, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WordPress Developer Anchor Wave Internet Solutions - Tucson, AZ December 2017 to Present Responsible for all things Wordpress, including troubleshooting site errors, code modification and custom project development.   • Created plugins to meet project needs when necessary  • Modified and created child theme and plugins to work in conjunction with existing functionality.   • Developed custom solutions in wordpress for clients, including job/talent search for freelance and non-profit organizations; Inventory and Shipment tracker featuring custom calculations; Intranet portal for construction project management.   • launched and migrated over 300 sites onto LiquidWeb, GoDaddy, A2, 1&1, Host Gator, Rackspace(Cloudsites), and many other servers.   • Configured numerous different hosting environments  • installed SSL certificates,   • handled DNS modifications,   • migrated and modified database export/imports,   • configured email records and every other step that is required for a successful website launch.   My role at Anchorwave is best described as a 'sharp-shooter' developer, equipped to handle any site-related task or issue that needs work. I have been recognized for my attention to detail, ability to target and fix sources of error, and write quality, efficient code. Web Developer/SEO Tucci Creative - Tucson, AZ January 2017 to Present Wrote well designed, testable, efficient code by using best software development practices. Created website layout/user interfaces by using standard HTML/CSS practices. Integrated data from various back- end services and databases such as Wordpress, MySQL/SQL databases, and various PHP frameworks. Front End Web Developer Automatit - Tucson, AZ May 2016 to August 2016 Responsible for developing websites using HTML5, CSS3, PHP, jQuery, and MySQL, while adhering to adaptive and responsive design best practices. Increased scalability by implementing CodeIgniter framework and custom database queries, Tested sites for cross-browser compatibility and increased Google maps integration efficiency by dynamically loading locations from a database. Enhanced SEO by implementing schema markup and structured meta-data. Worked with team and developed sites in a scrum framework. CRM/Coldfusion Developer Simpleview Inc. - Tucson, AZ March 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities  Responsible for implementing client requested code changes to front- end and back- end of custom Client Relationship Management (CRM) Product, writing and executing SQL database scripts for updates or modifications, designing database-driven reports to client specification, and testing changes to ensure deliverables are met, adhere to code standards and ensure data integrity.     Skills Used  Coldfusion, Javascript/Prototype, HTML/CSS, T-SQL Database Developer Intern Ventana Medical Systems - Oro Valley, AZ June 2014 to September 2014 Interfaced with biologists and chemists at Ventana Medical Systems to create a master database  application for Cancer research experiment results. Developed in Visual Basic, the application  allows the researchers to import their own experiment result spreadsheets into a master database  spreadsheet in Excel, allowing for variability in formatting. Technical Consultant University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ January 2013 to May 2014 Responsible for providing hardware, software, networking, and account assistance to UA students,  faculty and staff. Specifically, worked with Windows and Macintosh operating systems, performed  virus and spyware removal, software installation and troubleshooting, network configuration, and  UA network identification password reset and configuration. Provided all of the above with friendly  service and basic explanations of technical procedures to ensure client understanding and quality  customer experience. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Science and Technology University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ Skills Web Design (7 years), Web Development (5 years), TSQL/MySQL/SQL (3 years), HTML/CSS (7 years), Javascript (7 years), Java (5 years), Adobe Coldfusion (1 year), Node.js (3 years), Angular.js (3 years), PHP (4 years), d3.js (1 year), CSS3, Wordpress, HTML5, npm (3 years), Git/SVN (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License