Java/ J2EE Developer Java/ J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/ J2EE Developer - Aim Specialty health Chicago, IL * Having 9+ years of experience in Java/J2EE technologies specializing in all phases of software development lifecycle Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, Testing,and Maintenance of application software.  * Experienced in Core Java, Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception handling, File I/O, Design Patterns, OOPS Concept.  * Implementation, testing, integration, and production support of the enterprise web application using Java/J2EE technologies/framework.  * Worked with web technologies like JSP, Html5, Angular JS, CSS3, Servlet, Java scripts (used frameworks-JSON) JQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, IOC/DI, AOP) other frameworks (Hibernate, EJB, JUnit) and Database (Oracle, MySQL,and DB2).  * Expertise in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of Java/J2EE application using Java, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP (JAX-WS), WSDL, SOA, Restful Web Services (JAX-RS), Jersey Framework, Servlets, JAXB, JSON, JavaScript, XML, XSD, SQL and using tools like Axis 2.0.  * Worked with ORM tools such as Hibernate and proficient in HQL.  * Designed various modules of application/product with the knowledge of design patterns and OOPS concepts.  * Good experience in writing and performance tuning database queries and stored procedures using Oracle, DB2 and MySQL databases.  * Good knowledge in usage of application and web servers such as JBoss, Tomcat and Web Sphere.  * Having good experience in build tools like ANT/Maven and logging like Log4J/SL4J.  * Extensive J2EE development experience in different IDE tools like Eclipse and Rational Rose.  * Experienced in Coding, testing, analyzing/fixing production defects/issues using Core Java&J2EE technologies and involved in code and design review process of team members.  * Experienced in TDD (Test Driven Development) using JUnit, Cucumber, Selenium and created technical design document containing architecture of the application/module/product.  * Experienced in Version Control Systems such as SVN, CSV and used tracking tool JIRA.  * Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents,and Test Cases.  * Working as a team extended across the world at onshore and offshore locations, projects teams included 30+ resources and always keep up with new technology trends with a view to applying changing technology solution patterns.  * Authorized to work in the United States for any employer Experience in setting up the CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins, GitHub, Terraform and AWS.  * Hands on experience with Object Oriented Design (OOD) and developing applications using UML. Expertise in designing Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Use case diagrams.  * Extensive experience in programming and deploying n-tier applications in J2EE Application Servers like WebLogic, JBoss, WebSphere application servers and Apache Tomcat web server.  * Very good experience in bug fixing, integration testing,andJUnit test case creation and execution.  * Experience with test-driven development using a various unit testing framework such as JUnit.  * Experience with building applications using ANT and MAVEN tools.  * Well versed with production issues and full implementation of SDLC phases from requirements gathering to deployment. Experience working extensively on both Windows and UNIX based environments.  * Well exposed to code reviews, source code control practices using SVN and GIT for Version Controlling.  * Collaborate with developers QA, product owner and scrum master to prioritize needs and produce  * high-quality software changes  * Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and capable of contributing individually as well as in a team with excellent communication skills.  * Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of applications on Windows &UNIX platforms using IDE's such as Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ.  * Have knowledge/experience in Software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/ J2EE Developer Aim Specialty health - Chicago, IL September 2018 to Present Description:AIM Specialty Health® provides clinical solutions that drive appropriate, safe and affordable care. Serving more than 50 million members across 50 states, D.C., and US territories, AIM promotes optimal care through the use of evidence-based clinical guidelines and real-time decision support for both providers and their patients. Our platform, featuring a sophisticated clinical rules engine from Applied Pathways (a wholly owned subsidiary of AIM), delivers significant cost of care savings across an expanding set of clinical domains, including radiology, cardiology, oncology, specialty drugs, sleep medicine, musculoskeletal care, and genetic testing.  Responsibilities:  * Responsible for designing and developing Web-based Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies such as Springs, Servlets, REST and SOAP  * Experience developing rich application UIs using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, JSON,and AngularJS.  * Expertise in deploying the J2EE applications on IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat  * Experience in using Agile Software development methodologies  * Implemented micro services-based architecture using Spring Boot interacting through REST API.  * Involved in design, development,and implementation of the front end part of the web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS,and Bootstrap.  * Developed and Deployed Stateless and State full session Beans, used EJB 3.0 as the ORM mapping tool and worked with the different configuration files.  * Worked with Angular 4/5 using Angular CLI and generated various components, routes, services,and pipes and structured the application code using Component-based architecture.  * Responsible for producing and consuming the SOAP and RESTfull web services  * Used Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC,and DAO, Spring AOP  * Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Front Controller, Data Access Objects (DAO)  * Build SOAP Web Services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services).  * Deployed Spring Boot based micro services on Docker containers using Amazon ECS and used Docker Hub for registering the Docker images.  * Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  * Responsive development is implemented using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  * Expertise in GIT version control tool  * Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information.  * Experience in working with various databases like Oracle,SQL Server, and MySQL.  * Responsible for building the application using MAVEN  * Designed modular and reusable React components using Redux Architecture and Material-UI.  * Worked with Spring Cloud and Netflix OSS-Eureka for service registration and discovery.  * In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back- End team to display data using the Custom React JS Components, library Components, and Redux library.  * Having a Handful of experience in using OAuth 2 for Micro services security.  * Used React Router to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with the server.  * Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the MySQL database.  * Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library in Angular 2.0 to handle multiple values over time.  * Deployed application in virtual server - Amazon Web Services for maintaining Volumes, Creating Snapshots and Security Groups in AWS.  * Experienced in working with Babel and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  * Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications.  * Prepared Junit and TestNG test cases and execute them as part of auto build process from Jenkins Jobs.  * Configured Node JS in the back end to interact with MongoDB using Mongoose connector.  * Created Cache Memory on Windows Azure to improve the performance of data transfer between SQL Azure and WCF services.  * Created a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers.    Environment:JDK 1.8, Java/J2EE, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, RESTfull web services, Hibernate, JSP, JSON, JavaScript, Ext JS, jQuery, Angular, BootStrap, Oracle, XML, Oracle SQL Developer, AWS, Eclipse, WAS, Tomcat, Git, JIRA, Maven, React, Redox, Docker, Mockito, Babel, Webpack, Kafka,OAUTH2, Jenkins, Azure. Java/ J2EE Developer PPL Service Corp,Allentown,PA USA - Allentown, PA June 2016 to August 2018 Description:The PPL Corporation is an energy company headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA. It currently controls about 8,000 megawatts of regulated electric generating capacity in the United States and delivers electricity to 10.5 million customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Great Britain. It also provides natural gas delivery service to 321,000 customers in Kentucky. PPL Electric Utilities (formerly known as PP&L and Pennsylvania Power and Light) is the PPL Corporation's primary subsidiary.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  * Identifying appropriate AWS service based on computer, data availability, security requirements and storage.  * Using Javascript and Struts validation framework for performing front- end validations  * Involved in the planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology (3 Iterations)  * Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  * Worked on API documentation using Swagger. Involved in system design and development using Collections and multithreading for the action classes.  * Worked on the REST Web Services and used Spring Framework and developed the Spring Features like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Data Access, and spring web test, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Integration.  * New full-text search feature implementation using Elastic Search.  * Efficiently handled periodic exporting of SQL data into Elasticsearch.  * Creating Rich UI applications using Angular2 integrating with REST API's built on Microservices.  * Developed and documented best practices for MongoDB.  * Used Multithreading, Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating emails.  * Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data and Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  * PL/SQL developer was used for connecting to Database. Spring JNDIwas used for data source connection.  * Migrating existing application into REST based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  * Developed User interface using Angular JS, JSF, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, Ajax, JQuery and JSON.  * Creation and maintenance of data using Oracle database. JDBC for database connectivity with Oracle.  * Followed Agile with SCRUM methodology to track project progress.  * Maven tool has been used for the build and deploys the batch component with JPA.  * Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, angular and AJAX.  * Developed Web pages using Servlet and JSP, Angular.js, for the support app which is a test tool for a quick standalone testing of the Web service calls.  * Installation of MongoDB on Physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS.  * Used Log4j for logging and debugging.  * Used SVN to keep track of source code versioning.  * Worked on the tuning of back- end Oracle stored procedures using Oracle SQL Developer.    Environment:Java1.8, JDK, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.0, JNDI, AJAX, Web Services, Eclipse, AWS Lambda, Micro Services, Restful Service, Jenkins, Spring Data, XML, JSON, Git, JUnit, Oracle 11g, JavaScript, Angular Is, CSS, JavaScript, Web logic, Spring MVC, SQL, SOA, Oracle 10g, SQL, IBM Web Sphere, Log4j, UNIX. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer DXC Technology, Tysons, Virginia, U.S February 2015 to May 2016 Description:DXC Technology (stylized as DXC.technology) is an American multinational end-to- end IT services company headquartered in Tyson's Corner, Virginia. DXC provides information technology and consulting services to businesses and governments. The company operates in more than 70 countries and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DXC" and is a component of the S&P 500 index.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases by following Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  * Developed using new features of Java 8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  * Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Swing, Serialization and Servlets & JSP.  * Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery.  * Worked with Angular CLI and AngularJS to create Controllers and Angular components.  * Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with the Database.  * Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  * Used Spring Boot Actuator for application's configuration properties in various environments, Upgraded Spring Rest Controllers and Services classes to support migration to Spring framework.  * Using Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status and deployed Spring Security for session fixation, clickjacking, cross-site request forgery.  * Developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zoo Keeper as a message broker.  * Developed microservices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each micro-service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  * Using Golang designed the toolkit for projects based on Docker along with Kubernetes.  * Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from SQL Server.  * Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions (EC2, MongoDB) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling).  * Involved in configuring Elastic Load Balancers with Autoscaling to handle high traffic loads.  * Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources.  * Worked on JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  * Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed the message to travel through Microservices to base on RestfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  * Used Maven, automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j.  * Implemented unique design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns.  * Used Maven as a build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with GitHub, Jenkins Jobs.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking,and project management.  * Involved in converting SQL queries into Apache Spark transformations using Apache Spark RDDs and Scala.    Environment:HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS, APIGEE, Java1.8, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP UI, XML, SQL Server, Docker, AWS, Spring Boot, Swagger-UI, Log4j, Selenium, Jenkins, JIRA, Maven, GIT, WebSphere, COBOL DB2. Java/ J2EE Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH June 2013 to January 2015 Description:Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies is a group of large U.S. insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, OH. The company also operates regional headquarters in Des Moines, IA; San Antonio.  Responsibilities:  * Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller.  * Used JNDI to perform lookup services for the various components of the system.  * Involved in designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML and JSP with Struts tag libraries.  * Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML,andAJAX and developed web services by using SOAP UI.  * Used JPA to persistently store a large amount of data into a database.  * Implemented modules using Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  * Applied J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory, Singleton, and Business Delegate, DAO, Front Controller Pattern,andMVC.  * Used JPA for the management of relational data in the application.  * Designed and developed business components using Session and Entity Beans in EJB.  * Developed the EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers.  * Deployed and monitored web services using Spring Cloud Foundry Managed Domains and Routes with Spring Cloud Service Registry.  * Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively and Spring declarative transaction management for managing transactions.  * Developed Hibernate mapping files and Hibernate configuration for persisting data to the database.  * Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL.  * Used Multi-threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions, to handle all the threads by the main thread process.  * Worked on the Multithreaded environment to send a response to the user interface.  * Experience in creating stored procedures, PL/SQL Packages, Triggers,and Functions.  * Developed PL/SQL blocks using collections like Nested Tables, and Associative arrays.  * Developed Spring Batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on Oracle database, with partitions and sub-partitions.  * Implemented Quartz scheduler to execute batch programming using Spring Batch.  * Implemented various validations rules using JBoss Business rules in the dry (drools file) using Drools rule engine.  * Developed Test classes using JUnit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in.  * Utilized AWS Services platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets, creating EC2 instances and to deploy the Dockerized Container services.  * Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  * Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.    Environment:Java/J2EE, JBoss 3.0, Spring Core, JMeter, Cassandra, Hibernate, Jetty, Perl, Spring MVC, Angular Js, JavaScript, Backbone.JS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, JMS, jQuery, Spring MVC, Jenkin, Amazon Ec2, Amazon S3, Oracle, Drools. Front End Developer Marico - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2012 to May 2013 Description:Marico Limited is an Indian consumer goods company providing consumer products and services in the areas of Health and Beauty based in Mumbai. During 2015, the company generated a turnover of Rs.5,733 crore. Marico has 8 factories in India located at Pondicherry, Perundurai, Kanjikode, Jalgaon, Paldhi, Dehradun, Baddi and Paonta Sahib.    Responsibilities:  * Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based System, private start-up Environment.  * Using Photoshop to change unique picture support the app.  * Using the sketch to create a prototype for the layout.  * Developed the application as Single Page Application using AngularJS MVC framework.  * Developed the application use Component-based React framework.  * Developed the application as Single Page Application using Angular 4 web component based.  * Worked on front- end pages using HTML5, CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular Material.  * Used AngularJS UI Router to establish routing between nested HTML views.  * Used React UI Router to establish routing between views.  * Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations.  * Apply animation when an event happened using Angular.  * Using AngularJS created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations and to display data.  * Built factories to utilize Angular services such as $http and $resource to consume the RESTful APIs for data parsing from the Java-based backend server.  * Involved in Design queries to the back- end MySQL database to implement the GET / POST functionality for JSON contracts.  * Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSSpre-processors SASS.  * Worked with the Bootstrap Grid structure and the CSS media queries to make the application responsive (RWD).  * For easy debugging used testing frameworks Karma and Jasmine and followed the TDD to develop the entire application.  * For SEO check keywords in URL, Meta Description any Potential porting in TDD.  * Responsible for checking cross-browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  * Using Node to connect with Mongo DB for creating, read, update, delete, implement the base functionally for CRUD.  * Used GIT for version control and simultaneous code implementation.  * Assisted business analysts to figure out the technical aspects of the project and later analyzed the requirements to design the application.  * Using DASH to hold the steam video.  * Worked in Agile methodology and attended daily Scrum meetings to access the current progress in a Sprint.    Environment:PhotoShop, Sketch mock-ups, Angular 4, angular stream API, Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, GIT, Node.js, Redux, SASS, Linux, Agile, JSON, RESTful. Software Engineer Agnide technologies,Ahmedabad,Gujarat. India - Ahmedabad, Gujarat March 2010 to December 2011 Description:Aguide Technologies was Founded in June 2013 and headquartered in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, in order to help companies with their IT solutions. Our initial focus was on providing complete information technology solutions for companies. It is a software company which provides complete and customized software solutions, internet solutions and IT consulting services. We provide complete and customized software solutions.  Responsibilities:  * Understanding the Requirements and Functional Specifications of Gateway.  * Participate in product development reviews and do requirements analysis and import them to internal JIRA from PDD.  * Review product functional specifications and create requirements traceability matrixes to facilitate full test coverage of all features.  * Involved in all sprint meetings like sprint planning, elaboration, demo & release.  * Test Lead for Defect Management and Migration in Test Management office using JIRA.  * Total Test management for the Project and tracking activities to completion and managing Issues and Risk that occur during the Pre and Post Upgrade testing.  * Preparation of Test scenario /Test Cases in JIRA for System, Regression and Performance testing and maintain the test cases in JIRA.  * Planning and allocating resources to tests in JIRA.  * Liaison between the Testing team and Development teams for Defect resolution.  * Work closely with development engineers to report issues, analyze potential causes, and re-test fixes once implemented.  * Tracked Defects using JIRA and created Defect summary Report.  * Created Dashboard in Jira for tracking the Test cases, Requirements, Tasks,and Bugs.  * Worked on Agile development Environment with frequently changing requirements and features set.    Environment: FileNet P8 4.0, C# .net, Visual Studio 2008, TFS, SQL Server 2008, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, TFS. Education Bachelor of Computer Science & Technology in Computer Science & Technology JNTU 2009 Skills Css (9 years), Html (9 years), Javascript (9 years), Sql (8 years), testing. (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JPA JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Java Beans, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Spring data, Spring Boot, Spring framework, Spring JDBC Templates, java mail, Google API, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty Server, jerkins, AEM, Nginx.  Web technologies JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, Express.  DevOps Tools Docker, Kubernetes, Amazon Web Services(EC2,EBS,EKS), Jenkins  Web Services Frameworks JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Axis, Jersey  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, Altova , XMLSpy  Methodologies DB2 10.1, Oracle [ ] MySQL.  Framework Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/4.x/5/x, Hibernate, JSF, iBatis, Angular Ionic, RCP  Modeling Tools System CVS, Rational clear case, SVN, GIT, Dimensions Testing Junit, Mockito  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Cucumber, Spock, Mockito, TestNg, Karma, Jasmine, Protractor, Mocha, Chai  Database Servers Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Postgre.  Version Control Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Postgre.  Build Tools ANT, Maven 3.0, Gradle, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Jenkins.  Cloud Amazon Web services (AWS) Cloud, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).