Full-Stack Web & App Developer Full-Stack Web &amp; App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Web & App Developer Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack Web & App Developer Zenith Digital Marketing - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present ? Remote position working on web & mobile apps using React Redux & React Native  ? Visual Studio Code and Git repositories  ? Chrome Dev tools, Redux/React Dev Tools, and Inspect/Console for debugging  ? CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Bulma along with custom Sass  ? CRUD operators to store and retrieve data from database  ? Connected to various API’s like the Google Map API to add map features  ? MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, React and Node.js) to create full-stack solutions Front- End Web Developer Teachers of Tomorrow - Houston, TX November 2017 to January 2019 ? Visual Studio Code and Git repositories  ? Helped create a Single Sign-On solution using JSON web tokens  ? Worked with offshore developers in aligning workflows  ? Worked with the marketing team to roll out pages for A|B testing  ? HTML, CSS, Wordpress and Vanilla JS Front- End Web Developer Various Ad Agencies - Houston, TX August 2011 to November 2016 ? Designed and developed more than eight corporate and nonprofit websites.  ? Produced Wireframes for clients and coded pages per the UI/UX design’s teams specs  ? Used jQuery to easily access and manipulate the DOM for event handling and animation Front- End Web Developer The Mercer Society - Houston, TX June 2009 to July 2010 ? Worked with the Board of Directors to understand project needs  ? Used HTML, CSS and a web template to create the design  ? Used JS to add custom onclick event features for a dynamic experience Education Bachelor of Arts in Communications - Public Relations University of Houston - Houston, TX 2008 to 2013 Skills Javascript (2 years), React (2 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (4 years), Node (2 years), Git, Jquery, HTML 5, Redux (2 years), Expresss (2 years), JSON (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), Bulma, Bootstrap, PostgresQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/erika-aguirre/39/88b/365/ https://twitter.com/MsErikaAguirre Certifications/Licenses Corporate Entrepreneurship Certificate Present Google Adwords Present Javascript September 2018 to April 2019 Groups Toastmasters International - Pensadores de Houston September 2013 to Present Practice Spanish professional public speaking in weekly meetings with the area’s only bilingual club. Echos February 2013 to Present Created and presented a PR campaign as part of a probono project; provide web development assistance as-needed. Stop Femicide February 2007 to May 2010 -Founded a non-profit to promote awareness of female genocide, or “Femicide,” and supported families of deceased women due to sex-trafficking.  -Led a cause-oriented PR campaign that included pitching, securing and speaking at various broadcast interviews.  -Served as the bilingual spokesperson for media events, fundraisers and conferences.