Front- End UI developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Front- End UI developer Cary, NC • Around 6 years of extensive experience as a UI Developer in developing web applications Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • More than five years of experience in using HTML, CSS and JS  • Experience in developing User Interface applications and web applications using HTML 4.0/5, CSS3, Materialize CSS, JAVASCRIPT, J Query, AJAX, Angular JS, Angular 4, Bootstrap Framework, JSON and XML with experience in the software development life cycle.  • Extensive experience in Service Oriented Architecture &MVC frameworks.  • Experience in development and testing phase in SDLC.  • Good Understanding and good experience in developing single page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, Angular 4, and Node JS.  • Profound knowledge in working with Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using JQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Developed enterprise-level applications utilizing XML, JSON, Restful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS and a Modern UI framework such as Materialize CSS.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap, Foundation and SASS.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Used Node JS to develop I/O intensive web applications like video streaming sites, single page applications and other web applications.  • Experience in creating test suites using jasmine and worked on tools like NPM (node package manager), Bower, Grunt.  • Experience with Version Control tools like GitHub, CVS, VSS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Experience in working with ES6 features, used babble, Web pack with ES6, React JS.  • Experience in Using Mango Database in JSON, Ajax, PHP.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT Hub and SVN. Development methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM), V-Model.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Web Storm, Eclipse and Visual Studio. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front- End UI developer SAS - Cary, NC December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on client website to migrate it from Flex version to HTML version by using JavaScript along with React JS.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and ES6 used Web pack, Used JSX, created react components  • Responsible for developing front- end application using React JS and FLEX architecture for internal team's productivity use  • Used React JS Components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router as part of the project.  • Used Eclipse IDE for Coding functionality for the product.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back- end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End to perform RESTFUL services.  • Used HTML5, CSS for designing Clients application.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Using HTML5 and React JS, created pages for displaying workflow page along with Task panel, Property panel and Participants panel.  • Experience with props and states in react to manage data and used Rally for task tracking and to build user stories.  • Used ES6, JSX with react for component development make React look more elegant  • Involved in analyzing client needs and software requirements to maintain feasibility of design within the given time.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, JSON and HTML5.  • Used Karma along with Jasmine for both Unit and Integration testing.  • Used Git for source control and Gerrit plug-in to CHECKIN code for review.  • In a team of 12, Involves in Reviewing the code for other developers and merge it to master branch if there are no reviews comments for respective coding.  • Worked in Agile development methodology, by involving in daily SCRUM meetings, weekly Retrospective and sprint grooming meetings to keep track of the project status  • Used JIRA for tracking assigned user stories and bugs in current sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React, Agile, Jquery, REST API, Web pack, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Ajax, GIT, JIRA UI Developer Anadarko petroleum corporation - Houston, TX February 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the agent portal by writing modular, secure, well-tested front- end code using framework Angular 2/4 along with HTML5, CSS3, and Java Script.  • The portal is made responsive using Bootstrap and media queries to support desktop and tablets  • Implemented Angular 2 Validation to validate user inputs and upgrade them to Angular4 to create user-friendly web application.  • Written Typescript classes to construct Angular2/4 Components.  • Designed Sitemaps and Wire frame to clarify complex interactions  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back- end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response  • Migrating Angular 2 applications to Angular 4 features like animations, Pipes and responsible to create new module using Angular 4.  • Experience with Angular 4 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Animations, Forms, Lazy Loading, RXJS  • Created Type Script reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time  • Developed secured credit and fraud check flows for customer verification  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks  • Demonstrated knowledge of code reviews, unit and regression testing  • Involved in writing test plan using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 85% code coverage  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes  • Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 4, RxJS, Typescript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API, Web pack, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA UI Developer Baker Hughes - Houston, TX March 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:    • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library  • Implemented React-Router, React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and Grunt to turn application into Single Page Application  • Participated in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in working with REDUX architecture and REDUX for state management in maintaining the application when the state is updated.  • Experienced in developing React components.  • Used REDUX Thunk for maintaining the dispatch either if the state is delayed or if the condition is met  • Responsible for developing front- end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use  • Developed Address book, Order Return, Track order form components using Redux Form  • Used ES6, JSX with react for component development make react look more elegant  • Used Babel.js to trans-pile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript  • Experience with props and states in react to manage data and used Rally for task tracking and to build user stories  • Tested React components and application using Jasmine and Karma  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, NodeJS, Typescript, ES6, NPM, Web-pack, GIT, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor Web/UI Developer Trepp LLC - New York, NY April 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing the components using Angular needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Coded dynamic and responsive UI web pages using CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap, JQuery and AngularJS in MVC environment.  • Worked with AngularJS Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, and filters.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA), using AngularJS route providers.  • Created custom directives and extensively worked on making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Used various AngularJS filters against data sets to filter and formatted data currency, strings rendered in the UI.  • Implemented UI-grid throughout the application for better tables and grid system.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and with NPM tools (Node JS).  • Consumed REST based micro services with rest template based on Restful API's.  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common[Common core things including form validation].  • Implemented critical features like drag and drop files and export to PDF and excel functionalities.  • Performed Unit testing using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor (E2E) by following Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Expertise in debugging the code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome Developer tools.  • Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, MVC, REST, TDD, GIT, Jasmine, Karma, Agile UI Front End Developer Augusta Hi-tech Soft Solutions April 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using JavaScript, HTML, CSS  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using Client-side scripting using JavaScript  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and stimulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties  Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, MVC. Education master's California University of Management of Sciences 2017 bachelors in Electronic and communication engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2013 Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Webpack Assessments Critical Thinking — Familiar June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wpzcz1smia7jmgxn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.