Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Austin, TX I am a highly motivated full-stack web developer with more than 8 years of professional experience.  I utilize the latest web technologies and techniques to create intuitive, industry-changing applications while retaining a high level of flexibility. I have experience in popular libraries, frameworks and tools such as React, Redux, GraphQL, Node, Bootstrap, Laravel, Git and SASS. I have both front- end and back- end development experience, and store all my work in Github. I also have experience integrating with and developing RESTful APIs. My most recent roles have involved the development of applications from the ground up, developing middleware to integrate between multiple platforms, administrating over 500 e-commerce stores in addition to 200+ websites, and front end development of a massive lien resolution application. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer S3 - Austin, TX April 2017 to May 2018 I work with a team to develop a custom lien resolution application. I am working extensively with React and GraphQL to build out the front end of the application whilst efficiently interacting with the PHP backend. Lead Developer OneLive Media - Austin, TX January 2017 to April 2017 I am the lead developer at OneLive, a company providing the production and distribution of merchandise to artists and labels in the music and entertainment industries. I oversee multiple developers and manage sprints in order to deliver development products in a timely manner while still maintaining a high level of quality.  I have brought multiple applications from concept to launch in a matter of weeks; every application is built in a manner to be easily scaled and extended. I utilize Javascript (vanilla + React and redux) for front end applications and PHP, Ruby and Node for back- end projects, depending on the requirements of various integration partners. I secure my applications with OAuth2 and keep them database-agnostic to retain a high level of security and flexibility, respectively.  I work to maintain and provide solutions for 200+ Wordpress sites that are run by OneLive for our clients. I am responsible for administrating over 500 e-commerce stores based on Shopify, which involves custom application development so that we can manage all stores from a central location. Front End Developer Mozu - Austin, TX October 2015 to January 2017 I worked as a front end developer on the Digital Experience team at Mozu. I worked with a team to build the UI used to administrate stores utilizing the Mozu e-commerce platform. I used Javascript to develop intuitive front- end interfaces, making use of Ext JS, Backbone, and React + Redux. I built and maintained the back- end UI in collaboration with the QA team; we used Git to manage our code, and unit-tested with Karma and Jasmine. Lead Application Developer RAYVR, LLC - Fruitland, MD January 2015 to July 2015 I was responsible for designing and implementing a product marketing web application  that would connect product developers with users interested in their respective products.  This application involved the integration of multiple third-party APIs, including PayPal,  Stripe, Mandrill, and Lob. I built the front- end and back- end of the application employing  HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap for the front- end, and Laravel paired with a MySQL  database for the back- end. I organized and deployed code through Github. Senior Web Developer South Moon Under - Berlin, MD 2014 to 2015 I worked as the e-commerce developer for a fashion retailer. I would modify the front- end of the website, refine the user-flow and optimize the site for speed. I worked with external  teams to coordinate integrations. I worked in the Demandware platform utilizing their  proprietary Demandware script API for new page development, as well as assisting in their  integration of third-party Demandware cartridges. I worked also to perform in-depth SEO and SEM analysis to enhance quality lead generation. Website Developer INFOWORKZ SOLUTIONS GROUP - Salisbury, MD 2014 to 2015 I developed two websites on a contractual basis for an IT firm. I was responsible for the front- end and back- end development of websites for which I was provided designs/  wireframes and mock-ups. I utilized HTML, CSS and JavaScript for the front- end  implementations, and PHP for the back- end implementations. Website Designer & Developer Spiderweb Connections - Easton, MD 2014 to 2015 I developed two websites on a contractual basis for a web marketing firm. I was  responsible for the front- end and back- end development of websites utilizing the  Wordpress platform. I built the websites to have fully valid markup and to work across all  popular browsers. Website Designer & Developer Freelance - Salisbury, MD 2012 to 2014 I worked as a freelance web designer and developer by building websites for local  businesses including a mental health firm, a church, a crawlspace-system company and a  restaurant. I did many bug-fixes and revisions to websites and blogs that I found in online  freelancing websites.    Previous employers    Darren Lombardo - Project Manager at Infoworkz Solutions Group; 410-543-8668    Todd Smith - Web Communications Manager at Salisbury University; 410-677-5487    Susan Schauer John - Project Manager at Spiderweb Connections; 443-595-7746    Jeffrey Hecker - President of E-Commerce at South Moon Under; 410-641-1644    Dr. Michael Finegan - President at Peninsula Mental Health Services; 410-860-2673 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Mathematics Salisbury University - Salisbury, MD August 2010 to May 2014 Skills PHP (9 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JavaScript (8 years), Wordpress (8 years), jQuery (8 years), SASS (6 years), Laravel (2 years), MySQL (6 years), Git (3 years), Ruby (2 years), Java (1 year), C++ (1 year), Photoshop (7 years), Illustrator (2 years), React (2 years), Redux (2 years), GraphQL (1 year), Node Awards Eagle Scout 2008-03 Congressional Award Gold Medal 2010-07 Additional Information Skills  I have 5 years of experience using Photoshop for website mockups and graphics. I build  websites using the latest HTML and CSS. I love all things JavaScript, and I know when to  leave jQuery out of the mix. I have recently been getting into AngularJS, as it is much more  practical than jQuery for some applications. I have some experience utilizing SASS and  LESS.    I love PHP. I work with PHP 5 whenever possible. I am a strong believer in frameworks and  have happily adopted Laravel. I typically work in a Linux environment, launching my  servers with Ubuntu and deploying applications through Github.    Tools I use include Photoshop, Illustrator, Sublime Text Editor, Github, and Phonegap. I  have a strong interest in mobile application development and have recently been working  with Swift, Java, and hybrid web frameworks to break into mobile app development.