FRONT END DEVELOPER CONSULTANT <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> CONSULTANT FRONT END DEVELOPER CONSULTANT Austin, TX I'm a Front End Developer with a wealth of cross-domain knowledge in user experience, design, project management. My ability to learn new things quickly and effectively has turned me into an ideal candidate for joining project teams mid-project and working with people from other disciplines. Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER CONSULTANT ACCENTURE 2017 to 2019 As a Front End Developer Consultant, I aided Accenture in delivering web applications to their clients. Project delivery was provided in a studio model with small, cross-functional, agile teams. On larger projects, we worked in a Scrum of Scrums Agile model.    My responsibilities included development, managing small teams, feature ownership, debugging complex cross-domain issues, and training junior team members. NATIONAL UX LEAD SOGETI/CAPGEMINI 2016 to 2017 As the National UX Lead, I had a variety of responsibilities to the company. I designed our annual User Experience Practice offerings, lead sales initiatives, collaborated with other practice leaders on multi-discipline solutions, and provided hiring recommendations across all geographical regions in the United States.    Most of my responsibilities to the client were performed while working as a UX Specialist. My responsibilities included usability research and analysis, workshop facilitation, design, institutionalization of best practices, and presentations to stakeholders. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION CONSULTANT SOGETI/CAPGEMINI 2014 to 2016 As a Consultant, I helped Sogeti's clients through industry changing digital transformations. My responsibilities included front- end development, usability analysis, user experience design, analyzing technical feasibility, and managing expectations with team members and client contacts.    My consultant work allowed me to cross multiple industries, including finance, insurance, agriculture, quick service restaurants, and energy. My projects ranged from web sites, mobile applications, IoT, and Artificial Intelligence. WEB DEVELOPER IMAGEMAKERS 2013 to 2014 As a Web Developer, I was responsible for developing back- end resources in a highly agile environment. This included technical planning, organizing testing efforts, integrating third party web services and WSDLs, and managing deployments.    Imagemakers was a small advertising company that addressed the needs of local small businesses. Due to the size of the company and team, my role required me to take responsibility over tasks that are not traditionally required of web developers. WEB DEVELOPER KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY 2012 to 2013 As a Web Developer, I worked with evaluators and project coordinators in an effort to create the best technical solutions to collect and analyze data. Many of our projects were multi-year projects for state and federal organizations. Education BACHELOR'S in COMPUTER SCIENCE KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY 2006 to 2010 Skills Angular, CSS3, React, Javascript, Bootstrap, React.js, HTML, jQuery, GraphQL, HTML5, UI, Front End, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Certified Usability Analyst 2015 to Present Human Factors International's CUA certification is what you need if you are just starting your UX career, planning to switch to UX or want to demonstrate your mastery of UX principles to your organization.  There are currently 7008 HFI-certified CUAs all across the world. Be the next CUA and enjoy the advantages of being HFI-certified:  • Certification by the world's leading user-centered design firm  • Recognition as a usability authority within your company and appear in HFI's official CUA directory  • Knowledge to help your company increase user experience of products and services  • Growth and progression of your UX career path  • Exclusive membership to CUA Central — an online community just for HFI CUAs Professional Scrum Master 2016 to Present People who have passed PSM I, achieving certification, demonstrate a fundamental level of Scrum mastery. PSM I certificate holders prove that they understand Scrum as described in the Scrum Guide and how to apply Scrum in Scrum Teams. PSM I holders have a consistent terminology and approach to Scrum. Additional Information EXPERTISE  Preferred Technologies:  React.js, Angular, HTML, JavaScript, CSS    Experienced Technologies:  AJAX, AngularJS, API Integration, Bootstrap, ES6, Flux, Git, GraphQL, Jest Testing Framework, jQuery, JSON, NPM, Redux, RxJS, SASS, TypeScript    LEADERSHIP SKILLS  Public Speaking, Written and Verbal Communication, Estimating, Technical Planning, Problem Solving, Time Management, Team Oriented