Senior Plasma Center Technician Senior Plasma Center Technician Front End Web Developer Green Bay, WI Self taught Front End Web Developer with a passion for learning and a desire for excellence. Three years of relevant web development experience, and constantly adding more to my skillset. Check out my website at doud.dev. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Plasma Center Technician Biolife 2019 to Present - Performed phlebotomy accurately to SOP standards with no prior experience in the medical field.  - Developed an efficient approach to managing floor sections, resulting in high performance and efficiency marks.  - Resolved donator questions, concerns, and complaints efficiently. Front End Web Developer Goose Cap Media 2015 to 2018 - Designed and upgraded local client's websites while improving their overall web presence through site optimization, search engine optimization, and content management.  - Resolved technical issues with Wordpress-based websites, including hosting problems, CMS problems, and plugin problems.  - Directed clients towards the most cost-effective solutions available to them, with the intent to help establish some best practices in their company culture.  - Oversaw management of some client's ecommerce solutions, working to improve profits overall for the company.  - Advised local high school students on solutions and practices for developing a personal portfolio for artwork/photography.  - Negotiated with potential clients to sell our design, development, and maintenance services. Customer Service Representative Trig's of Eagle River 2013 to 2015 - Oversaw the primary customer service desk, managing stock of various restricted products.  - Prepared money orders, WU transactions, and various other secured payment methods.  - Assisted with training new employees on registers, managing lottery systems, and general desk management.  - Improved desk workflows for inventory management.  - Resolved customer complaints and requests. Education Certificate in Google IT Support Professional Coursera 2018 to 2018 Nanodegree in Front End Web Development Udacity 2016 to 2017 High school or equivalent in Independent Studies in Front End Development Northland Pines High School - Eagle River, WI Skills HTML5 (3 years), CSS (3 years), SASS (2 years), Javascript (3 years), React JS (2 years), Responsive Design (3 years), Adobe (2 years), Windows (8 years), Linux (2 years), Mac OS X (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/isaac-robert-doud https://doud.dev