Mean Stack Developer Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mean Stack Developer - Oscar Insurance Reston VA, VA • Web Developer with 5 years' experience in Full Stack Development (MEAN and MERN Stack) in analysis, design, development, implementation and troubleshooting various web-based application. Used to work in e-commerce and healthcare industries.  • Experience in building MEAN applications using MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 2+, NodeJS, creating RESTful Web services with NodeJS, ExpressJS.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI Web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, HTTP, JSON.  • Strong skill in building Responsive Web Application with Bootstrap, CSS media queries.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, DOM Layout, utility, UX, cross-browser compatibility and hence worked on safari, IE, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Experienced in ReactJS and working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experienced in open sources libraries for Angular like Angular Material and PrimeNG.  • Experienced in Server-Side programming using Node.js and node package like Express.js, CORS, Body-parser, Mongoose and JWT for the creating more secure routes.  • Used ExpressJS to create RESTful API including methods - get, put, post and delete.  • Used mongoose to connect with the MongoDB database and built the modal.  • Experienced in C#/JavaScript with Unity.  • Basic idea in cloud computing and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Proficient in Photoshop and experienced in Illustrator which are used to design the UI and mockups.  • Used Postman to test the functionality of RESTful API.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Jira, Developer Tools and Git as Version Control System.  • Worked in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), application design, functional and technical specs, and use case development using UML.  • Followed Waterfall, Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming Work Experience Mean Stack Developer Oscar Insurance - New York, NY July 2017 to Present Description:  Oscar Insurance is the company providing health insurance to personal/family and healthcare advisory. This application is created for internal users to manage their information of the customers, modify the plans that they provide. In addition, the managers have higher authorization to see the information of their agents like how many clients that the agent has, the plan they sold, and how much profit they earn. My responsibilities is to build the full stack with Angular in frontend, NodeJS in backend, and MongoDB as the database.  Responsibilities: • Designed and developed a single page application with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular4/5.  • Used Angular CLI to generate components (ng g c), test (ng test) and run the application (ng serve).  • Used Routing Module to set the route for different components and put children routes into the components.  • Used Http client request to call RESTful API to do get to fetch the data, put to update the data, post to add new data and delete to remove the data from MongoDB.  • Completed authentication with json web token which is stored in the local storage.  • Used two-way (ngModel), property (disable), event (click) binding to manipulate the DOM.  • Implemented form validation by template-driven and React Form to customize the additional validation.  • Created dynamical table by using structure directive, attribute directive to dynamically display the data in the front end like *ngFor, *ngIf, and ngStyle.  • Implemented HTTP Client Module and AuthService in the ngOnInit which is the build-in lifecycle hook of the Angular.  • Created a custom Pipe to filter the data in the table and used default pipe like lowercase pipe for the user input, date pipe for recording the date.  • Developed a RESTful API in Node.js with Express.js and use Express to handle the CRUD methods.  • Implemented component communication by @input, @output, and service.  • Import service to create a router guard to make sure the security in the backend.  • Used interceptor to attach authorization header and bearer token to the HTTP request.  • Used Bcrypt to hash user's password upon successful signup.  • Used multer storage to store the image in the server and put the reference address in the MongoDB database.  • Created several models for the database and template driven to make sure the backend receives the correct data type.  • Used mongoose to build the schema of the data and connect to the MongoDB.  • Worked in a agile environment, used Git for the version control and Jira for the project management.  • Used Slack and Zoom for communication.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings to make sure what was accomplished and what needs to be finished next.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4/5, Node.js, Express.js, Mongo DB, mongoose, Bootstrap, Git, bcript, Jira Web Developer Jackrabbit Design - Milton, MA February 2016 to June 2017 Description:  Jackrabbit is a company to provide website development service, web application development to their clients, and corporate branding. The client is a physical therapy center and this application is created for internal users to manage the information of their patients, modify their daily schedule and the treatment which combines image and the description etc. Users can access to the patient's account and attach the treatment to the profile of the patient then print it out to the patient. My role of this project is to create the server in NodeJS, make it connect to the MongoDB and the client side which is made by React.  Responsibilities: • Designed and developed a single page application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux, and Bootstrap.  • Worked on responsive design with Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  • Maintained state in the stores and dispatched the actions and reducer using Redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Implemented router by using react-router-dom to set path for different components.  • Stored the json web token in the local storage to complete the authentication in the frontend.  • Implemented component communication by props (parent to child).  • Implemented the form validation by costuming a function inside a component.  • Used Axios in the frontend to send the CRUD request to the backend like get to fetch the data, put to update the data, post to add the data and delete to remove the data from the database.  • Created dynamic web page with state in stateful (class) components for the top-level components.  • Created multiple reusable functional (stateless) components for the class component such as input, button and the logo etc.  • Used two-way data binding to transfer the value of the input to the state in the input element.  • Displayed the data in a dynamic table by looping the content with map method and used if condition to show or hide a certain element.  • Kept the image in the server by using multer and send the reference address to the MongoDB database.  • Used Express to create the RESTful API in NodeJS environment.  • Used Bcrypt to hash user's password upon successful signup.  • Used mongoose to connect with the MongoDB database and create data model for the schema.  • Participated in Agile methodology for application development and involved in analysis, design, coding, and unit testing of business applications (SDLC).  • Used Jira to track the progress of the project.  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the Git Repositories, views, and the access control strategies.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings to make sure what was accomplished and what needs to be finished next.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Node.js, Express.js, Mongo DB, mongoose, Bootstrap, Git, jQuery, bcrypt, Jira Front End Developer ALK Technologies - Princeton, NJ December 2014 to January 2016 Description:  ALK technologies is a a transportation technology company which provides several services like vehicle rental, professional driver assisting, routing, food delivery etc. This application is made by React for the internal employees to check and manage their customers' information, track the vehicle, send the message to their driver and make the schedule. I am the frontend developer to design and implement the UI and make the page dynamic/responsive.  Responsibilities: • Designed the wireframe of the application with Adobe Photoshop.  • This application is made by HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS, MongoDB.  • Implemented the wireframe and made it dynamical with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used CSS with Media Queries and Bootstrap to make the pages responsive which based on the screen size, platform and orientation.  • Created a navigation bar to director application to the different pages.  • Used AJAX to send the request to the API like get to fetch the data, post to update the data, put to add new data and delete to remove the data.  • Cooperated with back end developer to send the request in front end to the RESTful API.  • Used Git for the version control and Jira for the task management.  • Worked in Agile environment and software development lifecycle hook (SDLC).  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Git UI Developer HealthEdge - Burlington, MA September 2013 to November 2014 Description:  HealthEdge is the company providing next-generation core administration and coordination for transformative health plans to their customers. This is an application which developed for the internal user to manage the data of their customers and the services that they provide. My responsibility is to design and implement the mockups of the application, make the application responsive and dynamic.    Responsibilities: • Designed the mockups of the application with Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed the Front- End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI designer and Business Units.  • Used CSS Media Queries to make the application responsive.  • Cooperated with Back End developer to make sure the functionalities work.  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Worked in an agile environment and had scrum meeting every morning to track the progress of the project.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Java, MySQL Education Master of Science in Digital Media Northeastern University - Boston, MA Skills Bootstrap (4 years), Git (4 years), JavaScript (5 years), Jira (4 years), json (4 years), XML, jQuery, HTML, SQL, Linux Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  Web Technologies  HTML, CSS, Java, JavaScript ES6/ES5, C#, PHP, JSON, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, Angular 2+, React 15/16, Node.js, P5.js, Bootstrap 3/4, PrimeNG, Angular Material, Typescript, Express, Mongoose, MongoDB, REST    IDEs ATOM, Visual Studio Code, Brackets, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Unity  Testing Tools Karma, Jasmine, Mocha  Version Controls Git, Github  Application Servers & Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/10, MAC, Linuxs,  Task Management Jira, Slack, Zoom