Freelance Wordpress Designer Freelance Wordpress Designer Front- End Web Developer Ocoee, FL Experienced web developer seeking opportunity and growth at great establishments. Strong knowledge of HTML, CSS (Sass) and JS (Jquery) for responsive web design. Photoshop and image editing skills gained while freelancing. Also work well with others, taking direction from clients or designers implementing designs. Also experienced in PHP for backend development of MYSQL databases. Check out my website: https://johndisla.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Wordpress Designer buildisite.com - Ocoee, FL January 2019 to Present This is my freelancing website that I created with Wordpress to stay current in development by working with a few clients. This project is in preparation to professionally working for an agency.    • SEO  • Development/Design  • Wordpress managed hosting  • Maintenance  • HTML Emails  • Support  • Ecommerce Tier 3 Technical Support Spectrum - Orlando, FL February 2017 to Present Assist customer on internet and phone related issues.  Troubleshoot to solve various service problems and setups.  Provide great customer service while adhering to privacy and company guidelines. Co-Organize/ Front End Developer Project Codex - Orlando, FL March 2018 to June 2019 https://www.meetup.com/project-code-experience/    Part of a team of junior web developers building open source projects in the Orlando area.     • HTML/CSS  • Responsive Development/Design  • Photoshop  • Javascript  • HTML Emails  • Marketing  • Organize meetings WordPress Developer Intern THE KING'S ACADEMY - Winter Garden, FL January 2018 to September 2018 • Oversee, control and update the online presence  • Development/Design  • Wordpress managed hosting  • Update and maintain the site as necessary to meet business needs  • HTML Emails  • Assist with servers  • Ecommerce  • Maintaining multimedia equipment used for the students Distribution Specialist Publix - Orlando, FL January 2014 to January 2017 Grocery and Pharmacy distribution Education Associate in Web Analysis and programming Valencia College - Orlando, FL January 2017 to Present Certification in Web Development UCF - Orlando, FL July 2018 Tech Cert. AUDIO RECORDING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE - Orlando, FL Skills Bilingual, (10+ years), Web Dev. (2 years), HTML & CSS (2 years), Github (3 years), Javascript (1 year), jquery (1 year), bootstrap (2 years), Materialize (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), SEO (1 year), Word Press (2 years), PHP (1 year), HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, Sketch (Less than 1 year), Laravel (Less than 1 year), Front End, UI, Wordpress (1 year), Front-End (2 years), Photoshop (1 year), Web Design (1 year), CSS (3 years), HTML 5 (4 years) Links https://johndisla.com Certifications/Licenses UCF Continuing Ed. Web Development January 2018 to July 2018 Learned the MERN stack which includes:  -HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, JS, NODE, MYSQL, PHP, AJAX, MONGODB  -Responsive design with bootstrap, materialize grid system  -Templating with handlebars and blade  -Modern Frameworks Programming and Analysis (Valencia College) March 2016 to January 2018 This is a certification provided by Valencia college before receival of an associates degree with over 40 credits. Courses such as: python, javascript, computer technical support Groups Project Codex July 2018 to June 2019 Organize meetups in the Orlando area for senior junior and self taught developers Additional Information Visit johndisla.com for a brief portfolio of my work.