MEAN Stack Developer MEAN Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> MEAN Stack Developer Philadelphia, PA, PA • Full Stack Web Developer with 5 years' experience in web application design and development.  • Proficient in working with MEAN Stack framework (Angular2/4/5/6, Node.js, Express.js and MongoDB) to build Single Page Web Application (SPA).  • Expertise in developing applications using Angular features including Components, Services, Directive, Lifecycle Hooks, Observable, Routing, Pipes, Reactive/Template driven forms and HttpClient.  • Strong experience in Front- end UI development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular2/4/5/6, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON.  • Implemented bootstrap grid system and CSS media queries to deal with responsive web design (RWD) for better user experience in different devices.  • Familiar with open source libraries and plugins such as Angular Material, PrimeNG, chart.js and Google Maps API to implement more functionalities and improve the developing efficiency.  • Experienced in using Node.js and NPM modules like Express.js, CORS, Body-parser, Mongoose and JSON Web Token (JWT) in server-side programming.  • Worked closely with Node.js and Express.js in designing RESTful APIs to operating CRUD and testing APIs using Postman.  • Experience in SQL database and NoSQL database MongoDB and using Mongoose to integrate MongoDB into web applications.  • Experience in front- end development testing tools, such as Jasmine and Karma.  • Familiar with web development tools such as Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Sublime Text Editor, Postman and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Collaborated with the UI/UX team to define information architecture and the QA team to assure producing the best quality of work.  • Involved in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), working in JIRA, Slack, Agile/SCRUM project environments and used GIT for version control and managing codes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MEAN Stack Developer Big Drop - New York, NY November 2017 to March 2019 Big Drop is a full-service digital agency with capabilities across web design & development, marketing and branding. This project involved creating the web application from scratch on the client side for internal employees to manage the recipes and ingredients procurement. I was in charge of building modules related to recipe, inventory and some other features by implementing front end with Angular 4/5, Node JS for back end and MongoDB for database.  RESPONSIBILITIES: • Created the web application using MEAN Stack technologies (MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 4/5, NodeJS) • Involved in components communication like @input, @output, @viewChild and service.  • Used data-bind to pass property and event between components and template.  • Implemented attribute directives and structural directives to change the DOM appearance, behavior and layout.  • Created Responsive Web Design by using Bootstrap grid system and Media Queries to view application in various types of screen.  • Used lifecycle hooks to invoke functions in the components and destroy it before removing from the DOM.  • Used CanActivate for AuthGuard service in routing module typescript file to implement authentication of routes.  • Implemented Angular 4/5 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject service in the application.  • Implemented Reactive forms and customized Form Validation in reactive forms and throw the error message in the template to improve user experience.  • Used Angular Router to build the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Implemented InputMask Module, Dropdown Module, Table Module and some other modules from PrimeNG library.  • Imported Http Client Module to perform http CRUD requests, like get, post, put and delete.  • Created Http interceptor to pass JWT value in the request headers from the backend.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies.  • Implemented Server-Side application development framework using Express.js and mongoose to connect the database.  • Used mongoose to build the schema of the data.  • Used multer storage to store the image in the server and put the reference address in the MongoDB.  • Implemented error handling in the backend for form validation and other functionalities.  • Worked with Node.js for building middleware in the server.js file.  • Used Git to control application flow and worked in team and JIRA for task management.  • Used Agile scrum methodology to track the project work and also responsible to merge the code into repository.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular, Node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, Mongoose, GIT, Jira, SCRUM. MEAN Stack developer Somerset Savings Bank - Bound Brook, NJ November 2016 to October 2017 Somerset Savings Bank is a full-service community bank serving New Jersey by delivering innovative financial products and exceptional customer service. I worked with the Architecture teams to migrate the internal application to Angular2. I was in charge of bank account application module, credit and debit card application module, user data management module and some other features.    RESPONSIBILITIES: • Created the web application using MEAN Stack technologies (MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular2, NodeJS).  • Implemented Reactive forms. Update the template with the form control using the formControl binding provided by FormControlDirective included in ReactiveFormsModule.  • Implemented MatDatepickerModule and MatInputModule from Angular Material to control input model and format in the forms.  • Used CanActivate and CanActiveChild from Angular Router to implement the AuthGuard Service for protect http router.  • Used canDeActivate to avoid user leaving the current page by mistake before all the information are filled in the form.  • Implemented customized Form Validation in reactive forms and throw the error message in the template to improve user experience.  • Involved in Pipe from template Converter to transfer some values to desired output and created customized pipe.  • Created Responsive & rich web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap3, media queries transitions.  • Implemented Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Implemented Server-side application development framework using Express.js and mongoose to connect with application with MongoDB database.  • Used mongoose to build the schema of the data.  • Used bcrypt to hash the password input by user for account security.  • Involved JWT for pass the token to requests in order to protect routes.  • Involved in Test Driven Development (TDD) using Karma and Jasmine to ensure this application working stability.  • Deployed this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development and day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Used Agile scrum methodology in the project work.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular2, jQuery, Bootstrap, TypeScript, Node.js, Express.js, JWT, MongoDB, Mongoose, GIT Front- end developer Rue Insurance - Township of Hamilton, NJ March 2015 to September 2016 The purpose of Rue Insurance is to help clients identify potential risks and create a strategy that both reduces these risks and results in greater profitability. The project was to create an internal application to manage customers' insurance documents and organize them for other departments. My responsibility was to build UI with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and jQuery for manipulate employees' information.    RESPONSIBILITIES: • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap. Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design.  • Used CSS along with RWD (Responsive Web Design) to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Experienced on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and functional programming such as call back functions, closure.  • Generated user information table and add or delete elements dynamically using jQuery.  • Used CSS3 combined with JavaScript to realized drag and drop function for changing information in the table • Implemented pagination using JavaScript.  • Used GIT for version control and involved in Agile scrum meetings.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Web design, JSON, Bootstrap Front- end Developer Summit Financial Resources - Parsippany, NJ August 2013 to February 2015 Summit Financial, LLC has been providing comprehensive financial planning and wealth management services to high net worth individuals and successful businesses. This project focused on employee information system. My responsibility was to refactor the bookmarks, upcoming events, calendar and some other modules related to employee affair dash board.  RESPONSIBILITIES: • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Implemented drag and drop functionality using CSS combined with JavaScript drag and drop functions.  • Used CSS to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  • Extensively participated in developing the website across different browsers and performed cross-browser testing.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Kept modifying and updating UI pages with new requirements and plans.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Ability to work in advanced Agile SDLC environment and use GIT for version control.  • Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, DOM Education Master of Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Skills Bootstrap (5 years), Git (5 years), Html5 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), json (4 years), HTML, jQuery, SQL, XML, Front End, Angular, React, UI, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Driver's License