Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - WORKFRONT Draper, UT Work Experience Senior Software Engineer WORKFRONT - Lehi, UT 2019 to Present Leading development on a large React application utilizing the latest React APIs  ? Writing maintainable, well-tested JavaScript Owner QUIVER INC - Draper, UT 2013 to Present Consulting on small and large software projects focusing on JavaScript and Firebase best practices  ? Developing line-of-business applications using web technologies from design to production  ? Utilizing React, Web Components (Polymer 2.0), Angular, Firebase, Node.js, Redux, RxJs, D3.js, Material Design and Progressive Web App (PWA) patterns  ? Deploying to production on Google Cloud Platform using Docker and Google Cloud Functions  ? Authored FullStackFirebase.com as a Google Developer Expert (GDE) for Firebase Owner/ Developer CALLIGRAPHY.ORG - Draper, UT 2013 to Present Built Calligraphy.org as a family business to over $250k/year revenue from 2013 to 2015  ? Designed Quiver CMS as an open-source project to drive Calligraphy.org  ? Managing business operations, including all product sourcing, accounting and customer service  ? Integrated with a fulfillment warehouse to manage all inventory and daily, worldwide fulfillment Senior Software Engineer PLURALSIGHT - South Jordan, UT 2017 to 2019 Developing Node.js/React/GraphQL applications for the Pluralsight.com customer experience  ? Utilizing test-driven development and lean methodologies  ? Maintaining the legacy Pluralsight video player while developing its replacement  ? Containerizing application code using Docker Compose Front End Web Developer ATTASK - Lehi, UT 2012 to 2013 Drove new feature development for the core AtTask SaaS product as the lead Front- End Developer on an agile team, utilizing middle-tier Java, JSPs and a MooTools-based front end  ? Matched UX mocks and interaction specifications to the pixel while collaborating with the product  team to revise feature requests to fit our framework and timelines  ? Focused on JavaScript/CSS performance with best practices including efficient vanilla JS and optimized CSS selectors that perform in modern browsers and corporate IE8 environments Education B.S. in Economics and B.S. in Business Management in Finance BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY - Provo, UT 2001 to 2007 Skills Javascript Links https://github.com/deltaepsilon Certifications/Licenses Driver's License