Junior Developer Junior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Developer - U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs CCSE Orlando, FL Work Experience Junior Developer U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs CCSE 2019 to Present Personal Info FTC Favor TechConsulting Phone  Hired by A2-g for FTC to work on a VA Contract (954) 205-8944  (U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs CCSE)  E-mail  working with HealthShare Intern Systems and cache.  jfsh87@hotmail.com  Security Clearance (Public Trust)  Agile Scrum Maintenance Supervisor Palm Grove Apartments 2019 to May 2019 Independently mastered skills needed to complete projects while under short  deadlines.  • Managed various employees in a fast paced environment. Maintenance Manager Days Inn at Florida Mall 2016 to February 2019 • Within 6 months, promoted to maintenance manager.  • Served as a subject matter expert while leading maintenance team.  • Collaborated with management on the best course of action on a wide variety of projects. Front End Web Developer Intern Precision Infinity 2018 to January 2019 • Implemented web pages directly from mockups.  • Refactored web pages to meet client standards.  • Transitioned styling from standard CSS into SASS.  • Gained familiarity with various back end technologies such as PHP and SQL. Industrial Designer Manufacturas Eliot S.A 2012 to January 2015 • Designed and developed themes used across various department stores.  • Worked with a team to implement design in various locations, overcoming variations  in store layout, location, and local sourcing of materials. Graphic Designer 2011 to October 2012 Freelance  • Creation of 3D conceptual models using various software suites.  • Worked on various projects ranging from the experimental to professional products. Graphic Designer Pash S.A.S 2008 to December 2008 • Worked closely with the management and various teams as a graphic designer.  • Created and designed flyers, posters, and various promotional materials for the music industry. Education Bachelor of Industrial Design in InternSystems Cache Jorge Tadeo Lozano University Design University of Central Florida Skills HTML 5, CSS, MYSQL, Javascript, Git, Jquery Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Developer September 2018 to Present Driver's License