Director of Multimedia and VP Director of Multimedia and VP Multimedia Engineer, UI/UX Designer, Front- End Developer, Video Producer and Director of Multimedia Jacksonville, FL I’m a passionate Multimedia Engineer with over 6 years of experience in UI/UX Design, Front- End Development, Graphic Design, Video Production, Multimedia Projects, and as a Multimedia Director.    I love Design and Development and enjoy teach and guide my team on projects such as Websites, Applications, Animations, Video Productions, and Interactive Multimedia Projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Multimedia and VP Unidos en la Música: A Latin American Festival - Saint Augustine, FL August 2018 to Present Unidos en la Música: A Latin American Festival celebrated each year at St Augustine, FL. As a Director of Multimedia and VP of my own festival, I'm in charge of lead the creative team and deliver a first-class experience through the brand, marketing strategies and multimedia components, such as websites, videos, and graphics. Production Team Lead, Front- End Developer and Video Producer Craimark Studios, Inc. - Jacksonville, FL March 2016 to Present As a Production Team Lead, Web Designer and Video Producer on Craimark team I'm in charges ofdirect, assist, and teach to the web and video production team, prepare multimedia projectdevelopment plan, design and develop all web products, create and produce videos, animations ormotion graphics.    • Solve IT/multimedia problems for the production team.  • Assist the production team and teach them new technologies and workflow process.  • Training all new employees on the web development or video production area.   • Provided direction development processes to Front- End development team  • Designed UX / UI wireframes and prototypes on Photoshop / Adobe XD  • Developed all the UX / UI with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and using Frameworks such as Bootstrap or Foundation  • Developed the connection between Back- End and Front- End on ASP.NET  • Utilized Divi theme, CSS3, JavaScript, MySQL and PHP to create some custom themes on WordPress.  • Performed the Front- End code on all projects.  • Created all the requirement list and a workflow plan to develop a custom E-commerce projects using Woocommerce on WordPress  • Updated and managed on-site content, plugins or new pages. (WordPress, Custom websites, ASP.NET)  • Designed the branding for some customers  • Maintained website for client, added various features upon request  • Designed marketing elements and email templates  • Created storyboards to aboard an animation or video production projects  • Developed all the graphics animations on After Effects for some projects  • Worked on-location for video projects  • Make all the Post-production process on the video projects  • Directing the video production  • Motion graphics development  President, Front- End Developer and Multimedia Designer UX Media - Jacksonville, FL October 2014 to Present UX Media is my own Creative Marketing Agency, as a President, Front- End Developer, andMultimedia Designer, I'm in charges of creating strategize to sell my multimedia services, design ordevelop websites, branding, animations, mobile apps or video production, and more... in somecases I have to lead the contractor production team.    • Designed UX / UI wireframes and prototypes in Photoshop and Adobe XD  • Developed all the UX / UI with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and using Frameworks such as Bootstrap or Foundation.  • Utilized Divi theme, CSS3, JavaScript, MySQL and PHP to create some custom themes on WordPress  • Performed the Front- End code on all projects  • Designed the branding for some customers  • Maintained website for clients, added various features upon request  • Designed marketing elements and email templates  • Developed all the graphics animations on After Effects for some projects.  • Designed some custom animations for some projects  • Developed a Radio Mobile App for iOS and Android Front- End Developer Freelancer ELYK Innovation - Jacksonville, FL January 2016 to September 2017 As a Front- End Developer freelancer on Elyk Innovation, Inc. I was in charge of design and developcustom WordPress websites for different clients.    • Designed UX / UI wireframes and prototypes in Photoshop and Illustrator  • Developed all the UX / UI with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript on WordPress  • Designed graphics to support the websites  • Updated and managed on-site content, plugins or new pages on WordPress Front- End Developer and Multimedia Designer Salamaya - Cali, Colombia January 2013 to January 2014 As a Front- End Developer and Multimedia Designer on Salamaya, I was in charges of design anddevelop custom websites, trained some clients of the company on how to maintain the websites,design marketing elements, and email templates.    • Designed websites Photoshop and Illustrator  • Developed a PHP code to create convert units web app  • Maintained website for clients  • Trained some clients to teach them how to maintain the website  • Designed marketing elements and email templates  • Used PHP, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript technologies Education Bachelor's in Multimedia Engineering Universidad Autonoma de Occidente - Cali, Colombia 2008 to 2014 Skills Multimedia Director, Solve Multimedia problems, Assist and teach production team, Trainer, Front-End Development, UI/UX Design And Prototype, UI/UX Development, Professional wireframes, Back-End and Front-End Connection, SQL Database, MVC applications, E-commerce projects, Project management, Branding creation, Graphic Design, Development, Website and apps maintenance, Marketing strategies, Mobile applications for iOS and Android, Newsletter design and development, Game designer and developer, 2D and 3D Motions graphics, 3D Animations, Scripting and storyboards, Color Correction, Pre,Post, and Video Production, Video Director, Projection Mapping, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Bootstrap 4, XML, MVC, .NET, GitHub, Visual Studio, Resolume Arena, Construct 3, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe After Effects, Adobe Premiere, Adobe XD, Adobe Audition, DaVinci Resolve, Autodesk Maya, Cinema 4D, (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/raul-martinez/ Awards 2019 Gold Award Level. Video Corporate Image 2019-03 Hermes, Creative Awards:  Project: Benchmark Training Testimonial 2018 Distinction Winner 2018-11 Videographer Awards  Project: Aurora Builders website testimonial 2018 Gold Winner. Website Overall 2018-10 Hermes, Creative Awards  Project: Aurora Builders website 2018 Honorable Mention. Video Event 2018-07 Hermes, Creative Awards  Project: Golf for C.O.P.S. commercial 2018 Gold Winner. Promo Video 2018-03 Hermes, Creative Awards  Project: All Things New Orphanage Video 2018 Best Web Site for a Remodeler 2018-02 Laurel Award  Project: Aurora Builders website Additional Information Please request the link to my online portfolio via email:  raul.alb.martinez@hotmail.com  Or give me a call to 904 982-5074