Senior Project Manager Senior Project Manager Senior Project/ Product Manager Austin, TX Over the past decade, I have worked in a variety of organizations large and small. From a non-profit performing arts venue in Chicago, world-class branding and marketing agencies, to a cutting-edge app development company that built a platform for the most ambitious competency-based education initiative in the US.    - Project Management  - Budgets & Estimating  - Resourcing  - Digital Strategy  - Web & App Development Best Practices  - Agile Project Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Project Manager IDEAN - Austin, TX February 2018 to Present Idean is a design consultancy founded 20 years ago in Finland with studios around the world. Idean takes a human-centered approach that combines market-leading expertise in strategy, technology, data science, and creative design to help business leaders plot a path to the future and provide the right vehicle for getting there.    As a senior project manager, I am involved in projects from scoping to delivery. I lead a variety of engagements including global user research and UX design projects.    - Account Management  - Requirements Gathering & Documentation  - Resourcing and Forecasting  - Agile Project Management  - Mitigating Risk  - Reporting  - Team Building  - Workshop Facilitation  - User Research & Testing Interactive Producer McGarrah Jessee - Austin, TX June 2016 to Present In my role as a interactive producer I create schedules and budgets for a wide variety of digital projects.     Clients: Frost Bank, Costa Sunglasses & YETI Senior Producer R/GA - Austin, TX November 2015 to March 2016 As a Senior Producer, I worked exclusively on the Verizon Small Business Wireless account managing social, digital banner advertising initiatives as well as a brand activation event for SXSW Interactive.     -Worked with clients to clarify strategic requirements and manage expectations  -Managed a team of creatives and strategists to produce social media campaigns and event activations Project Manager/Business Analyst Robots and Pencils - Austin, TX November 2014 to September 2015 Managed a large remote team of designers and developers as well as the client team on a complex multi-million dollar engagement with UT System’s Institute For Transformational Learning. My responsibilities included facilitating daily scrums, weekly sprint planning, release planning, requirements gathering, QA oversight, weekly reporting on project health, managing scope and risk.    Managing this team included facilitating the daily scrum, weekly sprint planning and weekly reporting to the client and internal team.    Even though this was not a hands-on programming role I did tap into my development knowledge quite a bit especially when facilitating requirements gathering sessions.    - Client and User Onboarding and Training  - Facilitating Scrum Ceremonies  - User Stories  - Requirements Discovery   - Product Backlog Management  - Sprint Planning  - Release Planning  - Reporting  - Client Relationship Management  - Vendor Relationship Management Associate Director, Development VSA Partners - Chicago, IL 2013 to 2014 Over my time with VSA I worked on the development team. First as a staff level Developer, then Senior Developer and most recently Associate Director. My background is strongly in front- end development and I have worked both as the solo dev on a project and with larger teams.     In this role, I was the primary point-of-contact between the development team, project managers, designers and client teams. I provided oversight of the development deliverables for a variety of client and projects from landing pages, corporate websites, web apps and other digital marketing solutions.     Close involvement during the discovery phase of new projects to define technical requirements and work with client IT teams to ensure smooth handoffs of code and other assets. Worked with the UX and design teams to create a client-specific pattern library to reduce the amount of hours going into standard repetitive requests and allow the client to allocate budget for other initiatives.    Created and managed projects for clients such as First Data, GE, P&G, IBM, Harley-Davidson, CME Group, Thomson Reuters and Sappi. Senior Front End Developer VSA Partners - Chicago, IL 2010 to 2013 - HTML, CSS, Javascript  - SQL database development  - code reviews  - developer training and onboarding  - scoping and discovery  - resource management Developer VSA Partners - Chicago, IL 2009 to 2010 I started out as a Front- End developer at VSA Partners responsible for creating code for websites, emails and other marketing materials. Education None in Cinema Art + Science, Screenwriting Columbia College-Chicago - Chicago, IL 1997 to 1999 Skills Project Management (6 years), Digital Media (6 years), Team Leadership (7 years), Budget Management (4 years), JIRA (3 years), Agile Development (5 years), Business Analysis (5 years), Client Relationship Management (7 years), Project Planning (6 years), Digital Strategy (5 years), Scrum (5 years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Analytics, Product owner (2 years), Scrum Master (2 years), Sprint Planning (5 years), Product Development, Agile, Marketing, Product Management Links http://linkedin.com/in/jasminebusch Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) September 2014 to April 2020 Certified Scrum Product Owner April 2016 to April 2020 Driver's License Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vjxk-sn8f0kxoguu Written Communication — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/x9v4e-r5xa-gffw8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Tech LadyMafia January 2013 to Present Tech LadyMafia supports women who work in and around the internet. We are astrophysicists and developers, writers and digital strategists. Additional Information Girls Do Hack Mentor - November 2013    This annual event was held in partnership with Chicago's Adler Planetarium for girls ages 14-18 interested in going into STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) careers.     The girls were paired with women currently working in STEM in a variety of careers including doctors, biologists, geologists, astronomers, civic engineers, science teachers, software developers and more. These teams spent the day working through different activities such as a 3D printing workshop, building a simple mobile app, and exo-planet detection.