UI/ UX Product Designer UI/ UX Product Designer UI Product Designer Aurora, IL I am a Creative Designer with 5 years of experience in Digital and Creative Design. I focus on creating designs for Print, Digital, and the Web. I have experience in designing Responsive websites, Email Templates, and Visual Design. I have always been passionate about user experience especially with the look and feel of the app and web designs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/ UX Product Designer Pharmd live - Remote March 2019 to Present Collaborate with Strategic Marketing & Communications team to support content marketing. Work with the UI and backend developers to redesign the existing web app based on the UI requirements. Marketing Visual Designer Scrip Companies - Bolingbrook, IL March 2019 to June 2019 Responsible for creation of e-mail blast design and HTML, including setup in ESP.  Hands-on catalog layout production and edits. This includes making revisions and bringing approved concepts or designs to final form for printing. Develops home pages on websites, to highlight products and specials. UI UX Designer / Developer On Point Technology LLc - Oak Brook, IL February 2018 to June 2019 Working with Business Analysts and subject domain experts to understand user requirements and behavior. Designing graphic user interface elements like menus, tabs, and widgets. Turning the user requirements and behavior into storyboards, wireframes and ideally develop using HTML5 and CSS3. Interaction Designer Cinemaloop - Remote February 2018 to February 2019 UI/UX updating the design of flow and branding for the Cinemaloop web and mobile platform (i.e. admin panel, CRM panels, user confirmation emails, platform error messages, platform features and users flow etc.) Working to maintain design and brand consistency throughout implementation and between products. Creating Mockups, low and high fidelity wireframe and prototyping for live viewing, collaborating with different designers and developers to produce designs. Product / UI Designer KeHE Distributors, LLC - Naperville, IL August 2018 to January 2019 Deliver layouts, mockups in Sketch, light interactive prototypes in Invision, UI review (review developer's work). Work w/ product team (product owner, scrum master, developer) for delivering the prototype. Participate in user research and testing sessions. Work with mobile applications IOS and Android in an agile environment. Freelance Graphic Designer Pooja Hari Designs - Self Employed - Aurora, IL August 2013 to January 2018 Designed promotional and marketing materials such as logos, brochures, flyers, and packaging. Designed creative event flyers and ads. Worked with the clients for gathering the info based on their requirements.    Peoples Resource Center, Dupage County, IL  • Designed brochures, flyers using Microsoft Word.     Sinfonietta Bel Canto (SBC), Downers Grove, IL   • Developed posters for the orchestra concerts.    Galway Group, Singapore   • Re-designed their new logo for marketing purpose.  • Designed their brochure that includes the study to help the subscriber understand the key arguments and future dynamics of the services offered.    Government of Umm Al Quwain, UAE   • Designed newsletter templates, which will be used to publish the features and updates on Free Trade Zone to various institutions.   • Developed ad templates for Free Trade Zone.    Sree Narayana Arts College, Kerala, India   • Designed cover page for their annual college magazine. Front End Developer Symmetri chicago - Chicago, IL October 2016 to November 2016 Designed responsive email templates. Created email and company style guides. Develop websites using Drupal. Test emails on Litmus. (Email QA) Digital Graphic Designer Measured Marketing Inc. - Chicago, IL September 2015 to September 2016 Designed responsive emails using company layouts in Adobe Dreamweaver. Created banner ads in association with the layouts using Adobe Photoshop. Designed responsive landing pages using Unbounce. PSD slicing was one of the major responsibilities that I worked on. Test emails on various desktops and mobile devices. Platforms used for email testing were Email on Acid and Litmus. Graphic Design Intern Telescope Entertainment - Chicago, IL January 2015 to August 2015 Designed ads, event flyers, business cards, and logos for various clients. Edited photos and created illustrations based on client needs. Education Web and Graphic Design College of Dupage - Glen Ellyn, IL 2013 to 2016 Master of Computer Applications (MCA) in Computer Science Federal Institute of Science And Technology - Angamaly, Kerala, India 2009 to 2012 Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) in Computer Science Amrita School of Arts and Sciences - Kochi, Kerala 2006 to 2009 Skills Sketch (2 years), Axure, UX UI (4 years), Wire-framing and Prototyping (4 years), Adobe Photoshop (6 years), Adobe Illustrator (6 years), Adobe XD (2 years), Adobe InDesign (6 years), Adobe Dreamweaver (6 years), Email Design and Development (4 years), Landing Pages, Banner Ads, Sublime, Brackets, HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Wireframe, Photoshop, UX, User Experience, UI Links http://www.poojahari.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/poojahari09 https://www.behance.net/poojahari09 Groups AIGA January 2015 to January 2016