Front– End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>–<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer New York, NY Portfolio: https://0ll0lll.com/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front– End Developer Type Royale Game - New York, NY April 2019 to Present • Created interactive HTML/CSS and JavaScript web app that works across devices and browsers.   • Developed both front- end and server functionality for the game using JavaScript.   • Used node.js to run JavaScript on a server.   • Achieved multiplayer functionality with the help of socket.io.  Digital Art Director Leo Burnett September 2016 to September 2017 • Designed and launched creative digital products for agency’s clients.   • Initiated user research to create the best user experience possible.   • Was chosen to work at pitches for important clients as a part of the team   • with the best problem-solving skills within the agency.   • Won 3 pitches for the agency resulting in long-term contracts with the new   • clients.   • Proactively participated in weekly team meetings researching digital trends.   • Supervised and mentored a group of designers delegating minor parts of   • work to the production team.  Digital Creative Look At Media September 2015 to September 2016 • Created native advertising projects in a fast-paced digital start-up environment of a trendy Russian online media.   • Worked with hundreds of brands, carefully crafting solutions for various tasks and business needs, creating a unique product that would satisfy the customer from mini games to long-lasting advertising campaigns.   • Designed and built a number of landing pages for brands from a concept to a final product.  Junior Art Director Instinct. BBDO Group April 2014 to July 2015 • Initiated proactive pitches of digital projects to clients within the agency.   • Supervised art-direction and managed a team of designers and engineers   • working on a project.   • Continuously worked on improving the productivity of advertising websites   • applying critical thinking skills to solve issues such as loading speed   • optimization.   • Advocated mobile-first approach to the clients.  Education Certificate in Front- End, Ux/UI/ Motion Design Pratt Institute - New York, NY January 2018 to May 2019 Certificate in HTML, CSS, JavaScript Moscow Coding School 2015 Certificate in Creative Thinking MADS 2013 Bachelor's in International Law Russian Foreign Trade Academy September 2007 to June 2012 Skills HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, ES6, JQuery, npm, node.js, web sockets, git, photoshop, illustra, Indesign, after, Premiere, sketch, inVision, Framer, UI, Front-End, React, Front End Links https://0ll0lll.com/