Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end web developer who also has experience with web analytics, digital marketing, and QA testing. Fullerton, CA Highly enthusiastic and output-driven Front- End Developer with over 2 years of experience with digital marketing, web analytics, and QA testing. Committed to pursuing a long-term career and willing to develop personally and professionally. Passionate about consistently producing the best quality of service while always remaining positive, extremely organized, and ready to solve complex issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer LFC Group of Companies - Newport Beach, CA November 2016 to Present • Researched key terms for SEO and worked with the marketing department to implement them in real estate ad campaigns and web pages.  • Designed and developed over 20 web pages for www.fre.com and www.sharebid.com in collaboration with the marketing department using HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  • Tested new website features by other programmers, and directed other programmers on how to improve new features.  • Produced analytics reports using Microsoft Excel and Google Analytics to show our current website traffic and how we could reduce the bounce rate across pages.  Band Member The Grinning Ghosts - Orange, CA June 2013 to January 2017 • Played drums live in over 30 shows in 5 di?erent states.  • Recorded drums, keys, percussion, and vocals for over 15 tracks released on Burger Records and available on Spotify and Apple Music.  Attendant Middle Earth Housing - Irvine, CA September 2011 to June 2013 Provided customer service to students freshmen residents including providing new key cards, processing forms, and answering general questions.  Education B.S. in Informatics University of California - Irvine, CA September 2010 to June 2015 Skills Microsoft Office (8 years), Customer Service (4 years), Cashier (2 years), Javascript/jQuery (5 years), Front End, UI, Front-End, SEO (2 years), Google Analytics (2 years), Google Earth (2 years), Microsoft Excel (6 years), Microsoft Word (10+ years), Bootstrap (3 years), Git (3 years), CSS3 (5 years), HTML5 (5 years) Awards Eagle Scout 2008-03 The highest rank of the Boy Scouts of America