Property, Worker Compensation Property, Worker Compensation Property, Worker Compensation • A professional with 3+ years of experience in Application Development and Maintenance.  • Resourceful and skilled in all phases of the Statistical Methods, Machine Learning, Statistical Software.  • Developed software solutions by studying information needs, conferring with users, studying systems flow,  data usage, and work processes with SQL. Work Experience Property, Worker Compensation Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd July 2016 to January 2019 etc. Application has been built to handle Claims, Tasks, Vendors, Participants and Performers.  Duration: July 2016- Jan 2019.  Domain: Insurance Mumbai as Application Development Analyst Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd July 2015 to January 2019 Front end developer Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd July 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • SQL developer on sql server and extracted reports according to Clients requirements.  • Prepared technical design documentation and specification  • Extensive experience in Requirements gathering and Unit Testing.  • Responsible for Live deployment. Have been major part of all the live deployments.  Additional Responsibilities:  • Imparted knowledge transfer (KT) sessions to new members of the team  AIEP - Accenture's internal project  Description: AIEP was Accenture's internal project which is responsible for creating portals for different  clients like Samsung, Nokia, Nutrigen etc.  Role: Front end developer  Language: HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  Duration: July 2015 to June 2016  Responsibilities:  • Develop responsive website.  • Analyzing the user requirements.  • Write clean, efficient and semantic code  • Proactively taking up urgent requests as and when required. Education B.Tech in EIE VIT University Vellore - Vellore, Tamil Nadu, IN 2015 CBSE Delhi Public School 2010 CBSE Rajghat Besant School 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills    Machine Learning: - Regression, Classification, Tree based Methods,  Models like Random Forest, Bagging and Boosting  Selected Coursework: - Data Analytics, Applied Statistics with R,  Software & Programming: - R, SQL, Python, Tableau, MsOffice  Languages