Front- End Web Developer at Government Publishing Office (GPO) <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> at Government Publishing Office (GPO) Front- End Web Developer - Government Publishing Office (GPO) Rockville, MD Software developer focusing on UI/UX and Front- End Web Development. I value writing well tested code that scales, runs fast and is readable. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer at Government Publishing Office (GPO) Halvik Corp - Washington, DC July 2018 to Present The United States Government Publishing Office (GPO) is an agency of the legislative branch of the United States federal government in Washington DC. I am part of a dedicated software development team and I am responsible for all UI/UX and Front End development tasks. I Develop and design the application pages, dashboard landing pages, and application logos based on client requests, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Photoshop. Front- End Web Developer EdClub Inc - Rockville, MD May 2016 to June 2018 XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, ability to understand code and business requirements, working with popular JavaScript librariesframeworks such as jQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, knowledge of designing an appropriate front end interface (UIUX), familiar with established software design patterns and best coding practices working in a Microsoft Azure Cloud environment, working with Microsoft Team Foundation Server in an Agile environment, familiar with TFS and GIT source control (version control).    EdClub Inc., Rockville, MD - Front- End Web Developer May 2016-June 2018  EdClub is a software education management company in Rockville, MD with a dedicated software team working on their core product: TypingClub. As a part of a dedicated front- end team, I worked with UX, Design and Backend developers to plan, build and test various web and mobile experiences.  - Develope the landing page and various supporting pages on typingclub.com. These pages include the product presentation page, pricing page and tutorial pages. These pages went through a number of iterations as the product evolved. I updated these pages to start using bootstrap as their base.  - Worked with the UX and frontend team in planning, designing and developing the internal portal experiences on TypingClub focused toward teachers.  - Developed a number of key student experience elements using bootstrap in combination with the ReactJS base. These experiences include the settings menu, product catalog page as well as the main typing experience on the product.  - Used Bootstrap to launch a number landing pages for different languages and keyboard layouts.  - Helped with the UX and frontend development of our internal customer management portal that was used by our customer service support and other senior members of the company.  - Currently working with education team on prototyping experiences with our upcoming spelling product. Web and Graphic Designer Global Import Export - Bethesda, MD 2010 to 2015 GIE is a company which designs, produces and imports chinaware to the U.S. As a web and graphic designer, I created company's logo, designed new chinaware products and created and maintained company's new website.  - Successfully created company's logo for new line of chinaware products and designed new chinaware products using illustrator and photoshop.  - Successfully created and maintained company's new website using HTML/CSS.  - Responsible for all graphic design, pre-press work, and technical specifications necessary to complete projects. Education BS in Computer Sience in Computer Sience College Park MD 2015 to 2017 AS in Computer Sience in Computer Sience Montgomery College - Rockville, MD 2012 to 2014 Additional Information Skills  Core Strengths: JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, GIT, Bootstrap, Linux, Photoshop, Illustrator, NodeJS, React and AngularJS