Front- End Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Front- End Engineer - Complex Networks Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Front- End Engineer Complex Networks - New York, NY November 2018 to Present NEW YORK  ? Develop, maintain, troubleshoot and enhance the existing web applications and services for https://www.complex.com and its sister sites  ? Maintain and enhance Complex's AMP site for faster loading and more user engagements  ? Update existing code to prioritize readability and optimize performance speed in React  ? Involve in all aspects of the application development lifecycle: Idea, Development, QA, Documentation,  Implementation, and Integration  ? Write and perform unit tests and E2E test using Jest and Selenium Interactive Developer Harrison and Star - New York, NY July 2015 to October 2018 NEW YORK  ? Build and maintain fully responsive websites for variety of pharmaceutical brands using the latest  technology, including ASP.net, React, and/or PHP  ? Build convention panels using React and collaborate with backend developers to exchange data  between frontend and backend APIs  ? Create Veeva iPad presentations for pharmaceutical sales representatives, configure and develop  custom model objects for CLM functions in Salesforce and the Veeva platform  ? Build HTML5 banner ads for the DoubleClick ad server using native javascript for consumer products  ? Collaborate with art directors and UX designers to create clean interfaces and intuitive interactions Junior Web Developer, Braincast Works Genentech - Brooklyn, NY March 2014 to July 2015 Design and develop interactive web pages using the latest web standards for front- end development  ? Work closely with back- end developer to integrate the presentation layer  ? Work directly with the Creative Director on front- end technical and design decisions for site's  functionality Education Associates of Arts in Liberal Arts LaGuardia Community College - New York, NY 2013 Skills React, Javascript, Front End, Front-End, User Interface, UI, Jquery Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript/ES6, jQuery, React/Redux, SVG animations, HTML5 canvas, ASP.net MVC, PHP,  Responsive Web Design, Unity (C#), RESTful API, AMP    ADDITIONAL SKILLS AND TOOLS  GIT, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, SEO, Google analytics, Webpack, npm, UX Design, Google search console