FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER Ridgway, PA I'm an experienced developer actively seeking a front- end development position with remote opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER Dream Center Education Holdings, LLC - Pittsburgh, PA February 2015 to January 2019 Responsible for implementing projects on marketing websites for The Art Institutes, Argosy University, and South University. This includes interfacing with product and brand managers to take jobs through project life-cycle, including design, development, QA, and launch.    Hand-write customized code for each brand with a modular mindset and the ability to be reused, while ensuring correct full-responsiveness and cross-browser compatibility. Experience working with the MVC development methodology (using Visual Studio) and developing with the Sitecore platform.    Proficient in HTML5, CSS3, Flexbox, JavaScript, jQuery, UX/UI, the Adobe Creative Suite, Visual Studio as a source/version control, and have a strong understanding of multiple Content Management Systems such as TeamSite and Sitecore. I’m also familiar with Bootstrap, CSS preprocessors such as LESS, Angular, and working within W3C web accessibility standards for web development purposes. DESIGNER AND WEB DEVELOPER/EVENT COORDINATOR Quest Healthcare Development, Inc - Jeannette, PA February 2014 to February 2015 Graphic Designer/Web Developer:  Coordinated design and development of all print and web-based elements for multiple subsidiary companies, including all marketing materials and websites.    Event Coordinator:  Planned and organized a 300-guest grand opening gala Planned and organized a 300-guest grand opening gala for Loyalhanna Continuing Care Campus' new facility. My tasks included, but weren't limited to, the following:   • Met with and evaluated potential vendors, then selected the vendors that best met our needs   • Kept track of all financial information pertaining to the gala, and remained within budget   • Managed all set-up and take-down operations that day of the event • Hired and supervised event staff through the duration of the event DESIGN INTERN ClearBrands, Inc. - Zelienople, PA June 2013 to September 2013 Designed and organized large-scale marketing campaigns for clients mostly in the Pittsburgh area. This included interfacing with clients on website design, moving the design from initial ideas to finalized designs that were ready for development.    Established new brand identity for clients, which included new logos, printed marketing materials, and various web elements.    Collaborated with a contracted web developer on these web projects. Education B.F.A. in APPLIED MEDIA ARTS/GRAPHIC DESIGN Edinboro University of Pennsylvania May 2013 Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, Front-End, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jordan-leithner https://www.behance.net/JordanCowan