Project Coordinator/Junior Project Manager Project Coordinator/Junior Project Manager Project Coordinator/Junior Project Manager A results driven, self-motivated and resourceful project coordinator with an in depth understanding of all aspects of project management. Experience in supporting the delivery of new and existing products and business enhancements that enable individuals and organizations to improve the quality and productivity. Well presented with excellent communication skills and having a commercial approach to solving problems and developing business. Now looking forward to a making a significant contribution with an ambitious company that offer opportunities for progression. Work Experience Project Coordinator/Junior Project Manager KPMG - Woodcliff Lake, NJ January 2017 to August 2019 • Worked closely with the Program Manager and Project Managers with project planning, finances, scheduling and implementation of tasks. Helped in managing and coordinating projects including in-taking new requests; project plan set ups; creative task management and project prioritization.  • Monitored project scope using reporting tools to ensure scope creep does not occur.  • Responsible for providing weekly sometimes daily project status reports.  • Participated and lead the Daily stand-ups, sprint planning, backlog grooming, and sprint review sessions and Retrospectives with teams  • Drafted presentations as needed for Business and Leadership for the PM.  • Ensured project artifacts are delivered by respective projects teams in a timely manner by using VSTS.  • Liaised with clients to identify and define project requirements, scope and objectives and updated them in SharePoint list.  • Helped in preparing project proposals, time frames, schedule and budget according to GPMO standards  • Monitored and tracked project's progress and handled any issues that arise.  • Took the role as the point of contact to communicate the project status adequately to all participants.  • Company supported project management tools have been used to monitor working hours, monthly budget, plans and money spend.  • Creation of comprehensive project documentation, plans and reports throughout the fiscal year.  • Managed over 12 projects simultaneously, and effectively tracked all requirements to ensure smooth delivery.  • Worked on monthly and year end financials, accruals and adjustments as well as forecasts. Made sure the budgets are properly utilized by constantly tracking the costs.  • Maintained all the documentation in SharePoint for Audit purpose.  • Worked with vendors in reviewing the SOW's.  • Worked and reported to the Program Manager.  • Actively participates in all the Scrum, GPMO and Company organized training sessions. Intern INDUS GROUP INC - Hackensack, NJ August 2016 to November 2016 Worked closely with the manager in assisting and managing the administrative, technical and financial aspects of the assigned projects from project award to completion. Junior Front- End Developer MIT INC - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to May 2016 • Assisted with concept, design and execution on various print, web, interactive and innovative design projects.  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked closely with social media team on WordPress blogs and social media marketing. Freelance MIT INC - Fullerton, CA March 2015 to May 2016 Assisted the team lead in all 5 stages of the web development process for this project including: information gathering, planning, design, development, testing and delivery and maintenance.    CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY FULLERTON, FULLERTON, CALIFORNIA, USA Intern at STUDENT LIFE LEADERSHIP OFFICE August 2014 to December 2014 Worked with the directors, coordinators and students in SLL regarding Student club Organizations and their activities. Helped with club/organization registrations and monitored club activities and various events at school.    CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY FULLERTON, FULLERTON, CALIFORNIA, USA Project Director at VOLUNTEER SERVICE PROGRAMS September 2013 to December 2014 Recruited, trained and managed volunteers for VSP. Organized, developed & updated publications related to the project working on. Involved in planning, fundraising, advertise, and organize events for the project purpose. Collaborated with the community organizations in Orange County to serve the community better.    CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY FULLERTON, FULLERTON, CALIFORNIA, USA VIP Orientation Leader INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS OFFICE August 2013 to December 2014 Meeting the newly admitted international students and provide one-on-one assistance. Assisted the International Programs Officer's in completing new students' files. Served as a Small Group Facilitator during the International Student Orientation Seminars. Participated in International Programs events that promote increased interaction among International and US domestic students. Education Masters in Computer Science CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY FULLERTON - Fullerton, CA 2013 to 2015 Bachelors in Computer Science JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Additional Information SKILLS    ? Visual Studio Team Services  ? Clarizen  ? MS office  ? Basic SharePoint  ? Adobe Creative Cloud  ? Basic Knowledge of Databases, Front End Development and programming Languages