Uber Partner Driver Uber Partner Driver Cedar Park, TX Work Experience Uber Partner Driver Uber Advanced Technologies Group - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Delivery Expert Gatti's Pizza - Cedar Park, TX March 2016 to August 2018 • Ensured the timely delivery of upwards of 30 individual orders per shift by running to and from my vehicle, with an average out/in time of less than 13 minutes    • Maintained a 5-star Customer Satisfaction Rating for the duration of my employment by diligently double-checking outgoing orders and immediately addressing any arising customer concerns.    • Responsible for cash in excess of $300 per shift, faithfully reported tips and never caused a single cash shortage. Digital Media Content Developer Alex Cosmas Design, Inc and Freelance - Austin, TX June 2011 to June 2014 • Produced engaging, fact-filled marketing materials for a variety of specialty   industries     • Quickly and diligently responded to client feedback regarding ongoing web   development, and branding efforts resulting in increased customer awareness     • Educated self, coworkers and clientele about industry-specific Key Selling Points and   Search Engine Optimization based upon independent research via telecommute and   web conference    • Develops key content initiatives for ongoing rebranding efforts for multiple companies. Portfolio available upon request. Horologist/Asst. Manager Precision Time Co. - Cedar Park, TX June 2012 to September 2012 • Oversaw daily store operations alone, including opening and closing procedures.     • Transported cash deposit to bank daily in personal vehicle.     • Personally responsible for the time-sensitive intake and repair of upwards of 50 customer watches per shift, including luxury and heirloom timepieces. Repair work done with fine tools requiring a keen eye for detail.     • Assisted customers with product knowledge and purchase, including overseeing POS operations.    • Trained new hires in store policy and procedure including watch repair, inventory control, and front- end interactions.     • Maintained highest Protection Agreement attachment rate on repairs in store, 2nd highest in district.     • Optimized the store's previously mismanaged inventory system. Prior to my intervention, 250+ units of merchandise were unaccounted for. Implementing my system, employees were able to more easily locate and advocate specific products, and more than $1000 of misplaced store property was recovered. Electronics Sales Associate Sears Holdings Corporation - Cedar Park, TX February 2011 to June 2011 • Utilized strong interpersonal and communication skills to advocate merchandise to customers    • Responsible for in-store assembly and maintenance of tens of thousands of dollars of   merchandise    • Educated self and other employees on product information pertinent to the customer    • Received commissioned pay based upon sales volume of electronics merchandise,   extended service plans, and credit and financing options    • Capitalized on relationships built during time as a Cashier, using my knowledge of company credit products to advocate merchandise to familiar customers    • Once convinced a man who came in for a vacuum to leave with $10,000 T.V. complete with home theater package-- It's quite the story. Front End Cashier Sears Holdings Corporation - Cedar Park, TX August 2010 to February 2011 • Processed purchases, returns, enrollment in rewards programs, CC payments and other customer needs at multiple POS Systems.     • Trusted to deliver till proceeds at end of day to cash office unsupervised, regularly upwards of $500 in cash.    • Educated customers on the types of credit available through the company & sold multiple credit products at POS during each shift.    • Worked closely with Loss Prevention to identify and prevent shrink and theft, internal and external.    • Reliably resolved customer concerns without the need for escalation.    • Consistently lead the front end team in credit accounts opened, regularly exceeding weekly goals by 250%.     • Unfailingly exceeded company standards for customer service, maintaining an excellent customer interaction score    • Promoted to commissioned sales position due to superior performance selling credit products Education BA in English, Communications St. John's University Presidential Scholar - New York, NY 2011 to 2014 Awards St. John's University Award for Excellence in Creative Writing 2013-05 St. John's University Award for Excellence in Speech and Rhetoric 2014-05