Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Panasonic Avionics Stockton, CA Versatile full stack senior developer, employing many different languages and tools, seeks a challenging front end or full stack role at a company that desires a highly motivated, self-starting team player able to implement solutions using the latest technologies, while adhering to the highest standards. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Panasonic Avionics - Pleasanton, CA February 2019 to Present Contract  Development of Ecommerce app for seatback monitors installed on major airlines, allowing passengers to purchase movies, music, games and more during flights    Tasks:  ? Lead project development of Ecommerce app and integrate to AWS Cloud Services  (Deployed on docker: PHP, Nginx, MySQL on EC2)    ? Support code for React app that measures analytics to assist airlines in making decisions of what products to include on their seatback apps to maximize product sales    Achievements:  ? Implemented OAuth authentication for Ecommerce app to auto log on users and staged app on AWS EC2  ? Assisted other front- end developers having no previous experience in React development Lead Microservices Developer - Contract Barrick Gold Corporation - Pleasanton, CA February 2018 to February 2018 Rest API Development for internal, company-wide big data project to track analytics of equipment being used at company gold mines in order to keep accurate track of maintenance schedules and reduce costs    Tasks:  ? Created AWS Lambdas using Golang and wrote unit tests  ? Configured Serverless and Gitlab CI/CD scripts to deploy Lambdas to AWS multi-stage environment  ? Set up API integration testing with Node and ran during CI/CD builds.    Achievements:  ? Saved company budget by not having to hire another developer by successfully meeting all deadlines  that was assumed would require two developers    ? Despite having no previous knowledge of Go, Serverless and AWS, handled all required tasks Senior Front- End Developer WALMART LABS - San Bruno, CA September 2016 to February 2017 Contract  Development and support for Walmart.com production site  Tasks:  ? Fixed multiple device bugs using simulators and other tools  ? Lead ADA Project to address accessibility violations reported on Walmart.com  ? Participated in code reviews    Achievements:  ? Fixed number of difficult to diagnose bugs on iPads and mobile phones, that were on the backlog after other developers were unable to find solutions    ? Resolved several critical accessibility issues with React components including page wide keyboard navigation, keyboard control of carousel widget and added aria tags to support speech synthesizers Senior Front- End Engineer - Contract STANFORD UNIVERSITY - Stanford, CA October 2014 to September 2015 Lead front end developer of mid-term and final exam Chromebook app for language school  Tasks:  ? Integrated microphone support to record student answers to oral questions  ? Parsed JSON for presenting written and oral questions  ? Developed stand-alone AngularJS app to parse Excel sheets to help in creating exam questions    Achievements:  ? Completed app in time for mid-term exams and surpassed expectations of the head of the department  ? Created stand-alone AngularJS app to parse Excel sheets for creating app exam questions Senior Web Developer TRADE - Menlo Park, CA October 2013 to September 2014 Contract  Research and development to compare AngularJS against other SPA frameworks to be used for the new etrade.com site  Tasks:  ? Lead project to create stock picking demo app built on AngularJS  ? Presented challenges encountered in weekly meeting in working on the demo app  Achievements:  ? Successfully convinced stakeholders to adopt Angular for the new site over other frameworks, Backbone and Ember Senior UI Developer APPLE INC - Cupertino, CA April 2013 to September 2013 Contract  Development for internal content management app to integrate with apple.com  Tasks:  ? Created new functionality for content management app built on custom in house SPA JavaScript Framework  ? Parsed JSON data to display files placed in different categories  Achievements:  ? Completed complex jQuery drag and drop solution for adding and removing files  ? Integrated editing and saving state functionality    Earlier Roles Senior UI Developer CISCO SYSTEMS INC - San Jose, CA August 2008 to March 2013 Contract: Supported employee directory app and lead UI development of portlets for internal social networking site Front End Developer ALIGN TECHNOLOGIES - Santa Clara, CA October 2007 to July 2008 Contract: Created stand-alone app for sales reps to use in presenting Invisalign to potential clients