Sr. Web UI Developer Sr. Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web UI Developer - Perot Systems Wilmington, DE Professional Summary:  • Overall 7+ years of experience in creating web applications using the web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, XML and AJAX.  • Extensive knowledge in DOM (Document Object Model) and AJAX to create interactive/dynamic feature webpages.  • Strong knowledge in Object oriented JavaScript.  • Expertise writing semantic, modular front end code using HTML5 and CSS3 more effectively.  • Extensive experience building application using AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQueryUI, CSS, Bootstap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  • Experience developing SPA (Single Page Application) using AngularJS and Backbone JS.  • Experience in using various jQueryUI controls and corresponding event handlers etc.  • Build Responsive Web applications using CSS3 Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, LESS to make the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices.  • Experience in developing Internet facing web application with cross OS/Browser support.  • Strong Experience in Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Optimized HTML and JavaScript code to reduce web page loading time. Also worked with QA team for cross browser testing, loading and performance checking.  • Good knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), flow chart, class diagrams, User Diagram, activity and sequence diagrams.  • Understanding user requirements, mapping them to system requirements and doing changes in the project as required.  • Performed troubleshooting to identify software performance issues.  • Ability to work independently and assume complete responsibility of work.  • Comprehensive knowledge of all phases of SDLC. Used Agile and Waterfall methodologies for various projects.  • Used version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  • Worked with senior developers to correct issues with the current applications and collaborated with senior software engineers on more complex projects.  • Confident and effective written and verbal communication skills.  • Hard working, self-motivated, innovative and passionate about technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web UI Developer Perot Systems - Plano, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, enhancement, testing, security and performance of the application.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML4/5, DHTML, XHTML, XSLT, CSS2/3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Created client side validation using technologies such as JavaScript.  • Responsible for the (D3) data driven development, Deploy and development of the web applications.  • Used JSON to load data into DOJO data grid.  • Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  • Involved in all the business meetings and status update meetings.  • Involved in developing JSP for client data presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Wrote test classes and suites for all the java classes developed using JUnit framework.  • Implemented TDD (Test Driven Development)  • Helped recode the existing Web Services to be in sync with new requirements.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver.  • Involved in interpreting business and functional requirements into a strong design implementation.  • Integrated with the back- end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web 2.0 and industry standards.  • Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  • Used GitHub and Tortoise SVN for source code management and for version control.    Environment: HTML4, CSS, AngularJS, ReactJS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MySQL, Junit. UI Developer Huston, TX June 2015 to December 2016 RateGenius is the leader in the lending industry, dedicated to the well-being of their customers, working with lenders to get the best rate and most savings.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and investigated the necessities and changed over them into user requirement specifications and functional requirement specifications for the designers and developers to comprehend them according to their viewpoint.  • Developed the user interactive web pages in an expert way with the use of JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 according to client requirement.  • Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different palaces.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows Agile methodology.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, and AJAX.  • Actively utilized JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to make interactive web application like auto complete validation.  • Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS and MVC framework for data access.  • Has worked on AngularJS which combine web applications with Mode View Controller capability to make development and testing of code efficient.  • Used CSS3 make attractive user interface application.  • Used JQuery plug in for drag and drop, widgets, menus, user interface and forms functionality.  • Implement JQuery based Ajax request using jQuery. get or jQuery. Ajax.  • Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depend on the user interactions.  • Debug the application using firebug to traverse the document.  • Involved in testing and fixing bugs.  • Write readable, maintainable and efficient code.  Environment: HMTL5, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, CSS3, AngularJS, SVN. UI Developer Intel - Chandler, AZ January 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in all phases of SDLC, including requirements analysis, design and development, debugging supporting QA teams and debugging production issues  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON and Backbone.js.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JavaScript/jQuery  • Worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules have been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Wrote jQuery functions while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Streamlined the Responsive Web Design to enhance the User Experience and developed designs for the prototypes for the Mobile UI  • Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side  • Extensive use of jQuery Events for manipulation of events and jQuery plugins for menus and widgets  • Performed website optimization and faster page loading using CSS sprites  • Worked on debugging JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger  • Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3, JSON, jQuery, XML, SQL, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, Photoshop. UI Developer Bridge2Solutions Inc - Alpharetta, GA November 2012 to December 2013 Bridge2 Solutions is a leading marketing solutions platform providing innovative marketing and fulfillment solutions to leading financial institutions, loyalty programs and Fortune 500 companies. I have worked on as a Front End developer. These applications features include travel related search for Flights, Hotels, Car, Cruise and Vacations.    Responsibilities:  • Creating exciting and interactive user interfaces on both the web and mobile web using AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented client side validation for portals using AngularJS Forms and controls to reduce the validations on server side.  • Used AngularJS $http, $q services to perform AJAX requests and to enable communication between views and server.  • Create interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and jQuery/ jQueryUI.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like test driven development, scum, and pair programming  • Applied JQueryUI autocomplete to improve searching and filtering.  • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.  • Part of review team to suggest design solutions, make recommendations for the integration of new technologies, and resolve integration issues.  • Designed Responsive layouts using Bootstrap and help maintain live style guide for CSS3 based reusable components extending Bootstrap.  • Design page into Responsive Web Design with grid-based layouts utilizing Media Queries targeting various devices like phone, tablets, and desktop.  • Used the Angular UI route to organize the pages. Used Angular filter to display sorted data.  • Implemented reusable components for better maintenance by adding custom AngularJS directives, filters and services.  • Experience in create wireframes and UI mock-ups for review with the end users.  • Designed custom reports and charts using D3 and C3 libraries for various applications.  • Solid understanding of MVC and ability to write clean, concise, maintainable code.  • Involved in updating the pages using HTML5 and CSS3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3 effects to enhance user experience as per the user requirements.  • Implement the complete SDLC with Agile process.  • Worked on different version control systems like SVN, GIT. Front End/Web Developer F5 Systems - Gujarat, IN March 2010 to September 2012 A web based application-Online event organization where people organized their events online. I was part of a team developing an application for organizing events using the HTML, CSS and JavaScript specifications. Responsible for working on a range of projects, designing appealing websites and interacting on a daily basis with graphics designers, back end developers.    • Design development of presentation layers using ASP.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Performed verifications and validation using .NET validation controls and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed the mock up designs as per the requirements of business.  • Develop attractive user interface to combine new module with login system with JQuery framework.  • Built user friendly web pages to arrange text, pictures and videos with CSS style sheets and Bootstrap.  • Implemented performance tuning to make the pages load fast and in effective way.  • Implemented AJAX to speed up web application.  • Performed extensive unit testing and prepared detailed test scripts.  • Used jQuery extensively for vent handling, DOM manipulation.  • Working directly with the clients to design and develop elegant solution.  • Environments: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, C#.Net, Bootstrap, IE tester, Firebug. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), BOOTSTRAP (6 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX,C,C#,.Net  Libraries and Framework jQuery, angular.js, Handlebar.js, Node.js, Require.js, Bootstrap, D3, C3  IDE's and Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, Webstrom, Sublime Text  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop  Version Control and CMS Subversion (SVN), GIT  Server Environment Java/ J2EE, JSP, PHP, REST  Databases and Tools SQL, MySQL, Oracle10g, MS Access    Operating Systems MAC OS X, Linux, Unix, DOS, Windows