Graphic Designer and Front End Developer Graphic Designer and <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer and Designer Lynbrook, NY Experienced graphic designer and front- end web developer. MS Web Technologies, BDes Visual Communication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Designer and Front End Developer Healthcasts, LLC - New York, NY March 2017 to Present Graphic designer and front end web developer in the Healthcasts Media production department. This role focuses on pharmaceutical advertising to healthcare professionals. Designing and developing responsive websites from concept to completion: creating high fidelity mockups with InDesign and Photoshop for desktop, tablet and phone, then coding these sites with HTML, CSS and jQuery, adding tracking for analytics and launching these programs on the Healthcasts platform. Designing and developing emails that drive to these programs, and print pieces such as marketing mailers.     Originally hired as a graphic designer in a fast-paced production environment. Worked cross-functionally between teams, spanning design, development and editorial. I leveraged my knowledge of both design and development to take on a hybrid role with a high level of responsibility, taking ownership of new program builds from mockups to launch.    Additional responsibilities: project management, conducting calls with clients, advising the client services department on specifics for new builds and custom designs/functionality, conducting interviews with potential hires, training team members and new hires.     Significant achievements: In 2018 our team launched a record number of programs, achieving the highest number of program launches in the company's 17 year history. In 2019 our team beat the 2018 record in monetary value. Communications Assistant Seeds of Peace - New York, NY January 2016 to October 2016 Assisting with launch of new website. Graphic design with InDesign and Photoshop, responsive web development with HTML and CSS on the WordPress platform. Usability testing, website optimization, debugging, content creation, content management. This was a temporary role as I was working in the US on a J-1 visa before receiving my green card. Significant achievement: I was offered a permanent full-time position at the end of my J-1 with this company due to excellent work performance. Front End Developer and Designer Bourbon.fm - Dublin October 2014 to October 2015 Graphic design and full stack web development for a music and ecommerce-focused tech startup. User Interface and User Experience design. Requirements elicitation, wireframing, designing and programming client-side functionality within a Ruby on Rails application. Stack consisted of: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, with Git for version control. Focused primarily on the front- end, while also contributing to the back- end functionality. IT Support Good Time Travel - Valley Stream, NY September 2009 to August 2012 IT support for a family-run travel agency. Installing and configuring computer hardware, operating systems and applications. Diagnosing hardware and software faults. Solving technical problems. Monitoring and maintaining computer systems. Office Assistant Intern Grafton Recruitment - Dublin February 2009 to March 2009 Redesigning and formatting resumes for a recruitment agency. Database and spreadsheet management. Education Master of Science in Web Technologies National College of Ireland - Dublin 2013 to 2014 Higher National Diploma in Science in Web Technologies National College of Ireland - Dublin 2012 to 2013 Certificate in Advanced Digital Imaging - Adobe Illustrator CS5 FAS Training Centre - Dublin 2012 to 2012 Certificate in Advanced Digital Imaging - Adobe Photoshop CS5 FAS Training Centre - Dublin 2010 to 2010 Bachelor of Design Honours in Visual Communication National College of Art and Design - Dublin 2004 to 2008 Skills HTML5, CSS3, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, jQuery, Deployment, Git, Photoshop, Illustrator, Graphic Design, Web Development, InDesign, Web Design, Front End, Front-End, UI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sandramccormack http://www.behance.net/sandymccormack