Front End Developer (React Native, Angular <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (React Native, Angular Front End Developer (React Native, Angular - Walmart Labs Pea Ridge, AR Work Experience Front End Developer (React Native, Angular Walmart Labs - Bentonville, AR January 2018 to Present I have been working as a React Native developer over the last year converting our angular 1 inventory  app to a react native standard also called BYOD or bring your own device. I have been instrumental  in the styling / UI side of transforming this app on both Android and IOS from being used strictly on a store device to now being used on most mobile devices. A big part of this has been the building of  apk's and ipa's along with unit testing and snapshots. Full Stack Developer ShopImpressions - Springdale, AR March 2017 to December 2017 As a Full Stack Web Developer at ShopImpressions I help maintain and improve the client experience  shopping on our site. I also help to develop features for our internal (warehouse, inventory, media,  employee, API) software. I am most proud of the work I have done in optimizing our site, improving the code base by re-writing the front end, and in so doing decreased our site load time by almost half  (through google analytics and GTMetrix). I was able to cut out over 2000 lines of un-necessary code.  I also introduced OOCSS and brought about CSS custom properties to our platform. I am responsible for writing and redesigning the html emails for our company as well. Used often at work are php, ajax,  liquid, javascript, jquery, SQL, google analytics, tinypng, excel and occasionally photoshop. Full Stack Developer SalesTaxDataLINK - Bentonville, AR September 2016 to November 2016 As a Full Stack Web Developer at SalesTaxDataLINK I was responsible for helping to maintain and improve the tax software. This included trouble shooting the tax fling notifcation system. This was  done in C# classes and SQL queries. I also conducted a monthly update of tax changes for clients in all  50 states. Full Stack Developer Mill Creek Software - Rogers, AR November 2015 to September 2016 As Full Stack Web Developer at Mill Creek I built CMS websites and MVP web apps with Python / Django as the backend, and front end technologies including html, css, javascript, less, bootstrap, and jQuery.  Some minor work with photoshop to pixel match site pages. Projects regularly included building e-  commerce sites complete with payment forms (paypal and stripe), login authentication, shopping  carts, custom calendars and site wide email systems. Most projects are completely mobile responsive.  In the web applications I had to work with sqlite and postgresql making queries and data transfers. Chem/STEM Teacher Pima High School - Pima, AZ August 2012 to May 2015 As a High School Biology, Chemistry and STEM teacher it was my job to get the students to understand  and pass the state standards. It was my personal goal however, to make those subjects applicable to the real  world. In my frst year teaching at Pima, my students were able to achieve the second highest science  AIMS  scores in school history. What i am most proud of though is having raised the grade percentage of the lowest  students by 15% in every class. Education Education Northern Arizona University - Thatcher, AZ August 2010 to May 2012 Eastern Arizona College - Thatcher, AZ January 2003 to May 2006 Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, React, Front-End Additional Information Skills    Javascript (3 years), Git (3 years), PHOTOSHOP (Less than 1 year), jQuery (3 years), React Native (1  year), Vue.JS (1 year)    Links    https://github.com/lcdonaldson