Scan, Bag, Go - District Trainer Scan, Bag, Go - District Trainer Scan, Bag, Go - District Trainer - Kingsoopers Arvada, CO Customer service professional with 6 years experience training and developing others as a supervisor  at Kingsoopers. My strongest attribute would be my desire to learn and problem solve. I have a  bachelors of science degree specializing in cyber security. This computer expertise has help me  assist others in the immersion of technology in everyday life along with the training and understanding  of computers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scan, Bag, Go - District Trainer Kingsoopers - Arvada, CO February 2018 to Present • Worked collaboratively with district front- end coordinator to train multiple stores on new technology.  • Resolved issues by contacting technical support and collecting information surrounding each issue.  • Taught each store associate how to use new Scan, Bag, Go technology.  • Mentored new sales associates to further train customers on methods to use this new technology  and how it would benefit them. Freelance Web/Graphic Developer Eppic Arts Photography/ Two Faces West - Broomfield, CO January 2015 to Present • Directed software design and development while remaining focused on client needs.  • Consulted regularly with customers on project status, proposals and technical issues.  • Used site analytics and metrics to define and monitor success.  • Identified and eliminated websites bugs to improve user experience.  • Provided maintenance and development of bug fixes. Front- End Supervisor Kingsoopers - Arvada, CO September 2012 to Present • Shared best practices for sales and customer service with other team members to help improve the store's efficiency.  • Resolved all customer complaints in a professional manner while prioritizing customer satisfaction.  • Recognized and rewarded outstanding work performance to cultivate a positive and collaborative  customer service culture.  • Mentored new sales associates to contribute to the store's positive culture. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security in computing, and Disaster Colorado Technical University 2017 Skills Bash (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), Data backup (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), maintenance (4 years), Marketing (Less than 1 year), Network security (Less than 1 year), Perl (Less than 1 year), Php (Less than 1 year), Security (Less than 1 year), Vpn (Less than 1 year), Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support, MAC Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i1kq6-bqhjnkzpk Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6oct5ddndknm1hqt Customer Focus & Orientation — Expert July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sub9vujb6me64xip Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Ethical hacking • Website and Electronic Marketing  • Network security • Website maintenance  • Security Logs • HTML/CSS/Javascript/PHP  • VPN configuration • Bootstrap framework  • Data backup and retrieval • Website and portal monitoring  • Java/C++/Perl/Bash • Troubleshooting and debugging