Production & Graphic Design Associate Production &amp; Graphic Design Associate Production & Graphic Design Associate Annandale, VA Adept and diligent manager with wide-ranging experience in desktop publishing, graphic creation, photo editing, and production oversight—responsible for meticulously orchestrating the full life cycle of development from concept and contracting to proofing and delivery. Thrives within a dynamic group and  engaging work environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production & Graphic Design Associate Thomas B. Fordham Institute - Washington, DC November 2015 to Present • Designed and curated content for all front-facing research and marketing materials, including: publications, graphics, event banners, emails, print advertisements, newsletters, and annual reports.  • Managed every phase of report production and web development, including: setting timelines, coordinating contractors' schedules, reviewing deliverables, and monitoring our budget.  • Collaborated with - and provided insightful feedback on deliverables from - an array of external contractors, including authors, copyeditors, web developers, designers, printers, and illustrators.  • Proofed and staged all published materials prior to dissemination to the public.  • Acted as the liaison between research and marketing, resolving the requests of senior staff. Editorial Fellow, FCW The Business of Federal Information Technology - McLean, VA May 2014 to October 2015 • Assisted the editorial department by preparing and proofing materials for publication, supporting workflow procedures, attending news conferences, and interviewing individuals of note.  • Composed articles and data visualizations on topics concerning federal and industry current events. Front- End Web Developer & Consultant Virginia Tech Department October 2013 to April 2014 • Generated an adaptive website with JavaScript-enabled features from detailed mock-ups.  • Counseled my employer on the best practices for web design, usability, and content creation.    V olunteer E xperience Editorial & Design Intern Center for the Study of Rhetoric in Society August 2013 to December 2013 • Wrote, edited, and designed content for inclusion in a number of publications, including a brochure to facilitate student and faculty interactions with local, nonprofit organizations. Webmaster & Editor, Vaccination Research Group (VRG) Virginia Tech August 2013 to December 2013 • Redesigned the VRG's website using Bootstrap - a responsive, open-source framework.  • Edited colleagues' research papers, providing feedback for content clarity and development. Education Bachelor's in Philosophy & English Professional Writing Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University - Blacksburg, VA August 2009 to December 2013 Skills Graphic Design, Photoshop, Typography, Print Production, Indesign, Printing, Project Management