Digital Production Specialist/Analyst (Web & Email) Digital Production Specialist/Analyst (Web &amp; Email) Web Developer Miami, FL Full-Stack JavaScript Developer , and problem solver with an energetic self-initiative who loves the challenge and instant gratification that comes with programming.    Technical Stack : HTML5, CSS/SASS, JavaScript/Jquery, Express, Node , Angular 2/Ionic Framework , React/React Native, MongoDB, PostgreSQL    Analytical tools : Microsoft Excel, Google Analytics & Tag Manager, Hotjar, Google Search Console    Other Skills : CLI, Git, Browser Developer Tools, Content Management Systems, Hosting Platforms Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Production Specialist/Analyst (Web & Email) Bayview Loan Servicing - Miami, FL May 2018 to Present Coding homepage/landing pages using HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  Utilizing Google Anayand Tag Manager to track site performance over time .  Built and lead personalized Email marketing campaigns to over 100k customers using IBM Watson Campaign Automation System  Utilizing specialty tools and devices to ensure email content and format are legible across all email client platforms.  Code emails using HTML5, CSS including proofing and testing creative/content for accuracy to meet and exceed email standards.  Continuous A/B and multivariate testing of campaigns (i.e. email, text) and landing pages. Research and identify keyword, targeting, and segmentation opportunities across channels.  Delivering data-driven, quantitative approach to email marketing; using metrics to measure success and create feedback loops to adjust email campaigns over time.  Developing and testing of email 'best practices' regarding automotive products and services, pricing, promotions and customer segmentation.  Collaborate with departments and vendors to optimize email campaigns customer segmentation, creative, offers, landing pages, and more.  Pull SQL queries containing customer data needed to create email campaigns.  API extract pulling to create analytical reports on email campaign results.  Using imaging systems such as Filenet and Papervision to spot check data accuracy before building marketing campagins  Maintaining ,creating and updating Web pages for Bayviewloanservicing.com on CSM systems.  Tested pagespeed of webpages, and optimized as needed using google page speed and various optimization tools.  Conducted CX Omnichannel research on top trends in digital marketing solutions and acted as coordinator between potenial vendors and company stakeholders   Created and personalized surveys for cusotmer feedback using survey platforms like survey monkey.  Analayzed and reported on several web traffic metrics using google analytics and hotjar.  Created various comparison data reports using Microsoft Excel and Powerpoint for our Monthly Email and web performance Website Usability Tester UserTesting - Remote October 2017 to Present Perform usability tests on numerous mobile apps and websites. Testing and providing feedback test cases on how to improve the User Experience.  Clients range from large corporations to mid-size startups. Front End Developer Ecoshare - Remote November 2018 to June 2019 Exciting new Blockchain-based platform that will disrupt the gig economy and replace it with something fairer and better for everyone involved.    Presently working on the mobile UI component for the Drivers App. Building a cross-platform hybrid mobile app using the Ionic Framework ontop of Angular 2. Web Developer Intern Republica - Miami, FL December 2017 to May 2018 Provided front end programming support on a variety of digital projects for clients (Sedanos, BankUnited, Combate America etc) using HTML ,CSS/SASS, Javascript and Node.js    Assisted in the creation of several weekly Newsletters using HTML/CSS/ and email campaign monitoring using MailChimp. Also used Litmus for Email testing across browsers.    Created Rich HTML5 Responsive banners of different sizes both on portrait and landscape using HTML/CSS Javascript on ad platforms like Sizemk and Google Web Designer.    Converted PSD documents into HTML using photoshop.Also extensive use of slicing images to convert into HTML emails and landing pages.    Created and updated content into WordPress CMS system , customizing themes, inserting custom CSS . Administrative IT Support Austral Services - Miami, FL July 2016 to September 2017 Update and pull customer information using SQL queries   software update, and installation on computers used in office  Ordered Computer supplies, office supplies   Troubleshoot computers Customer Service Clerk Publix Supermarket - Miami, FL September 2011 to December 2015 Stock and replenish shelves around the whole grocery store.  Performing inventory functions on missing products.  Assisting customer needs and providing them with the best shopping experience. Education Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Florida International University - Miami, FL 2016 Full Stack Javascript Treehouse - Techdegree July 2018 Certification in Full Stack Web Developer Florida Vocational Institute(Techlaunch Web Developer Bootcamp) - Miami, FL 2017 Skills ENERGETIC (10+ years), MULTITASKING (10+ years), ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS (10+ years), PROBLEM SOLVER (10+ years), SELF MOTIVATED (10+ years), HTML (2 years), Javascript (2 years), CSS (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office suite (1 year), Computer Hardware (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Digital Marketing, Email Marketing (1 year), Excel (3 years), IBM (Less than 1 year), MailChimp (1 year), Email Marketing (2 years), Web Development (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Analytics (1 year), Google Analytics (2 years), SQL (3 years), Email, SEO (1 year), Google tag manager (2 years), Angular, Wordpress, Front End, Angularjs Links https://github.com/Asoler19 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Strong organizational skills Adaptive team player  Analytical skills  Sharp problem solver Multitasking  Energetic Work attitude Time Management