CMS WordPress Administrator / Web Developer 2; Consulting CMS WordPress Administrator / Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> 2; Consulting CMS WordPress Administrator / Web Developer 2; Consulting - STANFORD UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Palo Alto, CA Experienced Web producer and CMS administrator for educational (e-Learning) websites with 8 years of experience in web production, database management, development and implementation of interactive web projects in learning and content management systems. Managed websites located on internal servers and on external web hosts servers. Created and managed the SHANA website (CMS Drupal), which received national awards. At the Stanford AIM Lab, contributed to increasing the number of users of the e-Learning projects (LMS Moodle) from 30 to 1,500 per year and expanding from Stanford University to more than 55 academic institutions. Work Experience CMS WordPress Administrator / Web Developer 2; Consulting Stanford University School of Medicine - Palo Alto, CA December 2017 to Present Creates and maintains content for the daily work of sites. Handles daily web requests, solves web content problems and provides feedback for improvements, implements projects and performs QA tasks. CMS Drupal Developer & Administrator; Consulting (Remote) The Society of Head and Neck Anesthesia (SHANA) - Columbus, OH January 2012 to Present Created the website from sketches, wireframes and mockups through site planning, construction, testing, troubleshooting and maintenance. Managed the site, analyzing technical requirements, setting up a template, installing modules, installing SSL certificates and creating redirects, programming authentication and access control, creating and editing web content, enhancing content library, writing instructions for web content editors, analyzing website performance with Bluehost web analytics tools and Google Analytics.  ·       Collaborated with the society's management to discuss website strategy, approve the information architecture and find an attractive user interface solution.  ·       Instrumental to www.shanahq.com won of two national e-Healthcare Leadership Awards.  ·       Created email marketing campaigns on Campaign Monitor website.   ·       Increased members of the SHANA from 10 to 670 from 48 countries.   ·       Designed and implemented the Journal of Head and Neck Anesthesia in e-Journal and PDF. CMS WordPress Administrator / Web Developer 2 Stanford University School of Medicine - Stanford, CA April 2015 to December 2017 Created and maintained web pages and websites, checked websites for compatibility with various browsers, managed content, including graphic and multimedia files, tested new functionality and prepared error reports, installed and upgraded system / templates /plugins, created and managed MySQL databases, troubleshooted technical issues on sites, analyzed and eliminated security threats for sites, provided end-user customer service.  ·       Performed day-to-day administration of Ether (http://ether.stanford.edu), the major educational portal of the Anesthesiology Department.  ·       Developed and managed 10+ new websites.  ·       Managed 3 databases (MySQL).  ·       Performed transfer web sites from Bluehost to WP-Engine hosting provider.  ·       Collaborated in creation Learnly (http://learnly.org ) and integration it with e-Learning website.  ·       Managed 5 concurrent projects while meeting deadlines. Learning Management System (LMS) Developer & Administrator Stanford University School of Medicine - Stanford, CA August 2013 to December 2017 Developed and managed interactive e-learning training courses, installing LMS on web host server, participating in curriculum development/maintenance/assignment, migrating training to LMS, developing training materials and web courses, defining and maintaining roles and permissions, creating user accounts and managing enrollment / attendance, monitoring learning activity, analyzing reports for completion and effectiveness of training.   ·       Administered the award-winning Learnly|Foundations Project of Stanford AIM Lab.   ·       Contributed to an increase in the number of anesthesiology residents in the project from 30 to 1,500 per year and an expansion from Stanford alone to more than 55 academic partner institutions.  ·       Managed an onboarding program using internal tool training materials (how-to guides), remote real-time support, analyzing end-user feedback, resolving learner requests and conducting training for LMS admins.  ·       Collaborated with subject matter experts (SMEs) in curriculum development, using the results of training needs analysis, creating, updating and delivering courses content within the Agile development cycle.  ·       Managed regular cycles of checking and revision courses content in partnership with SMEs.  ·       Participated in research projects by analyzing data from reports, surveys and feedback.  ·       Performed all the tasks of managing the system, database, content and user administration. Computing Information Systems Analyst / Web Developer 1 Stanford University School of Medicine - Stanford, CA August 2013 to April 2015 Implemented sites that use JavaScript and jQuery libraries in the School of Medicine templates follow best practices on web standards, accessibility and usability methods. Contributed in video production: editing, posted and managed videos on social media channels.   ·       Administered web services (RSS) for publishing of departmental lectures.  ·       Created websites in Adobe Dreamweaver and CMS AEM.  ·       Managed multimedia files with usage of digital asset management (DAM).  ·       Resolved end-user tickets and created how-to guides in knowledge management system Zendesk.  ·       Edited, posted, and managed images for Stanford Technology and Innovation Medicine X conferences (medicinex.stanford.edu). Contract Web Programmer Stanford University School of Medicine - Stanford, CA January 2011 to August 2013 Repaired broken websites. Performed front- end coding, tested, troubleshooted, and implemented re-created sites. Repaired MySQL databases. Front End and Back End Web Developer Forbes Medical Management - Santa Clara, CA January 2010 to January 2011 Developed the start-up company's website and database. Assisted in marketing campaigns through content marketing on the site and sales support. Created product catalog with eCommerce functionality. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, with option in Software Engineering California State University-East Bay - Hayward, CA March 2010 Associate of Science in Internet Technology, with specialty Web Programming Foothill College - Los Altos Hills, CA August 2007 Certificate in Software Quality Assurance Portnov Computer School - Mountain View, CA 2006 Skills Adobe Creative Suite (5 years), CMS (7 years), Content Management System (7 years), JavaScript (1 year), MySQL (5 years), PHP, Website, Wordpress, CMS Drupal (7 years), Learning Management System (4 years), HTML (7 years), CSS (7 years), Drupal, Word Press, HTML5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/yan-pulavskiy Certifications/Licenses Certificate in Software Quality Assurance Present Groups The Society for Head and Neck Anesthesia (SHANA) January 2012 to Present Stanford Anesthesia Informatics and Media (AIM) Lab January 2011 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    CMS Drupal, CMS WordPress, CMS AEM, LMS Moodle, (X)HTML, CSS, MySQL, phpMyAdmin, PHP, JavaScript, Box, Dropbox, Google tools (Analytics, Sheets, Docs), Adobe Creative Suite (Dreamweaver, Acrobat DC, Photoshop), SEO, Bootstrap, Camtasia, Audacity, Panopto, Zendesk, Slack.