Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Sherwin Williams, Cleveland Middleburg Heights, OH • Around 5 years of experience in Object Oriented Development and Responsive Web application development , Java/J2EE, Angular 2/4/6,React, Ionic 2/3, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful), SQL,HTML4/5,CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of Web services, Client Server and Web based applications using J2EE/Java, JSP, Java Script.  • Experienced in developing web applications using JavaScript, JDBC, HTML,Ionic , Angular.js, Angular ,React, XHTML, jQuery,CSS2/3 and AJAX.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Webstorm, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio Code.  • Expertise in templating technologies like Handlebars/Mustache  • Professional experience in working with Google Firebase  • Used AJAX to use the RESTFUL Services in the application which supported different format like text, JSONand XML  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js , Angular, React and Ionic  • Comprehensive knowledge in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and a goodknowledge of JavaScript frameworks, jQuery.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome  • Experience in RUP and Agile development (XP, TDD and SCRUM) methodologies.  • Wrote data Components for Plan Setup using Java, SQL and JDBC and participated in design of data base and created tables in ORACLE.  • Deployed the Application on Apache Tomcat server  • Created tables, views, triggers, SQL Joins, user defined functions, triggers and stored procedures for different type of operations like updating data in the database, retrieving data and performance optimization.  • Data loaded from legacy systems (ETL Operations) using PL/SQL and SQL*Loader.  • Good Experience on Quality Control, JIRA, Rally for tracking the tickets like accepting the tickets/defects, Submitting the tickets, Reviewing Code and closing the tickets.  • Well experienced in debugging JavaScript using Firebug, Fiddler and Developer tools.  • Remarkable knowledge of SQL and database design, normalization and Database Management Concepts. Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages.  • Passionate in building innovative and engaging web applications to meet the challenges  • Excellent skills in relationship management with clients and designers, effective in guiding team during the project development life cycle and deliver the product within time, cost and quality. Work Experience Front End Developer Sherwin Williams, Cleveland March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Working With Product owners And UX Designers to Understand the requirements to produce a functionality fitting with their needs in an environment.  • Developed a Martin-Senour autopaints project from scratch.  • Developed protective and marine apps using ionic3 framework.  • Worked on Firebase for generating analytics  • Involved in planning meetings to estimate the scope of a task pertaining to UI development.  • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as Angular 4/6, JQuery  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JQuery in on-going projects.  • Working on Handles bars for templating data in jsp webpages.  • Involved in upgrading the sites to AEM web umbrella by using React for highly interactive modular UI  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models)  • Extensive Use of Source Tree to create feature branches, A Feature would be developed on it and Merge it Back to Develop Branch.  • Built AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters  • Use of Code collaborator to Create a Code review between develop and a feature Branch  • Involved In Part of code reviews, Code reviews were done considering the standard of Js docs.  • Used firebug plugin to edit, debug and monitor css, html and Javascript of the webpage to make sure page is responsive and browser compatible  • Working with Quality Testing Team, In the event of Any Bug Discovered in Course of Quality testing during the development.  • Working with New Recruits to Help them on Board in the team (Such as setting their work environment such as Setting up Ssh key to our Git repository and fetching them application repository in their local, Code collaborator installing up modules and walking through the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript,Jquery, Angular 4/6,React, ionic3, Gulp, Grunt, git UMKC - Kansas City, MO September 2016 to December 2016 Developing assistant  Responsibilities:  • Involved in building highly interactive portable widgets using HTML 5, CSS 3, and the latest AJAX libraries.Developed huge multi-advertisement co-registration layout engine that was cross browser compatible  • Editable, E-mail Inputs, local storage, placeholders, CSS3 different features like Box sizing, multiplebackgrounds, Advanced Selectors, JavaScript. Used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  • Use TFS extensively for Sprint Story Board, Burn down reporting, Test Case  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL and also Angular JS  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS  • Added Workflow UI to all the environments, Added the front end structure of UI, such as gulp, http conf etc..To Configure, Create and Manage Workflows Using Polymer (JavaScript Framework).  • The Angular JavaScript framework for building web applications is highly efficient to use with Laravel PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Added Security Feature Such as user permission which hides down all add buttons and edit buttons which user is not permitted as a accessible user. Added Client side search bar for Topics, producer and consumer pages. Added Excel Upload and Download functionality Using Js-xlsx, Excel libraries.  • Using JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo UI for user interactions in pages. Creating a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React JS and media queries  • Worked with react js in developing a website to make it more interactive,stateful and reusable component.  • Work experience with Word Press (Content Management System)  • Worked on mobile web development.  • Use polymer web framework for the construction of Front end application for flow visualization;    Environment: AJAX, CSS3, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Gulp, Bower, git,REST API,HBAse,Angular 2, git,intellij Assistant system programmer Tata consultancy Services - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built pages using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3 and HTML  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSSmargin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams  • Deep understanding of JavaScript and the JQuery framework.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application and Built the Responsive UI screen using HTML and CSS3.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS3.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3Cstandards. Used SVN as source code repository and versioning.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, XHTML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Web developer Intern Prism hospitality Services August 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using Java, JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Designed many HTML forms using the various html form tag, according to the requirement of the end user.  • Used the HTML tables to great effect to achieve page layouts.  • Used CSS to great effect to design to design a number of pages in a dynamic fashion.  • Used extensively AJAX concept of JavaScript using the XML Http Request object to connect to external services to send and receive data in SOAP format.  • Managing the use and development of the Traceability matrix and participates in design review ensuring that all requirements have been integrated.  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle, risk plan, project plan, issues and statuses.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, XHTML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Vizianagaram, Andhra Pradesh Masters in Computer in Software engineering University of Missouri - Kansas City, MO Skills Ajax (5 years), css (5 years), Html (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Json (5 years), Angular, Front End, Front-End, React, UI, Jquery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C, C++, JAVASCRIPT  Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8,Mac OS X, MS DOS, Unix  Databases MY SQL  Scripting Languages HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSON,  Web IDE Tools Notepad++,Eclipse,Sublime Text 3, Visual Studio code, Webstorm  Graphic Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator, Flash Pro CS5, and Fireworks  ETL Tool Informatica  Others MS Office 2003-2007, Adobe Flash CS5, Adobe Firework CS5, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS5, DOM manipulations.  Frameworks Bootstrap, Angular.JS, Angular, Ionic-3, React