User-Centered Design & Prototyping Lecturer User-Centered Design &amp; Prototyping Lecturer * Design Thinking Facilitator and Trainer / Jr UX Researcher & Designer / Jr Product Developer * Santa Clara, CA Design thinker that is looking to pivot into the world of UX and is also a quick learner and adaptable to all sorts of environments. Has some experience in UX research and data analytics and is motivated to learn more in order to a career in UX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience User-Centered Design & Prototyping Lecturer SFSU MBA Program - San Francisco, CA 2013 to Present Training MBA students every semester on various stages of product development including research, prototyping, design, and usability testing. I lead hands-on workshops for wireframing, CAD programs, 3D printing, and paper prototyping. Academic Experience General Assembly Product Management Course - San Francisco, CA October 2017 to November 2017 I conducted qualitative survey research, pulled quantitative data, analyzed findings, and designed a new product feature for a popular app that would resolve the user problem found in the research. To present the findings, I created a slide deck with a SWOT and Competitive Analyses, User Stories, suggested KPIs, and a quarterly Roadmap for the product feature. Design & Front End Consultant Self-Employed - Santa Clara, CA 2015 to June 2017 Front- end consultant for small businesses. Designed and edited tutorial and marketing materials including slide decks, sales collateral, and training videos. Business Developer PopMyDewal - Saratoga, CA 2015 to 2016 Business Developer for a fast-paced mobile app startup. Having to wear a lot of hats in such a small team, I helped build the product from development to launch and conducted alpha and beta user data research, usability testing, and A/B testing, using various platforms such as Respondent.io and InVision. I also planned and scheduled update releases, managed relationships with partners, created marketing/sales collateral and slide decks, and facilitated the training workshop for the sales team. Co-Founder/Design Faciliator SF Design Lab - San Francisco, CA 2013 to 2015 Co-founded SFSU student organization to teach, facilitate, and discuss different design thinking techniques in order for future business leaders (MBA students) to utilize user-centered design and explore new innovative ideas. Academic Experience SFSU MBA Program - San Francisco, CA 2015 Tasked to design a product for people who are blind or have low vision (BLV) and working with Lighthouse For the Blind, I led a team to conduct qualitative research using observation and surveys through Qualtrics, did a deep dive into how BLV students learn, and developed a relatively inexpensive product that was to be used for STEM subject learning. Assistant Manager of Housewares Dean & DeLuca - New York, NY 2007 to March 2009 Managed staff of up to 20 employees. Implemented plans to fulfill financial projections and goals.  Managed daily operations which included updating stock levels and creating visual merchandise  displays. Retail Buyer, Store Manager Brooklyn Kitchen - Brooklyn, NY 2009 Managed floor staff. Developed human resources initiatives providing benefits packages and product  training for employees to ensure the highest level of customer service. Implemented plans to fulfill  financial projections and goals. Managed daily operations which included updating stock levels,  tracking industry trends, maintaining and developing relationships with suppliers, and creating visual  merchandise displays. Education Product Management Course Certification in Product Management Course General Assembly - San Francisco, CA 2017 Master's in Business Adminstration San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA 2013 to 2015 Bachelor's in Business Administration, Management San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA 2011 to 2013 Skills Agile Development (1 year), Adobe Suite (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Wireframing (3 years), Rapid Prototyping (5 years), UX Research (1 year), Design Thinking (5 years), User Stories (3 years), Lead Methodologies (3 years), Data Analysis (2 years), Metrics/KPIs (1 year), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (1 year), Video/Audio Editing (3 years), Usability Testing (1 year), CAD (3 years), Oral Communication (7 years), User Experience Design (5 years), Sketch (1 year), InVision (1 year), Paper Prototyping (10+ years), UX, Adobe, Wireframe, User Experience, Axure Links https://www.baosurlytran.com Additional Information I am a curious maker, world traveler, and puzzle nerd with a passion for thoughtful design (and good food). My education and experience has led me to become a collaborative team player, a design researcher, a design thinking facilitator, and a product professional. I love finding those creative solutions that marry the goals for both the product design and the business perspective. I’ve also had the great fortune to work on some truly inspiring projects, while meeting many influential and creative individuals along the way. I believe in working together to create a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts.