Webmaster, Co-Founder Webmaster, Co-Founder Web Developer and Graphic Designer Nibley, UT I have been working in technology for over ten years, and love to help people, solve problems, reading, and learning new things. I'm dependable, patient, and intelligent. I have developed international eCommerce websites, created internal reporting tools, and have done front- end and back- end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and MySQL. Work Experience Webmaster, Co-Founder UBook.Us August 2018 to Present ubook.us  Used the Laravel PHP MVC framework, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to design and build this website that helps companies book contractors for jobs. Built it alone with an AWS LAMP stack. Webmaster & IT Support Walt USA, LLC December 2017 to November 2018 waltusa.com  Used HTML, CSS, PHP, and JavaScript to design and build an internal tracking/reporting website for manufacturing. Used Amazon and Shopify to sell products to retail and wholesale customers. Used QuickBooks to manage inventory and product lists. Maintained a local server and network. Did IT support for coworkers. Helped run the outlet store. Front- end web developer ICON Health & Fitness August 2015 to November 2017 iconfitness.com  Used HTML, SCSS, Thymeleaf, and JavaScript to design, build, and maintain international eCommerce websites with a small team. Webmaster USU Computer Science Department December 2014 to December 2015 cs.usu.edu  Used HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and PHP to rebuild and redesign a legacy website while moving to a new CMS. Worked with faculty and staff to keep the website up to date. Computer support & Web designer USU Career Services August 2011 to May 2015 career-services.usu.edu  Used HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and PHP to rebuild and redesign a legacy website while moving to a new CMS. Made promotional documents and reports with the Adobe Creative Suite. Maintained a dozen office computers. Education Bachelor of Science in Art & Design Utah State University May 2015 Associate of Science in General Education Salt Lake Community College May 2010 Skills Javascript, Front End, PHP, Wordpress Links https://adamprows.com Additional Information Skills (From most to least experience)  • Tools: Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Office Suite, Bootstrap CSS, Windows, Mac OS, Debian Linux, Laravel, WordPress, Stripe, Magento, Shopify, Joomla.  • Programming Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript/jQuery, Thymeleaf, Git, PHP, MySQL, C# / ASP.NET, Java.    Leadership and Volunteer Service  • Completed the rank of Eagle Scout in The Boy Scouts of America.  • Served two years in the Arkansas area doing volunteer missionary service; my duties included managing a database to create reports for leaders in the area, public speaking, and helping people reach goals.  • Volunteered as the Technology Manager for The Heads Advertising Club, I worked with fellow students to complete advertising and design projects for other clubs at USU.