Front end and Back end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> and Back <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end and Back end Developer - Nufoodi.com Manchester, NH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end and Back end Developer Nufoodi.com - Derry October 2015 to Present Derry, NH (remote with meetings)  Skills used:  PHP, CodeIgniter, Laravel(began as Laravel but Laravel was not robust enough, so converted it to CodeIgniter), NodeJS for real time communications between server, users and such, Memcache, MySQL, Nginx, Jquery.    Nufoodi is a way for people to collaborate on creating food-centric events as well as a way to hire event planners, personal chefs, book venues and to share such events with their friends and family. It uses NodeJS for real time updates to events and to allow real time collaboration while menu items and such are added. It uses Responsive Design but with a much more complicated layout than a typical responsive website.. This role began as a back end only position as well as system administration, but they had difficulty finding front end programmers that could handle such a  complicated project. Currently we are working on a marketing strategy for this project.    It is also a way for large scale caterers to collaborate with perspective and actual clients to create events and includes an API to allow bookings through their own website Web Developer / Designer / System Administration Penny Auction Soft - Manchester, NH April 2012 to Present Skills used:  PHP, CodeIgniter(used for affiliate marketing add on), NodeJS (for real time communications with bidding and timers, making the timers accurate to 100MS for all users), Memcache, MySQL, Nginx, Apache, Jquery.    Built a Click Bank alternative along with an easy to use API that utilizes web hooks and x-domain AJAX and JSONP for a seamless integration into partner websites and email campaigns.    Create the integration necessary to be able to sell this solution to existing and new Penny Auction Soft clients using either Mysql, Mysqli. Converted AJAX long polling methods to Websockets. Converted PHP cron script to run within the same NodeJS app as the timers.    Software ties into over 25 payment gateways with an advanced structure for adding more.    Consolidated 10 individual programs into 1 program that now has 18 templates.    Built a web gaming platform that uses a client and server component.    Custom Design on over 100 PAS client websites.    Create, customize and maintain servers for old and new clients.    Custom payment gateways and custom code including specialized auction types, buy now methods, coupon methods and more.    Maintain and create a new download server, Shopping Cart and more that work together using Curl and JSON to automate licensing and recurring payments.    Shopping Cart is also being sold as a standalone program.    Created a tutorials module and program updates module to existing software that uses CURL and JSON to notify site admins of what input fields do, when updates are available for the core program, add-ons and if hosted by this company, tells them when payments are due.    Migrated existing code to PHP5.7 (has been tested on PHP7 as well) and fix several Flash and JavaScript bugs related to IE <= 9 and eliminate a great deal of redundancy that was created by a combination of overseas programmers and sloppiness in planning.    Made product compatible with Nginx rewrote system crons and daemons to improve performance on the server end and many more  improvements. Owner / Developer Posi-Smart - Manchester, NH June 2015 to August 2017 Skills used:  PHP, NodeJS (used for websockets as well as manipulating in-house printers and credit card terminals ), Memcache, MySQL, Nginx, Apache, Jquery. Project was tested in a very busy bar in Lowell, Ma. Later the bar was sold. Still being used by a company called Crazieoverstock.com for their website as well as inventory and drop shipping support. Supposed to be installing it in a restaurant in Billerrica in the next few months.    Designed responsively to work on phones, tablets and other devices with a single server that can be cloud based or in house. Has a front facing website that can be customised using an inline CSS editor I originally created for PennyAuctionSoft which supports editing in CSS3.    Using a Nullsoft installer solution the owner of the software sets up either an in house print server or Google Cloud Print so that tickets and reports can be automatically sent to anywhere they are needed (kitchen, bar, office etc.). The tickets are printed using either NodeJs-print or Adobe CLI (for Windows).    Handles sales tax as well as food and beverage taxes. Has support for numerous payment gateways and credit card terminals. Also handles inventory, employee scheduling, payroll and such. Supports caller id through NodeJS or under Windows with a configurable API. If using the print server option it can automatically detect your printers. Cloud Print requires a username and password for Google. Handles delivery and takeout options using a front facing website or with traditional phone ordering. MySQL / Linux Consultant Team EDA - Manchester, NH February 2015 to December 2015 in office and remote)  Skills used:  PHP, Team EDA's custom MVC framework, MySQL, Jquery, IIS, Apache, Apache Tomcat, NSIS.    This role began as a purely consulting role. Team EDA provides a Software License Management solution for government and business entities such as NASA and Honda. They had found that they were having issues with large databases so they asked me to review their database structure. Myself I considered the software to be problematic because it ran on Windows servers that were often not sufficient to the role they performed and were built upon end of life versions of system programs that were intended primarily for Linux environments.    In the course of helping them I was then asked to create a Linux version of their software that would also install the core Linux dependencies that it would need. This conversion was done for NASA and was dependent on a specific Red Hat environment. Libraries and dependencies were installed using source code and had to fit into a Linux version of their graphical installer (NSIS). Web Developer / Designer New Hampshire Speech Language and Hearing Association - Nashua, NH April 2011 to August 2015 remote)  Skills used:  PHP, CodeIgniter, Memcache, MySQL, Apache, Jquery, Javascript.    This job was per project based which began pro-bono but later became paid after helping them to monetize it.    Converted static HTML website to my proprietary CMS along with numerous enhancements and custom modules.    Later added support for selling conference tickets, online advertising and memberships using the API's from another of my  websites(pazoogle.com), utilizing X-browser, X-domain capable AJAX with proprietary methods.    Added support for edit in place functions for my CMS as per request of organization President.    This allowed the ability to add and edit their own content based upon Unix like user privileges but with human describable titles. Education Some college Certifications/Licenses Zend Certification January 2012