Product Analyst | Real Time Bidding Advertising, Analytics Product Analyst | Real Time Bidding Advertising, Analytics Maplewood, NJ Objective: Leverage the professional and technical skills I have acquired over many years of experience in the digital advertising industry to assume new role and responsibilities in Product Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Analyst | Real Time Bidding Advertising, Analytics Cox Automotive - Edison, NJ September 2013 to Present • Following the Think Realtime acquisition, I created a new product role and quality process to ensure uptime and integrity of the real time bidding advertising product. I grew this into a team that I trained and led in the new RTB digital advertising product for Dealer.com.  • Receive dozens of technical product issues daily that come from different internal stakeholders through Salesforce. With admin access to the advertising databases, I run MySQL queries as well as leverage my expertise in Dealer.com’s suite of Advertising products in order to efficiently diagnose reported issues or problematic patterns. If I am not able to resolve these, then I compile them into defects in Rally for engineering sprint work and drive consensus on issue resolution and responsibility for next steps.  • Work closely with Product Owners to schedule prioritized defects into various engineering teams’ sprint schedules as well as to establish timelines for deliverables to internal stakeholders.  • Communication of client- or business-impact of reported issues to Product Owners, particularly those that are visible to Dealer.com clients.  • Collaborate closely with Strategist and Program partners to understand our stakeholders’ needs for our internal software and tools so that I can then better advocate on their behalf with the Product Owners and the engineering teams. Production Designer & Data Analyst Think Realtime - Edison, NJ November 2012 to September 2013 • I was hired into this small, fast-paced start-up as a designer and actionscript developer. My role quickly grew to include system integrity and client service.  • Typical daily tasks included Display Optimization, Analytics, and negotiations with clients on all creative concerns.  • Upon acquisition of Think Realtime by Dealer.com, I played a central role in helping to integrate Dealer.com’s Media Design department with our RTB platform.  Creative Services | Front- End Developer & Designer Animal Care and Control of NYC - New York, NY March 2011 to November 2012 • Redesigned nycacc.org website, focusing on both usability and design best practices. This included eliminating dynamic navigation and superfluous pages and ensuring that the site meet modern browser standards (HTML5, CSS3, Javascript).  • Design graphics and produce invites, both digital and for print, for all of the organization’s marketing needs: fundraising invites and program books, posters and billboards.  • Redesign and rebranding of all marketing and educational media, for print and digital; this included adoption booklets, brochures, flyers, digital fundraising and donation appeals and social media.  • Curated online social media presence; managed Facebook, Twitter and SEO initiatives.  • Design and production of weekly adoption flyer and monthly newsletters for the public as well as the staff. Education Bachelor's in English Barnard College - New York, NY September 1996 to May 2000 Skills Excel, Waterfall, MySQL, MySQL, Salesforce, Rally, JIRA, Trello, Slack, Google Adwords, Bing Advertising, ADX, AppNexus, Google Analytics, Microsoft Office, Visual Studio, Agile, Adobe CC Suite, Sublime Text, Tableau, Waterfall