Technology Specialists Intern Technology Specialists Intern Technology Specialists Intern - Surazal Systems, Inc Raleigh, NC To obtain a full time position in networking, Business Intelligence, and Supply Chain management Work Experience Technology Specialists Intern Surazal Systems, Inc June 2019 to Present • Responded to first-level Help Desk support tickets  • Performed core troubleshooting and systems analysis on hardware/software systems to determine  hardware and software functionality specifications or errors.  • Documented end user problems, resolution, and new solutions for future reference, using Help desk tools  and resources.  • Assisted in identifying trends in persistent Hardware, software, or system problems.  • Referred user problems to ITT management, senior analysis of other support. Classroom tech/Campus-wide UNCG ITS - Greensboro, NC April 2018 to May 2019 • Provided UNCG purchasers with better hardware management through central receiving  • Imaged and enhanced data security through lifecycle management Front- end web Developer Intern Westport Bay Imports - Greensboro, NC October 2017 to January 2018 • Created quality mockups and prototypes on tight timelines  • Assisted back- end developers with coding and troubleshooting  • Created cascading style sheets (CSS) that are consistent across all browsers and platforms  • Maintained graphic standards and branding throughout the product's interface  • Stayed up-to-date on emerging technologies Customer Service Associate Food Lion - Raleigh, NC May 2014 to October 2017 Ensured implementation of operational strategies, to ensure full compliance of information systems  processes and procedures  • Provided prompt friendly customer service and responding constructively to customer's questions and concerns.  • Provided purchase assistance and ensuring all shelves are stocked optimally.  • Because of my wide product knowledge, assisting in multiple zones on the sales floor to help ensure  proper functioning of the Food Lion chain in my area.  • Ensured full and correct procedures are utilized, processes are followed, and complete documentation of all processes completed.  • Analyzed errors if any and escalate to inform on the next appropriate course of action. Education B.S. in Information Systems and Supply Chain Management The University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Greensboro, NC 2019 Skills HTML, VISUAL BASIC, CSS, USE-CASE, SAS, IMAGING, SQL, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, POWERPOINT, WORD, TRAINING Additional Information Relevant Skills:  CCENT training, Html, CSS, SAS enterprise miner, SQL, Microsoft Office; Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access,  use-case diagram, visual basic, imaging, visual basic, French