Senior Solution Engineer Senior Solution Engineer Senior Solution Engineer - Dun & Bradstreet Cedar Park, TX With nine years of web/software/application design and development under my belt, I have evolved and honed my user-centered aesthetic into an efficient interface building machine focused on delivering enriching, logically intuitive experiences that are tactile and memorable. Not afraid to write a controller or two, though. Work Experience Senior Solution Engineer Dun & Bradstreet - Austin, TX September 2016 to Present Austin, TX - https://www.dnb.com    Overview: I am the Senior Front End Engineer on our team. I lead the two other FE resources while we build custom applications for Sales teams, SLA-bound custom applications for customers  and third-party customer-facing dashboards.  ? Guiding business leaders from idea stage all the way to working application/feature  ? Defining user personas/flows/wireframes/prototypes and championing them throughout the dev lifecycle  ? Performing user research to keep a pulse on our supported user groups  ? Maintaining existing Style Guide while encouraging innovation in our FE approach on our team  and across the company  ? Data visualizations using a number of different libraries (Chart.js, Chartist, D3, etc.)  ? Delivering high quality features on time while managing stakeholder expectations as needed  ? Interviewing/vetting potential new team members (wrote our FE technical challenge we give to all FE candidates) Lead Front End Developer/UX Designer CBANC Network - Austin, TX May 2014 to September 2016 Austin, TX - www.cbancnetwork.com    Overview: During my time at CBANC, my Front End team increased member engagement across the application by 100% using a VDOM-based UI utilizing atomic JavaScript-based UI components and user-centered design principles.  ? UI/UX design/prototyping, style guide generation and enforcement  ? Art direction for Belgrade, Serbia design team and 3rd party contractors  ? MV* framework application development using Mercury.js/Handlebars.js  ? Writing server controllers to make API calls, organize results into useable view models to be  passed to views  ? Writing browser controllers to handle browser events, update models or show user feedback  based on actions  ? Writing Handlebars.js then Mercury.js/VDOM-based views driven by view models that  integrate atomic UI components  ? SASS-based styles/style guide  ? UX research (personas, user testing, user interviews, case studies), recommendations and implementation  ? Managing feature releases, updating product managers on progress/roadblocks Lead Front End Developer Clarity Ventures - Austin, TX April 2013 to April 2014 Austin, TX - www.clarity-ventures.com    Overview: As Lead Front End Developer and client-facing consultant at Clarity, I worked with more  than 30 clients to deliver sites and apps of all creed and color through requirements gathering,  expectation management, hands-on development and, finally, launch day (and support after launch)!  ? Meeting with clients on a regular basis to gather requirements, offer best path forward,  manage expectations, gather milestone consensus  ? Leading clients through mock to prototype to approved design lifecycle  ? Implementing design to specifications in one of three different frameworks: DNN, WordPress  or native development  ? Working with many different types of clients to create many different experiences, including:  ? National women's empowerment group social network  ? 3D-printing marketplace based on uploading 3D design schematics and allowing  users to download/trade/purchase  ? Texas Dental Association membership site  ? Five different Texas Real Estate development companies  ? Custom hydraulic component manufacturers product catalog/e-commerce site  ? Shree Swaminarayan Hindu Temple catalog of sacred texts and audio recordings Lead Web Developer Pervasive Software - Austin, TX April 2010 to April 2013 Austin, TX - http://www.actian.com/    Overview: As Lead Web Developer, I designed, implemented and maintained the seven marketing  sites for each vertical in the data integration software umbrella of then Pervasive. I also was lead  designer on Pervasive Galaxy, the online marketplace for data integration components and lead the Front End team in staying on the cutting edge of Front End practices.    ? Gathering requirements from stakeholders, managing expectations through dev lifecycle  ? Implementing new features/aesthetics  ? Creating user-friendly marketplace including product browse/view/create/cart/checkout  experiences utilizing jQuery and AJAX  ? Helping develop Pervasive Galaxy Form Builder  ? Allowed users to connect to the Pervasive Cloud to create custom forms based on macros associated with Cloud assets  ? Users could add up to seven different kinds of fields (e.g. textarea, text input,  password field, dropdown select, multi-select radio buttons)  ? Macros and form fields submitted via JSON data collection to API Education Bachelor of Arts in Journalism Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX 2006 Skills Api (5 years), Engineer (2 years), Interviewing (2 years), Json (3 years), user research (2 years), Javascript