Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Secaucus, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Boxzooka - Secaucus, NJ January 2015 to Present ·        Designed Client-Side Warehouse Management System architecture, Warehouse management System architecture and Transportation Management System architecture.  ·        Designed the Front- End User Interface, features, Back- End API and MySQL database table.  ·        Built the back- end API for each management.  ·        Built API connection for shipping carriers and most popular ecommerce platforms.  ·        Built payment system for international hosted checkout and point of sale system.  ·        Built Chrome APP and Extension for our web application can read data from HIB input scale.  ·        Built new algorithm to help warehouse picking order more efficiency.  ·        Document WMS external and internal API and features.  ·        Operating meeting between management and IT, collecting requirements and split requirement into small task using ZOHO. Front- End Developer/Designer Technomax - Plainsboro, NJ May 2016 to December 2016 ·        Rebuild new website for local business using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, PHP.  ·        Designed each page with other 3 teammates by using bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  ·        Created admin account for user to manage, delete and modify appointment.  ·        Created MySQL database to store username, employee, appointment detail by using PHP.   ·        Created booking page by using JavaScript it needs to disable booked time, employee which is not available.  ·        Created payment page allow user pay by credit card or Paypal and store the payment status on database.  ·        Created email notification when customer finished booking and notify customer again before appointment.  ·        Used Google map API v2 to show client location on Google map in client website. Part time Web Developer Local Chinese Community - Chicago, IL January 2015 to May 2016 ·        Maintain PHP based ACES.org website for daily news and event update.  ·        Created a new Photo Gallery.  ·        Created each time event page, and WeChat page using for phone.  ·        Created new CAAGC.org website by using Drupal.   ·        Created one event website for CAAGC Victory 70th Events. Web Developer HuaSuZhiYao - Beijing June 2013 to June 2014 ·        Maintain web page using Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Spring framework.  ·        Rebuild employee log in page, and event meeting page to sign in group meeting for each meeting room.  ·        Upload news to website and fix the old bug.  ·        Rebuild searching block by using Ajax and Java Bean to get list of product name from database and using Ajax to filter name.  Education Master's in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2014 to May 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science Ohio University-Main Campus - Athens, OH January 2010 to May 2013 Skills PHP, MySQL, Javascript, jQuery, HTML 5, Git, Python, CSS