Sr. UI, Frontend Developer Sr. UI, Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Harshil Sr. UI Developer San Jose, CA (Skills and Experience):    • Serving in IT industry since 2009 and taking leveraging of JavaScript to build the responsive and complex enterprise web application for various organization. Specialize in JavaScript and managing the work.  • Executed and contributed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser compatibility.  • Developed User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, SASS/SCSS, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, jQuery, Node JS, Express JS, Boot-strap, Mongo DB, NPM, GIT, MVC, JSON and XML.    • Strong experience in creating Responsive Web Design and Single page Web App Development.  • Experience in building MEAN applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular-JS, Node-JS, creating Web services components of Restful Web services to interact with UI Interfaces using REST API with Node-JS, Express-JS and installing client-side dependencies using Bower.    • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage or install the Node-JS modules Express.js, mongoose, mongo.js, body-parser and socket.io.  • Experience in implementing Mongo DB CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) operations by using Mongoose library in Node-JS including Angular.  • Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in JavaScript.  • Involved in developing HTML and AngularJS for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Had Experience in Dealing with High Traffic Websites and Cross Browser Issues handling.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, MongoDB (No Sql).    • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Implemented Agile process with Scrum in projects and has been involved in all the phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) such as requirement gathering, design and architecture, development, testing, deployment, support.    • Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups.  • Versatile team player and a quick learner with strong written, oral and inter-personal communication skills.  • Well aware with Agile development and agile ceremonies.  • Quick learner, quality and through mindset, attention to details and focused personality. Work Experience Sr. UI, Frontend Developer Adobe Inc - San Jose, CA February 2019 to Present Project: Adobe is a world leader in animation and creative product development. I am working with the analytics and marketing campaign web application dashboard. This web application is designed to help with marketing people to design the campaign based on 300+ million records.    Roles and responsibilities:    • Working on Angular7 and material design to design the interactive web application.  • Designing the dynamic and reusable components across the web application.  • Design the Angular service to interact with the dynamic components.  • Implementing the Angular pipe for formation of the various strings/text in the application.  • Implementing front- end using Angular7 and middleware using NodeJS, MongoDB, Elastic Search.  • Using bootstrap, SCSS and CSS3 for design standard.  • Implementing the elastic search queries to get the various request record from front end.  • Implementing the MongoDB queries for various operation like storing campaign data, user's data and filters data, etc.  • Designing the NodeAPI to communicate with Front- end and Back- end.  • Implementing Winston logger to log the web application transaction.  • Integrating the application log with Splunk.  • Implementing the Splunk graphs and reports to analyze the application from business point of view.  • Maintain the CI/CD using Jenkins.  • Worked on Okta single sign on integration with NodeJS and session and mongo DB.  • Maintain and host the application one Linux/apache server.  • Working with Atlassian products (JIRA, Bitbucket, Confluence) for the project management.  • Working with Git to maintain the different version of the code bases.    Technology Stack: JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 7, Angular Material Design, CSS/CSS3, HTML/HTML5, SASS/SCSS, RWD, Jenkins, Bootstrap, JSON, Mocha/Chai, Bower, Grunt/Gulp, Adobe GIT, Jenkins, Winston Logger, Splunk, Elastic Search, Okta, etc. Sr. UI Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA February 2015 to February 2019 Pleasanton - CA, Feb 2015 - Feb 2019)    Project: Kaiser is a health care giant in the healthcare and insurance domain in California and certain other regions. Kp.org is an enterprise application which is divided into certain modules between several teams. Our team was working on FDL (Find doctor and locations), why-kp and care related products.    Roles and responsibilities:    • Working with cross team and kp.org leadership to design and measure the feasibility of product.  • Converting legacy web application into the responsive web application.  • Maintain the unit test cases to reduce the minimum risk of finding defect after deployment.  • Working on KP.org secure and non-secure feature to provide the user very rich and enhanced experience of the web application.  • Designing and programming standard-based websites for large scale businesses using HTML5, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, AngularJS, Node.js.  • Using Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives and updated pages using HTML5, CSS3 in AngularJS framework.  • Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Created and consume RESTful APIs with JavaScript framework Express.js, Node.js  • Developing AngularJS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes.    • Developing AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Extensively used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript to build the required functionality for data handling for accounting admin and compliance.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Also worked with ADA compliance (Accessibility standard) implementation on enterprise application.  • Working on developing common modules that can reusable by other components.  • Coordinating with AEM team to produce the webpages that leverage the content from AEM.  • Creating service using Node BFF.  • Working with Atlassian (JIRA, Bitbucket, Slack, confluence) product for various purposes.    Technology Stack: JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 2/4, CSS/CSS3, HTML/HTML5, SASS/SCSS, RWD, Jenkins, Bootstrap, JSON, Mocha/Chai, Bower, Grunt/Gulp, Adobe CQ(AEM), GIT, Jenkins, SonarCube, etc. Sr. UI Developer ZS Associates - Evanston, IL May 2013 to December 2013 Project: ZS Associated is another leader in company's salesforce assignments and maintenance. Our team was working on ZS alignment manager module. The purpose of the alignment manager is to manage the sales people's assignment of the pharma companies remotely. Also alignment manager was one stop solution for salesforce people to manage the account of respective doctors.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Worked on the complex web application which manage the salesforce of the medical representatives and hospital doctors.  • Responsible for client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and Angular JS.    • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed common CSS classes for the user interface using CSS and CSS3.  • Used to update interface based on changing needs and requirements  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend Java, AJAX and JSON.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Responsible for client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  • Built web application on the server side using Node JS with Express framework  • Implemented common module to render the API calls response ahead of page render.  • Worked on tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web Pack and developed CLI applications.  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and added new functionality  • Created unique off-site content through blogs and press releases.  • Developed the report management tool for logging the errors, exceptions and defects.  • Designed and developed the GUI for Alignment manager's (salesforce alignment tool) various modules.  • Worked on HTML templates that improved the exiting design.  • Worked in Agile Methodology and used GIT/JIRA for issue tracking and configuration management.  • Worked on debugging the developed code for browser compatible and application using Firebug to traverse the document.    Technology Stack: JavaScript, AngularJS, GIT, SVN, AngularJS, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, XML, SEO, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, Jasmine, Karma, GITHUB, Splunk, Dynatrace, etc. Sr. UI Developer Allscripts - Raleigh, NC February 2012 to April 2013 Project: Our team was working on patient portal implementation. This module was designed for end user of the healthcare domain who are using the Allscripts product. This interface was one stop access for user for various purpose like schedule an appointment with doctor, see the lab results, etc.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Reviewing client server and check the feasibility of application deployment.  • Primary role was to improve GUI, solve the navigational issues and provide support to the senior web developers.  • Automating security testing as part of continuous improvement in product development and release life cycle.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Developed clickable prototypes in HTML, DHTML, Photoshop, CSS and JavaScript.  • Modified the existing website by adding suitable naming conventions and coding standards.  • Responsible for code optimization and test the website across different browsers.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Configured GRUNT for building client-side code (CSS, JS, HTML Minifier).  • Implemented stable Node components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Application level code of writing to interact with the APIs, AJAX, and jQuery and running the standalone in Grunt server.  • Maintaining the documentation, code assistant in application design.  • Performed unit testing using Karma to increase the performance of the application.  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  • Used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  • Developed client side drop down menus, search bars, carousel, and drop-down toggles using Twitter-Bootstrap and jQuery.    Technology Stack: JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, SASS/SCSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, TDD (Test-driven Development), SPA (Single Page Application), Bower, NPM, Git, REST, Jasmine, Jenkins, JIRA, Agile/Scrum, Media Queries. UI Developer JZERO Solutions - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2010 to February 2012 Project: Our team was associated with the e-Learning management solution product. This product was widely used by well-known European clients like Merck, Univadis, Orange, etc. This product was very helpful to the organization for their employee training purpose.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Design and implemented the solution application using jQuery, JavaScript, .net and SQL if required.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box model and HTML 5.  • Extensively used Debugging Cascading Style Sheets CSS to change the styles now and in the future.  • Created Angular components like controllers, services, directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented form validation in Angular JS.  • Extensively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle such as Requirements Analysis, Design and Implementation and Maintenance.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular.  • Customize reusable, and testable Angular Services to manipulate data from Web API through HTTP Client.  • Responsible for implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, AngularJS for all client-side UI Validation.  • Follow up with the development team on the improvements, integration and further enhancements in the website.  • Involved in Agile methodology, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Implemented Angular Client-Side Validation using Template-driven and Web API server-side validation using Data Annotation.  • Implemented Unit Test by using Jasmine and Karma throughout application development phase.  • As an instance deployment manager, my responsibility is to manage deployments for various clients. It also includes configuration management of these instances.  • Created and deployed fresh instances and tags as per the client need.    Technology Stack: Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, DOM, JSON, jQuery Front End Developer Pollence IT Services - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2009 to July 2010 Project: We were working on the e-Commerce application for client. This application was serving to the Canadian clients in food industry and automotive industry.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Worked on the requirement gathering, analysis and working with the front- end team.    • Used HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery and JavaScript for designing the DOM elements and adding validations on rendering the forms.    • Used Bootstrap to design responsive webpages.  • Involved in web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Various JavaScript libraries.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, jQuery and HTML.  • Used to update User Interface based on changing needs and requirements.  • Developed page layouts, navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed Frontend for Administration Portal with in object oriented JavaScript.  • Created Images, Logos & Icons used across web pages using Adobe Flash & Photoshop.    • Worked one-on- one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final.  • Interface design with the HTML/CSS &JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.    Technology Stack: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX. Sr. UI, Frontend Developer Education Master's Additional Information Skills:    • JavaScript: JS, jQuery, React JS, Node JS, ECMAScript6, Grunt/Gulp, Mocha/Chai, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, Node JS, Express JS, JSON, AJAX, REST and SOAP.  • Styles: CSS3, SCSS/SASS, Bootstrap, Angular Material Design.  • Build Tools: Grunt/Gulp, Bower, Webpack.  • Common Tools: Bitbucket, JIRA, Rally, Jenkins, Confluence, Splunk, Dynatrace, QC, Adobe CQ/AEM, Postman, LISA Detest, Adobe Analytics, SonarCube, Winston logger.  • Best Practices: Agile, Scrum.    • Development Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, IntelIJ, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator CS5.  • Database: MongoDB, SQL, MySQL, Elastic Search.    Portfolio:    • www.kp.org (Home Page, why-kp, shop-plans, new-member, care-pages)  • Personal Stock dashboard (Under Construction)    (Note: I will not be able to give the reference of the secure feature which I worked on as per company policy.)