Digital Marketing Director Digital Marketing Director Digital Marketing Specialist West Jordan, UT Hi, I'm Parker. I have an extensive background in digital marketing, media design, SEO, display advertising, photography, videography, and social media management.   PORTFOLIO: https://www.behance.net/parkerkrynen/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Marketing Director Viiva Global - Lehi, UT November 2018 to Present Viiva is a direct marketing company that is acquiring assorted multi-million dollar companies to launch Viiva healthcare products on an e-commerce platform domestically and internationally with a focus on the Chinese market. I manage a team of designers and copywriters to promote brand awareness, drive online sales through e-commerce and Amazon Marketplace, analyze Google analytics performance, create digital advertising, improve our search engine placement and foster new brand partners through social, mobile and display advertising. Since I started:  • Facebook engagement is up 6,000%  • Metrics indicate that video views and post interaction across all social platforms has risen 230%  • SEO placement is now top tier with 8000+ relevant keywords  • Overall brand awareness is up 700%  • Website bounce rate has decreased by 296%, conversion to purchase has risen 76% Digital Marketing Director Century 21 Everest - Cottonwood Heights, UT February 2016 to July 2018 Manage branding and design for the top producing CENTURY 21 affiliate in the world. Utah and California corporate. Integrate fresh global rebrand into all aspects of advertising and marketing. Manage four graphic designers, a social media specialist, and two content writers.   -Design promotional materials for agents. Yard signs, business cards, listing presentations etc.   -Film and edit professional quality video testimonials  -Produce high-level photographs of agents, staff, and homes.   -Manage content for social media advertising  -Generate powerpoints and motion graphics for presentations  -Maintain and promote brand equity.   Social media engagement is up by 31%. Recruiting of new agents has increased by 13%. Social content has been automated to optimal efficiency. Google placement has jumped up three placements on Google for Utah Real Estate searches. Senior Graphic Designer, Digital Marketing Manager Mansell Real Estate - Midvale, UT March 2017 to December 2017 Work with agents and Mansell Real Estate HQ to produce print and digital media that assists realtors in finding and retaining clients. Mailers and Email drip campaigns, business cards and promotional materials. Manage brand identity and assets. Update antiquated brand feel with fresh graphic design and content. Shoot studio quality head shots of agents for use on business cards and promotional materials.  I became the marketing assistant as well and was able to guide the marketing team to better engage homebuyers and sellers by age demographics e.g. marketing digitally to first time buyers and traditionally through bulk mailers and print to second or third generation homeowners. Graphic Designer, Social Media Manager Mountainland Technical College - Lehi, UT March 2014 to March 2017 Design graphics and print media for the college. Advertise on social media and digital platforms. Film and edit video. Photography and editing. Maintain brand identity for the college, promote school spirit and encourage enrollment of future students. Manage team of four to produce social media content and optimize search engine recognition.  -Instagram followers increased tenfold  -Enrollment went up by 18%  -Proposal for new logo and brand identity to board of directors. Several months of student polls, board presentations and logo/brand design to implement redesign of outdated logo.   -Name change and rebranding was facilitated from MATC to MTECH under board approval. New logo and brand identity created and implemented. Senior Graphic Designer and Social Media Manager Cheryl Lee MD - Alpine, UT February 2014 to June 2015 Design professional print and digital media to garner sales and create new customers for a sensitive skin care line. Create attractive and appealing product advertisement and intrigue new and old customers alike with stellar social media engagement, video testimonials and product giveaways. Tasks include  -High Level Product Photography  -Filming and Editing Intriguing, Professional Looking Testimonials  -Designing Eye Catching Advertising for Website Banners, Emails, and Catalogs.  -Landing Page Design for Website to increase engagement and conversion  -Logo and Seal Design refresh and management  -Social Media Engagement, Creating and Scheduling Posts  -Work closely with Marketing Director and Web Developer on a daily basis    Sales have consistently been increasing month to month since February of this year. Social media engagement has almost doubled. Studio Art Teacher The Music Studio - West Jordan, UT January 2013 to January 2014 Taught studio art classes to all ages ranging from 8 years old to adult. Individualized art classes in a small classroom environment where the curriculum was fully created by myself. Graphic Design Manager and Front End Developer Pilmer Public Relations - Orem, UT August 2011 to January 2012 Managed a small team of graphic design interns from UVU to create a mobile application that would deliver information and stats about ten specific athletes to a downloader's mobile device. I was in charge of front- end development and branding. Was discovered for this position by the public relations company that had promoted my scholarship. Education Master's in Digital Audiences Strategy Arizona State University-Tempe - Tempe, AZ August 2016 to February 2018 Certificate in Digital Marketing Cornell University - Ithaca, NY September 2016 to January 2017 Bachelor of Science in Art and Design Utah Valley University - Orem, UT January 2011 to February 2016 Certificate of Completion in Graphic Design Utah Valley University August 2015 to 2016 Certificate in Emergency Services/ Fire Science Provo Fire and Rescue Academy - Provo, UT August 2012 to August 2013 High School Diploma East Hollywood High School August 2005 to May 2008 Skills Fluency in Portuguese (5 years), Adobe Creative Suite (8 years), Videography and photography (10+ years), Social Media Management (4 years), Motion Graphics (2 years), Multimedia, Photography, Hootsuite, Social Media, SEO (4 years), Digital Marketing (8 years), Marketing (8 years), Indesign, Google Analytics (4 years), Hubspot (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Illustrator, Advertising, search engine optimization, Wordpress, Social Media Marketing, Google Adwords, Photoshop, Customer Service, Graphic Design, Sales Links https://www.behance.net/pkrynen5903 Awards Winner City Weekly's People's Choice Award, Utah Art Festival 2014-07 I designed a newsbox that would charge with solar panels during the day and then illuminate itself at night with blacklight and UV reactive paint. Fully autonomous. Was placed in Park City where it still remains. Brent Brown, "Design your IQ" Scholarship recipient I created a skin wrap design for a Scion IQ (smart car) in conjunction with UVU and Brent Brown Toyota. I received a $1,000 book scholarship upon winning. Provo City Library card design finalist 2016-02 I created a top three design for Provo City Library's card redesign as voted by the public through a city poll. Official Selection, Woodbury Art Museum 2015-08 One of my art pieces was accepted into the Woodbury Art Museum's gallery as part of their exhibit raising awareness to autism. Idaho Film Festival official selection, "Glass Canvas". 2009-02 A short film I worked on that was accepted into the Idaho Film Festival. The film was titled Glass Canvas. A film about a blind painter. Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED January 2016 to Present EMT-B April 2014 to April 2020 Hubspot Inbound Marketing Certification November 2018 to Present Certified in Hubspot system for email automation, drip campaigns and ways to leverage inbound marketing to drive customers down the funnel. Google Adwords October 2015 to Present Certified in Google on their ads program that displays ads on Google search and sidebar as well as Google affiliate sites. Groups SLCA Honor Society Present Publications City Weekly Article https://www.cityweekly.net/utah/parker-krynen/Content?oid=2467898 2014-07 Article highlighting my Newspaper box I had designed for City Weekly. An overall 4 annual boxes over a four year period. Additional Information Skills/Miscellaneous  -Two Year L.D.S. Mission in West Africa (Fluent in Portuguese)  -Proficient Computer skills including full Adobe suite software  -Experience with and ownership of professional DSLR cameras and equipment.   -Extensive experience with videography and editing practices.  -YouTube Partner  -Reliable Transportation  -Strong home computer with cutting-edge software  -Life Scout     Thank you for your interest. Please feel free to call or email with any questions.