Graphic Designer Graphic Designer Graphic Designer San Diego, CA My name is Jonathan Mantell-Johnson, and I have worked as a professional graphic designer for over seven years. I love graphic design as an opportunity I get to find new and innovative approaches for visual communication. My ambition as a designer is to use the creative skills I have developed to aid with the dissemination of fantastic ideas. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Designer The Argen Corporation - San Diego, CA May 2016 to Present As part of the marketing team at Argen, I am responsible for the design of print advertisements, brochures, banners, and booklets. I was also responsible for email marketing campaigns as well as developing a unified brand and aesthetics that would be carried out over a broad array of products. I was also responsible for the product photography and shooting and editing videos for lectures and demonstrations. Front- End Developer Gara Group, Inc - San Diego, CA February 2016 to October 2016 I worked as an independent contractor for Gara Group, helping them develop responsive websites and applications for a wide variety of clients. Development took many forms, some being Wordpress-based while others were developed using frameworks such as Bootstrap and Laravel. Graphic Designer OncoSec Medical - San Diego, CA September 2014 to April 2016 At Nosecone Medical, I worked under the Corporate Communications team with products for investor outreach. These included presentations, booklets, and invitations. At my time at Nosecone, we redesigned the entire website with responsive design and interactive jQuery elements. I also assisted the product development team in designing new medical devices, as well as the interior design firm with creative direction of their new building and facilities. Graphic Designer PlatformQ LLC - Needham, MA January 2011 to August 2014 My responsibilities included designing fliers, tradeshow materials, and other print collateral for the B2C and B2B marketing teams. Developing emails campaigns and web pages were also part of my responsibilities, as well as assisting the production department on assets for live-streaming presentations. Education BFA in Graphic Design in Graphic Design James Madison University August 2006 to December 2010 Skills Adobe After Effects (1 year), Adobe Illustrator (7 years), Adobe InDesign (7 years), Adobe Photoshop (7 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Graphic Design (7 years), Typography (7 years), Adobe Premier Pro (2 years), Web Design (7 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), Photography (5 years), Dreamweaver (6 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), Javascript (6 years), Video Editing (2 years), InVision (3 years), Acrobat, Adobe, Indesign, Photoshop, Printing, Print Production Links http://jmantelljohnson.com