Front- End Web Developer Intern <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Lebanon, OR Recent college graduate with experience designing, developing, and maintaining websites and web applications. Passionate about both web development and web design and actively learning new skills and improving current skill set. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Intern Jarvis Arms - Rexburg, ID January 2019 to April 2019 • Worked independently designing, building, and maintaining e-commerce website for Jarvis Arms using WordPress. Used WordPress to put the website together, but was given the liberty of editing templates that best fit with the design choice. That included, but was not limited to, colors, typography, and user experience. Main purpose of the e-commerce website is to sell proprietary products manufactured by Jarvis Arms, but the website also includes blog posts to keep customers and future customers updated on upcoming products.  • Worked closely with the owner of Jarvis Arms. Communicated regularly to make sure both parties were on the same page, as well as share input on what worked and what didn't. Alarm Operator Team Member AvantGuard Monitoring Centers - Rexburg, ID April 2018 to November 2018 • Learned and used proprietary software on a daily basis to document what actions were taken with caller. Also provided a method of accountability.   • Answered incoming calls from subscribers regarding their fire, burglar, and/or medical alarm device(s). Helped and answered any inquiries they had regarding their device(s).  Web Developer (Senior Project) Brigham Young University-Idaho - Rexburg, ID April 2018 to July 2018 • Worked in Agile setting on development of coupon automation system for school’s Auxiliary Services in C# with .NET Framework, Material Design, and Angular.  • Designed and developed front- end using Angular with Material Design and JavaScript and improved user experience by including front- end validation.  • Worked on a 3-person team using Visual Studio Team Services (now Azure DevOps Services) to plan, organize, and push code to Git repository. Shipping Team Member Lowe's Distrbution Center - Lebanon, OR April 2015 to April 2017 • Loaded trailers with conveyable and non-conveyable product either by hand or with motorized equipment, from floor to ceiling.   • Quickly learned and effectively operated heavy motorized equipment to be able to perform more work assignments.  Early Morning Custodian Brigham Young University-Idaho - Rexburg, ID November 2014 to April 2015 Shipping Team Member Lowe's Distrbution Center - Lebanon, OR December 2013 to August 2014 Production Associate Underwater Audio - Corvallis, OR September 2013 to December 2013 Web Administrator Country Mile Media, Inc. - Jefferson, OR May 2011 to January 2013 • Maintained two newspaper websites using Joomla. Updated content on a weekly basis, uploading new articles, including photographs associated with said articles.  • Modified image size and resolution of photos to look and fit properly on website using Adobe Photoshop. Full Time Missionary The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints - Arcadia, CA April 2009 to April 2011 Education Bachelor's in Web Design and Development Brigham Young University - Rexburg, ID January 2013 to April 2019 Skills Asp.Net, Git, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS, ASP, UI, Front End, Front-End, Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5, Photoshop (3 years), Premiere (1 year), Illustrator (1 year), Indesign (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/trevor-albrethsen-b3439365 http://www.github.com/Albrethsen-Trevor https://albrethsen-trevor.github.io Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jznpy8zonq1ts9io Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Bilingual: English and Spanish