Senior Programmer Senior Programmer Las Vegas, NV Accomplished developer with a passion for Javascript, hybrid mobile applications, and good interface design. Has extensive experience working on both the front end and back end, collaborating with nontechnical clients, and shipping work that exceeds expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Programmer University of Nevada, Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV July 2017 to Present * I design and develop educational web applications for use in university-level courses with standards compliant HTML, CSS, and Javascript on the client side and various languages, frameworks, and databases on the server side.    * I consult with UNLV faculty of varying technical backgrounds to determine needs and explain workflow and deliverables.    * I am leading the effort to grow a library of reusable Angular 2 web components in order to reduce development time for our programming team.    * I initiated the open sourcing of some of our department's code in order increase the our brand recognition and collaboration with other educational institutions. Freelance Web Developer Las Vegas, NV July 2011 to Present * As a self-employed freelancer, I provide custom development and design services for clients. This includes websites, applications, and system administration. Instructional Applications Programmer University of Nevada, Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV February 2014 to July 2017 * I design and develop educational web applications for use in university-level courses with standards compliant HTML, CSS, and Javascript on the client side and various languages, frameworks, and databases on the server side.    * I consult with UNLV faculty of varying technical backgrounds to determine needs and explain workflow and deliverables.    * I a started a public library of reusable Angular 2 web components in order to reduce development time for our programming team.    * I initiated the open sourcing of some of our department's code in order increase the our brand recognition and collaboration with other educational institutions.    * I helped plan a complete redesign of Online Education’s website and implemented that design in Drupal CMS.    * As the head of the Website Committee, I provided maintenance for the website, updated website content, lead team meetings, and coordinated staff to implement changes and/or new features. Web Designer / Front End Developer University of Nevada, Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV April 2012 to February 2014 * I was responsible for designing and developing the front end of the University Libraries' web sites.    * I routinely coded in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript/jQuery and created and edited graphics in Photoshop and Illustrator.    * I worked within the Drupal and CONTENTdm content management systems.    * As a spokesman for the technical side of our web projects, I frequently collaborated with non-technical team members and took part in usability exercises to help build consensus within the organization. Education BS in Business Administration University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA 2004 to 2006 Skills CSS3, HTML5, Javascript, Node.js, Angular, jQuery, NoSQL, Ionic, Cordova, UI/UX Design, Photoshop, Express, PostgreSQL, RethinkDB, Angular, Nginx, Linux, TypeScript, Vagrant, Git, Ansible, Hybrid Mobile Apps, SASS, HTML, CSS, Creative Suite, Web Accessibility, PostgreSQL, Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services Links http://murph.io https://github.com/gentlemanjohn https://play.google.com/store/apps/dev?id=7154738801383248619 https://github.com/UNLV-Online-Education