Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Fedex Memphis, TN I am a Software Engineer with 6 years of professional IT experience. I'm fluent in many different mock-up languages, programming languages, and frameworks. I have maintained and modified multiple web services using Spring, .Net MVC with Razor syntax, and Node. Currently i'm looking for a new engineering position or mentoring remote or on site in the area of Memphis, TN. I work well in a team setting or solo and I am open to mentoring others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN March 2018 to Present Trouble shooting Enterprise issues, developing tools for FedEx IT Command Center, Mentoring, teaching, and leading a team of upcoming engineers. System administration for several servers, and using Splunk to trouble shoot and provide reporting for FedEx. Maintaining and upgrading BirdsEye FedEx's IOS and Android application. Utilizing Splunk API and CIL to create automating scripts to build, upgrade, and deploy Splunk to create a new GCP instance. Implement scripts for a automated rolling upgrade for my team. ServiceNow admin and developer using JavaScript 1.4 and Angular. Building desktop application for ITCC utilizing WPF and .NET, to perform multiple maintenance on internal Splunk environment. Front End Web Development Mentor Thinkful October 2016 to August 2018 • Help guide students to learning front in development including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, React.js, and more. Full Stack Mentor Thinkful April 2016 to August 2018 • Responsibilities include: Teaching basic javascript, node, and react to Thinkful students  • Performing code reviews, helping program complex solutions. Assist in programming capstones with students.  • https://www.thinkful.com/mentors/aaron-sams/ Associate Systems Engineer AutoZone March 2016 to March 2017 • Responsibilities include: Bug fixes in Java, Perl, PostgressSQL, and Liferay CMS.  • Altering and modification to DocuSign internal web service using Java, Spring Framework.  • Maintained and modified enterprise web service using .NET core.  • Altering Admin privileges, creating cron jobs for automation to clean up the internal portal, deploying production ready releases to our servers, and maintaining the integrity of our servers.  • Creating release management tickets and test plans, along with manual testing and automation testing before releases.  • Provided customer support and was client facing.  • SA for over 21 servers for internal portal.  • Modifying and maintaining multiple sites for my team.  • On-call SME over the internal portal. Consultant FedEx September 2015 to March 2016 Software Engineer/Test Lead  • Created automation tools to be used by Syntel employees, created automation scripts for Syntel  employees, and created and maintained Excel documents for the CSP certification process, using SOAP  UI to verify test cases.  • Created Test Plans for offshore team.  • Used Selenium for automation testing along with Selenium IDE for manual testing.  • Created Multiple asp.net web applications for testing purposes Intern - Remote InDevelopment May 2013 to 2016 • Working remotely with a team of interns to develop websites.  • Experiment with several frameworks like Ext.js, Sencha.js, Fast.js, and Cake PHP.  • Attend Scrum meetings weekly.  • Developing enriched and interactive UI to deliver a rich experience.    Designing icons, etc. for websites. Production Associate Lokion Interactive December 2013 to August 2015 Project: Hilton Digital Floorplans    • Created Digital floor-plans for Hilton Honors app using digital image manipulation software (All).  • Created initial floor-plan drafts from client source documents using digital image manipulation software  (Info-Gatherers).  • Reviewed digital production files against a specification and communicated errors to designers (QA  Team).  • Reviewed initial floor-plan drafts against a specification and communicated errors to map partners  (Validators).  • Interfaced with client representatives and supervisors to resolve data collection errors (Room number  mismatch). Education BS in Computer Science The University of Memphis 2014 Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), TESTING (5 years), JAVA (6 years), ADOBE ILLUSTRATOR (4 years), React.js (3 years), node.js (5 years), Linux, C#, Python, Embedded Software, CSS, Android, Git, Jquery, MYSQL, HTML 5, ASP, Google Cloud Platform, .NET core (2 years), Splunk (2 years), ServiceNow (1 year), Swift IOS (2 years), Android (2 years), Pearl (2 years) Awards Bravo Zulu 2019-06 FedEx award for going above and beyond job expectations. I recieved this award for creating a script to build out a Splunk cluster for the ITCC on GCP platform Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, Postgress, Java, Spring, Grails, .NET  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Ember.js, Angular.js 2, React, Liferay, Node.js  Tools: Adobe Illustrator (creative design), Axure (wireframe)    Testing: Selenium IDEA, Selenium, Selenium Grid  Currently Learning: WPF  Operating Systems: Proficient in Windows, Mac, and Linux