Angular Developer Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular Developer - RBFCU San Antonio, TX • Around 7 years of experience in developing the front end/software web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 4/5/6, jQuery, AJAX, JSON  • Skilled IT Professional with proven success in maintaining multiple e-projects & experience in implementing high performance user interfaces and web applications  • Specialized in development and implementation of Application, mobile and Web based Technology Solutions  • Experiences with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile methodologies  • Solid understanding of Responsive Web Design  • Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular 4  • Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Controllers and Web API's, using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Experience on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components  • Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code  • Extensive experience in developing Node JS applications using MVC frameworks  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version controls like SVN and GIT  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) and MVVM frameworks for developing web applications  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team  • Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing  • Demonstrated ability to complete high- end projects in deadline-oriented environments  • Firm understanding of agile, scrum. Test driven and waterfall development methodologies  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, strong in object-oriented analysis and design, excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development  • A result-oriented professional with good communication, leadership, team management, analytical and co-ordination skills  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess excellent communication skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular Developer RBFCU - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing user interfaces pages using Angular 4/5/6 along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NodeJS, Typescript, Bootstrap and RxJS library  • Experience in developing the angular application from Scratch  • Created several Angular 6 components with Typescript using component decorator (@Component) and arranged them in cohesive blocks to work together and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 6  • Understanding the customer preferences through the client's feedback and deliver fidelity clickable prototypes, for new user interfaces and interactions using technologies like HTML5, SASS, Angular, Typescript and Angular Material components  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @Angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @Angular/common [Common core things including form validation], @Angular/router [Routing for entire application]  • Involved in integrating Angular application with UI component library like Angular Material  • Utilized the Responsive Web Design Library Bootstrap 4 to display the same site properly in browsers, tablets and phones  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time  • Implemented web services for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP  • Utilized core Angular 6 features such as HTTP, Data Binding, Forms, Services and Dependency Injection  • Used Angular 6 custom Directives for reusable DOM manipulation and Services to implement Dependency Injection. Also Used Angular 6 build-in template expression to perform two-way data binding  • To provide a better styling and maintainability used SASS features like mixins, variables, nesting, Extend/Inheritance, functions  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment  • Experienced in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular 4. And Used Angular forms to validate fields and created custom validator directives  • Created custom directives for re-usable components and transferred data between parent and child Component by using @Input and @Output  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Controllers and Web API's, using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Tested frontend code in multiple browsers and devices to ensure cross-browser compatibility  • Unit testing for all the UI logics being developed using Jasmine and Karma  • Used GIT for version control and JIRA for defect tracking  • Followed Agile Methodology & Iterative Development throughout the project and participated in daily scrum and Sprint meetings  • Effectively involved in coordinating with Business Analyst for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 4/5/6, RxJS, NodeJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Git/Bit bucket, Jasmine/karma, NPM, Jira and Webpack UI Developer /Angular Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO March 2018 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on web applications from scratch using angular 2/4 to develop single page application.  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools, configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Execution of legacy ruby automation test cases in the CI/CD pipeline  • Build the infrastructure and continuously improved the build infrastructure for DevOps engineering, there by implementing scalable infrastructure.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Webpack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Troubleshooting any operational issues in the CI/CD pipeline  • Performed CRUD operations in the MongoDB/database.  • Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for various environments and worked on Kubernetes environment.  • Managed Docker orchestration and Docker containerization using Kubernetes.  • Used Kubernetes to orchestrate then deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine, Kubernetes, Docker. UI Developer /Angular Developer Fidelity - Durham, NC February 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Supported production and performed troubleshooting to resolve bugs.  • Engaged in Agile methodologies of Scrum for software development.  • Work in a collaborative effort to evaluate, edit, enhance, format, or delete current static pages associated with the agency external web site.  • Trained other programmer of Application Architecture and work flow.  • Proficient in working with Angular to create Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular1.5 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management  • Angular routing for html page to add the template.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.  • Code Reviews for every Screen and new functionality.  • Used Angular to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Experience with source control tools like GitHub and JIRA.  • Used Angular framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with Java Web services.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked closely with tester for Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular, Github, Maven, Git, MVC, Mongo, Agile methodology and Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, Nodejs, LESS CSS, IntelliJ IDE, Sublime Text, Windows. Front- end Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis, Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework  • Fluent in creating dynamic web pages using JavaScript, HTML & CSS, as well as charting libraries like Highcharts  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web design, UI using HTML5 Grid Layouts, CSS3 Media queries where it's an expression and can be used to either True or false  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON resources  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS and LESS)  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting  • Worked closely with other senior developers, Business Analysts, product managers, UX designer, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations following MVC architecture  • Ensure that builds are properly deployed in Development and Production Environment using Jenkins  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML and JSON to update UI. Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Used GIT for version control along with Source tree, JIRA for defect tracking  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  • Developed the tracks and reports website traffic using Google Analytics  • Actively participated in daily standups to discuss the progress of the application also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Implemented the local front- end test environment on Centos-7  • Rapidly prototyped interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically-rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database. Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers  • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, DOM, bootstrap, MVC, Eclipse, Cornerstone, SourceTree, Windows. UI Developer Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  • Coded extensively in jQuery to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality  • Prepared sequential diagrams for individual flow  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons  • Drove multiple component design sessions parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Eclipse. Education Master's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, TYPESCRIPT Links http://@injectable http://@injectable http://@injectable Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, XML, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, AJAX  Framework: Angular 4/5/6, jQuery, Node.js  IDE & Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans IDE, WebStorm, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Cornerstone  Version Control SVN, GIT, Source Tree and Bit Bucket  Languages: JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery  Operating Systems: Windows