Grain Inspector Grain Inspector Braidwood, IL Federally licensed quality control specialist who has grown accustomed to long hours on site or in a laboratory setting. I have acquired experience in management. I have also had experience operating some machinery such as utility tractors, forklifts, spotter trucks, pipe threaders, and an assortment of different commercial scales. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Grain Inspector Kankakee Grain Inspection - Essex, IL February 2017 to Present Work for a private business under the USDA umbrella to act as quality control for exported grain.  • Apply federal grades to exported lots of grain  • Follow strict government regulations in regards to the sampling, handling, and grading of grain and other commodities.   • Perform on-site maintenance on grain sampling equipment i.e. diverters, splitters, pelicans, etc.   • Experience in a laboratory setting; extracting and testing for mycotoxins and carcinogens in grain and commodities (use of pipettes, centrifuges, solutions, strips)  • Extensive use of PPE and safety equipment when working around warehouses, rail yards, commercial container lots, and food grade industrial settings Assistant Store Manager/Business Account Specialist Whitmore Ace Hardware - Braidwood, IL October 2014 to February 2017 Performed the duties of Assistant Manager in a small retail setting. Also worked closely with the owners of the Whitmore chain to better serve our local businesses by creating a new position called the Business Account Specialist.  • Acted as assistant manager for over two years  • Was involved in the hiring and firing process  • Responsible for scheduling and delegation of work  • Created the Business Account Specialist to work with our local business owners to better serve their needs while also fulfilling my responsibilities as Assistant Manager  • Created purchase orders and invoices  • Extensive forklift experience  • Use of a stationary pipe threader and the operation of liquid propane pumps and scales Front End Developer/International Shipping Coordinator Budget Golf - Joliet, IL June 2012 to October 2014 As a front end developer I built product listings on an e-commerce website for golf equipment and apparel.  • Using an HTML editor I uploaded product descriptions and images  • Made adjustments to HTML code to properly format text to fit on both web and mobile versions of the site  • Lead a small team to build Sku’s and integrate them into both our own software systems and website  • Experience with photoshop to produce quality product images     Spent my first year as a customer service agent whose purpose was to help our international customers and the needs that are met with shipping commercial products across international borders.  • Worked closely with customs agencies to formulate taxes and gratuities due upon delivery of product and relay that information to customers Education High school or equivalent in General Studies Reed Custer Hight School - Braidwood, IL August 2005 to May 2009 High school or equivalent Skills Customer Service, Management, Sales, Time Management, fast learner, Data Entry, Microsoft Office, Word, Outlook, Excel, Carpentry, Website Development, Customer Service, Product Development Certifications/Licenses Grain Inspector July 2017 to Present Driver's License