Front End WEB UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> WEB UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End WEB UI Developer - Jp Morgan Dallas, TX Highly skilled software professional bringing in 7+ years in UI Front end software design, development, implementation and production support, fluent in Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JSP, Responsive Design. Self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal and communication skills, who is a reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail a keen learner of new evolving technologies and implement them in current projects.    Professional Summary:  • Experienced in solving issues in cross browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML, DHTML, Javascript, CSS, XML and Bootstrap, AJAX.  • Expert-level knowledge of raw Javascript (ES5 / ES6), CSS3, and HTML5.  • Expertise in Javascript and modern web development tools including Node, Express, Web pack, React, Redux.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Experience in troubleshooting queries related to windows and mobile platforms such as Android and IOS.  • Experienced in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using AngularJS  • Expert in developing User Interface UI applications and professional web applications using Javascript, XUL, HTML5/DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS3, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Javascript, JSON and XML.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA and Jenkins and managed all hosted or local repositories through Source Tree simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash.  • Extensive usage of Javascript, ReactJS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, jQuery/AJAX, JSON, HTML4/5, CSS2/3.  • Built enterprise class web applications utilizing Javascript, React, Redux, AngularJS, C#  • Hands on experience with Angular 2.0, Typescript, Babel and ECMAScript 6.  • Enhanced user experience by creating responsive Single Page Application (SPA) in AngularJS which is currently used by Amazon video.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual Expertise in working with the JavaScript, Ember JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks Angular.js 1.5, backbone.js and node.js.  • Implement React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction.  • Responsible for rewriting and updating legacy projects to NodeJS and AngularJS/ReactJS as well designing and implementing UI components for a large SPA application.  • Experienced in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Knowledge on React.js like text binding and writing classes using raw JavaScript and JSX files.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2 instances (AWS).  • Solid experience with Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development and MVC frameworks like CodeIgniter.  • Hands on experience in Selenium testing and writing test cases using Java.  • Experience with the development of Core Java/J2ee components: Portal Development, Javascript, JSP, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JDBC, Design Pattern.  • Good in communicating with clients, customers, managers and other teams in the enterprise at all levels.  • Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose and Design Pattern (J2EE) like Singleton Factory Method, Facade, Front Controller, Delegate Pattern, MVC Architecture.  • Experience in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) & Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC).  • Experience in developing Java Selenium IDE/WebDriver test scripts and Test framework using TestNG. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End WEB UI Developer Jp Morgan - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, Javascript, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, Javascript, and ReactJS.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and Javascript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team.  • Worked on React.js State management using Redux and Redux Action-Reducer Forms.  • Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Javascript, React JS, Backbone.Js, JSON and HTML5.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using Javascript jQuery and Backbone.js and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-full server on a different domain.  • Experience working with React, Redux, optimizing front end build tools (Grunt / Gulp / Webpack, Node.js, and NPM).  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Involved in customizing the JSX files for rendering the UI in implementing React Js.  • Used webpack build tool for configuration and Babel tool for the transpilation of JSX to vanilla JavaScript and ES6 to ES5.  • Created HTML and SASS for new web applications to match color comps provided by the Creative Department, including responsive designs via CSS media queries.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Used GIT for source code control system, performed GIT commands to update the code to the main and forked repositories and used Web pack with Node and NPM. Performed ESlint to maintain the coding standards and to beautify the code.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Programmed HTML5 canvases to animate particles on web backgrounds for site-wide promotions.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS media queries for mobile responsiveness.  • Created a custom framework that used ES6 compilation via Babel, SASS, CSS auto-prefixing.  • Used babel as transpiler for converting code from ES6 to ES5.  • Used ESLINT for Lint errors and syntax errors.  • Fixed front end bugs (HTML, CSS, Javascript errors (JQUERY), testing (A/B Split Testing), Unit testing.  • Worked on designing User Interactive UI Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help of HTML 5 and CSS3.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Backbone JS, React JS, Redux, Web pack, Babel, ES6, JSX, NPM, JQuery, GIT, AJAX, Node.js, JSON, DOM, Windows, Mac OSX. UI Developer AIG, Jerseycity, NJ January 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on ReactJS, Twitter Bootstrap, Restful web-services, HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JSON, Media queries for responsiveness.  • Used ReactJS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication.  • Constructed self-contained, reusable, and testable ReactJS components to render itineraries and events.  • Used ReactJS to create interactive UI's.  • Developed custom NodeJS proxy used to send requests to client's APIs, handling authentication and custom headers.  • Developed responsive SPA using ReactJS in conjunction with CSS3, HTML5 and Bootstrap.  • Involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps.  • Developed Login/Registration/Edit of user profile integration using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Javascript.  • Used ReactJS for declarative, efficient, and flexible Javascript library for building user interfaces.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party React libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Implemented React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction. Server-side rendering React components with Node, Express, and Python/Django APIs.  • Hands-on experience in using ECMAScript 6 (ES6) and JavaScript Syntax Extension (JSX) with React.  • Used webpack for bundling files and babel as transpiler.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery AJAX framework and Widget based Javascript programmed model.  • Developed various recursive algorithms for D3 data retrieval to convert D3 Elements into React Elements in JSX.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS code interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, AngularJS and Javascript, Bootstrap.  • Analyze the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.    Environment:HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, Javascript, React JS, JSX, JQUERY, JSP, Less, AJAX, AngularJS, Web Technologies, Version Control, Maven, GIT, Webpack, Babel, IntelliJ. UI Developer Biogen - Boston, MA June 2014 to December 2015 Description:  Created mobile Application for Health management System known as mHealth Manager using Angular Js, Mongo DB, Node Js HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, jQuery.  Angular js, JavaScript, jQuery, Node js, Express js.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  • Developed mobile cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, Javascript API.  • Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich interface functionality in various pages: form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, Unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch etc.  • Familiar in writing Custom Directives in AngularJS, making use of Modules and Filters objects per the application requirement.  • Used AJAX module to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and servers.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, Javascript, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML and Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  • Developed Single page application and structured the Javascript code using AngularJS.  • Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycle working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Developed Object Oriented Javascript code and responsible for client side validations using jQuery.  • Created responsive web design using Bootstrap.  • Used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture. UI Developer TBSS - IN August 2011 to May 2014 Description:  Created the login functionality for the office application where the candidates will update their status and calendar accordingly. I have used HTML, CSS, JAVSCRIPT, JSON, and AJAX as major front end technologies for the entire application development    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed application by using CSS to give gradient effects and to develop various page layouts, multi-level navigation and transitions.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with JQuery to make the pages dynamic  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Responsible for implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI and for all client side UI Validation.  • Optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Worked on Media Queries of CSS to create Responsive Web Design.  • Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, jQuery, SQL, PHP. Education Bachelors in Information Technology JNTU Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache, PHP.  IDE & Tools  Web Storm, Notepad++, Microsoft Publisher, NetBeans, Eclipse Aptana Studio, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Sublime,Microsoft Publisher.    Javascript Libraries AngularJS, JQuery, Ext JS, NodeJS, Require.js, React.js  Languages PHP 3/4/5, Java, SQL  Wire Frame Tools Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3, Adobe illustrator CS3.  VersionControl Tools Perforce, CVS, SVN, GITHub, VSS  Data Base Oracle, SQL, MSSQL, Mongo Db    Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, Linux, Unix