Software Consultant Software Consultant Full Stack Web Developer with 8-year track record of delivering on client expectations Fontana, CA Technically astute software engineering professional with solid history of developing custom web, mobile and desktop applications for clients ranging from private sector start-ups, to major corporations and government agencies. Experience leading projects and teams including JIRA administration, task assignment, and managing daily scrum meetings. As a developer have significant expertise working with front end Frameworks and libraries. Proficient in Angular, React, JS Environments including full MEAN, MERN, and CEAN stacks, data binding, REST API’s in Express and applying ES@Next features in code. General software development and web server programming done in Python, Go, and Node. Excel in fostering collaboration and building consensus across disciplines and organizational levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Consultant Blue Pine Studio - Fontana, CA May 2011 to Present Build and strengthen critical relationships with key clients across the United States such as JobNimbus, Prime Healthcare, and Bank of America while leading teams on both front end and back end web development projects.    Key Projects:  • JobNimbus (02/2017 to Present): Play a critical role in developing an Angular 5+ rewrite of the legacy Angular 1.5 web application as sole angular developer for Job Nimbus. Successfully lead mobile application conversation from Ionic I to Ionic 3.   • Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) (02/2018 to 08/2018) Remote Project: Working remotely with client n Washington, DC, served as front end developer responsible for maintaining and developing new features in Angular 6. Adhered to strict rollout timetable to deliver a custom designed provider facing portal to support government insurance healthcare providers.  • Prime Healthcare (05/2016 to 05/2017): Excelled in leading teams and architecting of a web applications for a major healthcare company by successfully carrying out key project management responsibilities including JIRA Administration, assigning and supervising tasks, and leading daily scrum meetings.  • Inland Empire Health Plan (08/2016 to 02/17): As Front End Developer, led design element updates and maintenance on projects encompassing redesign of members’ pages, writing front end code to launch designs, and converting angular 1.3 to 1.5 code.  • Bank of America (10/2016 to 02/2017): As Angular 1.5 Developer, implement pixel perfect mock-ups from in-house designer while also refactoring multiple specialized banking applications for financial sector clients.  Frontend Developer Experian - Costa Mesa, CA January 2019 to June 2019 Core member of CreditMatch services frontend development team, contributing to the implementation and rollout of several critical consumer facing initiatives.  Key Achievements:  • Successfully launched multiple new features to production in adherence to critical stakeholder deadlines.  • Debugged and maintained multiple subsets of code in compliance with best practices while addressing additional user stories. Front End Developer II Careerbuilder, LLC - Newport Beach, CA August 2016 to October 2017 Technical Scope: D3, Angular  Led development of a production analytics application as sole Angular Developer.  Key Achievements:  * Drove professional development opportunities for the team as Subject Matter Expert and Team trainer in Front End Technical Stack issues.    Successfully applied expertise in Angular D3 Charts to roll out an innovative production analytics application. Web Developer Plastic Surgery Studios - Rancho Cucamonga, CA August 2015 to July 2016 Technical Scope: UNIX, WordPress, HTML, CSS, JS, PHP  Collaborated with colleagues to build and launch website designs from designer's PSD's.  Key Achievements:  * Excelled in applying expertise in HTML, CSS, JS, and PHP to tailor themes on the WordPress platform to replicate the designers' visions. Education Some college Skills Javascript (8 years), Ionic (3 years), Node.js (5 years), Redux (3 years), TypeScript (3 years), Angular (3 years), Wordpress (5 years), Express (5 years), Go (3 years), Python (5 years), Scrum (5 years), HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), Unit Testing (5 years), End to End Testing (5 years), CI/CD (5 years), VCS (6 years), React (3 years), MYSQL, Git Links http://GitHub.com/nanomoffet Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Environments: UNIX, Windows, Mac OS JS Environments (MEAN and CEAN Stacks), AWS, Azure  Tools & Languages: JavaScript, TypeScript, Node.js, Express.js, Golang, Unit/e2e Tests, (Jasmine, Jest, Protractor, Cypress), Python  Platforms: Angular (v2 to v7), React, ionic (v1 to v3) Redux, NGRX