Owner / Full Stack Developer Owner / Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer, A.A.S. Cybersecurity St Petersburg Beach, FL I have been programming for almost 10 years. I have fully CRUD operable MVC applications written on a couple stacks. All I would have to do is retrofit my existing frameworks to fit your needs.     adriancorey.blogspot.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner / Full Stack Developer Direct Kingdom - Seminole, FL December 2018 to Present • Creation of SAAS application using the MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular 7, Node.js)  • Full JWT authentication and REST API  • Route guards and child routing  • Custom Angular 7 modules, components, services, and directives  • HTML to PDF data parsing using Node.js modules  • Multi instance proxy with round robin load balancing for data collection  • Test driven development using Jasmine and Karma  • Stripe subscription API integration  • Web scraping using Phantom.js based framework  • Captcha cracking using anti-captcha API  • Reverse proxy configuration for production use of Node and Angular  • Application can be bought and retrofitted for your needs because I own it (see directkingdom.com)  • Login - un: guest, pw: Password1 Front End Developer Rockval Inc. - Wellington, FL January 2018 to November 2018 • Create a dynamic wizard which propagates recursively using the React framework from a JSON object, tracks a users step and sub-step completion  • Use of Redux actions and reducers to deliver data across multiple components  • Create new user guide dialog boxes for each page component  • Convert PHP views which are not using React to use the twig template engine  • Create a fully CRUD operable admin template using React  • Add changes to custom PHP 7 MVC framework controllers  • Manage PHP REST API and MVC routing  • Change PHP MVC framework structure for better organization  • Add PHP classes to namespaces and update controllers accordingly  • Develop front end website design, create images in Photoshop  • Manage application using Git, Npm, and Composer  • Unit testing for React components using Jest  • Write custom font end code for various views using Javascript and jQuery  • Management of MySQL database using phpMyAdmin and MySQL workbench Web Contractor Various Businesses - Jupiter, FL May 2017 to June 2017 • Develop a server using the which dynamically generates pages for 1000s of websites.  • Creation of web application which creates dynamic index based on search queries using the MEAN stack.  • Creation of dynamic location targeting Python email scraper.  • Creation of small LAMP based websites.  • Custom web plugins.  • Front end design using Photoshop. IT Contractor TEKsystems - Palm Beach Gardens, FL May 2017 to May 2017 • Project management of closing 100+ store locations.  • Give instructions for uninstall and manage inventory of each location. IT Support and Development Tri-Coast Pharmacy - Juno Beach, FL November 2016 to March 2017 • I was here briefly because they shut the business down  • Computer diagnosis and repair  • Maintaining proprietary pharmacy technology and software  • Windows Server Administration (Active directory, DNS, NetBIOS over TCP, etc.)  • Develop, design, and maintain business website using the LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP 7)  • Cat 5 network wiring installation and updating network configurations on Cisco routers / switches Web Development, IT Support Valent Designs / ITPC Tech Support - Seminole, FL May 2014 to October 2016 • Marketing, Accounting, and Project Management of businesses  • Development and design websites using the LAMP stack  • RETS / IDX feeds for real estate websites  • Updating old sites to have a responsive design for cell phones  • Custom Wordpress themes using PHP, MySQL, Javascript, and jQuery  • Debugging PHP on broken websites  • Brief Laravel development (~2 weeks)  • Improve on page SEO and instruct clients how to improve SEO Education High school or equivalent in Computer Science Seminole High School - Seminole, FL June 2005 to June 2009 A.A.S. in IT Security Saint Petersburg College Skills Linux (8 years), MySQL (8 years), PHP (8 years), Javascript (7 years), Python (1 year), Shell Scripting (4 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Design (10+ years), Front End, UI, React, Angular, Front-End, Jquery, User Interface, HTML5, Java, Angularjs, Node, AWS, Nodejs Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified June 2017 Additional Information Computer Skills    • Web Development - MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.js), React / Redux, Webpack, HTML, CSS / LESS / SASS, Javascript / JQuery / Ajax, PHP, MySQL / Microsoft SQL / Oracle, Firebase, Google Fusion Tables / Web Apis, Python, Application Security, Wordpress / Joomla / Shopify / Woocommmerce, SEO, RETS, Photoshop, Apache, LAMP, Json, XML, Responsive Design, UI / UX, Joomla, NPM, GIT, Composer, Test driven development (Jest, Karma, Jasmine), MVC (Node.js and PHP)    • Systems Administration - Docker, Active Directory, Linux and Windows Security, Linux / Windows Administration, Shell Scripting / Bash, Forensics and Defense, Data Backup, Cloud Services, PowerShell, Hypervisor, Solarwinds, Security Onion, Offensive and Defensive Security     • Network Administration - CCNA understanding, TCP/IP and underlying protocols, Security Principles, logging and authentication services, various VPN technologies     • Computer Repair - Over a decade of experience repairing and diagnosing computers, ability to pinpoint software issues and keep computers running like new     • VOIP - QOS, Cisco, Analog technologies such as Noratel     • General – Microsoft Office, 60 WPM typing    Customer Service / Sales    • Ability to greet people and make them feel like they are in a warm, friendly environment.    • Ability to read people to decide how I can approach certain situations without creating any problems.    • Carefully listening to the customer to identify their needs.    • Making customers feel like they had a valuable experience, which in turn keeps them coming back    • Breaking down complex ideas in a way anyone can understand.