Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - BBVA Compass Bank St. Louis, MO • Over all 9 years ofprofessional experience as UI/ Front End Developer using HTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, Angular5 ,React JS  • Strong knowledge of Development Frameworks like Bootstrap for developing Cross-Browser applications and compatibility with portable devices.  • Strong fundamentals and experience in Document Object Model (DOM) functions.  • Good experience in creating components documentation using React JS  • Experience in working with CSS pre-processors like SASS and modern techniques such as Flex box.  • Strong experience in using AJAX, JQuery for implementing dynamic web pages where the content can be fetched via API calls, using RESTful.  • Good experience using Grunt for Front End Task Runner. Also, using package managers like Bower and NPM.  • Expertise in building MVC style SPA's using various JavaScript frameworks for linking presentation layer to application layer using JSON or XML as data-exchange format.  • Experience in software configuration management using SVN, Git.  • Experience in testing web applications using Mozilla Firebug and Browser Developer tools.  • Developed webpages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Expertise using most of the popular IDEs/Editors like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Web Storm, Notepad++ etc.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts.  • Familiar with Full stack web development tool MEAN stack.  • Well versed with Software Development Life Cycle process which includes designing, developing, testing and implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End UI Developer BBVA Compass Bank - Birmingham, AL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on integrating backend RESTful service calls with Bootstrap components by fetching the data using Angular HTTP service and displaying it within various Bootstrap based components.  • Involved in React.js for data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps.  • Used React.js for declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.  • Developed the front end using React.js framework for front end web technologies including HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and templating engine.  • Involved in React.js and working with Redux/Flux architecture.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Used Middleware, Redux-promise in application to retrieve data from Back- end and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Developed the flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Experience in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using Redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Drag.  • Used React.js with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Used React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router and Animations.  • Proficient in writing react code with help of ECMAScript 2015(ES6) and JSX.  • Created different components using React.js to render an element.  • Created a React.js component where we will direct react to render Output.  • Involved in creating connections for HTTP requests using Web sockets.  • Worked with XML and JSON using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked on React.js for developing UI using Sorting, Pagination and rendering for search page.  • Used web pack and NPM to manage dependency graph.  • Created some reusable components for designing interfaces using React.js.  • Used Babel loader and Web pack bundler to create React component.  • Worked on making AJAX calls to connect the database using RESTful web-services and worked on integrating the middleware to the front end.  • Attended daily scrum stand-up meeting and provided Demos to Business Analysts.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, j Query, Web pack, Node.JS, AJAX, Bootstrap, React.js, GIT, JIRA, Karma. UI Developer PSI Services - Glendale, CA July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed a multi modules responsive single page application using the native features of the Angular 4 framework.  • Developed Custom HTML form element components and reusable angular components targeted to reduce the large chunk of the code base.  • Development of single page applications using Angular Js as a frontend JavaScript framework.  • Developed web-based data visualizations by integrating d3.js version 4 with Angular 4 which fits both for web and mobiles.  • Used Angular Life Cycle hooks to get into the different phases of the component to get fine grained control of the application.  • Implemented pagination in the application using the Angular Components, Directives and web services.  • Extensively used Angular Material to add rich Graphical Interface to the Web page.  • Used Input directive for the communication between the components the parent component and child component and Output directive for vice versa.  • Moved existing Angular JS controllers and services to Angular2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Developed single page applications using, Angular2 Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Used Input, Output and View child Decorators to create a communication between the components.  • Extensively used Template Driven Forms to take user the queries input from the user and applied validations to ensure user provides the valid information.  • Created the custom directives to access the DOM elements and Custom pipes to format the data into required format across the applications.  • Composed the unit tests using Jasmine methods to ensure the proper working of controllers attached to component after the creation of the every new component in the application and used Karma to run the test cases in the separate browsers runs in background.  • Worked in developing the End to End Testing Scenario using Protractor Framework after completion of a particular feature of the application.  • I have used bootstrap classes to make it appear consistent among different devices with different viewport devices.  • Experienced in using CSS Pre-Processors like SASS  • Used Operators from RXJS library for formatting the response into the desired format and for showing the status of the http requests to the user.  • Implemented the lazy loading instead of the eager loading of the modules to decrease the initial payload of the application in the browser.  • Used Bootstrap grid system and CSS Media Quires to fit the application in different viewport sizes.  • Implemented JWT token based authentication by developing the API using Node JS, Express JS and by integrating that API with Angular.  • Collaborate with the application architect and backend developers on JSON API design.    Environments:Angular 4, JavaScript, D3.js, Restful Web Services, Bootstrap 3, GitHub, Node JS, Express JS, Agile, HTML5, CSS3,Karma, Jasmine, Web pack, Agile Methodology. React Engineer CDK Global - Portland, OR June 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React JS, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using ReactJs and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Implemented services to properly consume API on the front end and send back data in JSON format.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Used Node and NPM to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Implemented generic component into node modules to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Experienced consuming APIs using axios and manipulating/consuming JSON objects.  • Worked with CDK custom build components developed using HTML5, LESS, SASS, React.  • Worked with React and Redux Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  • Worked with the GIT version controller.  • Used Fetch, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.    Environment: React JS, Redux, Redux, JSON, JavaScript, ES6, Babel, Gulp, NPM, Html 5, LESS, SASS Spring Boot. UI Developer InterContinental Hotels Group - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software following Agile Methodology  • Worked with REST API using Angular2 and JavaScript  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML5 and CSS3 according to internal standards and guidelines  • Developed and validated login pages of the network for good using JavaScript and Angular2  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed custom directives using Angular2  • Worked on AngularJS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the on-going project status and issues  • Used JSON to fetches the data from Web Services  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.    Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Node JS, Angular2, GIT. React UI Developer Knoah Solutions - Henderson, NV April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Design, develop and tests HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and React JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Integrating JavaScript libraries ( React-Bootstrap, High charts, Data tables).  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Involved in using React JS components Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked closely with the back- end team to display data using the Custom components, Library components, and Redux.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used web services SOAP and RESTful for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from back- end REST API as a part of JSON.  • Implemented React JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozilla, IE 7,8,9 and Safari.  • Maintaining parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  • Architected and Developed for large scale JavaScript application with React JS.  • Used React-Router to turn application into SPA.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Experience in working GIT for branching, tagging, and merging.  • Developed unit tests with Mocha.  • Thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Interacted with Testing team, Scrum Masters, and Business Analysts for fixing the issues which are reported by testing team.  • Involved in Agile methodologies and full SDLC of designing, coding, testing, debugging, and support.  • Used Firebug and IE tester debugging tools to fix the issues.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, j Query, Web pack, Node.JS, AJAX, Bootstrap, React.js, GIT,MongoDB, JIRA, Mocha. UI Developer The Vanguard Group - Malvern, PA March 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, storyboards, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, HTML5 and Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts with media quires and keyframes.  • Provide user interface design for Web-based projects, including dashboards, widgets, and products. Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation with feedback icons using bootstrap and JQuery.  • Developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, DHTML, XSLT, SSAS, SQL, Bootstrap, Ajax UI Developer Bose Corporation - Stow, MA February 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed frond- end UI pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Query.  • Development of Client-Side Validation techniques using AngularJS.  • Produced the report data on the client side Front- end using JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • JQuery Ajax is used for fetching the data from the backend and displaying on the webpage.  • Used JQuery UI widgets auto complete, date picker, tabs to enhance the web application user experience.  • Used JQuery event handling in UI pages to display list boxes and to handle validations.  • Involved in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Developed custom directives and Services in AngularJS.  • Client-side validations using angular JS in-built classes  • Responsible for writing the SQL quires for selecting, adding, deleting and updating the data in the MySQL database.  • Worked with backend for creating RESTFUL API using Java script framework.  • Handled Browser compatibility issues for different browsers related to CSS and HTML.  • Used Git for version control, JIRA for project tracking and Gulp for task runner.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON. Education Bachelor's Skills Bootstrap (9 years), HTML5 (7 years), JavaScript (9 years), UI (8 years), user interface (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Java script  Web /UI Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, React JS  Frameworks Node JS, Bootstrap, Angular  Web Services REST  Development Environments IntelliJ, Web Storm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text3, Notepad++.  Version Control/Code Mgmt GIT Hub  Integration Tools Jenkins  Tool /Software Bower, NPM Gulp, Grunt, Visual Studio, Microsoft office.