Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Waialua, HI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Costa Digital Unit January 2016 to December 2017 myAIDA App (main project) | bit.ly/2h5H84u  A beautiful customer centric onboard experience built with a little too bleeding edge stack. One of the best learning experiences I could have asked for, and some of the best mentors I could hope for. Worked primarily with Docker, Golang, Graphql, React-Native, React-Relay, Redux, XMPP and Contentful, as well as Ruby, Bash and Python for accessory tool scripting. Highlights: Offline First, UI-Library, Performance Measurement, E2E Testing, Supreme Design Principle of 8.  Seetours (support project) | seetours.de  A financially prosperous learning and sales portal for multiple cruise brands including AIDA, Costa, Carnival, Cunard and more. Worked primarily with React/Redux, Golang and Amazon AWS.  Retrospective Leader  The “Go To” Retrospective leader for multiple teams in the  organisation with a focus on small, compounding growth principals. Front End Developer Goodgame Studios November 2014 to December 2015 Hydra  A beautiful modern web app focusing on excellent customer support.  Wins: Full replacement of old system planned, scaled and deployed in under 3 months. Call centre agent happiness skyrocketed, a  culture was formed. Before I left, it was fully translated into 3  languages (English, German and Spanish).    In addition to my work as a developer on the project, I headed the initiative to get more user feedback from the the Customer Support  team. Through this, we added basic gamification and personalisation techniques to engage the CS team. Using effective  cost/benefit analysis, we brought the average ticket time to resolution from 11 minutes down to only 3. Multiplied by 300  employees. Very proud at how self organised we were in this.    Corporate Website  Implemented feature requests on the frontend of the Wordpress  based site. Mostly style development and fixes in SASS/HTML. Multimedia Developer Cybermedia Technologies March 2013 to August 2014 ctec-corp.com    - Created quality graphics with the Photoshop, Illustrator, After  Effects for multiple e-learning courses for U.S. Government  Agencies.  - Helped create the bare bones of an internal HTML5/CSS3/JS e- learning framework.  - Provided desktop publishing support on proposal efforts as well as in the e-learning courses.  - 508 Compliancy and Accessibility testing and implementation. Web Development Internship VisualZen June 2012 to September 2012 visualzen.com  - Assisted with maintenance tasks in C# and SQLServer.  - Set up the companies intranet site in Microsoft SharePoint 2010 as well as their Team Foundation Server.  - Converted sliced .psd files into the current corporate website.  - QA Engineering for iOS, Android, Windows, OS X and Linux  Additional Information Education B.S. in Applied George Mason University December 2013 Skills Python, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, ReactJS Links http://awitherow.com