Front- End & Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> &amp; Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End & Web Developer Pittsburgh, PA I am a Front- End Web Developer by trade with perseverance, curiosity, and a passion for emerging tech.  - Exceptional discipline and excellent time management. Attention to details.  - Strong UI / UX understanding.  - Highly motivated and extremely dependable.  My goals are to work at a company that I care for, on projects that I care about, with coworkers that are friends. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End & Web Developer Informatics Studio - Pittsburgh, PA November 2015 to February 2019 Built a wide variety of responsive, accessible, and cross-browser compatible websites  optimized for organic search with semantic code from scratch to production.  ? Coded designs to the web with extreme craft on platforms, such as WordPress, Drupal, and static sites generators, such as Hugo and Jekyll.  ? Front- end and content management work for medium-sized and large-scale Drupal  websites and a mobile application.  ? Cooperated in the creation and maintaining the company's internal front- end framework  along with writing documentation.  ? Developed custom functionality in Adobe Captivate creating eLearning government  courses. Used Hugo to create data embeds and JavaScript to enhance primary and in-content navigation system.  Career History  ? Worked closely with UI/UX, design and program managers in all stages of production, including brainstorming, prototyping, developing, and deploying fully functional websites.  ? Was part of every project quality assurance step where I gained troubleshooting and bug-fixing skills.  ? Mentored a younger colleague to ensure a high-quality product and increasing speed of delivery. Freelance Web Developer, Designer December 2011 to November 2015 Media Director, Designer, Webmaster Firstlight International & ANGA - Pittsburgh, PA December 2012 to August 2015 Designed and built the company website in WordPress on top of the Genesis framework.  Integrated event management & donation systems.  ? Set-up and configured multi-camera video & audio system for live performance and recording.  ? Video & Audio production work in Adobe Premiere, After Effects, Photoshop, & Audition.  ? Studied social network algorithms and applied the knowledge to organically promote the organization on the platforms, mainly Facebook. Webmaster Assistant Skagit Valley College - Mount Vernon, WA May 2009 to September 2009 Worked in Microsoft Access Database to update data for various website sections.  ? Re-designed and styled main landing & programs search website pages.    Career History Information Technology Technician Skagit Valley College - Mount Vernon, WA August 2008 to May 2009 Worked as a personal assistant for an evening program coordinator on various tasks  from sorting papers to editing academic programs in WYSIWYG of the website CMS.  ? PC/Mac technician duties. Worked on software updates and troubleshooting.  ? Filmed and edited various school events. Education Web Design & Interactive Media Art Institute of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA November 2009 to July 2010 Bachelor of Science in Education in Education Moscow State University - Moscow, RU July 2002 to July 2007 Skills WORDPRESS, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WEBPACK, Front End, CSS3, Front-End, React Links https://lex.me