UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Voya Financial Services Connecticut River State Wildlife Area, CT • Over 6 years of experience in developing and designing complex WEB Applications using HTML, HTML5/4, CSS 3/2, JAVASCRIPT, XML, jQuery, Angular, Nodejs, AureliaJs,BackboneJs, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Meeting W3C standards.  • Used Angular2 for building rich internet applications and to improve the Speed.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility to work on almost every web Browsers Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Experience in working on CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience Working as part of a team in a positive and engaging manner to deliver high- end solutions for the business and clients.  • Experience working with google analytics to define and monitor user interactions.  • Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back- end applications.  • Expertise in programming with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Strong experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  • Hand's on experience in developing applications using JavaScript frameworks like Backbonejs, MarionetteJS, Angular, and Aurelia.  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and in preparing test cases.  • Ability to deliver efficient and optimized front end code that supports web accessibility standards.  • Ability to learn and understand the latest framework life cycle and implementation quickly.  • Good Experience in working with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer, Web Inspector for Safari, Developer Toolbar for Chrome.  • Solid working experience in various IDE's: Web storm, Sublime-Text editor, Visual Studio Code Notepad++, etc.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Develop reusable components using Angular 6.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members.  • Hand's on experience in handling Browser Compatible Issues. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience UI Developer Voya Financial Services January 2016 to Present Voya Financial Services Company offers retirement savings plans, investment management, and life and employee benefit insurance to corporations and individuals.    Job duties:  • Involve in analyzing requirements by taking part in story grooming sessions with the entire team and determine the external dependencies required to develop features as per the client defined standards.  • Involve in back- end and UI technical collaboration session to determine the Backend dependencies required to finish the UI code for the feature. Most common dependencies are sample JSON response, name of the values back- end is expecting to save to database, flag name required to implement a functionality.  • Optimized the code for reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the providers property in Angular 2 Components.  • Involve in sprint planning sessions to estimate time and costs required to finish the feature.  • Translate designs to front- end code, following the architecture and design standards defined by the UX team to ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs.  • Build single page application with JavaScript on a custom built framework.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Develop client-side code with HTML5, JavaScript, Backbone js, angular, Foundation, Gulp, CSS3, SASS, based on wireframes, design prototypes and various project scope requirements.  • Write clean, semantic and modular Front- End code and build Re-usable Libraries and components for future use.  • Worked on Routes in Angular 2 to create the base route and extensions by using RouterConfig as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the webpage.  • Advocated web interaction design practices, with a focus on consistency and usability.  • Develop interface, front pages, and the tools to navigate a web site.  • Develop front- end code to cover-up various business scenarios with minimal and accurate code.  • Created clean, precise browser compatibility code.  • Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete project deliverables on time.  • Writing functional and unit test cases for UI automation test. Make sure before the feature is handed over to QA all the scenarios work.  • Writing front end code that supports web accessibility.  • Rapidly solve problems and fix bugs.  • Implemented reusable Components, Directives, Pipe's and Injectables.  • Keen and ready to align with the expectations of the Organization as well the end customer.  • Involved in pair coding and code review sessions with the UI lead and UI architects.  • Involved in writing the code build scripts using the gulp.  • Involved in building the application using Jenkins.  • Involved in managing the deployment process across different pre-production environments using CARA tool.  • Work with cross-functional teams like content management systems team, sales force team, Google Analytics team and UX team to deliver the end product.  • Providing support during the UAT phase of product delivery.  • Involve in branching the codes on GitHub and maintaining different versions of code for each delivery and to keep track of changes made for every iteration.  • Involved in documenting the technical specifications required to install the project and other important information that can be used by future developers.  • Collaborate in an Agile environment to quickly prototype designs and functional requirements.  • Technical support for Front- End development standards and other development related issues of existing company web sites.  • Work as part of a team in a positive and engaging manner to deliver high- end solutions for the business and our partners.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone Js, Aurelia, Angular, Marionette Js, Handlebar Js, SASS, Foundation5, jQuery, Sublime Text 3, Gulp. Front- End/UI- Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH January 2015 to January 2016 Cardinal Health improves the cost-effectiveness of healthcare. We help pharmacies, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We operate the nation's largest network of radio pharmacies. And, with nearly 100 years of experience, Cardinal Health provides medical products and services to many of America's most prestigious medical institutions. In fact, most U.S. hospitals use our products and services to provide care for their patients.    Job Duties:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps as well as using Restful services.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript,  AngularJS, Node JS.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, XHTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Designed website using HTML5 and CSS with desired 'old and clean' look, under a very aggressive deadline.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility, Responsive Web Design and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Backbone.js, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Developed E-commerce enterprise applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, PHP Script, JSP Script and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Coordinated with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.  • Used CSS, CSS3, XHTML, HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular and mobile frameworks: PhoneGap, jQuery Mobile to develop NYC Buildings mobile app for iPhone, Android and Blackberry phones.  • Designed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques  • Developed the Buttons like popup windows and the modal windows by using the jQuery.  • Coordinated with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.    Environment:  CSS, HTML, CMS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, jQuery, IIS,508 standards, Adobe Dreamweaver CS4, AJAX, Adobe Creative Suite, Node js, Adobe Flash, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Illustrator CS4, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and MS Office Suite. HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, JSON, SVN and Eclipse Front- End/UI- Developer Sandhi Solutions - IN July 2012 to December 2013 Job Duties:  • Designed and developed GUI for applications and modules, using JavaScript.  • Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive features, using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Collaborate with designers and back- end developers to implement and improve features.  • Ensuring high performance of application.  • Work to business time scales to deliver projects on track.  • Being part of the successful delivery of projects across the entire app life cycle: concept, design, build, deploy, test, release to app stores and support  • Good knowledge of programming patterns.  • Developing the applications that are cross browser compatible and responsive.  • Design, build and deliver products across the full development lifecycle making use of the best processes and practices.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, WebStorm, Gulp. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri December 2015 Technology Kakatiya University - Warangal, Telangana May 2013 Skills UI, Front-End, Front End, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Sass, JavaScript, Foundation, Bootstrap, Gulp  IDE & Tools  Web storm, Notepad++, MS Visual Studio for Web,  Firebug for Firefox, IE Developer Toolbar for IE, Web Inspector for Safari, Chrome F12 tools, Source Tree    SDLCs Agile  JavaScript Libraries jQuery, BackboneJs, MarionetteJs, HandlebarJs, Angular, Aurelia.  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, 10 , Mac OS X , UNIX , LINUX  Version Control GitHub  Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS 6.0/7.0)