Job Seeker Work Experience Impetus InfoTech (India) Pvt. Ltd September 2016 to Present PROJECT DETAILS:  1. IDW Impetus Data Warehouse Software Module lead UI Engineer Impetus InfoTech (India) Pvt. Ltd - Indore, MADHYA PRADESH, IN June 2017 to June 2018 Platform & Skills: AngularJS, JavaScript, Html, CSS.  Brief: We are disrupting the way enterprises are transforming their legacy warehouses. We remove the risk and eliminate error prone, slow and costly manual practices. We do this using powerful automation that is backed by our proven, repeatable process and over a decade of big data experience. The outcome is to ensure that you accelerate your ability to deliver on the full promise of advanced big data analytics.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation, development suggestion.  • Implementing UI features with BE integration.  • Sprint Planning to manage task in team.  • GIT and SVN code management for synchronizing code for parallel development.  • Sanity testing planning while product version release.    2. United Airline united.com Module lead UI Engineer Impetus InfoTech (India) Pvt. Ltd - Indore, MADHYA PRADESH, IN September 2016 to June 2017 Platform & Skills: Ensighten, Google Analytics, JavaScript, maxymiser.    Brief: Ensighten is a global customer data platform and tag management technology vendor headquartered in San Jose, California. The company sells a customer data platform which includes tracking web visitors through an enterprise tag management system and marketing solutions that help marketers provide better customer experiences across consumer digital touchpoints.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation, development suggestion.  • Implementing Ensighten tag to capture data analytics.  • Sprint Planning to manage task in team.  • GIT code management for synchronizing code for parallel development.  • A/B testing using maxymiser. Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd July 2015 to September 2016 PROJECT DETAILS:  1. Ampush ampush.com Sr. Front End Engineer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN July 2015 to September 2016 Platform & Skills: Docker, AngularJS, ES6, Gulp, Node.JS, Angular Material, GIT Fork.  Brief: Ampush leverages its leading marketing software, AMP, and a managed approach to drive profitable advertising results on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. The company helps mobile-focused marketers acquire, engage, and retain new users, generate sales, and maximize return on investment. The AMP platform powers ad buying, management, and insights thereby making it easy for advertisers to reach people with smarter, in-feed ads. Ampush, which has offices in San Francisco, New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago, received its first-ever external funding from performance marketing leader, Red Ventures, in October, 2015.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Tools suggestion.  • Implementing user interface using AngularJS, Jade & Angular Material Design.  • Sprint Planning to manage task in team.  • GIT Fork for synchronizing code for parallel development.  • TDD & BDD development.    2. MillionInOne millioninone.com Sr. Software Engineer Cyber infrastructure Pvt. Ltd - Indore, MADHYA PRADESH, IN April 2013 to July 2015 Platform & Skills: JavaScript, JQuery mobile, CSS3, Bootstrap, Zimbra, 123flashchat, PHPFOX.    Brief: MillionInOne is a social networking site which has three main systems i.e. social, professional and dating. All systems have one common login and registration functionality and each system contain various of features. There is a public directory which contain all system (social, professional, and dating) public photos, videos, jokes, quotes and general knowledge's at one place.    My key responsibilities were:  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Tools suggestion.  • Working on designing and coding  • Fixing issues and defects  • Performing code reviews  • Participating in relevant technical and verbal communication with the client  • Assisting and mentoring the team members for issue resolution  • Super-vise mobile app team for same domain.    3. Joovuu Joovuu.com    Company: Cyber infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Indore www.cisin.com April 2013 - July 2015    Role: Sr. Software Engineer  Platform & Skills: JavaScript, JQuery, Laravel 4, bootstrap UI.    Brief: We are a player in the GLOBAL MINING INDUSTRY and undertake extensive mining projects involving the supply of mining equipment, procurement services and contract outsourcing. Sena Mining Products LLC is building a global reputation for quality delivery of products and services. As YOUR Mining Equipment Specialists, we maintain a high commitment to excellence and can offer your company the satisfaction of a job well done!    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Working on designing and coding  • Investigating and fixing bugs and issues  • Performing code reviews  • Participating in relevant technical and verbal communication with the client    Company: Cyber infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Indore www.cisin.com April 2013 - July 2015    Role: Sr. Software Engineer  Platform & Skills: JavaScript, JQuery, cakephp 2.4, bootstrap UI.    Brief: JooVuu is an online company focused on providing high-quality, competitively priced action and dashboard cameras. Founded in May 2013, our business has grown steadily since then, driven by our superior products and customer-oriented mindset.  Our business model is simple - provide the best possible products and the best possible service. We source our cameras and accessories from a network of over 500 manufacturers, drawing on our extensive contacts and personal knowledge to choose the best merchandise. At JooVuu, we're committed to helping you find the perfect camera for any situation. All staff members are trained in the specifications and uses of each product, so please don't hesitate to contact us! Our knowledge of car cameras and action cameras is extensive and increasing every day.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Analyzing the requirements received from the client  • Working on designing and coding  • Investigating and fixing bugs and issues  • Performing code reviews  • Participating in relevant technical and verbal communication with the client  • Assisting and mentoring the team members for issue resolution    4. SenaMining SaniSoft Software Pvt. Ltd July 2011 to February 2013 PROJECT DETAILS:  5. Pundit tracker  6. www.sdaccelerate.com  7. pingbid.com  8. Juggernaut Software Engineer SaniSoft Software Pvt. Ltd July 2011 to February 2013 Platform & Skills: JavaScript, JQuery, Cakephp 2.4, bootstrap UI, Rest & Soap API, GIT, SVN.    Brief: I have worked with different project under web development category.  • Hourly Management application for employee timing and performance measure.  • Pundit tracker: A online voting system with admin controls.  • Pingbid: Consume different API for lead generation.  • Juggernaut: Enterprise application modified UI.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Development  • Unit Testing  • Mentoring Web developer Four Soft Information Pvt. Ltd January 2011 to July 2011 Platform & Skills: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, PHP  Brief: A social networking site for sharing thoughts and pictures with friends and for making public.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Development & Testing Education B.E. RGPV University 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Internet Technologies: HTML5, JavaScript, Advance JavaScript, CSS3, PHP.  • JavaScript Frameworks: AngularJS, ES6, jQuery, Jasmine.  • CSS Framework/ Plugins: Bootstrap, Google Material, SASS, IONIC  • Data Format: XML, JSON  • Data Visualization: Bootstrap, Angular Material.  • Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Inspector, Charles.  • IDE: Sublime, Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Version Control (VSS) Management and Usage: GIT, SVN  • Operating System: Ubuntu, Windows 7/10  • Defect Management Tool: JIRA, Mantis, Basecamp, Bugzilla.