Graphic Designer Graphic Designer Graphic Designer & Web Developer Atlanta, GA Work Experience Graphic Designer UPS - McDonough, GA March 2017 to Present Responsible for following through on all customer graphics orders and will assist with volume copying. Utilized effective conceptualization abilities, strong design skills, and technical expertise. Demonstrated strengths in graphics design, project management, and communication by displaying collaborative nature.  Professor Georgia Piedmont Technical College May 2016 to Present Adhere to college procedure protocols and guidelines. Develop and manage syllabus materials. Responsible for selecting and compiling tests, assignments and/or online discussion exercises that permit measurement of performance relative to standardized learning objectives. Facilitate class instructions while maintaining order in the learning environment. Equally distribute attention to each student to ensure they are in accordance with learning objectives. Administer evaluations of student performance based on course deliverables and rubrics for each assignment. Lead Developer Cast Your Stones - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to Present Intermediate to advanced web design knowledge of UI, front- end, mockups, wireframes, graphical templates, HTML, CSS development, JavaScript, Flash, and Short code. Conceptualize an understanding with the client in creating quality, effective, and an engaging product using a series of preproduction techniques. Prepare compelling design concepts, artwork and layouts for multi-channel and integrated marketing mediums using various design and print production capabilities. Ensure site and graphic consistency and integrity throughout finished product by performing, testing, and utilizing various graphical elements for web based content intended to be compatible with cross-browser, cross-platform, and/or cross-device mediums. Owner and Operator Fair & Glorious - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to Present Oversee the branding and advertising of a company’s new or existing products. Create, monitor and evaluate consumer reactions to marketing campaigns and products. Maintain focus on brand identity while publicizing and increasing awareness of the brand’s merchandising. Maintain a unified and organized atmosphere to ascertain a successful line is achieved. Devise design plans and foster new concepts efficiently ensuring current brand recognition is identifiable. Liaison with manufacturers and merchandise markets to create products deliverable at specific price points so that profit margins are obtainable. Organize photo shoots, events, fashion shows and pop ups to gain insights and analysis with consumers to ensure the appropriate inventory is deployed into the market. Sales Associate Lowe's - Stockbridge, GA April 2015 to October 2015 Operate well-versed in the Lowes point of sale computer system for various departments. Process customer transactions or returns with a personable approach and attention to detail in regards to their project’s needs. Capable of multitasking while assisting customers in finding the products they need and working with department managers to get returned products either back to the manufacturers or back on the sales floor. Specialized in high volume transactions and logistics of materials at locations and working promotional events. Sales Associate Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Outlet - Locust Grove, GA May 2010 to January 2011 Responsible for all sales activities in the store. Work within the sales and support teams for the achievement of customer satisfaction, generation of revenue and long-term account goals in line with the company’s vision and values. Maintain a warm and courteous contact with all the personnel and clients in the store or shop area to ensure high levels of client satisfaction. Administrative Assistant Intern Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Atlanta, GA August 2008 to August 2009 Methodically, organized and filed numerous grants and cooperative agreements documents in six part folders to facilitate flow of information from external and internal CDC stake holders relating to National Breast and Cervical Cancer grant programs as well as Sexual Violence Prevention programs. Readily adjusted priorities to respond to changing demands while seeking efficient and economical ways to accomplish task. Identified inconsistencies and provided technical assistance, logged progress and financial status reports into master database. Sales Associate PacSun - Locust Grove, GA June 2008 to May 2009 Posses a positive and friendly attitude, exude confident, and attentive demeanor towards customers and management. Display brand knowledge and attention to detail when ringing transactions, answering questions about products, services, and store merchandise to ensure customer satisfaction. Front End Associate Publix - Stockbridge, GA May 2007 to August 2008 Provides continuous interaction with customers and associates. Maintaining an attentive awareness of product knowledge and location within the store. Providing premier customer service, including greeting them and responding to questions, helping customers locate products throughout the store. Bagging, transporting a customer’s cart to the parking lot and unloading the groceries into their vehicle. Education Associate in Design & Media Production Technology Georgia Piedmont Technical College - Clarkston, GA May 2012 to May 2014 Business Administration Valdosta State University - Valdosta, GA August 2009 to May 2010 High school or equivalent Stockbridge High School - Stockbridge, GA August 2005 to May 2009 Skills Adobe (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), HTML, CSS, & Javascript (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Public Speaking (3 years), Project Management (7 years), Photoshop, Typography, Graphic Design, Indesign