Application/UI Developer Application/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application/UI Developer - US Foods Rosemont, IL • Around 6 years of professional experience in designing User Interface (UI) web applications by using UI authoring and web technologies.  • Extensive experience in designing professional User Interactive (UI) web applications with the help of HTML5, HTML, HTML DOM, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, Angular 2,4,5,6,Vuejs, MeetingW3C standards.  • Experience working in CSS Frameworks like SASS / COMPASS and responsive web design frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation 4.  • Proficient in developing Single Page applications using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, ReactJS, RequireJS.  • Experience programming with built-in Angular JS directives ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-click, ng-model, ng-bind, ng-controller, ng-required, ng-change, ng-cloak.  • Experience with JavaScript Module Pattern and Revealing Module Pattern.  • Proficient in Data-dash attributes, Dependency Injection, Templates.  • Experience in AngularJS pattern in the application development.  • Solid understanding of UI/UX design with an emphasis on maximizing usability.  • Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML5, and JavaScript.  • Proficient in handling XML, JSON response data from RESTful web services using Angular/jQuery to update UI.  • Extensively used various components of AngularJS like Directives, Controllers, DOM, Services, Events, Modules and Validations.  • I have experience with design skills such as sketching, wire framing, and building mockups and prototypes.  • Created and tested prototypes and kept up with latest technology in the industry that brought innovation to solve business problems using React Native.  • The tools I use for design include Sketch, Photoshop, Axure, and In Vision  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/ 4, Typescript SPA domains.  • Experience with jQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Excellent communication, analytical, interpersonal and presentation skills.  • Expert in Agile and SCRUM methodologies.  • Building refined web applications in ReactJS and Node.js.  • Familiar with shell scripting and Unix commands  • Expertise in creating Conceptual Data Models, Process/Data Flow Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, State Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams & Activity Diagrams.  • Extensive analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated and Team Player.  • Extensively used Redux for state manipulations and to bind the data using map state to props.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization, also written queries for insert, update and modification operations. Performed database normalization and optimization using database tools.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Saga in application to retrieve data from backend and to also perform RESTFUL services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application/UI Developer US Foods - Rosemont, IL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, prepared Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document. Created Visio charts for the workflow architecture of the system.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, JSP and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Front- end development utilizing Java Script frameworks such as Angular4, jQuery UI, Backbone.js and Require.js, as well as front end technologies HTML5, CSS3, AJAX.  • Collaborated with the designer, providing creative input and technical feasibility with React Native.  • Involved in updating the pages using HTML 5 and CSS 3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3effects to enhance user experience as per the client requirements.  • Developed Single Page application (SPA) using Angular 4.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  • Worked with VueJs Forms, Validations, Modules, Components, directives, controllers and HTTP Request.  • Automatically updated table data with Vue data binding.  • Extensively used Redux for state manipulations and to bind the data using map state to props.  • Implemented Angular4, Bootstrap, LESS, and many jQuery plugins wrapped in Angular.js directives.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Saga in application to retrieve data from backend and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Developed applications using Node.js, Java, and Neo4j platforms in the cloud environment with extensive use of messaging.  • Created reusable Components, Pipes, Directives and Services using Angular 4.  • Experience in VueJs for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Manipulated DOM, handled events and applied animation effects with VueJs.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Experience in using React Native components, Forms, Event, Keys, Navigation and Redux concepts.  • Developed user interface using additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, Struts Tag-libraries.  • Good Experience in React js for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual Dom, JSX and React Native concepts.  • Responsible for writing custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  • Developed few time sensitive and important review/comments sections with React.js and Angular.js using React directive.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, LESS, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, CSS Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Developed front end screens to be cross-browser& cross-platform based application while using JSP, XML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript/JSON, DOM and AJAX.  • Good Experience in handling Ext Js, Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON.  • Developed a cross platform app using React Native for IOS and Android.  • Designed and implemented Node.js APIs handling over 100 requests/second at peak.  • Building highly scalable Restful web services using Node.JS / Express framework.  • Designed pages using SASS for custom tags and Media tags along with Compass. Used Live Reload to check the changes in functionalities on a quicker scale.  • JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities and improve the speed of the application.  • Used ECMAScript (ES6), JSX, and Types with React JS for component development.  • Initialized and widely used the applicability of Live Server with sublime text to load web pages on a quicker scale during development cycle.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Created AJAX requests to REST service with only use of GET method for retrieval.  • Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS specification through which client portal application interacts with feed runner for fetching data.  • Worked on Oracle database while publishing on Amazon Web Services.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Ext Js, JSP, Servlets, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, AJAX, JavaScript and XML  • Utilized Jasmine for unit testing.  • Installed node.js and utilized the NPM with Grunt for the build.  • Responsible for researching functionality and benefits of implementing MongoDB.  • Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, Angular4, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js,Vue.js, Ext.js, Bootstrap, React.js, Ext Js, React Native, Responsive Design, XML, XHTML, jQuery UI, Grunt, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM, DOJO, SOAP, REST, JSP, JSF, Jasmine, Oracle, agile and Windows. Front- End/UI Developer Best Buy - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, jQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Worked Closely with Designers to Understand and redesign the Package Customization and Service Locator Modules using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Built the application with Reactjs using redux with client custom architecture built over mvc4.  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication.  • Worked extensively with Yahoo! User Interface Library (YUI), AJAX, JSON, XML and created components based on WRIA frame work which internally uses the YUI3 frame work.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular2.  • Used React JS for creating reusable UI components  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Developing Frontend web applications using React JS, Redux.  • Implemented Node.js backed by Microsoft SQL Server database.  • Built a stored-procedure-as-a-service microservice that is generic: will take sproc name and parameters and spit out output or error from the database  • Employed Bootstrap to ensure responsive web design for desktop, tablet and mobile  devices. Utilized an agile development process with daily standups and Trello for task  management.  • Designed and implemented UI of shipping module using React.js and Bootstrap.  • Created websites for devices using Responsive design.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  • Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Implemented different jQuery Conditions as per the business requirements for the Package Landing Page.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Adobe Photoshop has been used to create different banners and designs.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Adobe Flash, Photoshop, CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Created HTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards along with Section 508 compliance for CSS as well.  • Built Model Android application's UI layout using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch along with EXTJS.  • Created new reusable Ext Js components.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Maintained, enhanced, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used REST, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Utilized Mocha for unit testing.  • Worked on developing products pages with Magento and PHP Scripting.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, YUI, Responsive Design, Angular2, Backbone.js, Require.js, React.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Bootstrap, Mocha, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, ECLIPSE, Photoshop, Flex, Dreamweaver, SOAP and Windows. Web Developer Simtech - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design the color theme based on client requirement.  • Design Company Website.  • Design Portals and other graphical essential elements.  • Creating Branding, Layout, Master Pages, Template and Themes design portals.  • Designing product based detailed demo presentation using Flash and MS PowerPoint.  • Creating Wireframes as per user requirements  • Based on Approval of initial prototype/concept, convert them into Visual Design Comps  • Design and Develop High Fidelity Conceptual Prototypes using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developing Rich Internet application Design for Document management design optimization.  • Design Brochures, Banners, and business cards  • Design Presentations for Client Meetings and Marketing  • Coordinated with vendors for Domain name and Web space registration    Environment: PHP (Windows and Web Applications), Jamal, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, In Design. UI/Web Developer Pramati Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed client-side GUI using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects  • Involved in development of Servlets and JSPs using Apache Struts framework.  • Developed user interfaces using Tiles with JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non-flash supporting devices.  • Implemented Form Bean and the Action Servlet using the struts framework.  • Used CVS (Concurrent Versions System) for version controlling.  • Used Eclipse 3.0 develop the Application.  • Performed unit testing.  • Created build script using ANT and deploy to different servers  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and consumed web services    Environment: Eclipse 3.6, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, TOMCAT APACHE. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Adobe photoshop (2 years), Ajax (4 years), Backbone (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Dom (2 years), Dreamweaver (4 years), Eclipse (2 years), Flash (5 years), Html (5 years), Html5 (2 years), Java (2 years), Java script (5 years), jquery (4 years), Json (4 years), Photoshop (5 years), Rest (2 years), testing. (4 years), Ui (4 years), user interface (4 years), Xml (4 years) Additional Information Skills:    Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Require JS, Socket IO, Backbone JS, jQuery, Node JS, ECT,D3 JS, Angular JS 2,4,5,6 React JS,VueJs, React Native,EmberJS, Bower, Grunt, NPM, Karma, ExtJS-MVC, Jasmine, Coffee Script, REST, SOAP, AJAX, XML,REDUX, JSON, Google analytics, Oracle virtual Box VM, Maven.    Programming languages and other Scripting languages C, C++, Core Java, J2EE frameworks. Python, C#, Perl.  JavaScript Libraries jQuery, MaterialUI, Angular material, PrimeNG, kendo UI.  Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, AWS, REST.  Operating systems Unix, Linux, Windows, MS-DOS.  Tools Firebug, DOM Inspector, Sketch, Photoshop, In vision,Google chrome developer tools, GitHub, Tableau.  IDE  Visual Studio code, Sublime text, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, MS Office, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Flash player, Adobe Photoshop.    Others  Microsoft Office, Waterfall model, SCRUM/Agile methodology, Requirements Engineering, Testing, Unified Model Language, User design, Wireframe Design, Layout Design, Responsive Design, Re-design techniques, Cloud Computing.