FULL STACK CLOUD ENGINEER - BOOTCAMP FULL STACK CLOUD ENGINEER - BOOTCAMP FULL STACK CLOUD ENGINEER McKinney, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FULL STACK CLOUD ENGINEER - BOOTCAMP Tech Talent South - Dallas, TX April 2019 to Present EXPERIENCE    FULL STACK CLOUD ENGINEER -  BOOTCAMP  APRIL 2019 - PRESENT  800+ hours, Over 1,000 applicants, only 30 selected into this bootcamp.  My focus is on Agile / Test Driven Development (TDD) to build out both front- end and back- end projects and deploy them from the command line. Rounded out my skill sets as a Full Stack Cloud Developer.     RECENT PROJECTS    Each project taught me OOP principles in Java and Javascript  applications. My team environment included: pair programming, agile development, git version control, and deployment. I also practiced presenting and explaining projects to stakeholders.    BACK END PROJECTS    • TWITTER APP -  Java & Spring Boot  Built a robust Twitter-like social media application with feed, posting, commenting, following/unfollowing and user log-in functionality. Used Hibernate/JPA for increased persistent memory.     •  CRUISE SHIP ACTIVITY APP - Java & Spring Boot   Created a full stack web application that tracks both On-Boat and Excursions activities for people on a cruise using MVC structure and Git, Cloud Foundry, and Heroku for deployment. Users can access the weather and geolocate their group members using weather/map API.    FRONT  END PROJECTS    • GIF API WEBSITE - Javascript, Jquery, CSS  Developed a web app with Javascript that uses an API to upload 15 most popular GIFs based on any keyword selected by the user. A button gets created for that keyword so user can have a ready collection of GIFs for any occasion. The GIFs don’t move until you select them.    • LIVE SITE - https://www.millenniuminspections.com  Paid to design a responsive fully functioning 7-page website:   for a local business featuring: 1.6 seconds load time, parallax scrolling, security plugins, and SEO optimization.  Included a Google Maps API, email, contact form, a landing page, and appointment scheduling software. Front End Web Developer/Designer Galvanize Design - McKinney, TX January 2017 to Present I build websites on the side while I attend BYUI-online for Front- End Wed Dev courses. I'm always looking to help someone with a good cause.     My website building methods take into account your entire sales process, how you interact with customers, and how to include a CRM (customer RELATIONSHIP database) that will help you leverage your relationships with your community in a genuine way that adds value to your neighborhoods.    I want to learn Gatsby, React, Node.JS, Sanity, BitStack for headless CMS applications See less    Freelance  HTML5/CSS/JS  MS Dynamics CRM  HubSpot Landing Pages  WordPress CMS  Gatsby  Photoshop & Affinity Freelance Digital Marketing Iceberg Marketing - Frisco, TX August 2016 to Present Ghostwriter for content and reviewed Moz.com reports to increase SEO Director of Client Care Living Well Properties - Prosper, TX January 2018 to March 2019 Built out Sales and CRM for realtors and developed recruiting campaigns to attract agents to our team    We've custom built a CRM sales platform with all the cutting edge tools to help our agents leverage their networking efforts to match up the perfect home with our clients as quickly as possible.    Focus on other back- end projects that set up our agents for success through a highly organized system of reaching out to our client base for a sale-cycle of 10+ years.     The logistics of building a systemized client-relationship building process is actually quite fun. Organizing your database to take action on remembering someone's birthday, reaching out to say hi "remember when" on their anniversary days, and organizing community events for charity such as a chili-cookoff are only activities that build value into the lives of your clients.     Building successful sales conversion processes in the right way will leave everyone feeling good about themselves at the end of the day. Freelance Digital Provider Marketing Group - Frisco, TX August 2016 to August 2017 Design high end websites including content, landing pages, and ad spend  For Facebook marketing campaigns Senior Recruiting Mgr All Medical Personnel - Irving, TX July 2012 to August 2016 Physician Recruiter. Top recruiter for 18 months. Built a powerful CRM,  effective email campaign, and sales reports to increase effectiveness  12 weeks, M-S, full-time, focus on Test Driven Development to build out both front- end and back- end projects to round out my skillsets as a Full  Stack Cloud Developer.    Emphasis on Java with Spring Boot projects Education BS in CS Web Dev in Computer Science Brigham Young University - Boise, ID December 2018 to Present Architecture & English in design University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT June 2000 to June 2003 Skills Java, Javascript, Spring Boot (Less than 1 year), Git / Github (1 year), Linux Admin (basic commands) (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Cloud Foundry (Less than 1 year), Heroku (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Jest (Less than 1 year), Agile / Scrum / KanBan (Less than 1 year), JUnit (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), JIRA (Less than 1 year), Pivotal Tracker (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Dynamics CRM (5 years), Wordpress CMS (2 years), Salesforce (1 year) Links http://github.com/GradyHodge http://www.linkedin.com/in/gradywhodge