Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer • Content Creator Tampa, FL I'm a full-stack web developer and freelance photographer. I gained experience in web development as part of UCF's Full Stack Development Continuing Education Program and I am self taught in photography. I love creating captivating apps/websites and I have a passion for continuing my education to consistently add new skills to my repertoire. I have a proven history of strong leadership as well as collaborating with others to get the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Marketela - Saint Petersburg, FL December 2018 to Present I have been working with the redesign of the paykings.com website as well as building additional websites from scratch with wordpress. Additionally, I have created ads, graphics, and HTML email templates for use in various marketing efforts. Web Developer (Freelance) Self Employed - Florida August 2018 to Present I work with clients to bring their website vision from idea to reality. This entails providing proposals, design samples, and finally coding a quality final product. I also offer web site maintenance for clients that do not want to maintain their own site once it's built. Content Creator (Freelance) Self Employed - Florida August 2016 to Present As a content creator, I make engaging content for clients and on the JasonGoesPlaces YouTube channel as well as the JasonGoesPlaces Instagram page. This includes capturing and editing short films using Adobe Premier Pro and Final Cut Pro, and utilizing Adobe Photoshop andLightroom to edit photography. Director of Social Media Parrish United Methodist Church - Parrish, FL June 2014 to Present As Director of Social Media, I review and analyze trends in social media used by other churches, collaborate with staff in preparation of daily Facebook updates, and review analytics to improve engagement with followers. Since taking over as Director in 2014, the Facebook page has grown from 54 followers to 590. Compliance Associate Revcontent - Sarasota, FL August 2015 to September 2017 In my time with Revcontent, I reviewed the advertisements submitted, to ensure they met Revcontent ad network guidelines. I was responsible for approving or denying ads accordingly and if denied, I emailed the advertiser to inform them which guidelines were violated. Additionally, my role required auditing approved ads periodically to check for continued compliance and collaborating with other teams to maximize ad placement effectiveness. Merchandise Cast Member Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Lake Buena Vista, FL February 2015 to August 2015 While on my Disney College Program I worked in merchandise at the Pop Century Resort. My duties included working a cash register, assisting guests with questions, providing quality customer service, and stocking shelves. This experience allowed me to utilize my problem solving skills in helping find resolutions to guest problems, as well as work as part of a team. Marketing Intern (Unpaid) River Wilderness Golf and Country Club - Parrish, FL May 2014 to August 2014 At River Wilderness Golf and Country Club I assisted with the creation of various marketing materials including newsletters, menus, and presentations through the use of the Microsoft Office Suite of programs. Education Certificate in UCF Continuing Education Full Stack Development University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership Carroll University - Waukesha, WI Skills React, Javascript, Front-End, Front End, UI Links https://jasongoesplaces.com http://github.com/jasongoesplaces http://linkedin.com/in/jasongoesplaces Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Node.Js, Express, JavaScript, jQuery, GIT, Github, MySQL, Firebase, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Materialize,  Media Queries, APIs, JSON, REST, AJAX, the command line    PROJECTS    aurora || github.com/jasongoesplaces/aurora  ? Compact mobile first front- end framework.   ? Designed to help developers design great looking front ends quickly and efficiently.  ? Currently In Development    Native Gear || nativegearfl.com  ? Online store for up and coming apparel company  ? Built with Wordpress and Woocommerce    Explore || the-explore-project.herokuapp.com  ? Travel app for helping users find unique local experiences in their chosen destination.  ? Uses Node.js and express on the back end and mongodb for the database.  ? Front end built with React.js and Materialize    OleOle || oleole.herokuapp.com  ? Web app for finding Major League Soccer stats.  ? Uses SQL as the database and Node.js/express for the backend.  ? Front end utilizes bootstrap and charts.js on the front end.    Of Mice and Men Podcast  ? Record and edit audio content using GarageBand and Audacity.  ? Utilize Libysn to manage podcast hosting and show notes