Sr. UI/UX developer Sr. UI/UX <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI/UX developer - UnitedHealth Group Austin, TX -  ? Overall 8+ Years of professional experience in Applications design, Development, Integration, Testing and Maintenance of various client/server, N-tier and web application and its design, us using various UI TECHNOLOGIES.  ? Professional understanding of Software development life cycle SDLC such as Analysis, Design, Development and Testing using Agile methodologies and Waterfall.  ? Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  ? Experience in developing User Interface applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 4, JavaScript, Angular 4, jQuery, JSON and AJAX  ? Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including Model View Controller (MVC), Event driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON and XML, Express.js, Ember.js, React.js/Redux and Node.js, Angular 2.  ? Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  ? Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js and React.js.  ? Have good knowledge and skills implementing Web/Enterprise architectures and in open source frameworks Struts, Hibernate.  ? Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and SOAP Web Services.  ? Experienced in Adobe Photoshop, InDesign and Illustrator  ? Good experience in development of Database Components (Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, queries constraints).  ? Knowledge on BASH scripting, Single Page MVC Structure, AJAX, GIT, NPM, SASS, Extensive experience in J2EE technologies like, Service Oriented Architecture & MVC frameworks.  ? Experience working with testing tools like Karma, Jasmine, Junit and IE Developer Toolbar.  ? Knowledge in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing  ? Strong working knowledge on WordPress, Joomla and Drupal CMS.  ? Experienced in using Front End editors like Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, NetBeans, Sublime text, Webstorm.  ? Always worked closely with system users and management personnel and gained reputation of loyalty.  ? Quick problem solving, and excellent teamwork and communication skills.  ? Ability to learn and use new systems and paradigms in considerably less time, solid communicator with exceptional team-building skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/UX developer UnitedHealth Group - Minneapolis, MN January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML3/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3, SASS and AJAX.  • Work closely with Product Owner and Business Team from designing phase on every level. Develop various ideas in order to enhance UI and UX experience.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux Libraries.  • Developed API to Integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, S3, CloudFront, including creating machine Images.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React.Js for DOM manipulation.  • Developed the modules for the whole system based on Model View Controller (MVC) using the Struts framework extensively.  • Developed Microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab and technologies for developing a scalable application.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Creating custom React.js components including accordion, navigation menu, dropdowns, sliders, buttons, etc.  • Used NPM, GRUNT for UI task runner and mastered in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  • Actively participated in Spring IOC configuration, Hibernate Programming, Maven setup and Junit Test Case.  • Closely worked with Application using React.Js and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Worked in using React.Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Preparing UI/UX documenting, maintaining and user training, experience on AGILE and SCRUM design methodologies for the every sprint planning.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Used React-Auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.  • Implemented HTTP REST API using Node.Js and React.js and extensively tested RESTful services using POSTMAN.Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements and used Node JS Express Framework.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Logging, Scheduling and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Created Node.js Express server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from AngularJS Front End to MongoDB Back End to provide chatting service.  • Has worked with Node.Js for writing code in the server side and creating scalable network applications.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Created UI templates and functionality to be merged with the backend REST/SOAP API for proper communication of front and back end to enable efficient working of application.  • Implemented services, controllers, directives, factory functions to properly consume API on the front end and send back data in JSON format to the back end by capturing in the UI.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with Grunt, Gulp for task runner configurations for minification, watch, jshint, jscs, css auto prefixes, Sass compilation, and bundling and test runner configurations and make it available as a command.  • Worked with unit testing of JavaScript applications using Karma, Jasmine, API mocker, Jest, enzyme.  • Designed Restful XML web services for handling AJAX request.  • Worked on source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA, and Jenkins for maintaining versions across various releases.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger.  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, React JS, Grunt, Express JS, Gulp, GIT , REST & SOAP (web services), POSTMAN, Jasmine, Karma, Source Tree, WebStorm, MongoDB, NP, CRUD, PL/SQL, JQuery, JDBC, Agile, UML, REST, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, GIT, GITHUB, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, UI/UX Developer Srinergy Educare LLC - Clarksville, MD August 2015 to December 2016 Description:Srinergy Educare LLC is an education firm and supplemental learning franchise. In there, Designed, developed, tested and maintained web-pages from concept (prototyping) to completion (final web elements). Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 4 and Bootstrap 4 beta.  ? Developed working prototypes from UI designs for cross-platform devices  ? Made heavy use of Chrome Developer Tools + Firebug to ensure front- end code and assets were optimized and high-quality  ? Worked on different Components including Checkbox, Button, Input, Icons, Dropdown, Toggle Button etc.  ? Worked closely with the UX Team to create a Custom Components Library using Angular 4.  ? Used Bootstrap 4 for Responsive Web design.  ? Used Reactive Forms Module with Angular for easy custom validations.  ? Developed reusable custom directives, components, pipes and services.  ? Performed automated testing like unit-tests, integration and end-to- end tests.  ? Used Web pack for code compilation and watch for file changes for automated build, code quality check.  ? Created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  ? Worked with the team of architects to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  ? Implemented continuous integration, configured Jenkin servers and nodes  ? Developed multiple Angular Applications using Angular CLI, TypeScript, Rx JS.  ? Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  ? Consumed Restful Webservices using Rx JS Observables and Behavior Subjects.  ? Provided web maintenance and enhancement.  ? Followed UI standards and Wave for 508 compliances.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, JSON, XPath, XML, Angular 4, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Swagger, JSP, JSON, Spring Boot, JIRA, Kendo UI, Tortoise SVN. Java UI Developer Polar IT Services - Columbia, MD May 2014 to July 2015 Description:  Polar IT Services is a high caliber, multi-disciplined technology company that offers a wide variety of IT services and solutions to address company's specific needs and goals. My basic responsibilities include helping collaboratively with testing teams and business partners to support testing and fix defects. Designs, codes, implements, and tests new features and modules for the post trade processing systems.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client side events like quick search.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and extensively used Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  ? Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript, jQuery and Backbone.js and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  ? Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages.  ? Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Used Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext.JS.  Environment JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Dreamweaver, DHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, DOM, DHTML, XML, Photoshop, backbone.js, node.js, angular.js, bootstrap, Tortoise SVN, Firebug. Front End Developer Staples Inc - Framingham, MA August 2013 to April 2014 Description:Staples is the world's largest office products company and a trusted source for office solutions, providing products, services and expertise in office supplies, technology, furniture and Copy & Print services. Responsibilities included are segregate issues by look at the business perspective provide estimates and solution through design, coding, testing and deliver.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of User Interface applications using latest technologies and frameworks HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript 1.8.5, and JQuery 1.9/1.1/2.1, AJAX, JSON 1.8.1, Angular.js, Node.js and REST Web API.  ? Designed front- end applications using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Experience in using Angular.js to build web components and Bootstrap for layout.  ? Developing custom HTML elements using Angular.js directives and compilation  ? Involved in developing and maintaining web & mobile application system using Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Experience in developing multi-tenant such as HTML4, CSS3 and Angular.js.  ? Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  ? Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, and JSON.  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard.  ? Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework using internal design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  ? Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks like SASS/LESS.  ? Debugged the application to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and its functions.  ? Participate in the team on agile development cycle and followed SCRUM methodology.  ? Performed unit testing using Karma.  Environment: HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript 1.8.5, JQuery 1.9/1.1/2.1, AJAX, JSON 1.8.1, Angular.js, Node.js, SASS, LESS, MVC, Bootstrap, Bower, Karma, Webstorm. Front End Developer FedEx - Phoenix, AZ April 2011 to June 2013 Description: FedEx Express invented express distribution and remains the industry's global leader, providing rapid, reliable, time-definite delivery to more than 220 countries and territories, connecting markets that comprise more than 90 percent of the world's gross domestic product within one to three business days.    Responsibilities:  ? Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  ? Hands on the process of development, testing and maintenance.  ? Participated as a team member in designing the user interface using HTML and CSS to make the interface use-friendly, especially child-friendly.  ? Applied jQuery validation plugin to validate the user input and to improve user experience.  ? Worked in form validation using JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.  ? Worked on JSON for data transform and page transform.  ? Implement the function of automatic Email notification referring confirmation, rescheduling and promotions through JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Conducted unit testing and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers.  ? Developed a script file in JavaScript and jQuery to handle the events that were triggered by the users.  ? Used JavaScript to link the website to the social websites with feedback features and accomplished the function of online voting for customers.  ? Used CSS/CSS3 to embed the online videos for product introduction.  ? Communicate with other members in the team to better understand the functional requirements and transfer them into technical requires.  ? Participated in building up the online chatting Q&A pop-up section as well as the feedback features using CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Designed the login system using jQuery.  ? Worked with other members in the group, committed code change using version control tool SVN and merge code from other developers using tool Win Merge.  ? Experienced debugging and solving cross-browser compatibility problems.  ? Participated in the maintenance of the website.  Environment: Core Java, spring, HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, MySQL, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, JSON, Angular.JS, JQuery, HP QC, HP ALM, HP QTP, SVN, Require.JS and Grunt. Software Developer Patrocinium Systems - Reston, VA July 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Working as a Full Stack developer using Node JS (Express and Hapi), Java and Angular JS.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker and GitLab CI. Whenever a new Gitbranch gets started, GitLab pipeline automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Designed and implemented appropriate ETL mappings to extract and transform data from various sources to meet requirements.  • Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB, Elastic beanstalk for theapplication on devices.  • Integrated Dynatrace error/ log tracking system to server, client as well as mobile applications.  • Worked with beacon SDK's like Estimote, Meridian and Alt Beacon. Developed, maintained as well as published mobile applications for store releases.  • Integrated Google Maps API, Leaflet API, Map box API in to web application.  • Good knowledge in Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets  • Third Party API integrations include Facebook SDK, GSON Library, Idology, Jumio, CardIO.Used ACRA, Crashlytics(Fabric) to facilitate crash reports and extensive device information.  • Implemented web sockets, async modules on the server for improved performance.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross- browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Installed and configured Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing  • Developed new Java programs with Spring MVC and Hibernate Framework to add new functionalities to the application.  Environment: HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, Apache Web Server 2.2, PHP 5, MySQL 4.7 Education BS in Computer Science and Mathematics West Chester University Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), AJAX (7 years), JSON (6 years), Front End, Front-End, UI, React, Angular, Angular, Angularjs, Java, User Interface, HTML5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS: -    Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/8, Unix, Linux, Redhat, OS X  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS3, SASS, LESS , JSON, DOM, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, ES2015, AJAX, Angular.js, React.js and Node.JS  Frameworks Bootstrap, Angular JS, React JS, Express JS, Node JS.  Languages Java, J2EE, and SQL/PLSQL  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Cassandra  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, AWS, Google Cloud, SOAP, RESTful  Design & Modelling UML, Design Patterns, Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose 3.0, and Agile SCRUM  Testing Tools/Methods Fiddler, Junit, Postman, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor  Build Tools ANT, Gulp, Grunt and Maven  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, and GIT  Tools/IDES NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Atom and JIRA.