Senior Front End/UI developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Front End/UI developer - Wells Fargo San Francisco, CA • Over 8+ years of extensive experience as a Front End UI Developer.  • Experience in designing User Interface UI applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Bootstrap, and AngularJS.  • Proficient experience in developing web pages quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX and used the JavaScript and jQuery plugin.  • Had good experience with ADA  • Good experience with Jasmine framework for Unit testing of JavaScript, Experience with Test Driven Development and Node.js.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, JSON.  • Extensively experienced in architectural issues and their solutions using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Session Façade, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate.  • Knowledge about technologies like Java, C#, JSP, Servlets, Asp.Net.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Good Experience with Chrome Developer Tools debugging, watch expressions.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FireFox, and Chrome.  • Good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation and full working knowledge of DOM.  • Extensive experience in developing cross browser compatible web pages quickly and effectively using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Strong knowledge and working experience with the MVC framework angular JS.  • Experience using version controls like GIT, TFS and VSS  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using Java Script, XML, DHTML, Ajax, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as AngularJS.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Strong understanding of SASS and Less as CSS preprocessors.  • Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA.  • Experience with Advanced jQuery concepts like live, delegate, event management, jQuery, MVC etc.  • Worked on custom JavaScript framework for a reusable AJAX application, and creating overall enterprise level UI AJAX strategy.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End/UI developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in coming up with strategy documents for using AngularJS controllers, directives, routers, services etc.  • Developing Web pages by leveraging AngularJS Framework.  • Involved in designing and developing webpages using HTML5, JQuery and CSS3.  • Creating React.JS / Redux front- end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  • Leveraged React resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Leveraged React.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React.js.  • Worked on React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, and Mobile web and Performance optimization.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front- end solution.  • Tested and applied the branding on a step by step procedure using Jasmine.  • Created custom filter in React JS in the application.  • Used services to read data from remote server using ReactJS. Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Created React.js for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using Redux.  • Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Implemented flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface UI using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and Java Script that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Fixed bugs, providing production support enhanced the applications with additional features.  • Involved in developing, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS. Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues  • Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Angular.JS, Node js.  • Experience in Web applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, social networking and mobile apps using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOM, AJAX.  • Involved in coding for webpages in desktop mobile and tablet and also worked on Accessibility part to make webpages accessible for keyboard and mouse users.  • Worked in an agile environment, and so developed and delivered user stories following Sprint  • Basis used Jira for tracking the stories, Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website.  • Used firebug lite, safari, IE with IE developer toolbar for debugging and integration Testing  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, React JS JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, W3C, DOM, JSON, JQuery, Angular 2, Jasmine AJAX, SVN, GIT JIRA, Clear Quest, Firebug, sublime, windows. UI Developer FM GLOBAL, Rhode Island - Johnston, RI November 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementation part of the project.  • Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and with client side events like quick search.  • Used angular, JQuery and java to connect with database and develop api's  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Worked on enterprise applications using JS MVC frameworks (Angular), Creating Custom directives and dependency injection.  • Developed Tabbed pages using AJAX with jQuery and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext.JS.  • Worked with waterfall methodology environment.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons.  • Involved in developing Web pages that are more user interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and JQuery  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using jQuery.  • Developed Registration/login functionality with extensive use of JQuery validations.  • Developed search page for the website with the integration of web Geo location in HTML5  • Implemented Date-time picker custom control using JQuery.  • Creating Custom directives and dependency injection.  • Used AJAX, JSON, JSP for implementing dynamic Web pages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing)  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Developed Tabbed pages using AJAX with jQuery and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user.  • Used GIT as the version control system. Performed merging (worked with branches), fixed conflicts and pushed code commits to server.  • Used jasmine for unit testing of java script. Worked on test driven development using Jasmine framework, for which written many unit test cases for testing the developed code, Before delivering the module for testing  Environment: HTML, CSS3, HTML5, XML, SQL, Adobe Dreamweaver, Jasmine XML, Bootstrap, Clear Quest, JavaScript, JQuery Bootstrap, Restful, SASS, JSON, MS Office, AJAX, Firebug, DHTML, Windows. UI Developer Angular Bootstrap - Dallas, TX January 2014 to October 2014 TX    Responsibilities:  • Designed web pages for Health care management service information using HTML5, jQuery, Angular Js.  • Built Web pages that are more user interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions.  • Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Participate in the team on agile development cycle, Followed SCRUM methodology.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework AngularJS.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Unit testing on every business logic. Experienced in using Jasmine for the unit testing.  • Performed Unit testing on angular applications using tools like Jasmine.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQUERY, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JIRA, sublime. Jasmine UI Developer DIRECTV - El Segundo, CA September 2012 to December 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Design and develop next generation web interface for metlife.com using latest web technologies like JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery UI Widgets.  • Designed a single-page website that uses a twitter bootstrap and Backbone JS for front end which passes JSON data back.  • Designed and implemented various UI features using Backbone JS, performed routing using Backbone. Router  • Part of the team responsible for building Insurance and Investment modules, Developed accordions for the website to simplify the work for the customer.  • Developed contact form to ease the work by performing form validation, auto-complete, form submission to enhance customer satisfaction.  • Ajax Requests for obtaining data which was in JSON format, Developed the print module of any page enabling ease for the customer.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone JS, AJAX, JSON UI Developer McKesson - Alpharetta, GA December 2011 to August 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed admin portal, web application using HTML5, JQuery Mobile, and CSS 3.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant and to give gradient effects, page layouts, navigation and icons.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases (Oracle) using JSP and AJAX.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Using Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular JS which consume JSON using MVC framework.  • Done the design, development and testing phases of Software Development using AGILE methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Have used the jasmine for unit test cases.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Jasmine, Angular JS, SVN, Eclipse, JSP. UI Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to November 2010 Hyderabad, Telangana    The project addressed financial services and products including retail banking, business, capital markets and corporate e-banking, mobile banking and web based cash management of universal banks worldwide. Front end includes web pages such as login, user profiles, user accounts, bill payment and viewing transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team, Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and also consumed web services  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  Environment: JSON, JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX Education Bachelor's