iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer Atlanta, GA Experienced iOS Developer with over four years of experience proven success in the industry. Skilled in leadership and starting projects from conception to delivery, enhancing existing projects with new functionalities. Words that describe me: passionate, focused, responsible. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience iOS Developer Mobile Consulting S - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to Present • ? Technical remote support for iOS developers.   • ? Help modeling new project with MVVM architecture.   • ? Integration of Jenkins, AVPlayer, Memory Management and ReactNative   • ? Migration of frameworks developed in Objective-C   • ? Develop UI/UX using, Auto Layouts, Constraints, Size Classes, etc.   • ? Develop of project for Shell Motorist.   • ? Build of connections client-server with RESTful architecture   • ? Integration of third-party libraries (MapKit, Crashlytics, Google Ads)   • ? Develop of OAuth Authentication, NSOperations and GDC   • ? Use of most of the iOS SDK tools (UI library, NS library, CoreLocation)  Sr. iOS Advisor Application Development CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ April 2018 to July 2019 • ? Project dedicated to the optimization and redesign of the app applying XP and Agile development   • ? Daily communication with all the iOS and web teams with the objective of strong unification between areas, reducing error margins and delivery times   • ? Paired Programming applying the best design patterns like Creational, Observer, Fac?ade with Delegation and Protocols, NSNotifications, Categories and KVO   • ? Migrations from Objective-C to Swift 3, 4.2 & 5, Xcode to latest versions   • ? TDD (Test-Driven Development) applied as best practice across the project   • ? Leader tasks across the iOS team   ? Preformed routine audits of the codebase for optimization   ? CocoaPods and personalized frameworks implemented since scratch   ? Worked remotely with Jr developers on occasion to facilitate fixing of bugs and other various issues   ? Build in QuickBuild for QA testing and delivery to the AppStore  Front- End Developer Ciudad de México April 2017 to September 2017 Built the structure of web pages for IdeasDeportes, ASMAS, mediakey.  Presentation of new sections for websites based on previous designs.  Building pages with responsive design. PHP Developer Ciudad de México August 2016 to April 2017 Innovation and support of e-commerce websites  Integration and automatization of Magento with the Seller Center plat- form.  Integration of Magento with the Google Merchants Center platform.  Websites innovations and daily maintenance.  Support and creation of new websites based on MODx CMS  Analysis and benchmarking for new projects. Intern CENTRO DE INVESTIGACIÓN Y DE ESTUDIOS AVANZADOS DEL INSTITUTO POLITÉCNI 2015 to 2015 Coding Watermarking Algorithms for Satellite Images on the Ground Segment Mexican Spatial Agency 2015 to 2015 This was part of a project dedicated to the optimization of a data section for the Mexican Spatial Agency. Worked in a migration of a watermark algorithm that  complemented the ground segment, this work done proposes security to the transport of images via network. It was applied furthermore the algorithms propo-  sed in scientific articles of reversible data hiding, where it is proposed by an oc- cultation scheme of reversible data based on the histogram limitation. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Universidad Politécnica de Victoria 2013 to 2016 Skills Swift, Objective C, Xcode, Storyboard, Objective-C Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cristianaaron Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages    ? Swift - 95%