Content Manager Content Manager Content Manager and Front- End Developer Saratoga, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Content Manager printehub.com January 2019 to Present Developing website and adding new features and functionality.  ? Attractive UI proven by Google Analytics: 96% customer retainment  ? Constructed and monitored web content using the high-profile CMS WordPress  ? Monitored and updated site content  ? Evaluated overall performance and report the status of technical builds  ? Identifying improvement options and introducing effective creative solutions  ? Secure quality of deliverables meeting functional and design specification    Skills: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Plugins, Telemann, Graphic design. Content Manager and Front- End Developer Broadcast Camera Batteries March 2017 to December 2018 Developed features and updating the look and feel of the e-commerce and marking website.  ? Customized, tested and maintained the landing site using Wordpress and CSS  ? Worked closely with Marketing team to contribute with best practices  ? Hand-coded marketing emails  ? Ran A/B tests  Skills: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Sass, PHP, Bootstrap, Photoshop Front- End Developer Wedbuddy June 2015 to 2017 Developed theme packages which are used to customize the web site of soon to be married couples.  ? Developed customer-facing features in React web application  ? Built reusable react code and CSS libraries for future use  ? Created responsive layouts/ themes  ? Responsible for updating website change theme  ? Proactively hunted bugs with browser devtools, ensuring the best UX    Skills: HTML, CSS Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, Less, MailChimp, Asana, Git, SourceTree Education Web Developer Certificate Golden State Technology Institute 2014 to 2015 Master Degree Buddhism karma shri nalanda institute for higher buddhist studies 1993 to 2006 Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Html5, Sass, Ajax, jquery, Jira, Wordpress, Photoshop, Dom, Front End, React, CSS3 Additional Information CORE SKILLS  Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  Technologies: jQuery, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, ReactJS, AJAX, JSON, DOM  Software: WordPress, Google Sites, JIRA, Photoshop  Methodologies: SCRUM, Agile, Asana, Waterfall