UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - 3M Austin, TX • Over 5 years of experience in developing web applications using C# and good knowledge of ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core and MVC and UI.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Extreme Programming, and Scrum.  • Involved in Various Projects EcommerceHealthcare and worked on all the Devices.  • Experience in designing User Interactive (UI) Webpages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help of HTML 5 and CSS3 and LESS and SASS, UX Design, Axure RP 7.0, Photoshop, prototype, style guides, pencil.  • Extensive experience in designing professionalUI web applications usingfront- end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap 3/ 4, Angular 4/5/7, React,ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Form, C#, .NET framework  • Novice level experience working with React-native /Redux.  • Worked on ASP.NET MVC (Model View Controller) with creating Controllers, Models and Views using Action Methods, State management.  • Created Reusable react presentation and container components.  • Implemented EcmaScript6 (ES6) arrow functions, constants, block-scope variables, class inheritance.  • Sound understanding of React VirtualDom, unidirectional data flow.  • Experience in Business Functionality Testing, User Interface testing, Unit testing, Integration Testing, Black Box Testing, End-to- end Testing, Manual Testing, UAT Testing, Regression Testing, Performance Testing, documentation and Reporting.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Good experience in cloud technologies like PCF and AWS.  • Solid expertise in developing Html pages based on DIV layout, W3C Compliance, Web2.0,Web Accessibility, Web Usability and Cross browser platform.  • Experience in designing various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widgets that support drag-and-drop, animated effects, data and time selector.  • Experience on working with mobile applications and using Ionic framework built mobile apps.  • Experience on working with CSS3 Animations.  • Strong experience and ability to code handcrafted semantic HTML and CSS with emphasis on browser compatibility.  • Experience with versioning tools like Clear case, Git-hub, Stash, Sub Version and CVS.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work attain project deadlinesunder stressful environments.  • Experience in Software life cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project. Work Experience UI Developer 3M - Austin, TX July 2018 to Present Description: The Project which is track the healthcare information from different Hospitals and health organization, our application will track them and provide those to different groups inside 3M, there are plenty of products which we use to track our application is one of the group called Client Data Portal, an Addition to that I work on Performance Matrix this application does show the Patient and Hospital and medical Organization details, we have clients across the country. Details are showed like Metrics and Donut Charts used D3 framework for these Charts.  We display the dashboard on the front end which will have the dashboards and clients and PMX Data and settings for Dashboard and Notification.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented functions and features using Angular 7 at client-side and Web API at server-side.  • Used PrimingUltima-7for UI Components.  • Worked on Data Ingestion on S3Buckets in AWS.  • Worked on backend Issues for Sorting issues using SQL Queries.  • Worked on SQL Workbench and created Liquibase Scripts.  • Working on JavaScript charting frameworks (d3).  • Created Donut charts using D3.Js and created Sankey and charts to show the metrics to the Clients.  • Developed application by implementing the Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular ui-router.  • Implemented client-side form validation, form view results using various components, services, pipes in Angular 7.  • Worked on implementing reusable components within the application for better efficiency and clean coding.  • Implemented more efficient and cleaner layout by using ngGrid, ngFor. Used Node.js package for all the build and development tools.  • Developed and implemented robust MVC pattern base testing with Selenium WebDriver which cut down the script development time in half.  • Created manual test cases for the application, written protractor test cases for end to end application.  • Used Angular 7HTTP Client to retrieve data through Web API from Entity Framework.  • Upgraded from Angular 5 to Angular 7 and also Upgraded Priming.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design for entire website.  • Created and utilized Web API methods for database operations (CRUD) through Entity Framework.  • Implemented Database First approach to retrieve and store data in entity models.  • Achieved Repository pattern in Web API side to ensure consistency.  • Worked on improving and debugging API functions using Postman and Jasmine & Karma for testing Angular 4 code.  • Used Postman for validating the API GET and POST Request.  • Used AWS for source code repository.  • Worked on Agile Methodology and used TFS for issue tracking and configuration management. Native Developer React - Lowell, AR February 2018 to July 2018 Description: This Project is created quality, consistent, standardized (Carrier and Drive), tested, maintainable code bases which allow for simpler feature development, minimal technical debt, and improved user support in the future. Better developer experience and happiness, better experience for all users, simplify feature development, and guard against regressions    Responsibilities:  • 100% Code coverage on critical components, using coverage collection built into project testing framework (i.e. jest).  • Took initiative in learning react native and went on to successfully develop various features under minimal supervision.  • Responsible for porting an existing web application into mobile view.  • Responsible for design and development of various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, date picker, push notifications, sign-in/out features, profile management and navigation using react-native.  • Experienced in creating android application using React Native, bidirectional data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX.  • Worked on Manual Test Suites.  • Responsible for porting an existing web application into mobile view  • Responsible for design and development of various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, date picker, push notifications, sign-in/out features, profile management and navigation using react-native.  • Effective problem-solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Motivated to produce robust, high-performance software  • Complete code base conversion to React Native with feature parity.  • Increased sprint velocity measured by TFS.  • Overall reduction in both memory usage and memory leakage.  • Worked on hamburger menu/logout functionality  • Native experience as opposed to hybrid (improved responsiveness, etc).  • Working on JB Hunt 360 Mobile app.  • Improved app store rating.  • Improved general responsiveness in app, window load.  • Support: Reduce time to resolution, overall volume, and number of unique issues.    Environment:React-native, native-base, android studio, Xcode, Genymotion, Visual Studio code, Atom, Web Storm TFS, ES6, JavaScript, React JS, Git, node.js, AngularJS 2/4, Web services, XML, SQL 2008, firebase, MacOS. Developer / Full-Stack React - Austin, TX July 2017 to February 2018 Description: This Project is focusing B2B Customers to process Purchase Order and Advance Notifications, Buyer host catalogs and seller host Catalog, catalog generations. B2B Logs will have all the information about how PO processed from scratch. Extensively used web methods to track and format the PO in different formatting like xml to cXML. B2B has lot of new customer's onboarding for that created a new App using React JS.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on ReactJS Using MobX in Dell E-Commerce Project.  • Developed profile creation micro service using aspnet core and mongoDB  • Developed CICD pipeline to deploy the application on PCF.  • Developed circuit breaker pattern for all the microservice to handle intermittent failures.  • Development was done on Agile methodology with rapid turnarounds.  • Experience with REST or SOAP Services and Web APIs.  • Developed an application to onboard New ERP Customers  • Worked on enhancing CMS Application  • Deployed the application on Pivotcloud foundry using .net build packs.  • Developed the CI/CD pipeline using team city and octopus.  • Developed the micro services for e-commerce application using ASP.Net core.  • Unit testing the code using MOQ and Nunit testing framework.  • Worked on RO Application for UI Changes and on Processing Purchase orders using Web methods technology. Developed CSS styles to preserve the uniformity of all the screens and to handle cross browser compatibility issues throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Tested and applied the branding on a step by step procedure using Jest, Enzyme and ReactTestUtils.  • Used various properties, parameters in ES6 and services to read data from remote server using ReactJS.  • Called the RESTful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Involved in Agile Ceremonies and interacted with testing team and business analysts for fixing Issues.  • Using Boomi to create Atoms, Molecules, and Atom Clouds.  • Experienced in working with Tools like SOUP UI, Web API, WCF, Postman, and Webtestpage.  • Worked on Federal Project using NSQ, NSQD consumed interfaces and got the Nugget Specs  • Created New Interfaces for different customers, and versioning the services  • Worked on SOAP UI, Rest API, Web API using endpoint.  • Used Bootstarp3 for frontend pages like Cart & Checkout RO pages.  • Created Federal project design flow and worked on Web methods, SQL JDBC.  • Created the Stored procedure in SQL server to populate the Business layer in the micro service.  • Integrated with SPLUNK and KIBANA for Elastic search for logs.  • Worked on Different SIT Environments, Production environments, Web APIs, WCF, B2B APIs.    Environment:ASP.Net, C#, MicroServices,ASP.Net Core, MTM, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, Jasmine, Mocha, Dell Boomi, Team city, TFS, ES5, JavaScript, jQuery, SOAP UI, Web API, Rest Services, NSQ, NSQD, Web pack, JIRA, React, webmethods, Git, ALM, node.js, AngularJS/ Angular 2, Web services, XML, SQL 2008, Windows 8/10 Front- End Developer Staples, IL August 2014 to June 2017 Description: This project allows the web pages to experience adaptive design. This allows for the pages to flex and optimize the screen based on the customer's screen size thereby displaying additional products and / or features on a page. The first phase includes the Home page, header and footer, Search results page, Vertical and Super category pages. Designed New Home page layout and Search Page Results. For cart and check out we have commerce server which will handle the cart, if we add to cart it will create an entity and it will create an anonymous shopper ID, so staples have guest checkout and regular checkout, once you reach checkout it will ask for inventory which will look for name address etc. TFS, GIT, Postman, Visual Code 2017 to 2017 Environment:Angular 4/5/6/7, PrimeNG Ultima, Typescript, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, D3.js, Bootstrap3/4, Java, Web API, AWS,Tortoise git, MS SQL Server 2016, TFS, GIT, Postman, Visual Code, Visual studio 2017. Education Master of Science in Engineering Management in Engineering Management International Technological University - San Jose, CA Bachelor of Technology in Electricals and Electronics Engineering in Electricals and Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) Skills C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, REDUX, JSON, ANGULARJS, HTML5, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQLITE, AJAX, ASP, DREAMWEAVER, ASP.NET, BUGZILLA, JIRA, ECLIPSE, jQuery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES5, ES6, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, C#, ASP.Net, Micro Services.  JavaScript Libraries Node.js, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5,React, Redux, React-Native, Native Base  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, JSfiddle.  Development Tools  Jira, CS5, Visual Studio2008/2013, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite),Eclipse, Illustrator, InDesign, Fireworks, Flash    Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office,UX Design, Axure, Photoshop, Adobe Experience Manager (AEM),atomic.  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla,internet explorer  Database MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle APEX (Familiar), SQLite  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X  Cloud Tools PCF, AWS