Digital Marketing Analyst Digital Marketing Analyst Front- end Engineer/ Developer - Digital Authority Partners Palos Heights, IL Work Experience Digital Marketing Analyst Digital Authority Partners - Chicago, IL April 2019 to Present · Create e-mail campaigns with previous campaign data in mind and schedule them to be sent via Mailshake.  · Create Newsletters via Mailchimp.  · Conduct research using websites such as Ahrefs and SpyFu to generate possible company leads.  General Documentation and planning with co-workers via Google Suite. Front- end Engineer/ Developer Digital Authority Partners - Chicago, IL September 2018 to Present • Work on Wordpress pages involving bits of PHP.  • General upkeep on the site, identifying bugs, making fixes, and testing with Git version control to ensure that  changes are satisfied. Social Media Intern -Private Wealth Management William Blair - Chicago, IL September 2017 to Present • Manages the LinkedIn profile of a vice president within the private wealth management department.  • Curate content, marketing, track and analyze data, develop message campaigns, and interact with potential clients  on behalf of the firm within FINRA compliance standards. Front- end Engineer/ Developer Innovadiv/ ChipBot - Chicago, IL June 2018 to August 2018 - Winter 2019  • Culminated knowledge of React JS frameworks as well and Redux.  • Involved in the redesign process of the website as a whole Front End Developer Intern Ricoh Marketing - Chicago, IL September 2017 to November 2017 Coded website modules from comps delivered by the UI/UX design team in an agile development work  environment. Edited existing code in HTML5, CSS and Javascript to update the website for compliant user  interaction.  • Construct succinct documentation for back end developers to integrate to the live website. Design Intern Idea Booth - Chicago, IL September 2016 to November 2016 • Designed and prototyped user interfaces for websites alongside the art director in Axure and Sketch.  • Created advertisements for our clients' social media outlets in Photoshop and Illustrator. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Animation in Animation DePaul University - Chicago, IL March 2017 Skills Adobe after effects (Less than 1 year), Adobe illustrator (Less than 1 year), Adobe photoshop (Less than 1 year), After effects (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Front End, Javascript, React Links http://babbott876.wixsite.com/careerportfolio Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Adobe After Effects Adobe Photoshop Adobe Animate Adobe Illustrator Balsalmiq  CSS HTML5 Javascript Node.js Hootsuite  Word Excel Powerpoint WordPress Axure  Sketch SPSS Salesforce LinkedIn Analytics jQuery  Google Analytics Git React Wordpress Redux