SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Remote SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Remote SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Remote - POLARITY.IO Portland, OR Work Experience SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Remote POLARITY.IO - Remote 2018 to Present • Built a SPA as an internal tool's platform with Angular.  o Utilized AWS API gateway and Lambda functions with the serverless framework for the backend.  • Built a CI/CD pipe with circleCI and AWS Code Deploy to facilitate product development.  • Designed and Implemented an RBAC system. SR. FULLSTACK ENGINEER Remote HARD CARRY GAMING - Remote 2017 to 2017 building online gaming community utilizing Angular 2, Angular material, Angular  Flex, ngrx and RxJS and utilizing GraphQL to query backend.  • Delivered Beta program on time with desired set of features despite taking on project when it was behind deadline  o Prioritized tasks and objectives to create congruent workflow to bring timeline on track  o Built data visualizations for time series data using ngx-charts SOFTWARE ENGINEER Remote MINDFLASH - Palo Alto, CA 2016 to 2017 position implemented code review process, unit testing strategy and oversaw transition from logging solutions providers  • Improved quality of individual contributors works by 85%  o Recognized lack of quality control of contributions submitted  o Applied code review process and introduced unit testing and linting  • Fixed logging solution to expand user ability from 1 competent user to entire organization being competent users  o Researched 3rd party logging systems and based on needs of organizations and functionality of programs  selected Loggly as partner/solution  o Wrote utility program that used Winston with Loggly transport to provide easy to use solution automating logs into Loggly  o Taught other team members how to use Loggly platform to dive through and query logs  • Implemented new analytics platform that was more cost efficient and overall more effective  o Introduced AWS kinesis as data pipeline between services and analytics micro service  o Wrote several utility libraries to make it easier for other engineers to add new analytical events SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Work MOOVEL GROUP - Portland, OR 2016 to 2016 within defined team while completing diversity of tasks, spanning many  technologies and languages.  • Wrote two utility packages to support team  o Identified that legacy system in place was unreliable and did not handle errors  o Introduced promises into code base for improved asynchronous control flow and error handling  o Wrote several utilities to improve quality of errors and logs generated by system  • Presented code review process  o Taught team how to write testable code and unit tests  o Developed team culture that valued writing tests  • Delivered purchasing system on time that produced a 95%-unit test coverage  o Worked with key stakeholders to break purchasing system out of deployment monolith and into micro service  architecture SR. FRONT END DEVELOPER AEROHIVE NETWORKS - Portland, OR 2015 to 2016 Worked with small team to rebuild existing cloud status page design  • Rebuilt cloud status page for team using AngularJS  o Completed project on time and meeting needs of company  • Worked with UX team to choose, implement, and integrate kissmetrics as analytics solutions provider.  o Evaluated several analytics platforms and assessed best fit for company needs and ease of integration SR. FRONT END DEVELOPER INTEL, HILLSBORO, ID 2015 to 2015 Worked with small team as only developer with some data scientists  • Developed platform with AngularJS that allowed Data Scientists to preform machine learning experiments  o Built "lab" feature that allowed data scientist to create and run experiments with machine learning algorithms and then view results.  • "Lab" feature was core feature of platform and allowed the project to stay alive within internal incubator at Intel FRONT END DEVELOPER Worked as part EBROKER SOFTWARE - Nampa, ID 2014 to 2015 of team to build and maintain Client Management System that directly integrated with healthcare.gov to allow insurance agents to sell health insurance  • Established continued deployment process by utilizing code ship and AWS beanstalk FRONT END DEVELOPER EVENT COLLAB - Boise, ID 2014 to 2014 Worked as only Front- End Developer on a small team of 3 people  • Completed Phase 1 on time  o Built several features for Phase 1 of project: PDF generation on client's browser, calendar with drag and drop  abilities, 3rd party calendar integrations, upload and storage of files on s3 from application, custom report  generation, and a time tracker for contractors    OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY, CORVALLIS, OR  28 HOURS COMPUTER SCIENCE Education B.S. in POLITICAL SCIENCE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY - Boise, ID Skills typescript (3 years), aws (5 years), functional programming (3 years), fullstack (5 years) Links http://POLARITY.IO