Front- end developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front- end developer - Walmart Labs San Jose, CA • Over 3 years of professional experience as a Front- end Developer in design, development, deployment, debugging and testing of various Client/Server, and Web-based applications.  • Expertise in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using ReactJS Experience in ReactJS and working with Redux architecture.  • Excellent in creating reusable component by using ReactJS.  • Hands-on experience with implementing AJAX in web clients to asynchronously communicate with server resources.  • Experience in RESTful Web services with JSON data formats communication.  • Hands-on experience with CSS pre-processors such as Stylus.  • Efficient in working with NPM, Webpack, to manage projects and Bower package manager to install libraries and dependencies.  • Experience in using Git as Version Control Tool.  • Worked in Agile/SCRUM development methodology.  • Highly self-motivated, dedicated, quick learner, great team player and adapt to any new environment and work on any project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end developer Walmart Labs December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the New York project for the new design of Walmart official website. As a member of payment team, implemented payment UI changes according to the new requirements on both web and app (IOS and Android). Also implemented ADA on both web and device.    • Worked on the Payment Redesign Project. Involved in the implementation of the payment new design, including credit card payment, gift card payment and wallet payment, fixed logical issues and added unit tests and automation tests.    • Worked in the platform team for Lazy Loading Project, lazy loaded payment wallet components, increased checkout app performance.    • Involved in the Checkout React-16 Upgrading Project, fixed UI, functional issues and failed automation tests.    Technologies: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Stylus, JavaScript, React, Redux, ReactNative, Enzyme, Jest developer Shanghai DareGlobal Inc June 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:    • Involve the website development, using HTML, CSS  • Hand coding of HTML and CSS to develop a web page.  • Coded page layouts using CSS in a table less environment. Managed and updated department's web resources with the prominent use of JavaScript. Wrote handler functions for the events on web page.  • Developed code for UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Environment: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science China JiangSu Changzhou University Skills Application server (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Html5 (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Front-End, Front End, React, Node, UI, CSS3, Jquery, Angular Certifications/Licenses Driver's License