Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer / Front- end Developer San Diego, CA Experienced front- end web developer with interest for innovative design and emerging technologies. Able to take ideas from concept to wire-frame to prototype to production. Highly motivated and dedicated front end designer with a keen eye for clean, accessible websites with semantic and optimized code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer TaxConnecions - La Jolla, CA March 2016 to Present Implemented enhancements and fixed bugs that significantly improved web functionality and speed.  Developed SEO strategy that resulted in top 100 rankings on tax blogs placement.  Implemented web standards for HTML,CSS, Javascript and PHP for the back end & wordpress blog.  Development of the first media kit for company projects, resulting in the increase of sales.  Developed numerous marketing programs resulting in leads for the specific services offered.  Designed and Developed multiple landing pages that grew the mailing list by offering an eBooks, reports and other freebies. Web Designer and Developer Vorticy Inc - San Diego, CA March 2014 to February 2016 Designed and developed user-friendly eCommerce website, including optimized check-out page that increased user clicks, and subsequently customer purchases.  Designed processes for cleanup and performance improvement, that minimized load downtime.  Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS media queries for mobile responsiveness. Web and Graphic Designer Lexicon Global - Chula Vista, CA April 2013 to January 2014 Website redesign to web standards.  Ensured accuracy of website content by thoroughly editing and cross-checking.  Coordinate email marketing campaigns and newsletters.  Promotion of website both organically and using Google Adwords.   Design detailed mock-ups for all screen templates, charts, and graphs.  Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of websites.  Creating content that converts visitors to purchasers. Freelance Graphic Designer freelance - San Diego, CA December 2012 to January 2013 Freelance graphic design Education BA in Web Design Platt College - San Diego, CA 2011 to 2013 Skills HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), User Experience Design (4 years), User Interface Design (4 years), CRM (2 years), Front-End, Front End, UI, Angular, User Interface, React, HTML5 (5 years), Bootstrap, PHP (2 years), Ecommerce (3 years) Links https://jaiimeriios.com/ Additional Information I'm Jaime Rios. I'm a web designer based in San Diego CA. Do not hesitate to contact me if you think I can be of service to you.