UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Daimler Portland, OR • Over 5+yearsof extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery MeetingW3C standards.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, EXTJS 4.0, and Require.js, Handlebars, Ember.js and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES).  • Extensive knowledge and working experience of web development technologies such as, JavaScript, jQuery UI, AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • Expert in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, and Flow of Future Pages.  • Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version, and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements, and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Expert in working with innovative front- end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, (X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML, AJAX.  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  • Well versed W3C standards.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Experienced in data driven-UI component where a single application serves as the website for multiple customers.  • Knowledge of databases such as MySQL and MongoDB that involve queries.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Protractor and QUnit.  • Expertise in working with kendo to develop modern web applications and easily combine with responsive apps.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Worked with Agile waterfall and scrum methodology.  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL web services Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Good knowledge in JavaScript testing tools with Moche and chai.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • An energetic individual, able to communicate effectively, to work collaboratively to resolve problems and to motivate team members as well.  • An experienced software developer passionate about delivering quality software products with thorough & rigorous testing and ample documentation.  • Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level and possess excellent presentation, interpersonal skills with a strong desire to achieve specified goals. Work Experience UI Developer Daimler - Portland, OR February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Involved in developing the Reusable templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, handlebars.  • Implemented UI by adapting Angular6 framework with TypeScript, HTML/HTML5 and SCSS.  • Built Angular 4 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Created AngularJS 4 applications using NodeJS.  • Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTful API web development and media queries.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4. Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various front- end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJs 1.x, Angular 2.0 and AJAX.  • Good hands on experience and knowledge on Redux and ngrx store to manage the State, Subscribing and unsubscribing the state changes and dispatching the actions in Angular 4.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters, and directives in Angular.jS.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS).  • Experience working with Redux for maintaining the consistency to run the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which are easy to test.  • Utilized version control tool GIT to communicate with other team members in to work on the same code-base in the repository.  • Used Grunt for building the project.  • Worked with agile technology.  • Used Rally for tracking the project.  • Involved in writing Test Cases using Jasmine.  • Managed projects with GRUNT task runner.  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review, and Trouble shooting.  • Designed and Developed automation script using Selenium Web Driver in Eclipse.  • Used LAMP to suitable for building dynamic web sites and web applications.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, knockout.js, Groovy, Grails, AJAX, Angular 4, Angular 2, TypeScript, Responsive Web Design, Node.js, LAMP, JQuery UI, JSON, Atom, MongoDB, Photoshop, ngrx, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS, LESS, Agile methodology, GIT, Eclipse and Windows. Front End/ UI Developer Direct Energy - Houston, TX September 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver innovative user interfaces and components.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and JQuery/ JQuery UI.  • Experience Developing Redux, NGRX, Grid Stack.  • Extensively used Angular2/4 with HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap to create rich User Experience.  • Developed Angular 2Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using ngModel.  • Used Angular.js for developing single page web applications.  • Used Angular 2for Client-side validations while rendering JSON validation errors in the backend.  • Good practice with the Node. JS Application in building the minified versions.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries.  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive Web design principles.  • Creating interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript front end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs, and design standards.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, and Illustrator for the front- end development such as graphics and multimedia's.  • Converted existing websites to Responsive websites.  • Used Jasmine to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives, and various parts of AngularJS application.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone JS and Node JS.  • Build service-based architectures and platforms using core JAVA, Servlets, JSP and Web - Services.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Worked with Node.js to give a structure with rich API over a RESTful JSON interface.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project, which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  • Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the JSP page.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation.  • Generated new and edited existing design with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic.  • Created web pages which are informative and yet very neat and interesting to look at.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, HandleBars, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Jasmine, Grails, Angular 2, Angular.js, MongoDB, Node.js, JQuery UI, JSON, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS and Windows. Front End/ UI Developer Genentech Inc - San Francisco, CA March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • The project is built upon the Single Page Application (SPA) criteria.  • Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • For new website features wrote Angular.js controllers, views, services.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Developing web kit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap.  • Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server-side code and implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development.  • Involved in Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls.  • Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery.  • Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application.  • Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Developed server side REST style web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Frequently met with the project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements, enhance the application functionality, and add new features.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Require.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery UI, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex, MVC, Rest Web Services, JSON, XML, SEO, MySQL Server, Eclipse and Windows. Web Developer Yash Technologies - IN July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using JQuery AJAX framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Generated UI mock-ups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash.  • Involved in implementing java-rendering framework, which manages the pages on the server side.  • Involved in developing the Validations across the application using JQuery Validator plug in.  • Participated in defect review meetings with the team members using Bugzilla, Firebug, and Google's element inspector.  • Involved in implementing the UI to support all the major browsers.  • Worked with partners and clients at every stage of implementation of the integration, for instance to gather requirements, finalize analysis, review completed implementation, UAT and sign-off.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, agile and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Git, GRADLE, GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Front-End, UI, Angular, Front End, Angularjs, User Interface, React, Java, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, Core Java, GUI, Responsive Web design, JSON, Gradle, Gulp, Grunt, SASS, LESS, Mustache, Python, Kendo.    IDE & Tools  Web Storm, intellij, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Eclipse, Atom, Edit Plus.    Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT, JIRA  JavaScript Libraries JQuery UI, Ext JS 4.0, Require.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2, Node.js, Ember.js, Bootstrap.js, knockout.js, Handlebar.js  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools Adobe Illustrator CS3  Data Access MY SQL, Oracle, MongoDB.