User Experience Designer (UXD, UED, XD, IxD) User Experience Designer (UXD, UED, XD, IxD) Product Design + Management - Open to new opportunities! San Francisco, CA Fantastic articulate storyteller with excellent communication and presentation skills both verbal and visual. Experienced both technically and creatively. Thoughtful decision maker that equally enjoys critically thinking about logic and analytics as intuitively and empathetically problem-solving. Thinks big picture, holistically and collaboratively.     Flexible and adaptable as a team contributor or as a leader. Ridiculously excellent work ethic with grit and perseverance. Extremely high EQ. I value authenticity, inclusion, and kindness. An incredibly positive person with a sunny disposition. Work Experience User Experience Designer (UXD, UED, XD, IxD) General Assembly March 2019 to Present End-to- end product design process; creating user-centered design solutions.    Discovery and User Research: site assessments, competitive analysis, pain points, and opportunities. What do users want? What do users need?    Strategy: Information Architecture diagraming user flow and site map, Business Goals and considerations, MVP mapping (defining the minimum viable product), and user personas, scenarios, user stories, and storyboarding.    Ideation: Sketch basic User Interface, Wireframe content, Mock-up with visual hierarchy and Prototype with interactivity. Artboard for multidevice. Taking an iterative approach.    Design consistent brand/style guides for digital web collateral (ads, web graphics, emails, and social media). Create beautiful products with typography, iconography, color, and layout. Full Stack Developer - Front- end Focused General Assembly November 2018 to March 2019 Built interactive apps individually + collaboratively using Frontend and Backend technologies.  Incorporated CRUD, Restful Routes and 3rd party APIs. Practiced Agile development workflow with stand-ups, continuous integrations, pair programming and maintaining version control.   Product development and project planning considered user profile and user experience.    PROJECTS:  •Video content analyzation app using AI, Machine Learning and Data Visualization  [Python, Django, Postgres, YouTube API, Watson API, Google Charts, Materialize]  •MERN single page web app, component based Travel Community Blog  [React, XML, JavaScript, Express, Node.js, Mongoose, MongoDB, CSS, Bootstrap] DESIGN EXPERT | FURNITURE SALES Crate and Barrel - San Francisco, CA August 2016 to November 2018 •Top seller: Outperformed personal $1M/yr sales goal, each quarter by 30%+ through excellent customer service, product knowledge and education; taking into account customers' scope and budget  •Consistently exceeded attach rate goals for value add products of design and financing services  •Created design solution visualization with mood boards, 2D floor plans and 3D room designs EVENT COORDINATOR | SOCIAL MEDIA Crate and Barrel - Austin, TX September 2014 to August 2016 •Built significant deferred sales and new customer relationships by planning, managing, and executing monthly off hours wedding registry events under budget with 10+ vendors, 30+ couples, and 6+ staff  •Improved store traffic and BOPs sales (Buy Online Pick-up in-store) by producing content for social media featuring current promotions, vendor + product demonstrations, and in-store events SALES TEAM LEAD | MANAGER Crate and Barrel - Austin, TX November 2015 to July 2016 •Managed 12 direct reports. Daily operations for 50-80 employees; coordinating and adapting schedules.  •Improved key KPIs; ATV, UPT, and Conversion through individual coaching and staff meetings.  •Revamped onboarding process; created plan, training docs and executed. Adapted by store thereafter. VISUAL MERCHANDISING | DEPARTMENT LEAD Crate and Barrel - Austin, TX September 2012 to October 2015 •Motivated purchasing, influenced rate of sale, and increased sales per square foot by 15% with creative  product placement and strong presentations of product groupings, utilizing lighting and signage.  •Analyzed sales data reports, inventory levels and time frames limitations to plan dominos accordingly OWNER | LEAD PHOTOGRAPHER Austin, TX March 2011 to September 2012 •Built website with Dreamweaver, blog with WordPress. Created marketing materials, products and albums utilizing Adobe CC (Bridge, Photoshop, Lightroom, and InDesign) as integral parts of workflow.    •Marketed via social media platforms. Strategized and optimized site content and image metadata for SEO. Improved with Photoshop and Lightroom utilizing Google Analytics metrics and Google Adwords. Education Bachelor's in PhotoCommunications [Photography + Media Arts] Department of Visual Studies, School of Humanities, St. Edward's University, Austin, TX - Austin, TX Skills Git, GitHub, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, Node.js, Angular, JSON, Python, Django, MongoDB, Mongoose, SQL, NoSQL, MySQL, PostgresSQL, XML, React, Chrome Developer Tools, Photoshop, Indesign, Dreamweaver, Lightroom, Illustrator, Premiere, Bridge, Web Design, Website Design, Web Development, Photography, Visual Design, Space Planning, Interior Design, Event Planning, Event Coordination, Social Networking, Leadership, Management, Sales, Operations, Analytics, Content Creation, Content Development, Content Management, User Experience Design, User Interface Design, Web Design, Website Design, Interaction Design, Product Design, Bootstrap, Material Design, Adobe, UI, User Experience, UX, Wireframe, Sketch