Operations Specialist Operations Specialist Marketing Manager, Front end Web developer, Product Photographer San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operations Specialist Juiced Bikes - San Diego, CA August 2018 to Present 1. Works under the Director of E-commerce, helping sales, shipping and marketing with any tasks needed.   2. Manages orders   3. Helps customer service with any customer related problems  4. Product photographer and web dev Assisted the Event Coordinator Quartyard SD, East Village - Guest Services June 2016 to Present with on-site events.  Facilitated line management and front door sales.  Provided guests with information regarding local events. Marketing Manager, Front end Web developer XTERRA WETSUITS/BOARDS/SURF - San Diego, CA August 2017 to November 2017 Created better user experience for websites.  Analyzed and created reports for retargeting advertisements and marketing.  Worked with department managers on developing sales and user experience. Marketing Asisstant Basile Studio - San Diego, CA June 2017 to August 2017 Created ecommerce store for developing business using Wordpress.  Assisted photographer with product shoots.  SEO/SEM, Copywrite. Server Hollywood Casino, Jamul August 2016 to May 2017 Greeted and served patrons at Loft 94.  Assisted with bar and kitchen operations.  Ensured customer satisfaction. Pacific Beach - Hostess/Busser/Food Runner Jinya Ramen Bar November 2015 to March 2016 Welcomed and seated dine-in patrons.  Managed all phone take-out orders.  Maintained a clean and professional environment. Photographer/Web developer CameraReadyCosmetics, La Mesa February 2015 to November 2015 Camerareadycosmetics.com  Assisted the marketing team with: social network, mail chimp, web development, graphic design, photography, SEO, data entry, and content editing.  Provided extra help with shipping and packing in the warehouse. Photographer/Marketing MAI Inc - San Diego, CA September 2013 to February 2015 Emitations.com / Crummybunny.com  Photographed models - aging from newborn to 25 years old.  Created hero shots, web layout, and designed banners for both websites.  Assisted with inventory and content editing for products on Amazon, Overstock and Ebay. Team member Togos - San Diego, CA October 2011 to June 2013 Positions included: Sandwich Artist, Catering, and Cashier.  Performed daily store opening tasks.  Prepared all catering orders. Education San Diego City College - San Diego, CA 2016 to Present Diploma Patrick Henry High School - San Diego, CA 2007 to 2011 Skills MARKETING (3 years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (2 years), SEO (2 years), ADVERTISING (1 year), ALOHA POS (Less than 1 year), Adobe (7 years), Customer Service (5 years), Data Entry (4 years), Excel (3 years), Editing (5 years), Graphic Design (4 years), Google Analytics (2 years), HTML (4 years), Illustrator (3 years), Marketing (4 years), Photoshop (7 years), Receptionist (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), Windows Xp (8 years), Word (7 years), Front End, Front-End Additional Information Skills  FTP  Wordpress  Adobe Suite CS6  Web Design  Basic Javascript  HTML / CSS  Microsoft Office  Photography - Camera & Lighting  SEO / Advertising  Social Networking  Aloha POS  Revel POS  E-Commerce  Product Development  Trello  Sharepoint  AIS Hotel Software  Sketchup  Shopify  Basecamp  Retargeting Marketing