Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Ally Financial Philadelphia, PA • 8+ years of professional experience in IT Industry as a Front- End Developer in Developing User Interface (UI) applications, requirements analysis, applications design development, integration, maintenance, installation, Integrating, Implementing the web-based applications and UI applications.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front- end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS 2/4/5, Node JS, React JS, XHTML, EcmaScript6 (ES6), jQuery, AXURE RP, SKETCH, INVISION, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, underscore.js, React Native.  • Strong experience in working on user interface applications and professional web applications using HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, React JS, Vue JS, Backbone JS.  • Experience in scripting languages like Angular JS, React JS, Vue JS and Node JS.  • Developed good responsive design approach modules by using Node.js.  • Developed and manipulated existing components by using Node.js.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Well versed with testing websites for compatibility on multiple browsers including Safari, Google Chrome, IE and Mozilla Firefox  • Involved in creating unit test cases using Mocha JS, Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as AngularJS.  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP & Restful) and java XML parsers such as SAX and DOM.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0 ORM with UI technologies like JSP, Apache Velocity Engine, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 5.  • Implemented layer using CSS Framework, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, Knockout.js, Wire-framing, and HTML5.Good experience with Angular JS directives ng-app, ng-unit, ng-model for initialization of Angular JS application data.  • Proficient in using higher level style syntaxes, LESS and SASS for advanced CSS features.  • Experience with Angular CLI designing and implementing AngularJS APIs, caching layers, and monitoring.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Knowledge of using React.js for building reusable UI components in client side.  • Experienced in developing web and mobile applications using latest JavaScript ES6 features and frameworks such as ReactJS, and Redux.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 (ES6) features. For build of JSX and used Babel, webpack.  • Experienced in working with Node.js and NPM modules like http-server, Martinique, path, Mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines  • Expertise in React Js framework to develop the Single Page Application (SPA) and working with React Flux architecture and creating reusable React Components Library.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites  • Experience in using React Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React Js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Expertise in React Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Experience in developing web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap and adapt to the changing environment.  • Used front end dependency management and packaging tools like Npm, Jenkins, Bower, Grunt  • Wrote unit and end-to- end tests using Mocha, Jasmine, and Protractor.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Involvement using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visual Studio, Web Storm  • Acquainted with full software development life cycle, Agile/Scrum, Waterfall methodologies and used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Experience in software configuration management using GitHub, Bitbucket, SVN, TFS.  • Knowledge in creating and deploying code on cloud platforms such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in writing complex database queries, stored procedures, and triggers using Oracle, SQL, MySQL, Mongo DB and No SQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Ally Financial - Philadelphia, PA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • With Team Lead for getting the requirements and developing the code to support new applications.  • Understanding of functional specifications and documenting technical design documents.  • Involve in AGILE Methodology and participates in SCRUM Meetings.  • Develop Robust User Interface using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, Custom Tags and XML.  • Experience with React Native framework in developing apps on cross mobile platforms.  • Expertise in React JS framework and integrate them to Node JS server-side code  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing the Reusable templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, handlebars.  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implemented end of end test with Protractor.  • Implemented UI by adapting Angular2 framework with Typescript, HTML/HTML5, and CSS.  • Experience in Node.js modules like grunt, bower, express and mongoose.  • Configured multiple websites on Apache http server using Virtual Host and reverse proxies.  • Wrote Angular interceptor for redirections of pages based on redirection keys comes from AJAX success scenarios and make watches on pending AJAX calls to load loader(spinner).  • Built Angular 2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component-based architecture.  • Maintain passwords, data integrity, file system security and SIP accounts for computing environment using Azure Active Directory.  • Experience with React Native framework in developing apps on cross mobile platforms.  • Expertise in React JS framework and integrate them to Node JS server-side code.  • Used JavaScript, Grunt.js and AngularJS 2.0 for client-side validations.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and AngularJS.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUIframework using AngularJS and HTML.  • A brief experience in implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in AngularJS.  • Developed web applications using ES6features such as multi-line strings, destructuring assignments, enhancing object literals and arrow functions.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using AngularJS.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS).  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using TwitterBootstrap and Media Queries.  • Designed Frontend within object-oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • Developed front- end view templates with Node.js.  • Used GWT, to develop and debug Ajax applications in the using the Java development tools.  • Used Agile process time-boxed, fixed schedule Sprints of 1-4 weeks, to deliver new feature quickly and frequently.  • Developed applications implementing Ajax Calls for Dynamic Content Loading.  • Managed projects with GRUNT task runner.  • Experience in integrating RESTful APIs and web services with applications  • Used MongoDB as cross-platform storage for load balancing, indexing and file storage.  • Used Jasmine to test AngularJS controller by built test cases.  • Worked closely with QA team performing Unit testing using Jasmine, karma, chai to fix  • bugs and experience on Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative andIncremental development, and Automate test using tools like Selenium andprotractor.  • Used XPath and POM to work with dynamic and static objects in Selenium.  • Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  • Designed and Created Database objects and Written PL/SQL programming fordata extraction and transformation.  • Created Custom Email Templates as part of sending Alerts to users based on the business requirement.  Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, React JS, TypeScript, Node.js, Ajax, Responsive Web Design XML, Restful API's, SASS, JIRA, XPath, MongoDB, Protractor, Grunt, Selenium, Jasmine, Git, GitHub, Apache Tomcat Server 7. Front End Developer Dish - Denver, CO December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS, Bootstrap with focus on user experience and compliance to standards.  • Used various built-in Bootstrap classes in achieving the desired look and feel of the web components and the Bootstrap grid system for maintaining responsiveness across all screen sizes.  • Handled the conversion of the existing project written in JavaScript/JQuery to AngularJS.  • Handled browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox and Chrome.  • Implemented client-side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script, AJAX and jQuery.  • Worked with the LESS preprocessor to rewrite the whole CSS.  • Worked with the Grunt tool for building the project on the front- end.  • Experience in working with No-Sql databases like MongoDB, Cassandra etc.  • Involved development of front- end components using the latest HTML5, CSS3, JQuery widgets etc.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Used AJAX and JSON to process asynchronous actions between front and back end, using AngularJS $http service.  • Implemented AJAX to improved customer experience, and reduce the data flows greatly  • Used AngularJS for event handling in UI pages to display list boxes and to handle validations.  • Worked with the AngularJS custom attributes for DOM manipulations.  • Worked with Spring MVC and Hibernate in the backend to build the business logic.  • Used Scala to express common programming patterns in a concise, elegant and type-safe way.  • Used React-Router to turn the application into Single Page Application  • Written and consumed Restful Web Service calls in both JSON and XML formats.  • Researched and experimented with Backbase for integrating into existing applications.  • Used Karma/Jasmine for unit testing the complete application.  • Experience in using JUnit in writing unit test cases for Restful Webservice calls.  • Webstorm and Eclipse IDE is used for development and Tomcat is the web server for deploying application  Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, Apache Tomcat, LESS, Gulp, Eclipse. UI Developer Bank of the West - San Ramon, CA August 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Fixed the browser compatibility issues in IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers  • Code on Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure. Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript to render the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application.  • Used jQuery in controlling access to different pages of the applications.  • Developed jQuery custom widgets to make easy the enhancement of the web pages.  • Extensively used jQuery selectors in accessing various parts of the DOM.  • Used Ajax and jQuery to update the parts of the Policy review web pages.  • Got a brief introduction of how AngularJS works.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented JavaScript promises functions as an alternative for callbacks.  • Worked with template engines like Mustache in building the templates.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Worked on creating and consuming SOAP Web services for accessing data from other external services.  • Experience in deploying projects on Web-logic using MAVEN.  • Used jQuery event handling in UI pages handle validations.  • Created jQuery custom widgets like date picker etc and other custom widgets.  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Web services using REST and SOAP, JSON, AJAX. Front End Developer TracFone - Miami, FL May 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS and JavaScript to desired design specifications for single page layout using code standards.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic web page at the user interface and adaptive free layout using Bootstrap.  • Designed and development of Web pages using PHP.  • Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner and focused on reusability and modularity using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Web Design and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Developed internal services using Java.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Included validations and created the form panel layout.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  • Responsible for cross-browser compatibility for which worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Performed Database connectivity and transactions and wrote stored procedures as per the requirement in MY-SQL  • Used Agile and Scrum development methodology.  • Collaborate with development team to address QA defects.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Developed cross-browser pages using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS, D3.js, MY-SQL, JavaScript, JSON, SAAS, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML Java UI Developer FedEx Services - Dallas, TX November 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS and JavaScript to desired design specifications for single page layout using code standards.  • Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic web page at the user interface and adaptive free layout using Bootstrap.  • Designed and development of Web pages using PHP.  • Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website.  • Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner and focused on reusability and modularity using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Web Design and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Developed internal services using Java.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Included validations and created the form panel layout.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  • Responsible for cross-browser compatibility for which worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Performed Database connectivity and transactions and wrote stored procedures as per the requirement in MY-SQL  • Used Agile and Scrum development methodology.  • Collaborate with development team to address QA defects.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Developed cross-browser pages using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.    Environment: HTML, CSS, D3.js, MY-SQL, JavaScript, JSON, SAAS, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML Java Developer State Street Bank - Boston, MA August 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  * Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  * Used JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  * Developed data access classes using Spring Framework's JDBC abstraction.  * Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis.  * Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Used SOAP UI for testing the web services.  * Web application development for backend system using Angular JS and Node.js with cutting edge HTML and CSS techniques.  * Developed Java application using Spring framework.  * Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries to retrieve data from the database.  * Created/Updated database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, function, packages  * Used JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  * Develop DAO design pattern for hiding the access to data source objects.  * Use Hibernate framework for the backend persistence  * Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and QC for bug and issue tracking  * Use CVS for software configuration management and version control  * Added methods for performing CRUD operations in applications using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries.  Environment: - Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability Testing, and SOAP Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), DOM (5 years), JSON (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, MAC OS, LINUX, Ubuntu  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, JSON, JSP, DOM, PHP, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services (REST & SOAP), Ecma Script 6 (ES6)  Version Control SVN, GIT, CVS, JENKINS  IDEs Worked on Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, ECLIPSE, Net Beans, Visual Studio, WebStorm  JS Libraries Angular JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, BootStrap, D3 JS  Testing Tools Jasmine, Karma, Chrome Developer tools, IE developer tools, Firebug, Mocha  Database MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle 11g, Mongo DB  Applications/ Web Servers Team Foundation Server, HTTP Web Server, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat Server, AWS.