Web/UI Developer Web/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web/UI Developer - Sysmex America, Inc Chicago, IL • Experienced as a UI, UX designer, rich user interface design, development, documentation, web 2.0 specifications, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, visual design, project and team management.  • 7 and half years of experience in developing the front end/web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSF, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Spring MVC and Angular 1.6/2/4, React JS, Backbone JS, Ext JS, Node JS.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  • Strong in developing Responsive Web Design to target Tablets, Mobiles and desktops.  • Expertise in developing front- end of the applications using JavaScript, CSS3, XML 1.1, HTML 5.1, Flex 3.0 and Angular JS 1.x, 2,4.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications using Bootstrap.  • Experience in using Bootstrap, Grunt and CSS procedures LESS, SASS.  • Experience in working in an Agile Development environment.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding and CSS Table.  • Worked with Node.Js for building chat application.  • Thorough understanding of React.js and its core principles.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using JQuery and also in making web pages cross browser compatible with Mozilla Firefox, Safari and GoogleChrome.  • Created web services from cloud point of view and was able to connect to Azure services.  • Good Knowledge on implementing User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Ability to write well-documented, well-commented, clear and maintainable efficient code for web development.  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications.  • Expertise in implementing the business rules in different layers like UI, services and backend database  • Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web/UI Developer Sysmex America, Inc - Lincolnshire, IL August 2018 to Present Description: Worked on an Application called Caresphere Dashboard which provides indicators, warnings and pertinent lab KPIs, historical performance metrics, multisite management capability Monitors system conditions (Instruments, productivity - TAT, benchmark metrics) to improve staff productivity. Delivers data for labs to make adjustments in their operations and improve profitability from single source. Web-Based application designed for: Lab Directors, Managers & Supervisors. Provides the views of Analyzer Condition/Status, QC Reports/BCQM Flags, System Status & Availability, TAT, Re-Run rations, Productivity.    Responsibilities:  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules for developing user interface application  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface), Generating components, routes, services and pipes, easily test your app locally while developing, Make your code really shine. Run your unit tests, your end-to- end tests with a simple commands.  • Involved in migrating angular code from angular 2 version to angular 4/6 versions with new features, updated the package.json and tsconfig.json files and Upgraded Angular dependencies.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new Router ParamMap, Animations, ngIf, Dynamic Components with NgComponentOutlet, TypeScript 2.1/2.2, StrictNullChecks, ng-templates, and form validators.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular 2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap, Node.js, and NPM to develop web-Based  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2/4 components for more responsive and less dependency and Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2/4 and typescript.  • Extensive use of use of Grunt & Gulp as a build tool for projects and using Grunt and CSS procedures LESS, SASS.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2/4/7 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes, and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT (TDD) and Collaborate with QA team to define test cases, metrics, and resolve questions about test results.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and Communication.  • Developed charts with data visualization libraries (D3, High Charts) and frameworks utilizing them to show data for labs to make adjustments in their operations and improve profitability from single source.  • Worked with the business analysts and back- end developers to gather requirements, improve application functionality, and add new features.  • Ability to communicate effectively, both written and verbal, with technical and non-technical cross-functional teams.  • Extensive experience working under Agile methodologies environment (scrum, Kanban),involving in sprint plan Work on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  Environment: Angular 2/4/7, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, SASS, AJAX, Visual Studio tool, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, bootstrap, Highcharts.js, Jasmine, Moment.js, Karma-test-runner, IE, Safari, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox. Web/UI Developer JPMorgan Chase/IBM - New York, NY January 2017 to July 2018 Description: Worked on an Application called Retail Structured Products portal, the goal of portal is to demystify structured products to our Retail Clients (financial advisors) through web experience with concise and easy to understand the product information and trading details. Include pre-trade, post-trade, and quoting modules.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the Web application layout and forms using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AngularJS 2/4, Bootstrap 3,highchart.js, moment.js, LoDash, Moment.js and jQuery.  • Developed multiple Angular applications using Angular 2/4, Angular cli, Typescript, RXJS.  • Upgraded all modules of code base from Angular 2 to Angular 4.  • Developed new user-facing features using React.js.  • Builded reusable components and front- end libraries for future use.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines;  • Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes supported by UX team.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  • Use custom components for code reuse across the application like Data-Grid, tables, etc.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view- controller (MVC) architecture using AngularJS Framework.  • Used AngularJS to decouple DOM manipulation from application logic.  • Implement routing and UI router with resolve callback functions in AngularJs  • Integrated highchart.js reporting component for statistical and historical information display.  • Working with Bootstrap twitter framework to Design single page application.  • Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Used GIT for version control and cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly  • Used karma-test-runner and Jasmine for JavaScript Unit testing.  • Worked on development of Java Web Services.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Using Eclipse Juno, Adobe Bracket, SVN, and Angular debugger and ng-inspector tools.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Worked on testing based on TDD approach along with agile methodology.  Environment: Angular 1.6/2/4, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, SASS, AJAX, Visual Studio tool, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, bootstrap, Highcharts.js, Jasmine, Moment.js, Karma-test-runner, IE, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox. Web/UI/UX Developer JPMorgan Chase/IBM - Durham, NC June 2015 to December 2016 Description: Worked on an Application called Engage Support which acts as an interface between the Customers and the company IBM where all the Products of IBM are sold across the Globe to various customers. As a part of the maintenance of the Application we are responsible for ensuring all the related information of the Business is displayed accurately.    Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Identified the business requirements and involved in documentation of the architecture and configuration details.  • Project development using Agile/Scrum Safe methodology, sprint planning, backlog, release planning  • Used functionalities to write code in HTML5, CSS3, Backbone JS, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend. Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Wrote various AngularJS custom directives and developed many reusable components and  • templates.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed various components using marionette Backbone JS.  • Developed the reusable templates and stylesheets within the UI Standards and guidelines  • Used XML Web services with SOAP protocol for transferring data between different applications.  • Used JDBC to query, update and maintain Database Servers using SQL queries.  • Used Angular.js to develop a standalone test application, in scope of future usage of the framework.  • Used Kendo validator for validating forms.  • Created Common files, global messages for the common usage.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using Kendo framework.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Responsible for creating dynamic server-side pages using JSP.  • Updated UI as per changing needs and requirements.  • Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plugins like date picker, bootstrap select etc.  • Bug fixes for existing software system and also software enhancement.  • Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IEDeveloper Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the Content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Developing client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating pages in Site Core and validating the HTML5 code with W3CValidator.  • Testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting technical problems.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo, CSS3, AJAX, Visual Studio tool, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, marionette backbone .js, bootstrap. Web/UI/UX Developer Schneider Electric - Rockville, MD June 2014 to May 2015 Description: Schneider Electric SE is a European multinational corporation that specializes in electricity distribution, automation management and produces installation components for energy management. It is headquartered in Rueil-Malmaison, France and is also based at the World Trade Center of Grenoble.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Gathering requirements for the project with Business Team.  • Developed Application using Agile methodology.  • Interacted with various stake holders (Business Team, User Testing Team and Clients) to finalize requirements.  • Developed Requirement Specification document (User Story in Agile) to articulate requirements.  • Setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features of the application functionality using Angular.JS.  • Used 'Testing' for backend test cases and 'Jasmine' for AngularJS test cases.  • Using Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Writing front- end code like HTML, CSS, JQuery for assigned User requirements using BackboneJS, AngularJS, and various other JavaScript frameworks.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angularjs directives.  • Code enhancement and bug fixes.  • Created wireframes, storyboards, user flows, and documentation and site maps to effectively communicate design ideas. Uses multiple UI UX tools and software to complete tasks  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Developed controllers, view/partials and directives for application.  • Used Jquery, JQlite and JavaScript for DOM manipulations.  • Widely resolved angular scope issues.  • Developed Angular factories, and used angular promise API for making async calls.  • Used angular UI-bootstrap and CSS3.  • Used karma-test-runner and Jasmine for JavaScript Unit testing.  • Worked on development of Java Web Services.  • Using Eclipse Juno, AdobeBracket, SVN, and Angular debugger and ng-inspector tools.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo, CSS3, AJAX, Visual Studio tool, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap. Front End UI Developer Lenovo - Morrisville, NC April 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Kendo UI Controls to support HTML5 Controls in all the browsers.  • Integrated some kendo widgets Date pickers, Numeric textboxes, Tooltips, Dialog boxes, drop-down list, Email, upload, grid etc  • Used Kendo data source for the server communication to save, update, create, read and delete.  • Created Ajax wrapper classes and helper methods for the global usage  • Used modular revealing pattern for project  • Used Kendo validator for validating forms.  • Created Common files, global messages for the common usage.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using Kendo framework.  • Involved in creating HTML 5 templates.  • Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Involved in the architecture discussions of porting the JQuery code to AngularJS.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js, and Ext.js, accommodate these advanced and fast technologies.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Going through User Documents and Design user interface designs, Wire frames, Information architecture flows and mockups.  • GUI Design and Development. (Page Layout Design, HTML5 Design, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo and CSS3 Styles).  • Established UX design as the first stage of all Web and mobile application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach.  • Work in cross functional team to develop timely changes to page content and design in c requirements.  • Testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting technical problems.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo, CSS3, AJAX, Visual Studio tool, Adobe Dreamweaver, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, bootstrap, Ext.js. UI/UX Developer Quixey - Mountain View, CA January 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Extensively used JQuery plug-ins, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MYSQL.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend Java, AJAX and JSON.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, OO JavaScript, Dreamweaver, SOAP, Shell, XML, Junit, IDE - Eclipse, Source Control -SVN, SQL, MYSQL, UNIX. Education Master's Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, Front-End, UI, React, Front End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Ext.js, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Ember.js, Kendo, LoDash, Moment.js.  IDE & Tools Eclipse, Aptana Studio, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Espresso, Sublime Text2, Text Mate, Microsoft Publisher  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator,  Version Control Perforce, CVS, SVN,Grunt  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD  Database PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X