Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Virginia Beach, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Patient Advocate Foundation - Hampton, VA May 2018 to Present At PAF I am a web developer. I am our only in house developer and I spend a lot of time bridging the gap between our business team and the other developers in India. In the past year I have launched several websites and widgets. As well as help clean up processes and promote effective communication. Web Developer GlynnDevins - Richmond, VA August 2015 to April 2018 Responsible for building custom, responsive websites on the WordPress platform. I work closely with art directors, copywriters, and account mangers to deliver pixel perfect websites. Front- End Web Developer Alynnlee Productions - Richmond, VA July 2014 to August 2015 I am responsible for all user interface development on web sites and tools.     I introduced all current clients to responsive web sites and add-ons for their websites. Also, I had the pleasure of teaching an intern how to create responsive sites. Web Developer I Inmotion Hosting - Virginia Beach, VA July 2013 to July 2014 I maintained and updated plugins and websites created via WordPress and OpenCart. I also participated in creating mockups and graphics for clients and gave walk throughs on how to properly use WordPress and OpenCart. Web Manager Office of Intercultural Relations at Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA October 2012 to May 2014 I maintained and update the internal website of the office while following university guidelines. Created graphics and documents for marketing office events. I was also responsible for social media marketing for the office and created promotional videos.    Accomplishments  I migrated a full HTML site into Adobe CQ content management system. I also, taught the managers of the office how to properly use the content management system. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA 2010 to 2014 Advanced High School Diploma in General Surry County High School - Dendron, VA 2006 to 2010 Skills HTML (8 years), SCSS (4 years), PHP (4 years), Wordpress (5 years), Email Marketing (3 years), Javascript (4 years), Teamwork (6 years), Photoshop (4 years), Sketch (Less than 1 year), Client Relations (8 years), CSS (5 years), Ruby on Rails (Less than 1 year), Git (6 years), Drupal, Jquery, Responsive Design (5 years)