Front End Web/UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web/UI Developer - Fidelity Investments Jersey City, NJ • Around 7+ years of experience as Front- end/UI/Web Developer with specialization in development, and customization of software applications, to deliver robust and scalable applications using Web UI.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Development methodologies like Agile, Waterfall etc.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using CSS 2/3, HTML4/5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, ReactJS, NodeJS, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Experience in developing Web applications using Responsive design, JQuery and its plugins.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications (RIA).  • Working experience with Node environment using Node JS, NPM, Grunt JS, Bower.  • Experience in responsive web design (RWD), progressive enhancement, debugging tools, cross-browser development, Document Object Model (DOM) and accessibility.  • Having good experience in developing an enterprise MEAN Stack applications by writing server side code with Node.js and Express framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front- end web pages designing with ReactJS.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with database.  • Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Experienced in using build tools like Maven and Jenkins.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React, Angular, to build high-qualiity, scalable and reusable components and Front- end solution  • Experience in Ember.js which allows developers to create scalable single-page applications by incorporating practices into a framework that provides a rich object model.  • Comfortable using modern JavaScript libraries like jQuery, Yui, Dojo etc.  • Hands-on experience in working with applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JSP,JSF and ASP.Net  • Experienced in using Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt, LoadRunner and NPM to test and build applications.  • Experience in using React JS, Web-Pack for SPA development  • Hands on Experience with Source code management tools like GitHub, SVN and Bit Bucket.  • Worked with Docker for convenient environment setup the test environments.  • Experienced in NoSQL database MongoDB and relational databases like Oracle, MS-SQL, MySQL databases.  • Having Proficiency in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views using relational databases like MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Eclipse, Sublime, Intellij, Notepad++ and Web storm.  • Hand on experience, analyzing and reporting bugs using bug tracking tools like JIRA.  • Self-motivated Team player with excellent interpersonal skills.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features.  • Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and Analytic skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs. Work Experience Front End Web/UI Developer Fidelity Investments - Jersey City, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used MVC architecture of Framework for developing web applications and to simplify the code complexity.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular4 framework.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular4, Node.Js,  • JQuery, Web pack.  • Implemented SPA by using several in built core directives, expressions and modules in perspective of Angular4.  • Developed a component that varies content based on the user's navigation by using router- outlet directive in Angular4.  • Implemented Angular 4 services to communicate with Express.js on the server-side in-order to perform CRUD operations on database.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Used Typescript as compiler to compile typescript code into JavaScript and used Typing to manage Typescript definition.  • Created REST clients to consume data from other partner applications and involved in creating POC's using MEAN stack and enhancing existing REST API's developed using Angular JS, Node-JS, Express-JS and MongoDB.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Worked on Node JS to improve all server-side logic, maintain centralized database, and ensure high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front- end.  • Involved in developing UI pages using (Angular 4) calling the Rest API from Backend.  • Involved in developing the web pages using (Angular 4) which are powerful in building the Single page web applications.  • Front End Layer was unit tested using TDD approach by writing Unit Tests of all components using Jasmine-Karma.  • Experience using Grunt for Front End Task Runner, Gulp, and NPM.  • Managed the code versioning and releases versioning through Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Developed tested cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Worked in Agile development methodology, by involving in daily SCRUM meetings, weekly Retrospective and sprint grooming meetings to keep track of the project status  • Used JIRA for tracking assigned user stories and bugs in current sprint.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Node.JS, Angular 4, Express.JS, SASS, Bootstrap, Typescript, JavaScript, ECMASCRIPT 6, Ajax, Restful, Rest API, Web Pack, NPM, MongoDB, Jenkins, Maven, GitHub, XML, SOAP, Restful, J Query, Agile, Scrum. Front End/UI Developer Broadway Bank - San Antonio, TX February 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Developed a responsive portal single page application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Webpack, JavaScript, Gulp, NodeJS, JSON, REST, SOAP, Spring, Oracle, Jenkins, JIRA, Source Tree, GIT.  • Developed applications visually using custom-built Lightning components.  • Created prototypes in HTML, Photoshop, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages.  • Involved in developing applications using Mean stack (Node, Express, Angular, and Mongoose).  • Involved in developing custom directives, factories and services in AngularJS.  • Developed Single Page application (SPA) using Angular 4.  • Writing unit tests in mocha, chai on server side and karma, jasmine on the client side.  • Used Underscore.js functions to manipulate arrays without extending any built in functions.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Creating TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Enhanced an existing Angular1.X application to Angular2 with TypeScript which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance  • Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Highly used Angular2 Router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Used web services SOAP and RESTful for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from back- end REST API as a part of JSON.  • Implemented React JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozilla, IE 7, 8, 9 and Safari.  • Used CSS Grid system for the layout of Application.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS and LESS).  • Created a POC on backend REST API services using Node JS and Mongo.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with AngularJS.  • Developed table less HTML (DIV and SPAN) in a DOM based architecture.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Used NPM, GRUNT for UI task runner and experienced in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach to UI development.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Angular 2/4, Backbone.js, Node.js, Responsive Web Design, JSON, XML, XHTML, DHTML, DOM, Photoshop, Oracle, Grunt, DOM, SASS, LESS, Typescript, Mean Stack, Spring, Webpack, MongoDB, Soap, Rest, Firebug, FirePath, Agile(Scrum). Front End/UI Developer Newell Brands - Hoboken, NJ February 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, and JQuery.  • Built an E-commerce prototype to serve as a proof-of-concept for a potential client with React and Bootstrap.  • Involved in creating reusable components by modifying bootstrap classes and using for creation of clickable prototypes.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and Dreamweaver CS3.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion (SVN) for version control.  • Developed Daisy interface using JSP, Ajax, JSP Tag libraries, JavaScript Tag libraries and designed web pages using XSL, XSD, XSLT, HTML, CSS, DHTML and client-side validation with JavaScript.  • Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using ReactJS and HTML. Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Employed popular design patterns like DTO, DAO, MVC and Singleton in the course of development for the E-Commerce application.  • Good experience in developing web applications with Single Page Applications (SPAs) framework using AngularJS 2.0, React JS, Handlebars and EmberJS.  • Used YUI library for building richly interactive web applications using techniques such as DOM scripting, HTML, AJAX.  • Implemented Restful web service in YUI Grid Data and YUI Menu.  • Supported the backend team in dealing with JSON data from Mongo DB database.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services.  • To limit page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction used MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and ReactJS.  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox (Firebug) and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Validated all the HTML/XHTML and CSS code according to W3C and made it complaint.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Angular.js, Angular 2, Backbone.js, ReactJS, Bootstrap, J2EE, Maven, Tomcat, Oracle, MySql, JDBC, MongoDB, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, SOA, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux. Web/UI Developer Lincoln Financial - Philadelphia, PA October 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement analysis and design phases to comprehend all technical assessments, and to participate in implementation with minimal errors.  • Used Agile methodology for software development.  • Participated in designing the overall three-tier architecture; and the Presentation Tier (UI) following MVC pattern, and data communications (RESTful Web Service) between Presentation Tier and Logic Tier; Java is used in multiple server-side integration; SVN is used for source management.  • Experience with JavaScript frameworks like ExtJS, AngularJS, jQuery  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML, CSS standards, with front- end UI team.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, LESS, AJAX and JQuery for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models)  • Designed single page application with Angular JS.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML, and CSS and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Worked on Angular JS for creating Custom Directives.  • • Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Package.json for managing the application required module dependencies.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery Validation Plugin.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.  • Responsible to maintain HTML, CSS in JQuery as well as keeping the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Later participated in the Testing phase in accordance with QA team, to help them to come up with best testing scenarios.  • Extensively participated in developing the website across different browsers and performed cross-browser testing.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Responsive Design, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, JSP, AJAX, Apache Axis, SOAP, XML, XPATH, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows. UI Developer Progressive Insurance - Mayfield, OH July 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Established front- end web application structure and UI layout using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap to implement responsive design for web application, with the help of CSS Media Queries to maintain larger style sheet.  • Used AJAX and jQuery to implement asynchronous functions and features, also used jQuery UI for Drag-Drop to make web page more user-interactive.  • Utilized AngularJS to build new MVC structure to set some custom filters and directives.  • Developed the application's presentation layer using JavaScript and jQuery Libraries.  • Used AngularJS AJAX calls (such as GET, PUT, POST) to transmit or fetch data from RESTful APIs which were created and provided by back- end team.  • Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Created AngularJS custom directives and made restrictions for the directive created.  • Used AngularJS to implement form validation and collection customer's data by creating AngularJS components such as directives, controllers, services and so on.  • Used HTML, CSS to design page layouts that can meet cross-browser compatibility for various browsers.  • Debugged JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug, Google Chrome JavaScript debugger and IE Tester.  • Used Jasmine with Karma to do unit test.  • Used SVN as the project version control tool system.  • Used Agile methodology for requirement gathering.  • Communicated with QA team to work in code debug, performance check and defects resolve.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Media Queries, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, jQuery UI, Angular JS, RESTful API, AJAX,  SPA, Firebug, Jasmine, Karma, JSON, SVN, Agile. Jr. UI Developer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript framework, which is wrapper on top of jQuery framework and AJAX, based UI Configuration widgets.  • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Managed and implemented all code changes via SVN.  • Developed UI and implemented for some plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Writing and implementing CSS throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Resolved various CSS compatibility issues.  • Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components, etc.  • Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintaining code integrity.  • Developed the search engine and performance optimized front- end (HTML, CSS, and JS) for business and ecommerce Website.  • Tested application on Internet Explorer 6.0 and above, Firefox and Google Chrome to achieve Cross Browser Compatible Issues.    Environment: HTML, PHP, CSS, AJAX, Apache, JQuery, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, XML JavaScript, Windows 2000/XP, XHTML, Dreamweaver, SVN.