UI developer UI <span class="hl">developer</span> UI developer - Verizon Communications Little Rock, AR • Overall 9 years of experience in developing professional web applications which includes front- end designing and hand coding with solid proficiency in usability, web and client/server applications.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON , Ionic frame and XML.  • Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, React.js/ Redux, Ext.JS, Responsive web design(RWD).  • MVC is one of the most frequently used industry-standard web development framework to create scalable and extensible projects.  • Experience in designing the interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs.  • Used Angular 4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM. Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Built new Angular4 components into the forms web application to provide support for animations.   • Designed new services using Dependency injection in Angular. Performed end-to- end testing using Protractor.  • The Document Object Model (DOM) is an application programming interface (API) for valid HTML and well-formed XML documents. It defines the logical structure of documents and the way a document is accessed and manipulated.   • Sound Understanding and good Experience of using the various JavaScript concepts like Prototypes, Closures, and Object-oriented features, Promises.   • Good experience in using the latest JavaScript framework Angular2 and worked with all its various concepts like services, custom directives, promises, observables and providers.  • Good knowledge on creating Ext JS components like Grids, Toolbars, php, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Strong experience in building Template-driven Forms and Reactive Forms using Ng Model Form, Ng Forms, Ng Form Control.  • Developed application using concepts of Single page application using MEAN STACK (Angular 4), NodeJS, Express.   • Experience in MVT frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, J Query and Node.JS.   • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Server-side applications.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) and Browser as package manager for installing backend and frontend dependencies.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services, PHP, Big Web service development and consumption. (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Angular 2 is an open source JavaScript framework to build web applications in HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in working with Application Servers including Apache Tomcat.  • Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Jasmine and Karma testing framework.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles, cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.   • Proficient in various version control systems GIT, Subversion.  • The newer version of Angular2 is based on TypeScript. This is a superset of JavaScript and is maintained by Microsoft.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.   • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, QT, C++, XML, CSS, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.   • React-Native is a framework, where Reacts is a JavaScript library can use for website.  • Involvement in using IDE's Dreamweaver, Notepad++, eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, Sublime Text& Web storm  • Develop/execution of automated scripts using Microsoft custom .NET framework in Visual Studio VSTS 2015.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and experience with Agile and SCRUM Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI developer Verizon Communications - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and using JavaScript frameworks such as Ext JS, Angular 2 and bootstrap.js.  • Designed the Front- end applications, And Mobile Application As well for user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Es6 JavaScript, React JS and React-Native/Redux Saga.  • Developed React JS pages, and Mobile Application Using React-Native Using Expo and Android Studio Web services calls, AJAX calls for the application.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Worked on Front end by using React.js For Web Application and React-Native for Mobile with Redux.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Worked with React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front- end application using React JS and REDUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Redux architecture for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Bespoke and Node.JS frameworks and environments structures for deployment to development, staging, and production servers.  • Instructed/orchestrated Node.JS/Socket.IO project in relation to real-time data parsing.  • Constructed restful API's in collaboration with backend Node.JS server and SQL database.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and for element styling.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance.  • Experience in working with Adobe Experience Manager (AEM 6.3), WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite used for rendering the Content on the pages.  • Involved in writing the Front- end Code for the application using ReactJs, also in prospective of the AEM (Content Management System).  • Created different Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, Workflows and Layouts in the AEM Site Admin to obtain the exact look of the Front- End Screens.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Involved in creating cq:dialog & dialogs for both Touch UI/ Classic UI.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJs and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux libraries.  • Used ReactJs to create responsive Design so that the website is compatible with different Devices like Desktops, Laptops, Tablets and Smartphones.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Redux, ES6 JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Redux-Saga, JSON, REST APIs, Firebug, Git, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Media Queries, Sublime, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux, AJAX, Adobe Experience Manager, Jenkins, Node package Manager, Unit test, Bootstrap, IntelliJ, Java, JSP, Servlets, JSON, JIRA. Sr. web developer Script pro - Mission, KS October 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the front- end website in HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS 1.6, in a responsive grid layout using Angular UI framework based on Bootstrap.  • Embedded new Media Elements i.e., video and audio files using the HTML mark-ups and used HTML file API for uploading local files from the client-side.  • Worked with Bootstrap framework making use of grids, advance components like Navbars, Pagination, Alerts, Progress bars etc.  • Developed a Smartwatch application using the Android Wear SDK for Merci, the mobile web application provided by Amadeus.  • Participated in the Amadeus Hackathon and developed a Cordova mobile web application based on personalized travel using JavaScript.  • Personal responsible for converting native iOS-built application in Xamarin for both iOS and Android.  • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Ext JS.  • Developed charting components using the Ext JS, charting for the data visualization.  • Good Experience in handling Ext JS Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON  • Work in an Agile team with 3-week sprint cycles Participate in daily stand-ups, sprint demos and retrospectives.  • Effectively involved in various stages of development of the project starting from the project planning until production and maintenance using Agile SCRUM Methodology.  • Worked with MySQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  • Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure Nets and subnets.  • Design the data model and creation the schema on SQL Azure.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using CSS, and AngularJS.  • Data-binding in AngularJS apps is the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components. The way that AngularJS implements data-binding lets you treat the model as the single-source-of-truth in your application.  • AngularJS commonly referred to as Angular, is an open-source web application framework maintained by Google and a community of individual developers and corporations to address many of the challenges encountered in developing single-page applications.  • Developed Web API using MVC framework for all business logic and exposed to the front- end interfaces.  • Create and maintain technical documentation on Open Systems infrastructure  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including Sql alchemy.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Extensively used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack; Developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  • Created AWS Config and built the tools to track the configuration changes and by setting the automatic Notifications using AWS SNS.  • Use node.js application built using Vue.js as the front- end framework.  • Used GRUNT for UI task runner and mastered in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project  • Create complex JIRA work flows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Debugged the issues in firebug for Firefox, web developer tools in Chrome, Safari and IE 8, 9, 10 browsers.  • Extensive experience on modern front- end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including SASS, jQuery, Angular.JS, Node JS.  • Tomcat is an application server from the Apache Software Foundation that executes Java servlets and renders Web pages that include Java Server Page coding.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Worked on building data center and Installed SVN, GIT, Jenkins images on CSS.  • Worked on versioning tools like GIT and SVN.  • Worked in Agile Development and maintained good level of communication in team going through all phases of SDLC lifecycle.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, angular4, Ajax, j2ee, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSON, RESTFUL web service, Apache Tomcat, Karma, python, PHP, Jasmine, SASS. UI/UX developer fueled - New York, NY September 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX to create a user login system that allowed customers to login.  • existing HTML website and updated content to be stored on the database instead of hardcoded into each page.  • Developed the complete layout of the pages of websites using CSS for multiple browsers.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Used JavaScript, Bootstrap for validation and for developing modules on front- end.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Used AngularJS framework to extend the HTML template language. Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Created custom AngularJS filters to provide better search experience, Implemented AngularJS client-side validation forms using various controls and filters.  • Utilized AngularJS in built directives for implementation also implemented costumed directives for the one's that is not available.  • Implemented AJAX to multiple aspects of the website to improve functionality.  • Used JSON to get response from server to check functionality of the websites.  • Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Used Backbone.js for Fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server. Captured the details and specifics of the website design via storyboards for prototyping.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ECLIPSE, jQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, MySQL, Pl/SQL, Apana web Studio, Notepad++, python, PHP. UI Developer Citigroup - New York, NY November 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Node.js, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Designed and built up the UI design and front- end programming for web application that matches the wireframes utilizing the most recent HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Developed front- end components using HTML5/CSS3 and Angular 4. Also involved in back- end in creating Web API with Entity Framework.  • Developed web applications using latest JavaScript features and frameworks such as React and Redux to build dynamic web pages.  • Worked with React-router, JSX, Babel, and React bootstrap.  • Used twitter Bootstrap for making responsive website architecture for changing screen sizes and gadgets.  • Worked closely with back end team to implement AJAX call to REST APIs and update dynamic functionality of HTML in Angular 5.  • Good involvement in actualizing MVC systems like Angular.js for AJAX information calls utilizing the $http benefit.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux libraries.  • Analyzed and parsed the reaction of JSON/XML to refresh DOM. Worked with the SASS/SCSS pre-processor to rearrange composing the CSS stylings.  • Used Node.js and Java to perform server-side backend tasks.  • Done unit testing of JavaScript applications using Karma and Jasmine.  • Supervised the daily set-ups and start-ups of production equipment.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Converted the codebase to use modern Ecma Script (ES5, ES6) using babel, typescript to transpile and webpack as a module loader and used reactive extensions.  • Proficient in Insite commerce CMS and Ecommerce modules of Sitecore.  • Created Many Pages in AEM and worked on L3 Pages creation.  • Develop and execute production schedules based on business demands.  • Used React.js with Redux to separate data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states.  • Designed, built and coordinate an automated build & release CI/CD process using GitLab, Jenkins, Nexus, and Chef on hybrid IT infrastructure.  • Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Integrated the frontend jQuery UI with backend REST API utilizing Backbone.js.  • Responsible for making the screens with table-less outlines meeting W3C guidelines  • Experience working in a fast-paced environment using Agile/Scrum, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc.  • Used Jira as a device for venture following and administration where we refresh the day by day undertakings performed.  • Used Git for rendition control and WebStorm IDE.  • Developed dynamic browser compatible UI web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed web application user interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Used the JSON in developing the front- end screens and also for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Created prototype and production-level object-oriented applications throughout software development lifecycle, including design, modeling, coding, testing, and documentation.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, jQuery, Ajax MVC, DOM, SQL, PL/ SQL, Oracle, Linux, Windows. Front end developer AT&T, Texas September 2009 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented a web app for storing the information of patients, generating reports, saving personal contacts and handling schedule management.  • Designing and developing websites on ASP.NET framework through agile development methodology  • Created initial wireframe sketches on paper then converted to interactive browser prototypes before delivering final project.  • Used JQuery for slideshows.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models) and created single page applications.  • Worked on UI components such as grids, tabs, and panels.  • Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application.  • Used Balsamiq wireframing tool for sketching my module and for creating layouts.  • Developed site maps and constructed wireframes enabling effortless navigation.  • Created custom Filters which can format data in different ways based on the requirements and involved in two-way data binding technique with styling from Bootstrap.  • Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Created several patterns of representation using different MVCs.  • Used RESTful APIs which support JSON and XML to access back- end data payload.  • Used SEO best practices to optimize site for search engines.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, DOM, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, SVN, Bootstrap, Balsamiq, Agile. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Florida Atlantic University Skills AJAX (9 years), BOOTSTRAP (9 years), CSS (9 years), DATABASE (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), Front End, Angular, UI, React, Front-End, Angularjs, User Interface, HTML5, Jquery, CSS3, Node, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Jasmine, XML, JSON, Media Queries, Responsive Web Design, CSS sprites, CSS grid.  JavaScript Frameworks Angular.JS, angular2, angular4, Node.js, React.JS, Require.JS, Backbone. JS, Knockout.js, express.js  Languages, Scripts JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Typescript  Frameworks Bootstrap  Tools SVN, GIT, Grunt, Gulp  Web Services RESTful, SOAP, XML  Editors / IDE Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual studio  Database: MySQL, PL/SQL(Oracle), Mongo dB  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, web logic.  Operating System MAC OS X, Windows, Unix/ Linux.  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, Adobe Dreamweaver, MS Office