CEO/Creative Director CEO/Creative Director Virginia Beach, VA Web Developer with 7+ years  of experience developing,  deploying, social media  marketing, strategies, web  courses, websites and other  digital products. Current on  the latest internet trends and  marketing practices, with a  firm grasp on Agile  Methodology and Practices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CEO/Creative Director Pod Dealer Network, LLC. - Virginia Beach, VA December 2017 to Present In charge of creating audible content for distribution on various platforms. Creates marketing plan which included all social media channels, newsletters, videos and more. A liaison between the Podcast(s) and potential sponsors. Pitching ideas to community leaders and local officials on how we can utilities each others platforms. Run analytics for each podcast and strategize ways to help them expand their digital footprint and their individual audience. Overall process improvement for each show.  Product Owner / Digital Content Administrator Senior Amerigroup - Virginia Beach, VA November 2014 to Present o Improved and maintained Medicaid and Medicare market sites by migrating them from SharePoint to an Oracle-based content management systems.  o Wireframe sites to ensure alignment and reduce migration time with Anthem or  Amerigroup markets.  o Product Owner for Anthem's Common Ground Initiative which covers 17 markets  currently.  o Develop content strategy in collaboration with Member Communications, Health  Promotions, Regulatory and Provider Communications to produce engaging web- ready content daily.  o Managed roughly 20 sites across 2 brands (Amerigroup and Anthem) to stay within compliance.  o Ensure web-ready content is accessible to those with disabilities.  o Serve as the on-boarding trainer and remediation coach to help train and retrain  staff; educated 7 employees to date.  o Certified Business Analyst as of 2019. Front- End Developer/Digital Marketing Manager Great Atlantic Sports Travel - Virginia Beach, VA November 2013 to November 2014 o Created and Coded webpages for a Sports Based Website  o Implemented a strategic marketing plan which included daily tweets and Facebook  posts as well as a bi-weekly newsletter providing game highlights and promotional  game packages for FIFA, NFL, NBA, NHL and MLS.  o Created website graphics utilizing Adobe Creative Suite; used Constant Contact to generate email campaigns for 1,000+ clients.  o Assisted in the management of the Google AdWords budget ensuring relevant and top producing keywords were selected for each sport.  o Managed partnerships with World Rugby, Rugby World Cup, FIFA, and all  Washington D.C. sports franchises as well as relationships with magazines such as World Soccer and Soccer 360. Multimedia Designer General Dynamics Information Technology - Chesapeake, VA June 2012 to November 2013 o Served as the lead web/course developer for 10 computer-based certification  courses used on the Defense Acquisitions University by Afghan Advisors and their  military counterparts.  o Designed course content using HTML/CSS, XML, Adobe Flash, ActionScript 2.0/3.0,  Photoshop, and Illustrator.  o Utilized Composica, a content management system, to convert books and PDFs into interactive web documents.  o Streamlined the U.S. Navy acquisitions process to include purchase history and accelerated the shipping process by approximately 1 week.  o Provided quality assurance assistance in Adobe Captivate on the U.S. Army PEO  Enterprise Information Systems including testing, troubleshooting, and running  courses through completion to check for code errors. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information ECPI University - Virginia Beach, VA March 2012 Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) March 2017 to October 2019