Product Integration Specialist - POS & E-commerce Product Integration Specialist - POS &amp; E-commerce Product Integration Specialist - POS & E-commerce Tampa Bay, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Integration Specialist - POS & E-commerce Certek Software Designs, Inc. - Dunedin, FL April 2018 to Present I work with various e-commerce platforms and credit card processors that work directly with the Artisan Point of Sale solution. Activities include customer communication, training, configuration of multiple software and web applications and online stores, and intermediate level database usage.    Responsibilities:  Planning, scheduling and completing remote installations including:  Configuration, integration, troubleshooting, and training on e-commerce platforms (Shopify, WooCommerce, Magento, and Zoey) and Artisan POS software  Configuration, troubleshooting, and training on Artisan POS software for existing and new clients  Configuration, troubleshooting, and training on scheduling, inventory, loyalty, and mapping integrations  Configuration, troubleshooting, and training on Artisan Software features  Creating and/or updating integrations manuals and internal training material  Customer service and retention Front End Web Developer / Owner MODALITY CONSULTING (SELF) - Tampa Bay, FL January 2018 to Present Modality Dev modern web design and development boutique will work with you one on one to showcase your brand-identity and sell your products online. We also offer web hosting, domain support and ongoing maintenance to your site.   https://modalitydev.io Administrative Assistant Morris Holdings August 2016 to March 2018 The position provided administrative and secretarial support as well as I.T and Accounting functions to the CEO, Owner, and various Stakeholders. This position required utmost trust and confidentiality along with the ability to prioritize and manage multiple high-level tasks and projects. Strong organizational skills required.     Responsibilities:  Process and maintain accounts receivable, accounts payables and bank reconciliations for multiple companies  Maintain and reconcile multiple banking and investment accounts.  Maintain financial records, multiple trusts and estate administration records  Renew and maintain fictitious name filings and annual report filings for multiple US companies  Assist in tax preparation for family/entities to include sales tax returns, tangible tax returns, personal tax returns and property taxes  Track CEO's personal and business expenses  Provided technology and creative consulting to the owner as needed  Maintain a clean and organized office environment ensuring office supplies are ordered and the office is running smoothly  Researched, analyzed and created summary and comparison reports on emerging technology and various topics for the CEO and Stakeholders  Interfaced with family members, Property management firm, Insurance agents, Accountants, Bankers, Brokers and Attorneys   Responsible for keeping all of the office tech functioning smoothly. Tasks include backup (local and remote), software and hardware maintenance, repairs and upgrades to NAS, mobile devices, computers, and printers  Responsible for planning and executing new and efficient workflows for managing and sharing of data through an internal network shared drive (NAS). Setup automatic backups over the network for office computers SERVICE CONCIERGE AT TESLA MOTORS Telsa Motors - Tampa, FL November 2015 to August 2016 Answered multiple lines during service hours, and returned all customer requests the same day. The position required strong organization, multi-task and follow up skills with the ability to stay focused in an extremely fast-paced office environment.    Responsibilities:  Coordinated repairs and service for a high volume Tesla service center for Tesla electric vehicles (EV’s)  Coordinated repairs and service for Mobile Service Technicians and Valet Drivers  Provided basic troubleshooting for issues such as pairing Bluetooth devices to the vehicle, arranging service for emergencies such as flat tires, vehicle not drivable, and other high priority repairs  Performed full vehicle intakes prior to service authorizations  Provided estimates for vehicle repairs, products, and additional service plans  Coordinated loaner vehicles for internal and external customers from the Tesla fleet PRODUCT DATA SPECIALIST E-COMMERCE AT TOTAL HOME SUPPLY April 2015 to November 2015 Project involved migrating data from the Volusion web platform to the Mozu web platform. Required basic HTML coding, database administration, and creative product writing. CUSTOMER SERVICE AT MAC OF ALL TRADES Mac of all trades October 2014 to 2015 Provided support for customers via phone, chat and email. Reviewed web order sales for fraud. Assisted with Ebay sales and support. Handled customer escalations and  managerial duties as needed. Assistant Store Manager Apple - Ridgeland, MS August 2008 to June 2009 Managed 25-30 retail employees keeping them motivated to keeping our customers happy, knowledgeable and the retail store profitable. Mac Genius Apple - Coconut Point, FL November 2007 to August 2008 Education CERTIFICATE in NUTRITION AND FITNESS PENN FOSTER CAREER SCHOOL 2015 to 2017 GENERAL EDUCATION DIPLOMA BARRON COLLIER HS 2003 High school or equivalent in Web Development And Design SkillCrush Skills HTML (2 years), BUYING/PROCUREMENT (Less than 1 year), PURCHASING (Less than 1 year), QUICKBOOKS (2 years), TRAINING (6 years), CSS (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Project Management, Wordpress, PHP, Jquery, HTML5, Scheduling, Outlook, Sales, Customer Service, Word, Microsoft Project, maintenance, budget, Estimating, People, Bootstrap, Front End Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/act6as9ddcuxns0d Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tg66d48to4lqtewd Email — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/luyomu9t7kr-kcjh Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rzyfplgqtx58x9bm Problem Solving — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fjjfqbgu82dlyqkv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Front- End Developer Skills: Html, CSS, Javascript, Responsive Websites, Pixelmator, Web Domains and Hosting, MySQL Setup, Wordpress.    Some experience with: Php, Ajax, Python, SQL, Postgres, Java    Miscellaneous Program Experience: MS Office, Modern Web Browsers, Windows, Mac OS, iOS, Slack, Github, Trello Boards, Monday, Airtable, and more    Creative Skills: Photography, Website Design    Volunteer Work:  Feeding America Tampa Bay   Angel Tree Organizer - Tampa Bay Humane Society    Referrals:  “Cher is an incredibly personable team leader who has a knack for anything creative and/ or technical. Her attention to detail and understanding of exceptional customer service provides incredibly valuable insight for any team. Her positivity brings out the best in people and her genuine desire to see them succeed creates a team atmosphere that consistently strives to achieve exceptional results.” — Rebecca LaFleur, Assistant Manager, Apple Store International Plaza    “Cher was hired by us to help manage a customer service staff. Her Apple knowledge and ability to work well with customers proved to be an asset. She has a good work ethic and is dedicated. Sherri carries herself in a professional manner with a positive attitude.” — Micheal Snyder, Owner Mac of All Trades