Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - SWINGCOMPLETO Chicago, IL Delivery and results-focused Web Designer/Project Manager with a degree in Software Engineering and 8+ years‘ experience specializing in JavaScript front- end development Work Experience Front- End Web Developer SWINGCOMPLETO - Bristol, CT November 2016 to Present Serves as a strategic thought leader and effective project manager tasked with building a modern, interactive  website using Java, Wordpress, and SQL - http://www.swingcompleto.com/.  • Involved in all aspects of planning and implementation, from needs assessment through to scope  definition, project planning, testing, scheduling, execution, integration, testing and monitoring.  • Worked closely with stakeholders to translate business requirements into technical specifications.  • Developed an expandable, revenue-generating website that is credited with diversifying revenue  streams and tripling on-line ad-revenues. Front- End Web Developer AQUENT & VITAMIN T- CLAIRE’S STORES - Hoffman Estates, IL November 2018 to June 2019 Works closely with the ecommerce, marketing and design teams to build the landing pages and emails designs in funtional products following the best practices to ensure maximum scalability. - https://www.claires.com/us/celebrate-parties.html  ·        Collaborates with online merchants, copywriters, developers, digital designers on concept creation to production to improve usability while optimizing applications for maximum speed. Also cooperates with the Back End Web Development Team to integrate necessary elements.   ·        Experienced with Sales Force Commerce as Demandware and Cheetah Digital as a cross-channel marketing solution.  ·        Strong communication skills to effectively collaborate with designers, developers, and other team members. Manage multiple projects and meet deadlines using project management tools like Asana. Web Developer Solar Topps - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to November 2018 Developed a website based in Wordpress with Bootstrap - https://www.solartopps.com  ·        Worked as a Scrum master in a small team and applied SEO on Page, SSL Certificate Installation in Dedicated Server with Debian 9 and Windows Server,Toolset for Wordpress  ·        Adapted to changing instructions and requirements. Web Developer CUBAN INSTITUTE OF RADIO AND TV July 2013 to April 2015 Developed and updated content for media broadcast websites, representing agencies across all platforms:  Radio, Television, and Newspapers in Bayamo, Cuba. Utilized skills in Agile software development, Scrum and XP; web applications with Hypertext Preprocessor, Cascade Style Sheets (CSS), Hypertext Markup  Languages(HTML), JavaScript and Relational Database.(MySQL and Postgre), PHP; demonstrated  experience in C++, C#, Java, ASP.Net, Node.Js, Linux, and Web Administration.  • Involved in SDLC program development for front end and back end solutions including security,  documentation, end-user training and user administration/privileges using Active Directory.  • Provided Web Administration, security and technical support in web sites (Wordpress, Drupal,  Symfony).  • Served as a key resource providing training and advisement on applications, systems, infrastructures and programs.  • Incorporated knowledge of Agile SP and SCRUM to optimize workflows and workstreams  contributing to increased efficiencies.  • Utilized experience in Adobe PhotoShop, Animation and video editing tools to design and edit  engaging web content.  • Accountable for the flawless execution and on-time delivery of complex cross-functional projects.  • Collaborated with the respective project teams, maintained project status and schedule, identified and intercepted potential issues and/or opportunities and ensured anticipated results.  Highlighted Contributions / Achievements:  • Designed, developed and supported web sites for press based on Wordpress Core:  http://www.cnctv.icrt.cu/; http://www.radiobayamo.icrt.cu/ ; and http://lademajagua.cu/.  • Recognized as a hard-working and innovative problem-solver with a passion for technology.  • Consistently met hard and soft deadlines and surpassed expectations, created detailed lists and metrics to minimize deviations in project timing, costs, milestones and validations. Project Manager CUBAN INSTITUTE OF RADIO AND TV September 2010 to July 2013 Designed, developed and tested web applications for multimedia file storage.  • Re-engineered subprocess in Recording, Edition, Storage and Files Transference in the local  Channel of Bayamo, Cuba, one of the first steps to change TV analogical to digital TV in the country  • Architected a solution that allowed users to download videos using Symphony 203 that reduced  download time from 2 hours to 20 minutes. Massive Broadcast Technician CUBAN INSTITUTE OF RADIO AND TV September 2010 to July 2013 Dually served as a Broadcast Technician accountable for the maintenance of computers (hardware and software), testing of professional edition in TV (EDIUS and AVID).  • Designed, developed and tested modular software to store data for TV.  Accountable for networking including the management of services in Local Area Network (DNS, DHCP,  FTP, SMTP) with Window Server and Debian Education B.S. in Software Engineering University of Informatics Sciences July 2010 Skills TESTING (4 years), FRONT END (3 years), JAVA (3 years), NETWORKING (2 years), ASP (1 year), Front-End Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Areas of expertise include:  Front- End Testing Software Implementations (SDLC) Back- End Validation Testing Agile SCRUM  Business Intelligence Client Relationship Management (CRM) Solutions Design Networking Infrastructure  Architecture Account Management Performance and Scalability Technical Documentation Quality  Assurance    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Proficient in MS Project, MS Office Productivity Suite, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, SharePoint, Visio, Outlook,  Google Analytics & Platform Metric Analytics, Proficient in Waterfall, SCRUM, Agile Development  methodologies, Webservices, Web Site Design, Microsite, Mobile & SMS Engagement Program Designs,  JavaScript, CSS, HTML, PHP, MYSQL, Postgre, SQL Server, C++, C#, Java, ASP.Net, Node.Js, Wordpress,  Woocommerce, Advanced Excel, AVID Media Composer, and Adobe Creative Suite.