DC - Software Engineer DC - Software Engineer DC - Software Engineer Work Experience DC - Software Engineer Republican National Committee April 2019 to June 2019 Maintained and added content to gop.com with Django web framework in an agile  ? Integrated Telium tag manager with gop.com for data annlyicial and advertising campaigns  ? Upgraded entire website to newer version of django framework DC - Intern House of Representatives October 2018 to December 2018 Answered phones and assisted constituents with concerns, ideas, and tour scheduling  ? Lead tours of the Capitol Building for constituents  ? Helped with general office duties including: mailing, secretarial, and delivering legislative docs Tutor (part time) College Nannies and Tutors - Blackhawk, CA February 2018 to June 2018 Tutored elementary through high school kids on physics, math, writing and science  ? Practiced different teaching styles on students with ranging needs and abilities Front End Web Developer Pixured Social Media - Fremont, CA August 2017 to February 2018 Built the Administrative website (from scratch) for Admins to edit and control content and deal  with user generated reports (with Angular 5, Typescript, HTML and CSS)  ? Gained Experience in a production and startup environment  ? Created many responsive animations and sounds to create a memorable User experience Fundraiser Event Coordinator Inpact International - Pleasanton, CA June 2016 to July 2016 Gained leadership skills managing fundraisers for 501c3 non-profits.  ? Enhanced marketing skills by communicating with hundreds of people daily  ? Learned sales tactics for non-profit institutions Decorative Painting Assistant Creative Walls - Walnut Creek, CA June 2011 to August 2015 Assisted master designer and learned procedural steps creating: faux finishes, Italian plasters,  paint and other decorative applications including job site and time management  ? Enhanced parallelism skills by working with other designers, masters and contractors Education B.S. in Engineering and Computer Science University of Denver - Denver, CO 2017