Web Content Specialist Web Content Specialist Web Content Specialist - John Hopkins University Hyattsville, MD A conscientious, efficient web developer with the ability to assess an organization’s needs and create a complementary, robust web presence. Experienced in all 5 stages of the web development lifecycle including: requirements gathering, planning, design, development, testing, delivery and maintenance. I have substantial experience with open source CMS platforms such as Drupal, AEM, and Word Press, the web development stack (CSS/JQuery/HTML), and modern design tools, including the full Adobe Creative Suite. Work Experience Web Content Specialist John Hopkins University - Baltimore, MD December 2018 to Present • Responsible for all aspects of the Alumni Association website, including content development using web authoring tools and CMS Drupal.  • Designs and builds new web pages, and redesigns layout and overall flow of website, as needed.  • Creates and implements interactive web features and graphics, including video and audio, to enhance overall user experience.  • Manages the collection, review and editing of all website content, and writes new content as needed.  • Serves as the central point of contact for website content management.  • Meets with internal stakeholders, including Hopkins IT, to gather system requirements and participates in the development and implementation of web-based systems that directly affect the Alumni Association website.  • Collaborates with the Office of Communications to ensure that website design and content is consistent with the University's branding guidelines.  • Also responsible for maintaining the online alumni networking platform, GoHopOnline.com, including user approval, site content updates, user support (log-in issues).  • Also acts as a liaison with the Graduway, the design company of GoHopOnline.com. Lifeguard MNCPPC - Glenn Dale, MD July 2018 to Present • Maintain the safety of patrons in and around the pool.  • Communicate and enforce pool regulations and rules in a personable and professional manner.  • Communicate any potentially dangerous elements of the facility to the supervisor.  • Deliver excellent customer service to all that utilize the facility and serve our diverse population.  • Participate in and help facilitate staff training.  • If unable to work, find a substitute and complete the substitution form.  • Perform patron surveillance using all senses while guarding.  • Work as a team with other lifeguards during special events.  • Record daily participation numbers and complete daily activity reports.  • Set up pool for various activities such as laps, classes, etc.  • Maintain a clean pool (clean area, notify maintenance, etc.). Web Developer/Graphic Designer Brown Girl's N' Pearls August 2010 to Present http://browngirlsnpearls.com    • CSS3/HTML5 Responsive Template  • E-Commerce Connection with Etsy and Square Cash  • Single Scroll UI  • Landing Page Web Developer ARC - Arlington, VA July 2016 to September 2016 • Designing, developing and maintaining the following websites using via CMS:  - http://www.arc.gov/  • Developed content in SharePoint.  • Manual migration of web content from HTML to CMS platform, including documents, PDFs, etc.  • Email template building using HTML5, and IBM Email Platform.  • Created Image maps for large projects and optimized PowerPoint.  • Analyzing content for spelling errors and SEO optimization.  • Reviewing HTML and CSS to ensure styling and layout are accurate. Front- End Web Editor TriTech Enterprise Systems - Hyattsville, MD February 2015 to September 2015 Providing customer support for content development and editing.  -http://www.dol.gov/  • Assisting with web development user interface/ front end design, including layout assistance.  • Updates existing copy/content development on government websites based on standardized requirements, site style guides, and best practices and assists in the development, documentation and presentation of content development standards and user interface style guides.  • Work collaboratively within small teams and contributes to group outcomes  • Provides regular status updates to inform government customers of project status, estimated completion dates and any other issues for management attention.  • Utilizing HTML5, CSS Foundation Framework and/or Bootstrap, JQuery, and JavaScript languages to provide support. Responsive design, Graphic editing, Social Media  • Creating Responsive E-mail Templates  • CMS developing and creating sites using Drupal 7  • Public Trust Clearance Web Developer/Web Consultant BluSteam - Washington, DC September 2012 to February 2014 • Developed vibrant, secure websites using interactive features and SEO best practices to optimize traffic, page views and the user experience (UX).  • Created online e-Commerce catalysts for small and large business/corporations  • Linked online purchases and accounts to a database.  • Served in a development team tasked to build mobile apps & sites Web Developer Z, Inc - Arlington, VA February 2013 to November 2013 • Responsible for maintaining front- end and back- end development of (3) websites.  • Trained and proficient using CQ5/Adobe Experience Manager (FDIC.net/DRR) https://fdicnet.fdic.gov/content/DRR/home.html  • Redesigned and programmed new internal FDIC Training site  • Maintained and updated FDIC.gov site (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) http://fdic.gov/  • Section 508 Compliance and Optimization of documents (i.e. PDF, Word, PowerPoint and Excel)  • Adobe Dreamweaver, and Photoshop, editing PDF, GIF, JPEG images, and layouts  • Obtained Public Trust Clearance Graphic Designer/ Developer Fort Belvoir, VA October 2010 to October 2012 • Developed, maintained, and managed OAA webpage using SharePoint.  • Created 508 optimized, templates, tracking sheets, and inventory logs in MS WORD, EXCEL, PowerPoint, and Adobe PDFs.  • Maintained inventory of supplies for staff within the office.  • Edited, enhanced, and manipulated photos using Adobe Photoshop CS5 Education Bachelor of The Arts in Graphic Communications University of Maryland Univ. College 2011 to 2013 Montgomery College 2009 to 2011 Links http://www.lordsoflayers.com/portfolio/index.html