Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Kasasa Austin, TX To bring my passion and experience in software development to an Austin company. I  work meticulously to meet and  exceed clients' needs and to bring effective cross-platform websites to life with clean, modular and scalable code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Kasasa February 2019 to Present • Built six bank and credit union websites in HTML, SCSS and JavaScript.  • Brought site build times down from 50+ hours to 30 hours with almost no onboarding training.  • Quickly assumed team lead developer role, finishing work ahead of schedule, training teammates on best practices to improve build times and reduce bugs.  • Worked in Kasasa's custom CMS to make website content accessible and editable by clients. Publisher / Midlevel Developer Charles Schwab September 2017 to February 2019 • Published frontend web content to 20 public and client facing Charles Schwab websites.  • Wrote custom Greasemonkey JavaScript tools to eliminate team pain points with Drupal, Jira and others.  • Maintained personal 90% ticket QA pass rate and helped team achieve goal of 90% ticket QA pass rate.  • Quickly assumed team lead developer role, finishing work ahead of schedule, training teammates on best practices to improve development time and reduce bugs.  • Voted September 2017 "rockstar of the month". Frontend Web Developer, Freelance Project, McDermott Solutions (Sole Proprietorship) Rajiv Satyal July 2016 to September 2016 Did all frontend work (HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, cross-browser testing) for a large WordPress redesign  for the comedian Rajiv Satyal, rajivsatyal.com.  • Took a photoshop layout from the designer, sliced the images out and coded the responsive website.  • Worked on a team with two backend developers and a project manager to meticulously meet the client's passionate  vision for a clean, modern, engaging, informative and humorous redesign.  • Helped with migrating all the content (hundreds of pages of content) to new site. Frontend Programmer Kasasa November 2011 to July 2015 Completed thousands of JavaScript, jQuery, HTML and Sass bug fixes and marketing tickets for client facing bank  websites  • Duties included troubleshooting and fixing content problems, responsive site redesigns, building landing pages and A/B testing.  • Wrote JavaScript and PHP solution to eliminate client pain points in scaling a vendor list.  • Wrote JavaScript modules to shorten development time in updating image galleries.  • Built pixel-perfect implementations of designers' website mockups.  • Participated in daily scrum check-ins and agile ticket planning Frontend Web Developer uShip February 2011 to November 2011 • Worked closely with designers and QA testers to continuously deploy new JavaScript, HTML and CSS layouts and user interfaces.  • Fixed bugs in large C# codebase.  • Coded cross-browser HTML email layouts.  • Helped implement internationalization project expanding support to seven languages.  Participated in daily scrum check-ins Frontend Web Developer S Collective June 2009 to February 2011 • Built e-commerce sites in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WordPress and Shopify.  • Was the sole developer on a small team creating beautiful and conversion oriented sites for small Austin businesses Education Masters in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Texas State University - Round Rock, TX September 2018 to Present Bachelor of Arts in Economics in Economics Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA September 1998 to August 2002 Skills Angular, Front End, Javascript, React, Java, C, C++, CSS3, HTML 5, Python Links http://markmcdermott.io