Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Client - Terafina Inc Fremont, CA ? Front End Engineer, with good experience in Web Technologies namely HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS/SASS,  JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, ReactJS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Grunt/Gulp etc.  ? Experience in all 5 stages of the Application Development process including: information gathering, planning, design,  development, testing and delivery and maintenance.  ? Experience of working in Agile based environment to run more than one projects simultaneously, handling  requirements from multiple clients, coordinating with offshore team.  ? Capacity to learn, create, support, or backing the presentation of the new and improved method, products,  procedures, or technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Client - Terafina Inc - Fremont, CA August 2016 to Present Project: Omni-Channel Digital Sales Platform, Status Portal  ? Developed web applications for Financial Industry and work on modules for Personal Loans, Vehicle Loans, Checking  Account, Savings Account, Credit Card applications, Mortgage etc.  ? Developed reusable components using ReactJS and Redux to create a user-friendly interface. Used Bootstrap  components and grid system for one of the websites.  ? Program and create tools, scripts for Application Platform to automate process.  ? Design and Develop working and functional applications using different technologies like ReactJS, JavaScript, ES6,  HTML5, CSS3/LESS, JSON, jQuery.  ? Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border,  margin, padding, and table.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Work with backend team to integrate front- end code to Salesforce with HTTP methods and improve user experience.  ? Create role-based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items change dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of JSON.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Used React-Google-Autocomplete to provide google address prefill functionality.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Create custom objects in Salesforce to support multiple fields on the UI side of the application.  ? Create dynamic templates using HTML5, Bootstrap, LESS, ReactJS to display to the content fetched from Salesforce  backend,  ? Worked on the CSS media queries for mobile and tablet devices.  ? Implemented jQuery-mobile plugin for the developing mobile pages.  ? Translating market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes.  ? Implemented the CSS using LESS framework. Developed responsive design using Bootstrap and LESS that supports  cross-browser functionality.  ? Developed validators using JavaScript and regular expressions for different fields in applications such as Date of Birth, Phone Number, Email Address, Amount, Name related fields.  ? Incorporated various jQuery Widgets such as Date picker, Dialogs, Tabs, AutoComplete, Spinner, Accordion and Tooltips into status portal application, which allows user to see statuses of different applications. Front End Developer Helios and Matheson Analytics - Santa Clara, CA January 2016 to August 2016 Project: Employee On-Boarding Application  ? Developed interactive pixel perfect web pages using web technologies like ReactJS, Redux, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Good knowledge on Accessibility (WCAG, 508). Extensively worked on creating mobile-friendly, responsive, new- age web design and development, requiring multiple device tests for each web project using progressive enhancement  and graceful degradation.  ? Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, File size,  readability, and accessibility.  ? Maintained, enhanced, and recommended solutions that best suited business and technology needs from UI  standpoint  ? Worked on JavaScript Remote Calling to send, restore and fetch the data from the server.  ? Creating and maintaining UI prototypes and specifications. Keeping up to date with the latest industry trends in UI  design and usability.  ? Translating market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wireframes and prototypes. Used advanced level of HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts. Front End Developer InfoSoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd July 2014 to May 2015 Developed interactive pixel perfect web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on Front end by using jQuery, JavaScript.  ? Good knowledge on Accessibility (WCAG, 508). Extensively worked on creating mobile-friendly, responsive, new- age web design and development, requiring multiple device tests for each web project using progressive enhancement  and graceful degradation.  ? Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, File size,  readability, and accessibility.  ? Maintained, enhanced, and recommended solutions that best suited business and technology needs from UI  standpoint  ? Worked on JavaScript Remote Calling to send, restore and fetch the data from the server.  ? Designed the mock-ups for the Web Pages using Photoshop, Fireworks and developed cross-browser compatible  Web Pages using Dreamweaver.  ? Improved the quality of traffic and promoted the site through web content development, search engine optimization  (SEO), and search engine submission.  ? Creating and maintaining UI prototypes and specifications. Keeping up to date with the latest industry trends in UI  design and usability.  ? Translating market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wireframes and prototypes. Used advanced level of HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Environment -jQuery, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Dreamweaver CS4, CSS, HTML, PHP. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA 2016 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Shivaji University of Kolhapur - Kolhapur, Maharashtra 2014 Skills AngularJS (3 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (4 years), HTML5 (3 years), JavaScript (4 years), JIRA (Less than 1 year), jQuery. (3 years), JSON (4 years), Front End (4 years), Front-End, Jquery (2 years), React (3 years), Angular (3 years), UI (4 years), CSS3, Node, User Interface Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS/SCSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, NodeJS, React, ExpressJS,  AngularJS, Angular-Formly, AJAX, Grunt, Gulp, Webpack, ESLint, RESTful  • IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Sublime Text, MavensMate, Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Android Studio, WebStorm,  JIRA, Git/Bitbucket, SourceTree, CRM: Salesforce  • Designing Tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, Sketch  • Languages: JavaScript, Python, C, C++  • Version Control: CVS, SVN, Git  • Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools, React Developer Tools  • Databases / Servers: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB, Apache, Tomcat, Salesforce