Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Charlotte, NC Full stack developer with 3+ years experience in web development. My experience expands to architect and designing of new upcoming project. Self starter and precision coding, debugging, integration, user testing, and problem-solving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Unique USA Inc July 2018 to Present Unique USA Inc is one of the leading Rug Manufacturer in the world. Producing over thousands of order each day.  • Managing and development of UniqueLoom.com'  • Development of RugBox Kiosk Platform  • Developed and integrated 3rd party API for use in project  • Built Custom Web API  • VueJs Framework along with Webpack 4 bundles  • Precision in Razor C# syntax, HTML, CSS & CSS Preprocessor, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap   • Built Custom Reporting tool with sort, filter, and search  • Practice OOP concepts  • Query with MS SQL server and built query string  • Development consist of MVC Asp.Net and Entity Framework for all project  • TFS and AzureDevOps and Deployment Front- End Developer PIEtech, Inc - Powhatan, VA April 2016 to July 2018 Collaborate with team members to produce production code for MoneyGuidePro, MyMoney, and financial blocks.  • Translate mockups into front- end code.  • UI and UX design  • Troubleshooting and problem solving.  • Repos used are TortoiseHG and JIRA  • Remain current on all topics related to web and UX design.  Skills  • Javascript and jQuery  • Highchart  • KnockoutJs and Aurelia NodeJs  • Html, Css, Css Preprocessor: Less & Sass  • Cross-platform and cross-browser development  • MVC, C#, ASP.Net Razor  • Accessibility Software Developer The Guthrie Group - Account & Financial - Greensboro, NC March 2016 to April 2016 Part of a small team to create enhance features for VF Jeans client.  • Developed and integrated using MVC Asp.Net, Entity Framework, C#, Linq  • Responsible for design and testing UI and UX designs  • Modified and enhanced UI using Razor C# syntax, HTML, CSS, JQuery  • Server call are using AJAX to call to controller to retrieve existing data source  • Git Receptionist Tech Support CSL Plasma - Charlotte, NC August 2012 to January 2016 Customer focused and administrative duties.  ? Obtaining patient/donor vitals, hematocrit, and protein levels as required by medical and federal guidelines.  ? Determining patient/donor suitability by thorough review of personal medical history.  * Processing Tech/Designated Trainer:  ? Maintaining and performing equipment calibration and validation.  ? Following cGMPs by labeling and verifying daily collection of blood product for accurate traceability with aseptic procedures in a lab environment.  ? Managing and maintaining temperature controlled inventory of blood product.  ? Designated Trainer: Daily procedures, calibration, essential cleaning, and collecting of daily plasma. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of North Carolina at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC 2012 to 2015 High School diploma Independence High School 2006 to 2010 Links http://github.com/ayang10 http://stackoverflow.com/users/7512960/monkey-dev1400 Additional Information React Native App on Google Play Store - PLWilks