Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer Stamford, CT Work Experience Front- End Web Developer greenLITE Systems, Abuja - NG December 2012 to August 2018 • Designed MySQL database and user management system for utility billing and revenue collection  • Improved website speed by optimizing images, minimizing redirects and eliminating redundant SQL  queries.  • Minimized dependency on external CSS libraries by designing custom stylesheets  • Minified web pages to reduce page sizes and load time. (load time reduced by 50% between Q3 of 2017 and Q1 of 2018).  • Integrated an API for a third-party payment solution using JS and designed an auto-calculator for fee  deductions with specified UCL and LCL per transaction value.  • Designed a CMS for monitoring transactions with specific MySQL queries to perform quick sorting and filtering. IT Manager / Front- End Web Developer New Canaan, CT May 2017 to June 2018 • Designed php based CMS for bulk processing of dynamic WordPress pages  • Managed Site Analytics and Ads tracking with Google Tag Manager and Google AdWords  • Optimized and managed MySQL database for a membership directory.  • Implemented google maps API for a geolocation functionality and customized its UI using JS.  • Designed custom reusable themes to match client specifications using CSS3 and LESS.  • Developed custom HTML5 email templates for clients marketing campaigns.  • Converted Adobe XD site sketches to responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JS.  • Managed site migration between web hosts like Rackspace, GoDaddy and wp-engine  • Extended WordPress plugin functionalities to perform client specific tasks using PHP and MySQL  • Collaborated with the team of designers and developers to deploy and maintain over 50 WordPress  sites. Education MSc. in Technology Management University of Bridgeport August 2016 to May 2019 MSc. in Computer Engineering University of Nottingham September 2012 to September 2013 BSc. in Electrical Engineering Igbenedion University Okada September 2007 to June 2012 Skills DATABASE (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), HTML5 (1 year), PHP (1 year), UI (1 year), Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3, Front End, Front-End, Javascript, Node, React Links https://greenlite.com.ng Additional Information Technical Skills  UI/UX: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript (React, Node.js)  Database: MySQL  Server-side: PHP  Source Control: Git  Suites: MS Office Suite, Adobe Creative Suite, G-Suite  Content Management Systems: WordPress, Shopify  IDE: Adobe Dreamweaver, Atom, Visual Studio Code