Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer. Fitness Guru. Gamer Kyle, TX Looking to take my skills to the next level by becoming a mid level/sr Dev. I have a strong passion to excel in anything as a Web Developer. Austin Coding Academy graduate, I am eager to continue learning with a renown company. I spend most of my time learning about how to improve my skills and developing a strong mentality in order to be successful, responsible, and hard working. Please have a look at my Portfolio at www.GabeAmaya.com which includes sample work and my GitHub with all of my projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Simpler Trading - Austin, TX March 2017 to Present Front End Web Developer in charge of building and maintaining our website, improving the UI/UX using WordPress and highly custom HTML/CSS and JS.     Merged and updated legacy code from Membergate and ColdFusion to WordPress and modern Front End builds.     Built beautiful custom Landing Pages from scratch using modern techniques. (Sass, CSS Grid, Flexbox) for customers looking for education in Trading Stocks, Options, Futures and Crypto. Using best practices in Marketing and Web Design.     Built the Intranet by customizing a WP theme used for the growing company's employee's to keep track of projects, tasks, news, agenda etc. Front End Web Developer (Freelance) Hays Interactive - Kyle, TX January 2016 to Present Responsibilities  ? Uses my strong knowledge of HTML, CSS, JavaScript+jQuery, MVC frameworks & Content Management Systems to develop customized websites for clients.    ? Identify and troubleshoots code-related issues and bugs.    ? Adhere to design standards and other web development specifications to ensure high quality in the development of new sites.    Accomplishments  Successfully developed simple websites for small business.    Skills Used  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, React, Git, Bootstrap. Court Clerk Travis County - Austin, TX June 2013 to Present Responsibilities    ?  Initiated criminal cases that are indicted in Travis County into the Tiburon system    ?  Prioritized and balanced issuing court documents to defendants in the custody of the state, impaneling   the grand jury and acting as a liaison between the local media and the Office of the District Clerk.     ?  Handled administrative and clerical responsibilities including maintaining and organizing court   records electronically and manually     ?  Answered inquiries from the general public in person, email and phone regarding judicial procedures.     Accomplishments  Responsible for implanting faster methods of workflow.  Planned events and helped raise money for office functions.  Go-to IT help desk when needed. Program Specialist State Board of Public Accountancy - Austin, TX May 2016 to March 2017 -Schedules and prioritizes attorney caseloads; organizes case files; prepares fact summaries, and assists attorneys as needed for hearings, meetings,  and interviews  -Communicates with the public via email and phone.  -Prepares draft final ruling decisions, legal correspondence, and other legal documents  -Researches, analyzes, and summarizes legal sources such as statutes, case law, administrative records, opinions, articles, and various rules and  regulations Education Web Developer Certification in Computer Science Austin Coding Academy - Austin, TX 2016 to 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Texas State University-San Marcos - San Marcos, TX August 2012 Skills Fitness (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Mac Os (5 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (1 year), Wordpress (3 years), Email Marketing, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/gabeamaya http://www.GabeAmaya.com Certifications/Licenses Web Developer Certificate September 2016 to Present Full-Stack Certification through Austin Coding Academy