Freelance Front End Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance frontend developer & UI designer Glendale, CA Freelance frontend developer & UI designer who created six websites over a two-year timespan. Self-managed projects while building and maintaining productive working relationships with decision-makers. Developed websites from the ideation stage to wireframing to front- end development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Front End Developer Self-employed - Glendale, CA July 2017 to Present • Developed frontend code and designed UI's for six websites over the last two years.  • Worked in tandem with organizations such as an expansion United Soccer League team from Las Vegas, NV, an internet radio station based out of St. Louis, MO, and an English language debate school located in Seoul, South Korea.  • Implemented modern web technologies such as HTML5, CSS Grid, CSS 2.1, jQuery, JavaScript, and Bootstrap 4.  • Comfortable using software like Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Microsoft Office 2016, Filezilla, Xampp, Slack, and Skype.  • Have extensive experience working on my own as a telecommuter. Rev.com Video Transcriber - Glendale, CA May 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Transcribe the audio dialogue of videos of varying length  • Compile the text transcript and sync the dialogue along with the audio using a proprietary video editing tool.  • Work by transcribers is done at home, with minimal supervision from the staff employed by Rev.  • Have progressed to an employee in full standing within the company-set timeline Volunteer Book Sorter Austin Public Library - Austin, TX February 2015 to August 2015 Volunteer Responsibilities:  • Placed books which were sorted by the branch librarians amongst the shelves of the library branch according to the library's labeling system.  • Organized the layout of books held on shelves for neatness of appearance and ease of browsing by patrons.  • Tracked number of hours spent as a volunteer in the City of Austin VIC-net online tool.  • Maintained professional relationship with library staff and librarians. Volunteer Austin Public Library - Austin, TX February 2015 to August 2015 • Placed books which were sorted by the branch librarians amongst the shelves of the library branch according to the library’s labeling system.  • Organized the layout of books held on shelves for neatness of appearance and ease of browsing by patrons.  • Tracked number of hours spent as a volunteer in the City of Austin VIC-net online tool.  • Maintained a professional relationship with library staff and librarians. Executive Assistant / JavaScript Programmer The Human Potential Center - Austin, TX January 2012 to July 2013 Volunteer Responsibilities:  • Wrote programming code which submitted monthly events to 15 event calendar listings.  • Contacted local and national calendar listings to troubleshoot the limitations of the listings' online services programs and the software written for Human Potential Center.  • Volunteered twenty hours of time per week.  • Helped carryout tasks such as researching phones for use by the organization and answering the phone calls on behalf of the Executive Director. EWOQ Rater Leapforce, Inc - Austin, TX January 2013 to April 2013 • Rated the results of a search result based on a given query string.   • The ratings included written explanations of suggestions to improve a given search result. The suggestions are read by developers tasked to tailor search engine results to better serve a user's need for up-to-date and relevant information.  • Approximately fifty websites were rated per hour.  Web Search Evaluator Appen, Inc - Austin, TX July 2012 to December 2012 • Websites were reviewed using a five-point scale which took into account the relevance a given search result was to a search query.   • Evaluated close to 50 websites an hour or 25 search result lists. JavaScript Developer / Executive Assistant Human Potential Center - Austin, TX January 2012 to July 2012 • Developed JavaScript and AppleScript code to automate the process of submission of monthly events to roughly 15 local and national event calendar listings.  • Contacted local and national calendar listings to troubleshoot the limitations of the programs which were written for Human Potential Center and the listings’ online services.  • Volunteered twenty hours of time per week.  • Helped carry out tasks such as researching purchases by the organization and answering the phone calls on behalf of the Executive Director. HTML Developer NetNoir, Inc. - San Francisco, CA May 1999 to January 2000 • Developed frontend code for a new website for the company.   • Interpreted feedback from sales, marketing, and eCommerce departments to improve the UX of the final website.  • Collaborated with Graphic Designer and Web Producers to add content to the website. Education None in Computer Science University of Missouri - Columbia, MO August 1995 to May 1997 Skills HTML 5 (2 years), XHTML (10+ years), JQuery (2 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (5 years), Javascript (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Front-End, Front End, UI Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chriscjamison http://www.chriscjamison.com/