Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> I create fluid, responsive and functional sites and applications. Portland, ME Seasoned web developer with experience with multiple CMSes and a history of building mobile-first marketing sites. Fluent in vanilla PHP, HTML/CSS/JS,very familiar with Wordpress internals and plugin construction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Covetrus - Portland, ME July 2017 to Present Full-stack software developer at Covetrus.  • Led development efforts for ecommerce storefront's A/B testing.  • Design and implemented various new storefront features, extending the capabilities of the storefront platform.  • Java, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, ORM, LESS, SASS, grunt, react.  • On-call engineer responsibilities Full Stack Developer Digital Impulse - Portland, ME 2015 to April 2017 Full-stack dev at another small web agency based out of Boston. My primary responsibility was site development from PSDs and maintenance/additions to existing sites. Established version control practices and setup/ran in-house GitLab and staging server. Some experience with taskrunners and CSS preprocessors, mostly Grunt and SASS. Many sites utilized ACF & CPT for easy editing. Front End Developer Links Web Design - Bangor, ME 2012 to 2015 Primarily worked on the front end of small business marketing sites from in-house site designs. Lots of PHP, HTML, responsive CSS. Light experience with Ruby while working with static site generators built on it; some experience with Google App Engine and Ferris (MVC Python framework for GAE). Jquery for DOM manipulation. Web Developer / Technician Computer Works Pro - Rochester, NY 2010 to 2011 During my time here while I was in college, I performed bench repair work on business and consumer PCs, putting together new PCs, and doing some basic custom Wordpress and Joomla themes for client sites. I also set up and administered the infrastructure behind their on-site web hosting (Plesk on Red Hat), along with doing some offsite work running network cables and setting up Windows Server services at clients locations. At CWP--just 3 of us at the time very small--I learned the value of client relationships, flexibility, and rapid learning. Education BS in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2007 to 2012 High school or equivalent John Bapst Memorial High School - Bangor, ME 2003 to 2007 Skills Bootstrap (4 years), CSS (8 years), Git (4 years), HTML (8 years), PHP (3 years), JQuery (4 years), SASS / LESS (2 years), Wordpress (5 years), Joomla (2 years), Front End, Javascript, HTML5, Angular, Angularjs Links http://www.dustinjones.site Additional Information SKILLS    HTML/JS/CSS, Wordpress, PHP  Bootstrap 3 (Playing with 4!)  Ubuntu/Debian Servers/VPSes  Third-party APIs  Git