Remote - Lead Software Engineer in Front End Remote - Lead Software Engineer in <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Remote - Lead Software Engineer in Front End - Bunker Capital Garden Grove, CA Work Experience Remote - Lead Software Engineer in Front End Bunker Capital August 2018 to Present Manage front end team and lead the development of responsive, server-side  rendering React.js app with Node.js, Next.js, and Spring Boot REST APIs. AngularJS.    ? Collaborate with project management to define specifications and UI: Bootstrap, Foundation, craft new user stories that streamline business objectives. Fabricator, Highcharts.  ? Architect scalable component-based front- end application that is  CSS: Style JSX, CSS3, SASS.  powered by big data sets.  ? Ensure web and mobile performance and optimization are built for Build: Webpack, Yarn, npm, speed and scale. Made first contentful paint, speed index, time to Gulp, Bower.  interactive, first meaningful paint, first CPU idle, and input latency Templating: Mustache,  60-80% faster than previous JSP implementation. Handlebars.  ? Lead UX strategy to ensure user experience meets all usability and accessibility requirements and standards. Backend: Java, C#, Python,  ? Drove adoption of functional and unit testing for 100% coverage of Node.js, PHP.  React components with Jest and Enzyme. Backend Framework:  ? Create and maintain an interactive UI style guide with StoryBook. Express, Spring, .net,  ? Set up build of high-quality software that is unit tested, linted, Flow Django, Zend.  type checked, code reviewed, real-time monitored and checked in Database: SQL Server, regularly for continuous integration. PETCO and SleepCo 2018 to 2019 Led Titan as the product owner, investigated business requirements  and managed Jira board throughout the whole Agile development  lifecycle. Senior Front End Developer Cie Digital Labs August 2013 to August 2018 Designed and developed responsive user interfaces of multiple large scale CMS: Umbraco, WordPress.  C# web applications that support mobile, tablets and cross-browser  Ecommerce:  platforms. Troubleshoot and debug cross-browser compatibility issues.  nopCommerce, Znode,  ? Led agile front end and hybrid mobile development on state of the Magento, osCommerce, art SAAS platforms - Titan School Solutions and ASAP Tires, using WooCommerce.  AngularJS 1.6, Vue.js 2 and Cordova, capturing multi-million dollar  contracts in short timelines and improve web performance by at least 50%. AWARDS  ? Led agile front- end development on complex influencer platform - StyleHaul using AngularJS with an aggressive deadline, helping to PluralSight Expert  capture $100 mi in startup acquisition. Certificates in HTML, CSS,  ? Developed Node.js Slack bot integration with BambooHR using JavaScript, React, Angular  Google Cloud Function/Kubernetes and AWS Lambda http://bit.ly/2tIfPDK  ? Created and delivered several knowledge shares on various topics of StackOverflow top 20%  JavaScript, AngularJS and Debugging to positive reviews.  ? Spearheaded Crucible code review to ensure writing high-quality JavaScript influencer  code on par with industry standards, mentor colleagues and foster https://stackoverflow.com/  collaborative learning. story/ariellephan  ? Initiated ADA project documentation and implemented accessibility  audit and programming, saving Nitto Tire from federal lawsuits. PyTorch Scholarship  ? Tested and investigated issues for various mobile apps including Challenge Nanodegree Education MA in IT Consultant and Instructor Mount Holyoke College