Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - CPS Chicago, IL • Client-focused member with around 4 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) pertaining to Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Debugging, and Execution for Web Application Interfaces.  • Developed, Configured and Deployed Different Portals and UI applications using (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, SQLite, and Angular2, ReactJS (16.6.0)).  • Knowledge of Node.js and frameworks available for it such as Express.js.  • Extensive Knowledge in CSS3 Styling Modules and Adobe Photoshop.  • Expertise in using CSS pre-processors SASS/SCSS, Post CSS.  • Proficient in using Bootstrap 4/3 components skills like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box, Button and CSS Media Query to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD).  • Profound in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Knowledge on using Shadow DOM use to make custom element.  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using jQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Proficient in using higher level style syntaxes, SASS for advanced CSS features.  • Experience of using Angular2 as framework to create a Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single isomorphic responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using ReactJS (16.6.0).  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application and Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages and developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable and Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Used React Js in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM.  • Working with ECMAScript 6 (ES6) features. For build of JSX and used Babel, webpack  • Extensive experience on working with various CSS/CSS3 features like CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text shadows, CSS box model, CSS table, Pseudo classes/elements and CSS behaviors.  • Developer Toolbar, Used Karma-Jasmine for testing JavaScript code.  • Sound Knowledge in package manager of NPM.  • Working with Agile and Waterfall models throughout the project life cycle - using tools such as GIT for version control.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Research Oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical, and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Front- End Developer CPS - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Coded semantic, testable, maintainable, and well-documented code using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript (ECMA6), DOM, AJAX, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap and used SASS preprocessor.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Called REST web services through AngularJS services to get JSON Object and modified the response object.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Developed User Interface with ASP.NET Controls.  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the SQL Server 2005.  • Developed the applications using Visual Studio.Net 2008 in C#.Net and ASP.Net, and ADO.NET.  • Involved in transpiring, bundling and developing React components for the partner homepages using React.js.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  • On the frontend, worked from design specifications to implement interactive features in React.js and Ember.js that communicated with a REST API  • Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Incorporated Google and D3 visualization tools to dynamically populate charts and tables.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Used Putty to access Web Servers and make code deployments.  • Used JIRA as the bug following framework to track and keep up the history backdrop of bugs/issues on everday premise.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to compose unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively utilized troubleshooting devices, for example, Firebug and IE Dev devices to examine the issues and fix the bugs to the seaward group for their JIRA tickets.  • Followed SCRUM Agile methodology that includes iterative application development, weekly sprints, daily stand up meetings.    Environment: ReactJS (16.6.0), Redux, Node JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, NPM, Mongo dB, Grunt, Putty, RESTful Services, Web Pack, JIRA Front- End Developer Cross Country Mortgage - Cleveland, OH October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS along with Bootstrap framework.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux libraries.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, and Annotations.  • Developed web applications using Restful protocols.  • Used Babel.js to transpile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript.  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  • Worked on creating CRUD end points to MONGO collections using FHREST Router.  • Implemented data visualization, charts and reports using D3js.  • Using GIT for version control.  • Implemented unit testing for the front- end using Jasmine.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, React JS, Node JS, Mongo DB, Agile methodology, Windows, GIT Web Developer Intern Infocision - Akron, OH January 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in fixing bugs in existing components and making them uniform in all browsers.  • Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery implement Look and feel of various components.  • Developed a secured Login Authentication using AngularJS Regular Expressions, Express-Session, JSON Web Tokens.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Used $http with AngularJS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Effective use of CSS3 features, such as creating multiple column, borders and background, etc. and used SASS Preprocessor.  • Used tools like Grunt, Gulp and Webpack as task runners and orchestrators for the build process.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, AJAX, DOM, JSON, TDD, Windows, Chrome Developer Tools, GIT. Front- End Developer Brickcys - IN January 2014 to August 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Designing webpages and process upon client approval build out of all user-defined designs, UI components, etc.  • Optimizing and created dynamic websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript, which is wrapper on top of jQuery and AJAX, based UI framework for UI Configuration widgets.  • Communicated with back- end developers, system engineers and web designers to receive data needed for development.  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Writing application level code to interact with the backend databases using SQL.  • Mentored co-workers increasing the efficiency and technical know-how of the entire technology team.  • Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues.  • Follow up with the development team on the improvements, integration and further enhancements in the website.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Windows, Chrome Developer Tools, GIT. Education Campbellsville University 2018 to Present Silicon Valley University 2015 to 2016 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Angular