Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer San Jose, CA • 7+ years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements Analysis and Debugging, Applications Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Testing of various client/server, N-Tier and web applications.  • Expertise in web and mobile/tablet UI development with experience in developing hybrid mobile applications using HTML5, JavaScript and other JS frameworks.  • Expertise in Client Scripting language and server side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ECMA5 and ECMA6 features, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2.0 and Angular 5.0.  • Experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using D3.js with Cross- browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX with rich features like deferred, promises, pipe, and callback functions.  • Experience in creating user interface widgets using JQuery, Kendo UI, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Hands on Experience on Angular 2.0 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2.0.  • Rich experience with development using AngularJS and Angular 2.0 extensive features for loading views in a Single Page Application, MVC structure for JavaScript files, data-binding using Angular JS directives and also building custom directives.  • Experience with Handlebars.js to build dynamic HTML templates, and Underscore.js to handle and manipulate data from backend with a RESTful JSON interface.  • Experience in developing kiosk app for Chrome OS using web development technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other 8JS frameworks.  • Experience in the developing applications for different platforms like web browser, iOS, Android, and Chrome OS.  • Incorporated the require.js features to build modular structure of JavaScript for better code maintenance and smoother name-spacing of variables.  • Involved in web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design using flex box features of CSS3.  • Expertise in plain JavaScript logics, functionality, scope maintainability and name-spacing the variables.  • Worked with AGILE Methodology in recent projects and participated in SCRUM meetings as well in previous projects.  • Expertise in debugging skills using Safari Web Inspector, Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  • Experience in using HighCharts, and D3.js Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven front- end.  • Experience in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Chrome.  • Proven track record in developing reusable code, cleaner code structure, and understanding of the JS features to ensure data availability to the front- end.  • Strong expertise in the iterative Agile and Scrum development methodologies for software development.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Excellent communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's and also during the sprint meetings for Agile as well as Scrum development methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA October 2018 to Present Cisco Systems, Inc. is an American multinational technology conglomerate headquartered in San Jose, California, in the center of Silicon Valley that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. Through its numerous acquired subsidiaries, such as OpenDNS, WebEx, Jabber and Jasper, Cisco specializes into specific tech markets, such as Internet of Things (IoT), domain security and energy management.    Responsibilities:  • Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Hands on the process of development, testing and maintenance.  • Built an application Out of Process Exception Request (OOPS) for tracking and maintaining Feasibility requests for Colo and Network Products with Spring Boot , Angular 5.  • Participated as a team member in designing the user interface using HTML and CSS to make the interface use-friendly, especially child-friendly.  • Applied jQuery validation plugin to validate the user input and to improve user experience.  • Worked in form validation using JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.  • Development of GUI screens using Angular , Angular material, asp.net, mvc, validation, configuration, EF ORM with DB updates and Selects, Webapi for data results with JSON format for server side  • Hands on JSON for data transform and page transform.  • Implement the function of automatic Email notification referring confirmation, rescheduling and promotions through JavaScript and jQuery.  • Conducted unit testing and end-to- end testing on the supported browsers.  • Wrote a script file in JavaScript and jQuery to handle the events that were triggered by the users.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data, bindings, templating, controllers, services, filter, routing, Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Provide the users with the physical status form regularly with information about their workout frequencies, physical data, etc. using JavaScript and SQL Server.  • Used CSS/CSS3 to embed the online videos for product introduction.  • Communicate with other members in the team to better understand the functional requirements and transfer them into technical requires.  • Rewritten Back end admin module SPA on Angular 2.0 with Type Script.  • Participated in building up the online chatting Q&A pop-up section as well as the feedback features using CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Designed the login system using jQuery.    • Worked with other members in the group, committed code change using version control tool SVN and merge code from other developers using tool Win Merge.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XAMPP, SQL Server, SVN, Win Merge. UI Developer/ Front End Developer Sears Hometown and outlets stores, Inc - Chicago, IL November 2016 to October 2018 Mayo Clinic is a health care system that is committed to patient care, research and service to the community locally and globally. The aim of the project was to developed an open source Master Patient Index which is a system that allows health care organizations that need to exchange data to uniquely identify to which patient the data belongs to despite variations in the attributes that describe the patient. The website uses JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax features extensively.  Responsibilities:  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 2, Node.js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Develop front end modules using Angular 5 including CSS and HTML.  • Contributed as key resource of the "Angular 2 Framework Team" in conversion of existing UI screens of the application to Angular 2 based UI.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved in fixing Front- End issues with the layouts.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques. Developed call back functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Guiding team as Scrum Master in Agile Scrum methodology  • The tech stack is AngularJS, Angular 2, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting edge server side technologies.  • Utilized AngularJS, Angular 2, NodeJS in the development for building SPA and to consume RESTful web services.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Implemented NodeJS for developing the server side of the application.  • Implemented responsive web design and mobile friendly design using Ionic framework; fully utilized its JavaScript UI library, including navigation, modal, slide box, scroll, action sheet and more and AngularJS.  • Involved in creating AJAX calls using AngularJS to handle data operations including ordering and filtering.  • Performed a lot of DOM operations for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Developed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using Bootstrap, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine.  • Create Graphic user Interface to interact with users (Angular JS, Html, Bootstrap)  • Worked with the business analysts and back- end developers to gather requirements, improve application functionality and add new features.  • Ability to communicate effectively, both written and verbal, with technical and non-technical cross-functional teams.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, XML, MVC Framework, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, NodeJS, Apache Tomcat, Notepad++, Sublime text, IntelliJ, MySQL, Tortoise SVN. Sr. Web UI Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL February 2015 to October 2016 Walgreens provides a full range of PBM services. Including mail service pharmacy offerings, plan design and administration. The role is to work closely with the UX and design teams to translate designs into fully functional solutions through efficient, high quality code. The role even includes engage in the development of site functionality as required by the business.  Responsibilities:  • As a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications and managed in developing of Account landing page, Account summary/overview and Login page.    • Responsible for building a new website for the Small fleet clients and for the maintenance of Online New Platform.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spins up and enhanced performance.  • Successfully migrated from legacy third party applications (for windows, IPad, blackberry) to pharmacy's applications using HTML5 to maintain a single UI for all platforms migrate all application to Akamai data servers to increase speed and performance of the applications.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (API) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Wrote Node.js API to manage back- end data for developed application.  • Involved in development converting the static HTML mark-ups to JSP's.  • Integrated the service call with UI using $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular.  • Using SVN for version control.  • Used TypeScript to reduce the number of lines of traditional JavaScript files. Integration of TypeScript to the whole project.  • Used TypeScript while finding the compilation error during testing.  • Involved in up gradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.  • Developed web applications using Restful and SOAP protocols.  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA section 508(c) standards.  • Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach to UI development.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, XML, JSP, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Tortoise SVN. UI Developer Reliance - Delhi, Delhi February 2011 to November 2014 Reliance Communications is an Indian Internet access and telecommunications company. This IT support is provided by Reliance Tech Services and Telecom network is operated by Ericsson. It includes broadband, national and international long-distance services along with value add carrier services and applications.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed different JQUERY component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in extensive HTML coding.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.    • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, DHTML, XHTML, XSLT, XPATH, MS Excel, Windows. Education Master's Skills Visual studio, Javascript, Json, Python, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Weblogic, Websphere, Eclipse, jquery, Angularjs, Html5, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Cvs, Backbone, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, OOJS, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, Ext.js, Backbone.js,, Require.js, Underscore.JS, KendoUI, RESTful Web service, High Charts    Languages Python  IDE& Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, JSfiddle, WebStrom, Sublime, Visual Studio  Application Servers WebSphere, WebLogic  Debugging Tools  Selenium, Jasmine, Karma (Testicular as Test Runner), JIRA, Firebug, Bugzilla, IE Developer, Chrome Developer, Safari Developer    Databases Oracle11g, SQL server, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows, MAC OS, Linux  Version Controls SVN, CVS, GITHUB, Bitbucket