UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Centreville, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer December 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Created websites based on client requirements using latest technologies  • Developed iOS and Android app with Angular and ionic  • Worked closely with Back end developers and QA testers.  • Instructed junior web developers and new team members.  • Used Jira workflow for Project management.  • Created and implemented NodeJS API to Front end. UI Developer Virtusa Polaris - McLean, VA February 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Scrum Model, attended daily standups  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Created Calculators for calculating mortgages and loan fees  • HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap  • Worked close with Adobe Experience Manager developers  • Daily interaction with Business Analyst, project Manager.  • JIRA for project management, Git and Source tree, Confluence  • Debug jQuery, JavaScript ad CSS  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery and Bootstrap JS  • Worked with the client to modify the functionality and content of the website Full Stack Web developer Time Warner Cable - Herndon, VA May 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Scrum Model methodology approach for Application Development.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Created web services from server side using Node JS  • Designed and Developed with Angular JS, Node JS for web application.  • Implemented front- end functionality for sites using Ajax JavaScript libraries and AngularJS in addition to CSS3 and HTML5 work using Bootstrap 3  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, LESS, JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS  • Worked with AngularJS routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters, factories, config and http get and post requests.  • Used Linux platform  • Extensive use of Bit Bucket for code collaboration and use of JIRA for ticket management  • Implemented Angular Bootstrap UI for developing rich and responsive UI. Front- end developer Senior Market Sales Inc - Alexandria, VA August 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Waterfall methodology approach for UI Development.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Angular Strap and Bootstrap with SQL database.  • Worked with AngularJS ui-routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters, factories, configs and http get and post requests.  • Used Linux platform to run the app and Nginx for web server  • Used Postman Google Chrome extension to test and run the API calls.  • Used Pivotal Time tracker to create, start, finish and deliver the stories.  • Created Style Guide as a side project for the current ongoing main project.  • Implemented Angular Strap library in AngularJS for developing rich and responsive UI.  • Transferred data between front- end and back- end using AngularJS http request on front end, and NodeJS on server side.  • Worked on J2EE Environment.  • Used GitHub as a collaboration and source control tool in a daily basis.  • Created complex client side forms and form validations using AngularJS.  • Interacted with Project Manager and back- end developers to resolve software, and back end related bugs and issues. Front- end developer Penta N - Washington, DC May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Converted visual design created and applied an expert knowledge by the design team into solutions using HTML5, CSS/SASS, JavaScript, and jQuery creating models for UI design to make it more dynamic and efficient.  • Participated in business requirements (BRS) review meetings and worked closely with the business team members to collect / analyze requirements and understood the business need of the application.  • Worked in an agile environment participating in all sprint activities, reviewing user stories, participating in estimation exercises and providing status update in everyday scrum meeting. Delivered user stories on time while implementing user experience/ business logic and maintaining performance requirements.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Exporting and customizing differential controls for use throughout the website.  • Interacted with extended team members to deliver product releases on schedule. Worked on application maintenance and production support.  • Working with Rest API web services.  • Worked with the client to modify the functionality of the website. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Tashkent University of Information Technologies - Tashkent, UZ Skills AJAX (1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Coding (Less than 1 year), CSS (3 years), Front end. (4 years), HTML (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (4 years), Instructor (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (4 years), Jira (2 years), jQuery (3 years), JSON (1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (Less than 1 year), SASS (2 years), Software Development (2 years), solutions (2 years), STRUCTURED SOFTWARE (2 years), workflow (1 year) Additional Information Skills  • Strong experience in JavaScript, jQuery and Angular framework  • Experience in implementing a full-fledged web app with Node JS (express JS)  • Experience with GitHub, Bit Bucket, JIRA workflow  • Experience using SCSS/SASS/LESS preprocessors of CSS  • Strong experience working with APIs  • Experience with converting PSD's into pixel-perfect webpages  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Front End Web Development ( HTML5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, AJAX, JSON, Responsive Web Design and Development - Desktop, Tablet and Mobile)  • Developing web application utilizing Node JS  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills in software development and a high-aptitude in developing software solutions for a wide range of applications.  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall, & Scrum Model  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script, JSON, and XML.  • Experience with Gulp, Webpack  • Strong communication skills, with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  • Microsoft Office Suites and Skype for business.  • Instructor at coding school