GRAPHIC & WEB DESIGNER GRAPHIC &amp; WEB DESIGNER GRAPHIC DESIGNER & WEB DEVELOPER Vallejo, CA http://mfinleydesigns.com/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience GRAPHIC & WEB DESIGNER M. Finley Designs - Vallejo, CA January 2010 to Present In my freelance work I strive to do everything-- from creating custom graphics and marketing collateral, to helping clients develop a strategy and execute an effective web site. I love a creative challenge, and I thrive when I get my hands dirty and figure things out. Throughout my career this has always led me to new ideas and opportunities. GRAPHIC DESIGNER & MARKETING ASSISTANT Benchmark Wine Group - Napa, CA July 2018 to March 2019 Benchmark Wine Group sells rare and collectible wines. I produced the day to day photography of wine bottles, crates, and lifestyle shots—assets for headers, email images and social media— and I've even made some print collateral. I also collaborated and contributed to a refreshed email campaign design, website design and management, and a landing page design for the new Benchmark Wine Club.  GRAPHIC DESIGNER (Contract) Barcelino Continental Corporation - Corte Madera, CA March 2018 to June 2018 At Barcelino I produced digital and print marketing collateral for both retail and online audiences. As a luxury clothing retailer, this included print and digital ad layouts, email campaigns, and some in-store branding. UPHOLSTERER Palma Home Design - Nipomo, CA March 2017 to December 2017 At Palma Home Design I started out sewing cushions and pillows, but soon was tasked with reupholstering antique furniture. My responsibilities included carefully stripping old furniture, then completely upholstering and finishing the piece with new fabric. Often I had to pattern match, making sure fabric designs flowed nicely across the shapes of the furniture. I did everything from simple dining room chairs to diamond tufted couches, it was a blast and I learned so much about how they don’t make them like they used to. LEAD WEB DEVELOPER Moshpit Digital - San Luis Obispo, CA September 2015 to March 2017 At Moshpit Digital I oversaw a large portfolio of small business web- sites, and I was responsible for maintaining, updating and debugging those sites. I also coded and launched a number of websites from mock- ups provided by other designers. Our sites included standard informational websites, as well as E-Commerce, private group websites, and educational/training websites. CONTRACT WEB DESIGNER & FRONT- END DEVELOPER ITECH Solutions - San Luis Obispo, CA May 2015 to September 2015 ITECH Solutions had a backlog of websites waiting in their project queue, so I offered them quick production turn-around and a broad back- ground knowledge. I worked on both the visual design of client websites, as well as the build-out and production using HTML, CSS, JS and ITECH's proprietary content management system, RapidForge. UX DESIGNER & FRONT- END DEVELOPER Experts Exchange - San Luis Obispo, CA May 2014 to March 2015 I started at EE as a front- end developer but I was additionally tasked to be a UX Designer. It was my job to audit site usability & document observations, best practices & recommended design solutions. The most rewarding part was working with different teams to develop site and product features-- including expert groups, a mobile app, a video tutorial wizard, and migrating site content to a new tagging system. WEB DESIGNER Pixel Pros Media - Tulsa, OK August 2011 to May 2014 Here I conceptualized, designed and built WordPress websites under the direction of Broc Randall. I also ran email marketing campaigns with MailChimp (setup, design, website integration), designed and built landing pages, and integrated a payment system into a WordPress site. Education B.F.A. in GRAPHIC DESIGN UNIVERSITY OF TULSA 2009 Skills Adobe Illustrator (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Autodesk Sketchbook (4 years), Corel Painter (3 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Responsive Web Design (5 years), User Experience Design (3 years), User Interface Design (4 years), Website Design (10+ years), Website Development (10+ years), Wireframing (8 years), Mockups (10+ years), Email (7 years), Photography (product and lifestyle) (5 years), Graphic Design, Photoshop, Typography, Adobe, Javascript, PHP, Git Links http://mfinleydesigns.com/ https://guerrillathreads.com/ Additional Information My Skills in Detail:    + Adobe Illustrator     + Adobe Photoshop     + Adobe InDesign     + Autodesk Sketchbook Pro     + Coral Painter     + Wireframes     + Mockups     + UX Storyboards     + UX Documentation including research and design recommendations     + HTML     + CSS     + PHP    + jQuery    + Email Marketing & Design    + Responsive Web Design including visual mockups and working code    + Experience designing & implementing websites from concept sketch to finished product    + Custom form design and integration with 3rd party services and vendors    + WordPress Design from scratch or custom and re-skinned child themes for the Genesis Framework    + DSLR Photography including product photos and lifestyle pictures