Petroleum Engineer Petroleum Engineer Full Stack Web Developer Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Petroleum Engineer CUDD Energy Services - Denver, CO April 2019 to Present • Write workover procedures for CES Algeria team.   • Create well control processes for standard work operations.  • Audit wellhead safety and create auditing system to track changes.  • Create training documents for customer staff. Front End Developer Charter Communications Inc - Denver, CO October 2018 to April 2019 • Build UI components in Angular in a sustainable, reusable way across the organization.  • Create and maintain unit tests for all front end components using Jasmine and Karma.   • Collaborate with UX design team to deliver a robust, accessible, interactive application.   • Develop software using Agile methodologies, working efficiently in small teams as part of a large organization Software Developer T4S Partners, Inc. - Denver, CO June 2018 to October 2018 • Design and develop a full front end Angular application processing international tax returns for a global accounting firm.  • Design responsive, accessible user interfaces using Kendo UI component Library.   • Work with back end team to create efficient APIs and organized data structures for front end consumption.   • Collaborate closely with a small team of developers on an aggressive timetable.  • Rapidly prototype components and dashboards for user testing.  • Work closely with Business Analysts and QA Engineers to meet business requirements. Software Engineer CSE-ICON - The Woodlands, TX May 2017 to October 2018 • Develop XView platform in AngularJS for various large oil and gas pipeline and operating companies.  • Design and implement APIs between customer SCADA networks (primarily Cygnet) and C# service layer to efficiently transfer large, real time data sets to XView’s user interfaces.  • Create SCADA data network maps for oil and gas controls applications.  • Create a web based code editor using Angular 6 and Node utilizing Microsoft Monaco editor that allows customers to make small code changes and redeploy to a live web server.  • Manage customer design changes and data change requests. Production, Opreations Engineer Glori Energy Company - Houston, TX June 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  - Developed South Texas area from purchase to implementation of Aero technology.  - Improved production 25% in Bonnieview Field.  - Supervised field operations for drilling, completion, and workover.  - Designed and implemented workover procedures.  - Designed and supervised surface facility installations.  - Prepared reserve reports and kept fields in regulatory compliance. Production Engineer Mosbacher Energy Company June 2013 to June 2015 - Monitor production and identify wells that require intervention.  - Prepare AFEs and procedures for drilling, completion, work-over operations.  - Schedule work and coordinate vendors for field operations.  - Supervise field operations for drilling, completion, and work-over operations.  - Use reserve and economic analysis to evaluate work-overs and recompletions.  - Prepare end of year production and reserves reports. BD Applications Engineer Cudd Energy Services - Houston, TX September 2011 to June 2013 - Design jobs, run simulations, write running procedures, and.provide product and technical support to clients.  - Conduct technical presentations, Lunch & Learns.  - Developed several software systems using VBA that are still in use by the company.  (Wind loading on snubbing unit, graphical display of wireline data, nitrogen displacement and pumping time for pipelines)  - Used solid works and FEA to design and test offshore loading systems. Petroleum Engineer Bagnall Engineering - Victoria, TX June 2010 to August 2011 - Supervise field operations for drilling, completion,  and work-over operations.  - Perform decline curve analysis to determine  potential hydrocarbon reserves.  - Repair and maintain surface equipment.  - Prepare AFEs for customer/investor approval. Education Full Stack Development DevMountain - Dallas, TX February 2017 to May 2017 Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 2006 to 2010 Skills Javascript (3 years), React.JS (Less than 1 year), Angular.JS (2 years), Node (1 year), Angular (2 years), CSS