Service Associate Service Associate Service Associate - Angelika Film Center Fairfax, VA Work Experience Service Associate Angelika Film Center - Fairfax, VA August 2018 to Present * Handle financial transactions for box office, cafe, and food concessions.  * Assist customers in face to face and phone communications to resolve questions and issues.  * Employ suggestive selling for both film and food.  * Facilitate in inventory and restock of products.  * Maintain clean workplace across entire building space. Mobile Developer Timmons Group - Richmond, VA October 2012 to July 2017 * Developed a variety of native iOS and Android applications for public and enterprise use.  * Consulted directly with clients to identify business needs which were translated into user stories.  * Applied numerous technologies to include GIS, mapping, and photo capabilities to mobile applications.  * Worked with team members in an agile environment to present deliverables until product completion.  * Deployed mobile applications through the App Store, Google Play Store, and In-House solutions.  * Trained and supervised junior developer in order to adhere to iOS programming guidelines. Presenter EXTRA - Government, Virginia, US 2015 to 2015 - Technology in Government  * Virginia Association for Mapping and Land Information Systems Conference 2015 - Presenter Front- end Web Developer Timmons Group - Richmond, VA July 2012 to October 2012 * Employed user-interface principles to assist in creating an enterprise web portal.  * Designed proof of concepts to demonstrate GIS and mapping capabilities to prospective clients. Junior Java UI Developer Accenture - Washington, DC October 2011 to July 2012 Prototyped In-School Counseling pages for the Department of Education  * Assisted in creating and running user-interface tests for prototypes and websites.  * Created loan/budgeting calculators and quiz tool to help convey financial aid concepts.  * Utilized Spring Framework to update and maintain StudentLoans.gov and COD web pages  * Built and edited pages to fit within 508 compliance Recruiter Student Supporters Organization - Fairfax, VA July 2010 to August 2010 * Initiated sales contacts with over 200 local businesses, securing 60+ memberships.  * Assisted in setting-up websites for members and data entry Education Bachelor of Science in Computational Media in Computational Media Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA May 2011 Skills Customer Service, Programming (6 years), IOS (4 years), Consulting (4 years), Testing (4 years), Video Editing