Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - State Street Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer State Street - Quincy, MA November 2015 to Present • Completed total Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the State Street application including Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and Production Support.  • Tasks are creating components using ReactJS to effectively maintain the pages through reusability and easy for content authors to change the content.  • Developed application in ReactJS.  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and React Bootstrap.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end UX design such as web pages, graphics and multimedia.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, LESS and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Used Super-Agent AJAX calls extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used JavaScript library like JQuery to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Responsible for cross browser compatibility and hence exposure to popular browsers.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used Eclipse, Atom as an IDE to develop the code.  • Used GIT for version controlling. Front End Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA October 2013 to October 2015 • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Create interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and jQuery/jQuery UI.  • Developed and maintained a kanban too which is a project management tool, also used by multiple teams in the company.  • Contributed user interface design mock ups and designs.  • Trained and mentored teammates.  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive web design principles.  • Converted existing websites to Responsive websites.  • Used angular.js for MVC applications.  • Teamsite for template development.  • Used d3.js for data visualization.  • Used Grunt for build process.  • Used Yeoman for scaffolding projects.  • Used HTML5BP and modernizer for optimized websites.  • Used Adobe analytics for user analytics.  • Provided Production support.  • Extensively worked to support IE7 and IE8 browsers.  • Agile/Scrum environment. Front End Developer Comcast - West Chester, PA August 2012 to September 2013 • Responsive web designing was a great challenge with existing Comcast websites, implemented successfully on internal websites.  • Front End Development including HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery utilizing the Bootstrap framework.  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces.  • UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic e-commerce website.  • Cross browser testing in Internet Explorer6+, Safari, Chrome, Firefox on Mac OS Windows & Selenium.  • Setup Agile iteration, product life cycle, and had daily scrum meetings.  • Managed multiple simultaneous projects.  • Worked with the front end team on integration and performance tuning.  • Used SVN for repositories  • Used SONAR, Splunk for code quality and code analytics.  • Used Maven scripts for build process.  • Used Selenium, phantomJS, Adobe Inspector, for front end automation testing.  • Extended selenium web driver and created our own web driver to meet our own requirements.  • Used Jira to tracks all the issues.  • Used basecamp to capture requirements and milestones.  • Provided the manager with best technical approaches to a project.  • Developed a chrome extension to meet our responsive web designing testing.  • Used and installed many Virtual machines to meet our front end testing.  • Created DCT's, components and templates before organizing them into web pages.  • Involved in the Development of new Components for LiveSite.  • Working with Interwoven tool Teamsite to manage the web content and publish the data into LiveSite.  • Tracking the Defects till the bugs are closed.  • Performed unit testing on the DCT's and components.  • Providing development support to the changes related to components, workflows on different environments. Front End Developer UHG - Chicago, IL December 2011 to July 2012 • Involved in the requirement analysis along with the estimations and scheduling.  • Designed & Developed from Design Mockups in Adobe Photoshop to translate to HTML5/CSS3.  • Optimized web pages in Mozilla Firefox & IE 5/6/7/8 to detect errors.  • Designed the web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • User interface designer and web developer for enterprise application development.  • Created user interfaces and navigational models that provide optimal user experience while achieving business requirement.  • Developed JSP (Java Server Pages) for web applications.  • Created/maintained CSS and Javascript libraries for web applications.  • Prepared the design documents for individual components according to the requirement specifications.  • Created different branch structures for the directories and modified the configuration files to create the DCR's.  • Created DCT's, components and templates before organizing them into web pages.  • Involved in the Development of new Components for LiveSite.  • Working with Interwoven tool Teamsite to manage the web content and publish the data into LiveSite.  • Created internal components using XML and external components using Java and Oracle for gathering information from the databases.  • Performed unit testing on the DCT's and components.  • Modified/Tested SitePublisher components - appearance XML-XSL, datum, context XML, DCT's, DCR's for various website pages.  • Responsible for the testing of complete functionality of the LiveSite components.  • Responsible for end to end testing of the workflows.  • Responsible for writing and reviewing Functional and Technical Test Case Documents for complete modules.  • Experience in development with Agile Management methods.  • Providing development support to the changes related to components, workflows on different environments.  • Tracking the Defects till the bugs are closed. Front End Developer Digitrix Technologies Pvt. Ltd, Hyd August 2009 to July 2011 • Providing XHTML and CSS Prototypes for the application's new release.  • Worked with XML and XSLT prototyping.  • Create XHTML pages which are W3C web standards compliant.  • Added DHTML and JavaScript effects which provide us ability to pages namely popup windows, docking side navigation, styling form elements and creating tabbed menus.  • Developed Vendor Registration using ASP.NET and SQL Server 2005.  • Website development and maintenance.  • Coding CSS and HTML pages using DreamWeaver and coding Javascript validation for forms.  • Designed and developed a help desk system using dataflow and entity relationship diagrams and implemented using Oracle 8i and ASP.NET.  • This System tickets every issue reported by the customers and assigns a support for the problem.  • This system plays a major impact on the customers for their global trade.  • Designed and developed a vendor database with entity relationship diagrams and implemented using Oracle 8i, JSP's and Servlets.  • This system allows querying database for searching vendors in a particular field like "food supply" and other. Additional Information Technical Skills:    HTML5 & CSS3, SCSS Expert Clean, semantic markup. Comfortable with HTML5. Cross-browser compatibility. Media queries for responsive layouts, Image sprites. CSS3 hardware-accelerated animations. Comfortable translating design files into valid code.    OOJS, Dojo 1.9, Backbone.js Expert  Keen focus on javascript with a firm expertise in application design architecture, performance, security and testing. Developed client side javascript to simplify the user interaction. Exposure to javascript minification and deployment techniques.    JQuery, jQueryUI, QUnit Expert  Experience with jQuery in an application context in addition to DOM manipulation. Built highlight scalable cutting edge web based applications using jQuery. Expert at creating flawless hand-coded production-quality, standards-based cross browser jQuery    AngularJS, Mustache, d3.js, ReactJS Expert  Design and implement single page angular web application as a kanban tool to visualize project management and empower our team productivity with this single page webapp.    Bootstraps, Jasmine Advanced  As a Freelance developer, developed different sites using Twitter boot strap and Zurb Foundation framework. Also tried different boot strap frameworks like HTML Kick Start, Cardinal bootstrap, Pure CSS bootstrap, Workless CSS/HTML framework    Responsive web design, Cross Browser Expert  Browser support provided for browsers like IE6, IE7, IE8, IE9+, Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Opera. Used CSS3 Pie with Modernizers aIE6-9 HTML5 polyfill to support old IE's. Cross browser testing using IET ester, Adobe browser labs, BrowserStack, Browser Shots, VMware, VirtualBox virtualmachines. Implemented Responsive web design with Twitter boot strap and Zurb Foundation framework    Additional Skills Advanced  Java, JSP, Modernizer, Grunt, Yeoman, Normalize.css, Selenium RC, Selenium Web driver, Team site, Junit, Mockito, Easy Mock, PowerMock, Hibernate, Spring, Splunk, web trends, Adobe Analytics, Sublime Text, Brackets, Aptana, Eclipse, STS, Git, SVN, Sonar, Sql, MySql, Oracle.