Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Viscira, SFO, CA San Francisco, CA • Overall 7years of experience in Front End development with extensive knowledge on all phases of Software Development life cycle.  • Professional experience in building Wen=b User Interface using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, JSON, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery ensuringW3C Web Standards for browser compatibility.  • Used the Node JS and AngularMVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Developed applications inAngularJSwith business application logic using controllers and Services for reading and manipulating JSON data and rendering it to the DOM using two-way data binding between controller and View.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Extensive experience in Document Object Model (DOM) manipulation using vanilla JavaScript.Well versed in OOP concepts with Vanilla JavaScript.  • Experience in working in an agile development environment with daily routine stand-ups.  • Solid experience in using bootstrap and SASS/CSS3libraries for improving user experience and application aesthetics.  • Experience in unit testingand resolving performance issues.  • Excellent knowledge of Debugging using Chrome Developer Tool.  • Experience in working in a team environment and resolving key issues with QA.  • Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development team.  • Excellent interpersonal and communicational skills and ability to work as a team player.  • Developed and maintained system documents, development logs for future updates and debugging. Work Experience Front End Developer Viscira, SFO, CA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Business application logic using controllers and Services in AngularJS for reading and manipulating JSON data and rendering it to the DOM using two-way data binding between Controller and View.  • Developed custom directives, templates, filters and UI routing with two-way data binding in MVC Framework for the web application in AngularJS.  • Created dynamic HTML5 content with custom built CSS styling while rendering behavior to the web application using AngularJS and JavaScript as per design guidelines and requirements.  • Pushed applications to Veeva CRM platform for testing web application responsiveness in IPAD IOS using XCode simulator; Used Bitbucket/GIT for software version control.  • Implemented accessibility compliance for HTML Templates.  • Used GitBitbucket forSoftware Version Control to handle multiple releases, features and debugging.  • Applied industry best practices and web standards to optimize the web pages for performance. Worked closely with visual team, designers and project managers. Front End Developer Sam Trans July 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements with external/internal customers, partners and internal teams; prioritizing and delivering innovative requirement documentsin Agile.  • Managed delivering product from the concept, design and development.  • Developed client-side applications using ANGULARJS, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, AJAX, JSON, and Node JS.  • Worked on AngularJS to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and templates with UI routing using Controllers and Services.  • Developed Factories and Services for communicating between the Controllers in MVC framework for AngularJS.  • Developed code for interacting with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Developed client-side logic for functionality of applications with AngularJS Controllers and manipulating various node elements in HTML DOM.  • Used Angular JS filters for managing User Input.  • Worked with the design team to develop customised layout, design scheme for the website with photoshop and developed it using HTML5/CSS3 and SASS libraries.  • Worked on improving cross platform and backward compatibility with Safari for IPAD IOS. Deployed and tested applications targeting different browsers, devices and versions.  • Worked with npm, Grunt and Gulp as task runners for package management.  • Used IE and chrome developer tools for debugging application code.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during Retrospective, review meetings to Track the progress.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest API, SVN, Agile methodology. Front End Developer E&Y - Miami, FL December 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Single page applications using AngularJS, HTML5, JavaScript and CSS3.  • Rapidly prototyped design mock-ups into HTML/CSS layout and added dynamic DOM elements using AngularJS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Implemented efficient design UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX, AngularJS; improvingwith web components and features.  • Developed REST based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Called REST web services through services to retrieve JSON Object and store it in local storage and transformed the response object to display in UI.  • Created CSS selectors, ids, classes and pseudo-classes in style guides for HTML DOM elements.  • Worked on npm to manage the dependencies for web application.  • Used Bootstrap for RWD interface for different screen sizes.  • Working on Git (Bit Bucket) version control.  • Used Jasmine/Karma for JavaScript Unit Testing.  • Code Reviewing, analysing and providing feedback to development team during.  • Providing analytical feedback on application features for UI/UX to Project Management, Product Owners and Scrum Master.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, Angular.js, Node.js, JSON, Rest API, MySQL, Git, Windows 7, Brackets, Agile methodology. Front End Developer BIC Graphics - Clearwater, FL August 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and CSS3 for rapidly prototyping applications.  • Implemented OOP JavaScript to create JavaScript code snippets for reusability in multiple applications.  • Implemented ES5/ES6: Arrow Functions, Closures, Prototypal Inheritance, Callback functions, Higher Order Functions: maps and filters for improving code readability, maintainability and Flexibility.  • Code Reviewing and providing feedback during the development to Functional lead/managers.  • Worked with QA team in fixing the bugs, checking cross browser compatibility along with the onsite-offshore, testing model.  • Used Promises to improve code readability and avoid nested Callback functions loops.  • Applied the knowledge of debugging the HTML and JavaScript codes using Firebug and Chrome Debugger, tools.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, Photoshop, Chrome tools, Object Oriented JavaScript Front End Developer Amex - Phoenix, AZ July 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed web application UI interface with HTML DOM elements based on UX requirements.  • Used SASS/CSS3 for developing customized style sheets for DOM Elements as per UI design requirements in Photoshop.  • Used templates for rendering Dynamic HTML DOM elements UI routing in AngularJS.  • Performed client-side testing for application and providing feedback.  • Developed AngularJS custom Directives for UI Templates to render at DOM.  • Developed and actively debugged code as per QA specifications and provided logs.  • Applied the knowledge of debugging the HTML and JavaScript codes using Firebug and Chrome Debugger, tools.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, Photoshop, Chrome tools, Object Oriented JavaScript Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), HTML5 (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JSON (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, DOM, XHTML, Bootstrap, SASS, Vanillas.  Libraries & Frameworks Angular JS, Angular2, React JS, NodeJS, JQuery.  IDE Sublime, Brackets, Visual Studio, Notepad++, eclipse.  Databases MySQL  Version Control GitHub, Bit Bucket  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS X, Linux.  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer tools, Firebug, IE Developer Tools.