Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Ameriprise Financial Minneapolis, MN ? 6+ years of strong development experience in User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable applications using Object Oriented Analysis and design (OOA/OOD) principles.  ? Experience in interacting with clients/users in gathering the user requirements.  ? Proficiency in the Entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Very Strong in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DOM Manipulation, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Angularjs, Angular2/4, React Js.  ? Expert knowledge in XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Cross Browser.  ? Proficient in JavaScript Frameworks like AngularJS 1.x to develop responsive Single Page Application (SPA) and Dynamic Web Applications using MVC Architecture and created POC's and initial integration for Angular 2.0.  ? Good Experience with object oriented programming language like C++ concepts like STL, Multithreading, Socket Programming, Data Structures and Algorithms.  ? Experience in working with JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 2.  ? Expert knowledge in ReactJS with component based application to get Prompt Render result.  ? Used Redux and Flux for state management.  ? For UI and workflow patterns used ReactJS.  ? Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's.  ? Experience with CSS3 preprocessors SASS and LESS to archive writing reusable, maintainable and extensible codes in CSS.  ? Used Gulp and Grunt as task-runner.  ? Experience in TDD (Test Driven Development) and used Jasmine as testing framework and used Karma as a test runner.  ? Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN to manage and control software development and project management tools like JIRA and Rally.  ? Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for Development process.  ? Used Bower as Web-tools for successfully implementing the dependencies.  ? Experience working with debugging tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome dev tool and Web Inspector.  ? Deep understanding of Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) and hands on experience in database Analysis, Architecture, Design and Development using MS SQL Server and Oracle.  ? Strong debugging skills and thorough understanding of cross browser issues.  ? Skills in optimizing websites for mobile using CSS media queries.  ? Understanding of W3C standards, accessibility, usability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Ameriprise Financial April 2018 to Present Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is an American diversified financial services company. Which ranks 252th in the list of fortune 500 companies. Ameriprise Financial engages in business through its subsidiaries, providing financial planning, products and services, including wealth management, asset management, insurance, annuities, and estate planning.  Responsibilities:  * Designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React.Js and Redux Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML / HTML5, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  * Developed user interface by using the React Js, Redux for SPA development.  * Responsible for making responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  * Used Gulp.js to compile the files from SASS to CSS.  * Worked extensively on CMS to modify, create websites and pages as per client needs.  * Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  * Used React Js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  * Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  * Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  * Did extensive Javascript and jQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  * Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  * Developed interactive and dynamic web pages using Javascript.  * Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  * Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  * Worked with Business Analyst (BA) for the classification of tickets and giving demos for higher representatives.  * Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication  * Worked on cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, React Js, Redux, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, ES6, SASS, Bootstrap, Agile Methodology, Visual Studio, GIT, Responsive web design. Front- End Developer General Electric - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to 2018 General Electric is the leading software company for the industrial internet, reimagining industry's infrastructure by connecting software, apps and analytics to industrial businesses. The product Asset Performance Management (APM) enables intelligent asset strategies that balance three competing priorities such as reducing cost, improving availability and reliability, and managing risk to help optimize overall asset and operational performance.  Responsibilities:  * Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in Angular 4 as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON.  * Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML / HTML5, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  * Responsible for making responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  * Used Gulp.js to compile the files from SASS to CSS.  * Worked extensively on CMS to modify, create websites and pages as per client needs.  * Designed and Implemented the modern and enhanced development platform using frameworks like Angular 4, Typescript.  * Worked on Angular 4 by consuming RESTful web services & Used Angular 4 forms like Template Driven forms and Reactive Model Driven forms with RxJS to perform form validations both on server side and client side. Used Reactive Extensions(Rxjs) for asynchronous data streams with Observables.  * Created various TypeScript reusable components and angular Services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture & injected them into Angular components (using Dependency Injection) to enable AJAX calls and created custom directives to create own HTML tags and induce functional behavior to those tags. Also worked on pipes and injectables.  * Increased performance of the website by reducing the number of HTTP requests.  * Created Core Module with components that will be loaded once in AppModule such as Navbar, Toolbar, Services, Routing Module, Models.  * Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  * Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  * Worked with Business Analyst (BA) for the classification of tickets and giving demos for higher representatives.  * Played a key role in gathering requirements and communicated efficiently with API team to understand the workflow.  * Worked on cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, Angular 4, TypeScript, JSON, AJAX, ES6, SASS, Bootstrap, Agile Methodology, Visual Studio, GIT, Responsive web design. Front End Developer Safeway Inc - Phoenix, AZ February 2015 to August 2016 Front- End Developer  Safeway Inc is one of the largest grocery store chains in the US. Synonymous to a food retailer, Safeway has more than 1320 stores in mid-western, western and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in developing the front- end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML5, and CSS/CSS3.  * Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and some AngularJS and clean semantic code.  * Basic AngularJS front- end frameworks for web, responsive and mobile based web applications and websites, in an agile development environment.  * Re-skinning, updating and complete redesign of an existing website, using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  * Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript and AJAX to interact with web Services and user controls.  * Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with AngularJS.  * Experience writing AngularJS code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  * Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS. Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  * Implemented AngularJS Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server.  * Used package mangers like Bower and NPM; Grunt to build frontend assets & resources.  * Used Maven build tools, SVN / GIT source control systems.  * Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  * Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the Application.  Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, SASS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, CMS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, GIT, Sublime Text, Responsive web design. Front End Developer Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH December 2013 to January 2015 Abercrombie & Fitch (A&F) is an American retailer that focuses on upscale casual wear for young consumers, its headquarters are in New Albany, Ohio, a suburb of Columbus. The company operates two other offshoot brands: Abercrombie Kids & Hollister Co  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery and AJAX that follows W3C Web standards and are browser compatible.  ? Design, develop and test HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ? Course Management System (CMS) - Tool enables users the Designed, developed, debugged, tested key modules, user manuals  ? Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax.  ? Developed Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application.  ? Applying CSS styles to create left and top nav of the web page.  ? Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server and in jQuery for Chaining.  ? Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY.  ? Developed the page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  Environment: HTML, CSS3, Animation, jQuery, Bootstrap, Notepad ++. Front End Developer Data Cross Solution - Gujarat, IN August 2012 to November 2013 Data Cross Solution - DCS is a leading and visionary professional website design, affordable website development and custom software development company from India. We focus on custom software development, software programming solution, professional website design and development services & custom web applications development providing custom website development solution for any size of business applications.  Responsibilities:  ? Designed front- end screens using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? Utilized various JavaScript and JS libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forgot password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make drop down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  ? Gathered data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets.  ? Involved in development of multi-tier web application environment  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JSON, AJAX, Notepad ++. Education Bachelor in Engineering Gujarat Technological University Skills AJAX (6 years), HTML (6 years), JSON (6 years), HTML5 (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Web API, SOAP, REST, ECMAScript 5, ECMAScript 6, Angular 2, and React and Redux,    Programming Languages C++, JavaScript, UNIX shell programming, Objective C  Javascript Framework Angular 1.X, Angular 2, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Express.JS, React JS  Task runner Grunt, Gulp  Web Server HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat.  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server.  Tools & IDE  Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor, Web Storm, NetBeans, GitHub, Git Bash, Microsoft Office,CMS, NPM, , WebPack.    Debugging tools Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar  Version Control Tools Git, SVN, TFS  Unit Testing Tools TestNg, JUnit, Karma, Jasmine  Operating Systems Windows variants, Mac OS variants, Unix, Linux  Methodologies Agile-SCRUM, Waterfall