Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Humana Nutley, NJ Tasks/Achievements  Strong front- end UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and AJAX. Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS and Object oriented programing in JS.  Experience in various Charting/UI tools like JQplot, High Charts, Google API, JQuery UI and Bootstrap. Strong experience with  Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, SQL Server concepts, with good knowledge of DB Design, DB normalization and writing SQL queries PL/SQL.  Extensive experience in developing single-page applications using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and Bootstrap. Created a dashboard using Bootstrap 3.0. Used D3.js for charting jQuery and JavaScript for creating view models.  Strong understanding and experienced with all the phases of SDLC development methodologies including SCRUM, involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  Proficient in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS.  Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, and CSS Table.  Detail oriented, well-organized, responsible, self-motivated, quick learner, strong communication and interpersonal skills. Proven ability to work efficiently both independently or collaboratively. Work Experience Front End Developer Humana January 2019 to Present Roles & Responsibilities  Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML5, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL  database as the backend. Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  Refactored and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up and enhanced performance.  Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap. Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  Worked on project writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site. Front End Developer PepsiCo January 2018 to December 2018 Roles & Responsibilities  Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery. Ajax calls.  Implemented AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance. Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit.  Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission. Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  Worked with engineering design team members to translate visual designs to build a website that is mobile device friendly with responsive layouts by HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Conducted data prep activities for system testing, regression testing end to end testing using MySQL. Worked closely with Program Engineers how the front end and back end mechanism works in order to develop an interface. Front End Developer Lamda - IN January 2015 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities  Developed web presentation layer using JQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines. Used Angular.js, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for front end web designing.  Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  Used MVC architecture of backbone.js to convert nested jQuery calls into a backbone model based architecture. Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  Designed, developed and implemented the database in Microsoft SQL Server for the application. Worked with the business analysts to develop High-level Document and Detailed level Document for various UI modu  Working on all the latest technologies like HTML, CSS, etc. Tackled various issues related browser compatibility to accommodate these advanced and fast technologies. Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  Developed CSS style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Developed web based applications using through jQuery for message postings. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Ajax (1 year), AngularJS (1 year), API (Less than 1 year), Front End (3 years), Front End Developer (3 years), GIT (Less than 1 year), HTML (3 years), JQUERY (3 years), MICROSOFT ACCESS (Less than 1 year), MS Access (Less than 1 year), MS Office (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), MySQL (1 year), SQL (2 years), SQL Server (2 years), UI (3 years), USER INTERFACE (3 years), Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    AngularJS  Angular 2/4  Node.js  D3.js  ReactJS  Vue JS  JQUERY  Chart.js  CSS3  HTML5, XML, HTML    AJAX  Visual Studio Code  NetBeans  GIT HUB  UI  MySQL  PL-SQL  NetBeans  Web Api    Windows 7/8/10  Restful  SQL Server  MS Office  MS Access    TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Front End Developer