Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Fiserv Milpitas, CA • Around 7 years of programming experience in the field of Web development and UI development.  • Abundant experience in using React/Redux to build User Interface, strong knowledge of state, props, middleware, action creator, reducer and container.  • Proficient in using AJAX and JSON to connect with back- end applications/services.  • Technical expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model Layout, DOM Functions, JavaScript functions in web browser and developing with jQuery in various UI widgets.  • Extensive experience on HTTP specifications and REST standards and also in integration of RESTful.  • Experienced in creating Responsive Web Design using CSS3 media queries, Bootstrap.  • Outstanding achievements from working with CSS preprocessors SASS.  • Proficient in both Relational Database (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB, Mongoose).  • In-depth knowledge of Object-Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development  • Expertise in working on Jest, Jasmine, Chai, Mocha JavaScript unit testing frameworks.  • Expert with GIT and Experienced in agile development methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Fiserv - San Ramon, CA February 2018 to Present Project Description: The project is aimed to develop a site for vendor award-winning solutions; it helps our business analyze team deep dig the data, analytics and core account processing. Helping clients push the boundaries of delivering deep expertise and innovative solutions.  Responsibilities:  • Followed purely agile methodology, which involves scrum meetings, backlog grooming, sprint demos, retrospective and sprint planning.  • Involved in a critical project phase 2 which involved moving the 2-panel view of our application to a single panel view where the application collects the missing information.  • Used BootStrap, CSS and SAAS preprocessor as UI framework, which is, add on to React JS framework in building UI components.  • Involved in creating reusable UI components to render view pages using React along with Redux.  • Maintained states in the stores using Redux. Created reducers that interacts with actions and modifies data in states. Added functionality by creating and dispatching action creators that deployed actions.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to asynchronously fetch and send data from server side to produce and consume RESTful web services.  • Validated user input before sending the page off to the server by using the Redux-Form.  • Used Postman to call rest API's and construct http requests.  • Integrated Cookie Banner to our application, which involves a complex routing integration.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript.  • Worked on Jest & Enzyme framework for functional automation test suites in parallel for the projects handled to ensure the quality of the product before delivery.  • Collaboratively working with cross-functional and cross-vertical teams to ensure end to end testing of the product.  • Handling the critical production issues and live push support to unblock prevent major outages.  • Worked closely with QA team in fixing the reported bugs/ defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Involved in Live-push activities ensuring the product is regressed thoroughly by assigning the different flows to all the teammates for verification and performed One-Box testing before live deployment.  • Performing code reviews/peer reviews to maintain the code quality and enduring the company standards.  • Attending the sprint end demos where the sprint work is demonstrated to get the user stories accepted from the product owner and receive any suggestions to satisfy the product.  • Keeping track of tasks on rally under the user stories assigned to each one of the team and updating.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, DOM, JavaScript, jJQuery, JSON, React-JS, Node-JS, SASS, Firebug. Front- End Developer Huawei - Santa Clara, CA October 2016 to January 2018 Project Description: Project focus on build web for management the Cloud Backbone Routers NE9000 Series.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the planning and design of web application.  • Worked closely with the stakeholders to define business objectives, solution space and design/development approach for various mobile / web applications.  • Design and Development of presentation layers using HTML5/CSS3, ReactJS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Designed websites, interfaces, and layouts to fit client's desires including developing responsive layouts using JavaScript, HTML5/XHTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap and React.JS  • Used Redux for state management. Created reducers with pure functions and actions to dispatch events and store to maintain the state.  • Performance analysis and correction of React/Redux.  • Used RWD (Responsive Web Design) techniques to enhance web page display based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  • Used JSON extensively for calling Web Services collecting data from server and sending requests to the server from client-side.  • Implemented new user-facing features of web application and cooperated with backend engineers to work on the request and response that transferred through Ajax calls.  • Debugged frontend/backend codes and bug fixes in Chrome / Safari inspect  • Worked closely with QA teams to understand bugs / enhancements / improvements and updated process timely  • Designed and implemented UI for few enhancements.  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings.  • Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment.  • Participated in maintenance and production support.  Environment: React.JS, Redux, JQuery, AJAX, Java, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, GIT, Bootstrap, Unix. Front End Developer Caknow - Los Angeles, CA September 2013 to September 2016 Project Description: The project is aimed to develop an extranet site for vendors to encourage easy access to check various parts and their inventory levels and determine the restocking options in the factory with cutting edge technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the frontend applications, user interactive client side (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumers facing as well as internal application).  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Maintained and enhanced that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  • Used web-based Git repository manager with issue tracking features.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN and ECLIPSE. Education B.Tech Tianjin University of Finance and Economics 2012 Skills HTML4/5, CSS2/3, ES5, ES6, JSX, Node.js, Bootstrap, DOM, AJAX, JSON, SASS, RWD (4 years), JQuery, Express, React, NodeJS, Angular (2 years), MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle (4 years), Git and SVN (3 years), Jasmine, Jest, Chai, Mocha (5 years), Javascript