Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - Wilshire Bank West Windsor, NJ • Over 6 years of experience in Front- End web development. In-depth knowledge of current web markup and scripting languages. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, and take ownership. Quick learner with strong problem solving and analytical skills.  • Experience in UI (User Interface) application development using HTML4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Outstanding knowledge in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS framework.  • Hands-on experience in MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework using AngularJS.  • Experience in Twitter Bootstrap framework and building responsive website for both desktop and mobile browser users.  • Expert in using NetBeans IDE, Brackets text editor as well as Sublime, Notepad++, Eclipse, and Visual Studio.  • Solid proficiency with distributed version control tools such as SVN and GIT. Branching and common deployment methods for collaborating on source code.  • Proficiency with relational database management systems and query software such as SQL.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, and Firefox.  • Exceptional organization and time management skills to work under tight deadlines with multiple projects.  • Good grasp of the technologies used to create dynamic websites and applications.  • Strong customer focus, excellent problem solving, communication, and analytical skills.  • Highly motivated web enthusiast with strong communication skills. Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Wilshire Bank - Huntington Park, CA August 2012 to Present Project: Account Management System    Wilshire Bank commenced operations in 1980 with a mission to serve an overlooked multi-ethnic small and mid-sized business community. It is a subsidiary of Wilshire Bancorp Inc. The system focuses on transferring within the same account among clients' credit, checking and saving account, viewing existing account information and help clients get account activities the first time. The project is designed and implemented according to MVC architecture with AngularJS.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the requirements analysis and technical assessments to make it user-friendly interface. Also involved in translating functional requirements into technical requirements using JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Systematic markup in semantic fashion for HTML5 that's used for advanced features.  • Designed and developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls by $http service in AngularJS.  • Developed APIs using AJAX and JSON to implement more robust and efficient client facing applications.  • Wrote application code to perform client side validation using AngularJS, and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website across different size of screen, from smart phone to desktop.  • Implemented MVC pattern of AngularJS framework to create different modules that associate each other with specific controllers, templates, scopes, custom filters, and directives using AngularJS.  • Updated application versions and committed to repository change using application version control tool SVN.  • Debugged the application using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Inspector.  • Supported the maintenance of other existing applications.  • Participated in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs with developers.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, SVN. Front End Developer Comnen Technology - Jamaica, NY May 2010 to August 2012 Project: Manufacture presenting system    Comnen Technology has featured itself as a professional patch cord manufacturer providing cable products. Manufacture presentation system was a project building platform to present the different products which company provides. It was a simple, beautiful, and well organized website which is easy for customers to browse every product they want. The detail information of the products and services are also provided to the client. Designed and coded the websites front- end with Bootstrap and AngularJS with a team member.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the management team, internal, and external clients to translate the project requirements into visual mock-ups, interaction design, and information architecture design.  • Created clear, efficient forms entry using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed modules to retrieve data using AJAX calls through jQuery methods.  • Wrote application code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Updated application versions and committed to repository change using application version control tool SVN.  • Debugged the application using Firebug, IE Tester, and Web Developer.  • Executed process setup for the team by reviewing standards and frameworks for effective integration. Tracked the plans and activities for the team.    Environment:  HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, SVN. Front End Developer MFC Office Furniture, - San Diego, CA January 2008 to May 2010 Project: Online Store System    MFC is a nationally recognized leader in the field of office liquidation, and office furniture sales. The project was designed to search products that customers need online and compare some aspects in the same category easily. The website was user-friendly and well-organized, was completed with HTML, and CSS.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the daily stand-up meeting and works on plans for future progress.  • Analyzed the feasibility and wrote the Project Design Document.  • Involved in front- end using HTML and CSS.  • Used version control SVN.  • Fixed the cross browser compatibility issues for browsers Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and IE8.  • Involved in maintenance and support that include other existing applications.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SVN. Education Master of Science in Computer Science National University - San Diego, CA Skills HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, SVN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies & Skills HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, JSON, AJAX  Framework Bootstrap, AngularJS  Dev Tools NetBeans, Bracket, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Eclipse  Version Control SVN(Tortoise SVN), GIT(Tortoise GIT)  Operating Systems MS Windows, OS X