Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA • Around 6 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, javascript and client-server technology based applications.  • Experienced in developing web based applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript,Struts Tag Library, JQuery, Jquery UI, Angular JS, Vue.Js, Knockout.js, Alertify.Js, AJAX, XML and JSONand BootStrap.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and django.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, AJAX, JQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Worked with JQuery third party libraries in Django framework- feedback plugin, photo light, social-likes, jQuery tables, slick grid and google charts, etc.  • Working experience on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/Python, .NET/C#, Flask/Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Jquery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Experience in developing SPA based on unidirectional flow application using React- Redux and NodeJs  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Good Working knowledge of Angular JS, Node JS, React JS and Knockout JS, Hibernate, Spring MVC.  • Hands on experience with frameworks like Node.js, Angular.js, React.js, Ember.js, Redux, Unit testing tools like Karma, Jasmine, Mocha and Chai  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, andPython/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN and Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jytho  • Experienced in using Caching applications for large scale applications like Memcached, Redis.  • Implemented unit and integration testing for all layers of the applications using frameworks like JUnit, Spock, Mocha, Jasmine  • Experienced on integrating RESTful API with front end script by Ajax and JSON using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Brackets, IntelliJ,  • Netbeans, EditPlus, Notepad++, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop.  • Experienced in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting, Bash Scripting.  • Experienced with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6,2.4).  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Extensive Experience with Web technologies using Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts Spring, JSF/Ice faces, Hibernate Java Beans, Java Swing, JDBC, JNDI, Collections, XML(DTD and Schema), HTML, AJAX and Web Service(SOAP, JAX-RPC, AXIS) on Unix and Windows environment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Experience in designing the user interactive web applications and Rich Internet Applications (RIA's)  • using with web authoring tools like Adobe Dreamweaver CS5 and AJAX.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and subversion SVN.  • Experienced with Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing, Automation testing.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tightdeadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Development Experience in Linux (CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu), Mac OS  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices Work Experience Front End Developer Atlanta, GA March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed the front- end featuring rich web interface implemented using JavaScript library like Jquery.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular.js, created role based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Developed RESTful web-services, for upstream and downstream web-applications using Django rest Framework  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developing user interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Angular-JS and Bootstrap on Azure Platform.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MV Framework likeReact-Reduxand node.js.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implementing AngularJS to conduct with the RESTful API using Service and Factory to fetch the data from back- end server, operated unformed data into desired result.  • Worked with Reducers, React Containers to update the state of an APP produced by Redux and by mapping those to the React component using React-Redux.  • Used MySQL database to write simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and de-normalization.  • Design, create and manage Virtual Private clouds (VPCs) for segregation of resources in AWS.  • Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front- end development.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Used the Node.js and Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Developed a full Customer Management System from scratch using React/Redux in the front end and Web pack and Babel as JS bundler and compiler.  • Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web and industry standards.  • Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS and JQuery based on the W3C standard.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Developed Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, and CSS optimization.  • Developed UI, Virtual Objects (VO) and models by using Flash, AJAX, and Action Script 3.0.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Used Elastic search, an open-source industrial strength tool, to improve the query speed in MongoDB.    • Used Celery task distribution queue along with various messaging brokers like RabbitMQ to perform asynchronous operations.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Implemented JQuery based accordion styles and handled complete JQuery in showing Rich Internet Application (RIA).  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers. Used Github for version control.  • Working on Software requirement specifications to create test plan and test cases for manual and automation testing using Selenium Web Driver.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component ANT projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts to automate the batch process.  • Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions with back- end teams as well as front- end team to integrate front- end and back- end.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Adobe Creative suite. Front End Developer PNC bank - Pittsburgh, PA December 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the client to clearly define project requirements and plans.  • Developed web applications in an Agile environment.  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS, AngularJS & JavaScript using Sublime  • Involved in designing and creating a dynamic website model as a guide for the development team.  • Designed webpage layouts and created wireframes using Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop.  • Built complex desktop - style UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX including configuration wizards and interactive reports.  • Designed the prototypes using based on the business requirements for the front- end applications, user experience and user interactive (UI) web pages using Balsamiq.  • Created neat and user-friendly webpages using HTML and CSS.  • Developed responsive webpages for different platforms by applying Bootstrap.  • Developed maintainable CSS style sheet using Less.  • Created Online Customization & Shopping System interface using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed the RESTful API using PHP, configured the Router file to connect with different Controller and API.  • Designed the Front- end screens using JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript.  • Worked on multiple projects and testing out advanced technologies like Angular, YUI3, AlloyUI, Backbone, and Saas etc.  • Implemented pagination and dynamic tag filter directives using Angular JS.  • Managed scripting packages using Bower.  • Used Grunt as task runner for concating, compilation, testing, and minification.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Angular JS. Also Managed scripting packages using Bower.  • Worked with Redux architecture and its containers, components, reducers in developing the user interfaces.  • Used External Apache services through XAMPP Control panel for the GUI and also tomcat internally inside eclipse for the backend.  • Used Angular JS http service to consume RESTful services.  • Created web server to intercept requests by clients and to talk to the database with Node.js.  • Analyzing, Debugging and Fixing the Front End UI issues assigned through Jira bug tracking tools.  • Employed Express.js to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and created RESTful web service with Node.js.  • Experience with UI frameworks and technologies AngularJS, Google Analytics, Bootstrap, and Google Web Toolkit  • Experience with application scaffolding tools, automation & development tools, and dependency management (e.g. Yeoman, Bower, NPM, grunt).  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used Elastic search, an open-source industrial strength tool, to improve the query speed in MongoDB.    • Angular JS form validation in page review system for each product and used AJAX to send the form data to the server in JSON format.  • Optimized HTML and JavaScript code to reduce web page loading time.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask.  • Conducted unit testing using Jasmine with test runner Karma.  • Analyzed website data using Google Analytics.  • Assisted the Quality Assurance team in the final testing.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Implementation of multiple design layouts with various color schemes through CSS and IDS (Interactive Design Services) framework.  • Collaborated with teammates and updated application versions using Git with GitHub. Front End developer Siera Health Services - Las Vegas, NV November 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object Oriented Design/Object Oriented Analysis with usage of UML Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams with Rational Rose.  • Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, designing of the enterprise applications, co-ordination with client and offshore team, meetings with business users, functional and technical guide to the offshore team, project management  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer  • Designed UI using JSP and HTML, and validated with JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.  • Developed User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML and CSS as per company's standards.  • Used AJAX, DOJO, Java script, Spring and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Implemented bootstrap CSS in AngularJS for developing rich and responsive UI.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Using JavaScript, jQuery, Kendo UI for user interactions in pages. Creating a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React JS and media queries.  • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session façade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions. Using JPA for designing and creating the entities and establishing the relation between the entities in a persisted way for EJB.  • Wrote complex Database PL/SQL Statement and Did PL/SQL tuning for the performance of the Database.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the users application by editing updating using MVC pattern in Backbone and underscore template  • Used Angular js to develop a standalone test application, in scope of future usgae of the framework.  • Created wireframes to accommodate UI needs in an efficient yet modern way, using accordions, sub-panels and sliders among other front end techniques.  • Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server.  • Using Angular Js created Used jQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Used components based on jQuery UI, The communication with server was made through Ajax using JS  • Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through Source Tree's simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash.  • Experience with application scaffolding tools, automation & development tools, and dependency management  • Worked on Framework to design and implement a new Meetings and Events Store Front Pagecreating own custom classes using Developer tools.  • Created multiple search forms with new Design and features like Auto Suggest, Point of Interest and so on in the form.  • Experience in working with MVC Framework and worked on Backbone.js, Knockout.js framework  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and performed simulations for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and performed simulations for web application, page  • Used Responsive Web Design practices and techniques to implement a friendly website  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions with back- end teams as well as front- end team to integrate front- end and back- end Skills Web Technologies Python 3.3, Django 1.5.4, Jenkins, CSS Bootstrap, React, Redux, High Charts JS, Mongo DB,HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, DOM, concept Modeling/ Wire framing, Responsive Web Design,Apache Tomcat JavaScript Libraries JQuery UI, Ext.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Vue.js, Alertify.Js IDE & Tools Eclipse, Aptana Studio, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Espresso, Sublime Text2, Text Mate, Microsoft Publisher, Apache, Linux, Git, AWS,Azure. Frameworks: Spring, Struts, EJB, Bootstrap, Spock Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator, Version Control Perforce, CVS, SVN Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD, Rational United Process Database PL/SQL (Oracle), MySQL Operating System Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Linux Python 2.7, Django 1.5.4, Jenkins, CSS Bootstrap, High Charts JS, Mongo DB (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies  Python 3.3, Django 1.5.4, Jenkins, CSS Bootstrap, React, Redux, High Charts JS, Mongo DB,HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, DOM, concept Modeling/ Wire framing, Responsive Web Design,Apache Tomcat    JavaScript Libraries JQuery UI, Ext.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Vue.js, Alertify.Js  IDE & Tools Eclipse, Aptana Studio, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Espresso, Sublime Text2, Text Mate, Microsoft Publisher, Apache, Linux, Git, AWS,Azure.  Frameworks: Spring, Struts, EJB, Bootstrap, Spock  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator,  Version Control Perforce, CVS, SVN  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD, Rational United Process  Database PL/SQL (Oracle), MySQL  Operating System Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Linux  Python 2.7, Django 1.5.4, Jenkins, CSS Bootstrap, High Charts JS, Mongo DB