Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front end developer - Apple Inc Sunnyvale, CA • More than 5 years of professional experience in developing highly scalable modern web applications and interactive software products using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, ReactJS and Redux.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies. Prepare Test Cases following TDD (test driven development).  • Experience in developing web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries to adapt to the changing environment.  • Ability to write well-documented, well-commented, clear and maintainable efficient code for web development.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery and also in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Experience of Working in CSS Preprocessors like SASS.  • Used scaffolding tools like NPM and Webpack.  • Have experience in using GIT and SVN for repositories and file management.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing, Usability testing.  • Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine and Jest.  • Provide subject matter expertise in areas including Scrum & Agile process implementation, process improvement, project management, scope definition, cost/benefit analyses, risk identification, project methodology and resource allocation  • Used Chrome developer toolbar for debugging JavaScript and fixing issues.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implement HTML5/CSS3 pages based on mockups from designers/style guides  • Develop enterprise applications using JS MVC frameworks (React.js and Redux)  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript (ES6), and React.JS, Redux.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • DOM manipulations using JavaScript  • Write Unit Test suites using Jest.  • Used Webpack to minify and bundle the code along with gulp.  • Worked on JOI Validations both on client side and server side.  • Developing CSS Style for web page using SASS Structure.  • Handling cross browser compatibility issues  • Implementing Web Accessibility and SEO techniques  • Transformation and integration of API's  • Work with Product Owners, UX Designers build conceptual demos and POCs  • Make REST API calls to fetch data  • Use Radar/Agile tool to track tasks assigned  • Follow Agile methodology and Test-Driven Development    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.JS, Redux, Jest, GIT, NPM, Webpack Front end developer Silicon Valley Bank - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building a high efficiency Dynamic Single and Multiple Pages Web Application using HTML, HTML5, Java Script, Bootstrap, jQuery and CSS3.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Converted data from database into JSON format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Used Bootstrap-material design framework to develop a Responsive web application.  • Ran the standalone front- end application in Grunt Server task runner.  • Worked on Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  • Wrote unit tests using Jasmine.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision and subversion control using GIT.  • Moving the code base to integration by maintaining resources in team site repository.  • Involved in Agile process, two-week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Grunt, Jasmine, GIT, NPM Front end developer Morgan Stanley - IN January 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, Ajax, JSON and jQuery.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery plug-in called jQValidator.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  • Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes  • Performed Unit testing to increase the performance of the application.  • Actively participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager. Education Master's in Applied Computer Science in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Northwest, Missouri, US August 2013 to December 2014 Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Sreenidhi Institute of Science & Technology September 2006 to May 2010 Skills HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), jQuery (4 years), reactjs (2 years), redux (2 years), Front End, React, UI, Front-End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX,  Framework& Library: Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, jQuery  IDE & Tools: Sublime Text 3, NetBeans IDE, VSCode  Debugging Tools: Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, Safari Web Developer  Version Control SVN and GIT