Freelancer Freelancer Wordpress Developer Lakeville, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelancer Drew David Productions - Bloomington, MN April 2014 to Present Providing a broad range of creative marketing services including graphic design, web development, promotions, print, direct mail, advertising, photography, videography and more. Supporting your brand needs beyond the website and carrying the look and voice of your online presence to your print, tradeshow, and other sales collateral as needed. Expert at providing a full brand solution across all mediums. Front End Developer Capella University - Minneapolis, MN January 2012 to April 2014 Adhered to and promoted Agile development methods, including Test Driven Development and setup of automated build environments. Worked closely with designers and user experience analysts on bringing mockups or wireframes through development to final delivery. This includes graphics optimization and the use of HTML, CSS, JavaScript/ jQuery. Recommended technical approaches that will help to deliver reliable and efficient code. Worked within a fast paced Agile development environment. Worked with team members on application design. Collaborated with project team members and other information technology colleagues to create systems from defined customer requirements. Participated in and develop new software releases, work with QA in creating test plans, and assists in creating implementation plans. Troubleshooted and recommended solutions to existing production issues. Created end-user support plans. Participated in the ongoing development of technical best practices. Worked with and directed development efforts of consulting staff. Other duties as assigned. Front End Developer Twin Cities Public Television - Minneapolis, MN October 2011 to January 2012 Converted multiple PSD files to Clean XHTML/CSS/PHP. Tableless environment. Created several custom Drupal templates for heavy development. Worked close with Drupal programmers and designers to achieve weekly goals. Front End Developer Ackmann & Dickenson, Inc - Minneapolis, MN July 2010 to October 2011 Converted Multiple PSD files to Clean XHTML/CSS/PHP. Tableless Environment. Created several Custom WordPress Themes for Backend/ Front End projects. Worked with Github, Basecamp, and Harvest for daily tasks and updates. Education Creative Arts High School Inver Hills Community College The Art Institutes International Minnesota Skills Agile/Scrum (2 years), Confident decision maker, Collaborative leader, Design and development, Scheduling, Skilled negotiator, System migrations, Proficient communicator, Project budgeting, Process improvements, Requirements gathering, Team building & leadership, Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe Premiere Pro (7 years), Illustrator (10+ years), After Effects (7 years), Lightroom (3 years), Indesign (10+ years), WordPress (10+ years), Drupal (10+ years), Joomla (10+ years), Shopify (2 years), GUI Design, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Project, Microsoft PowerPoint Links http://drewdavid.productions https://www.facebook.com/drewdavidproductions https://www.facebook.com/drewdavidpaul