Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front end developer - Apple Inc Sunnyvale, CA • 7 years of professional experience in developing highly scalable modern web applications and interactive software products using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, SASS, Node.js, ReactJS and Redux.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/Scrum methodologies. Prepare Test Cases following TDD (test driven development).  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development,  Implementation, testing and support.  • Ability to write well-documented, well-commented, clear and maintainable efficient code for web development.  • Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Experience in developing web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries to adapt to the changing environment.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery and also in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Experience of Working with CSS Preprocessor SASS.  • Used scaffolding tools like NPM, Webpack and Gulp.  • Have experience in using GIT and SVN for repositories and file management.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing, Usability testing.  • Experience in creating test suites using Jasmine and Jest.  • Used Jira, Radar and Agile tools to task/issue tracking  • Provide subject matter expertise in areas including Scrum & Agile process implementation, process improvement, project management, scope definition, cost/benefit analyses, risk identification, project methodology and resource allocation  • Used Chrome developer toolbar for debugging JavaScript and fixing issues.  • Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), Node.js, ReactJS and Redux.  • Used ReactJS to implement functions in various pages: form validation, grid list, search, auto complete, modals, sort, pagination, multi-selection.  • Used Webpack to minify and bundle the code along with gulp.  • Worked on JOI Validations both on client side and server side.  • Developing CSS Style for web page using SASS Structure.  • Handling cross browser compatibility issues  • Implement Web Accessibility and SEO techniques  • Transformation and integration of API's  • Make RESTful API calls to communicate with backend  • Work on Node.js as server side implementation.  • Write Unit Test suites using Jest and Enzyme.  • Work with Product Owners, UX Designers build conceptual demos and POCs  • Work with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Maintain the code base by frequent updates to revision and subversion control using GIT  • Use Radar/Agile tool to track tasks assigned  • Follow Agile methodology and Test-Driven Development    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, React.JS, Redux, Node.js, RESTful web services, Jest, Enzyme, GIT, NPM, Webpack, Radar Front end developer Silicon Valley Bank - San Francisco, CA March 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building a high efficiency Dynamic Single and Multiple Pages Web Application using HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, ReactJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, and CSS3.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Develop enterprise applications using JS library React.js and Redux  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services  • Used Bootstrap-material design framework to develop a Responsive web application.  • Making validations, session maintaining using HTML5 validations and bootstrap session maintaining option.  • Ran the standalone front- end application in Grunt Server task runner.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Unit testing of application at development phase to make sure of the functionality on different devices using Jasmine.  • Moving the code base to integration by maintaining resources in team site repository.  • Updated the website from time to time for special requirements.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Involved in Agile process, two-week Sprints, and daily stand-up to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Grunt, Jasmine, GIT, NPM, Jira Front end developer Morgan Stanley Smith Barney - IN January 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, Ajax, JSON and jQuery.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery plug-in called jqValidator.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Making JavaScript functionalities related to validations, session maintaining.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  • Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes  • Performed Unit testing to increase the performance of the application.  • Actively participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager. Education Master's in Science & Technology Northwest Missouri State University - Northwest, Missouri, US Skills JAVASCRIPT (7 years), HTML (7 years), Git (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), CSS (7 years), reactjs (3 years), redux (3 years), sass (2 years), UI, React, Front End, Front-End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX  Framework& Library: Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, Node JS, jQuery  IDE & Tools: VSCode, Sublime Text 3, NetBeans IDE  Debugging Tools: Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, Safari Web Developer  Version Control: GIT, SVN  Operating System: Microsoft Windows, Mac