Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - PROFESSIONAL EXPERINECE • 7+ years of extensive work experience in developing web application programs, front- end/UI using web technologies: HTML 5/4, CSS 3/2, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Well versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Ability to apply W3C web standards to ensure best cross-browser user experience, long-term user retention and engagement.  • Expertise in developing Single Page Application (SPA) and Responsive Web Design (RWD), REST services using the Twitter Bootstrap, Angular.JS, jQuery, CSS3 and LESS.  • Involved in implementing Omniture Tracking using Adobe Analytics and Google Analytics to understand/optimize the web usage, as a process to measure the web traffic and to improvise in conducting market research.  • Experienced on working on projects in Agile and Waterfall methodology.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Extensively followed Scrum process for software development.  • Involved in Search Engine Optimization.  • Extensive experience in building rich user friendly, high performance web applications using HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JQuery and in implementing cross-browser style-sheets.  • Experience using Angular JS, LESS and JADE to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Extensive experience in bug fixing and production support.  • Good understanding in Angular.js framework concepts.  • Experienced in creating SQL queries, stored procedures and views in MS-SQL Server 2005/2008.  • Involved in integrating of Social Media Plugins like Facebook, Google plus, Twitter, Tumblr with the web applications.  • Significant experience in web development tools like Sublime, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 and Firebug.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Ability to work independently and also as a team player. Ability to act as "translation point" between departments.  • Very effective in collaboratively working with teams and as independent contributor.  • Eager to learn new technologies. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Developer Randstad Technologies - Exton, PA August 2016 to Present Teva Pharmaceuticals USA is a manufacturer of specialty and generic pharmaceuticals. The main purpose of this project is to create/manage/update website for the Pharma products manufactured by Teva Pharmaceuticals. The sites are responsive and rich in user interface.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Getting transition from Business Analyst about the requirements and assets.  • Single handedly developed the sites using ASP.NET, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery plugins and Photoshop CS5.  • Worked in integration with Social Media Plugins.  • Implemented the responsive web designs using the CSS3 and jQuery plugins.  • Enhanced the existing live sites and handled production support.  • Implemented GTM (Google Tag Manager) in the website to optimize/ measure the web usage and web traffic using Google Analytics.  • Perform real time multi-platform device test in cloud based testing lab using Perfecto. Front End Developer DirecTV August 2012 to August 2016 • PGRS (Program Guide Repository service), which demarcates the current programs from the past programs in the guide page.  • Playlist or Carousel-Q, which allows user to create a playlist online in their DirecTV account.  • Live Streaming, in which the video player was integrated with the backend services to play contents online  • My DirecTV Appointments, in which the user is allowed to schedule his installation online by selecting the timeslot available. The project had a feature to alert or notify the user by sending alerts based on user's selection.  • Digital Acquisition, it is a Single Page Application (SPA) which aims at selling DirecTV products to customers through improved and easy User Interface.  • Self-Care, which allows users to manage his account like Pay bill online, view statements add/remove receiver and change packages.  • Integration of AT&T and DirecTV self-care functionalities using Launch-in-Context cross platform site, implemented as RWD pages using Bootstrap.  • Have also handled critical production issues and other non-functional requirements.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Requirements elicitation collaborating with Business Analysts and fitment analysis including assessing the viability of developing within the timeline.  • Involved in development of dotcom site using HTML5, JSP, jQuery plugins and Photoshop CS5.  • Implementation of responsive web designs using the CSS, Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Pushing the code through different testing environments in the production pipeline  • Coordinating with a team at offshore (India) to enable continuity in work flow and enabling the team members.  • Involved in Code review process and ensured the code met industrial standards with all best practices followed according to the standards.  • Handled production support. Front End Developer Warner Music Group March 2011 to May 2012 The goal of the project was to create content management web sites for music group using Drupal gardens CMS tool. The content of the site can be configured anytime by an administrator. Some artists site used responsive web design with rich user interface.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in daily scrum with the onsite coordinator.  • Single handedly developed the sites using HTML5, Drupal Gardens, jQuery plugins and Photoshop CS4.  • Worked in integration with Social Media Plugins.  • Implemented the responsive web designs using the CSS3 and Bootstrap  • Enhanced the existing live sites.  • Handled production support. Education Bachelors in Mechatronics Engineering Anna University 2006 to 2010 Skills HTML5 (6 years), jQuery (6 years), PHOTOSHOP (6 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), JSP (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Development Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Drupal, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, ASP.NET  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, LESS, JADE  Database Server: MS SQL Server 2005/2008  Operating System: Windows XP/Vista/7/8, Mac OS  IDE/ Tools: Eclipse, Aptana, Visual Studio 2015, Sublime, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, Git, TFS, Photoshop CS5