Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - KeyBank West Windsor, NJ • Over 6years of experience inFront- End web development. In-depth knowledge of current web markup and scripting languages. Ability to improvise, troubleshoot, take ownership, and learning new skills quickly on the job.  • Experienced in UI (User Interface) application development using HTML4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in CSS3 preprocessors styling including Sass/Less with support from Compass framework.  • In-depth knowledge in building Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS framework.  • Building responsive website for both desktop and mobile browser with Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Strong knowledge in package manager like Bower and Grunt to perform installation and maintain necessary packages for required projects.  • Proficient with Version Control tools GIT and SVN.  • implementedUnit Testing with Mocha framework.  • Experienced in jquery mobile framework.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Google chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla and Firefox.  • Expertise in using NetBeans IDE, Brackets text editor as well as familiar with Sublime Text2, Notepad++, Eclipse, WebStorm, and Visual Studio.  • Strong communication skills, with ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Solid organizational, project and team management skills, Reliable, motivated, hard-working, and attentive to details. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer KeyBank - Cleveland, OH December 2014 to Present Project:Digital 17    Digital 17is a project to come up with totally new design toupdate customersbanking and financial services based on the old system. We named each release after famous bridge in US, such as for Brooklyn Release which happened in June 2015, from customer impact perspective, a very small pilot group of users internal to the bank most part of digital LOB got internal user name to test application which was done as far as that time, there was no impact to external customers. After Brooklyn release, there would be multiple releases where will continue to roll out to more customers and add new functionality into IBX service which replace old backend service IB2, by the end of July in 2016, the whole project will be released and we plan to have all customers on IBX.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed all the task requirements and user stories which created by Business Analysis team from a developer skill point at the start of each sprint.Maintain, enhance and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs form UI standpoint.  • Started html development once we got wireframes from UI/UX designer, coding withHTML5, CSS3, SASS using Sublime Text2 editor.  • During the period of html template development, we were really picky about html tag select which have to be sematic html tag, as it is going be playing an important role in ADA-compliant feature in our application.  • Designed and developed web and mobile applications with responsive feature using bootstrap 3.3.6.  • We also integrated all latest bootstrap feature into our style guide and customize it, so we can grab and apply it to our application directly once it is needed which is really convenient and more efficient.  • Implemented MVC pattern of AngularJS frameworkwhich usedto developed Single Page Application(SPA), the entire functionality of project are developed by AngularJS, included client side validation and data retrievingfrom backend server using $Http service.  • Managed scripting packages with Bower installation and Gulpfor task runner such as linting, compilation, unit testing, minification.  • Used version control toolsmart SVN.  • Conducted cross-browser testing in all browsers:IE8+, Firefox, Chrome, Safari. Used tools included IE tester, Firebugs, Web Developer and Chrome DevTools..    Environment:  HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, BootstrapFirebug, IE Teste, Sublime Text, Git Sourcetree. Front End Developer JP MORGAN CHASE - Columbus, OH January 2013 to November 2014 Project:Chase 3.0    Chase 3.0is a project to provide customers banking and financial services. We worked to provide an accessible and barrier-free environment in our banking facilities and over the phone-and we continue to improve accessibility to our online services.It is designed to meet online usability and design requirements recommended by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) in its Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 as well as requirements under the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010.  We also used design standards that help customers identify, interpret, understand and interact with information presented on our websites and mobile apps.  Responsibilities:  • Created requirement analysis, design, coding using Javascript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LESS using Sublime Text2 editor.  • Systematic markup in semantic fashion for HTML5 that make use of advanced features  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using Javascript and CSS.  • Implemented MVC pattern of BlueJSframework which is custom framework of chase to developed Single Page Application(SPA).  • Applied responsive webpage that fits all users and devices from desktop to mobile phone using BlueUI component.  • Wrote application code to perform client side validation using jQuery and Javascript.  • Managed scripting packages with Bower installation and Gulpfor task runner such as linting, compilation, unit testing, minification.  • Used version control tolls GIT sourcetree.  • Conducted cross-browser testing in all browsers:IE8+, Firefox, Chrome, Safari. Used tools included IE tester, Firebugs, Web Developer and Chrome DevTools.  • Defined technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Maintain, enhance and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs form UI standpoint.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap Firebug, IE Teste, Sublime Text, Git Sourcetree. Senior Front End Developer REELTIME PRODUCTIONS August 2010 to December 2012 Project: Products presenting system    Products presenting system is a project building platform to present the different products and services that company provide, it is a simple, lightweight, well organized website which is easy for customers to browse every product they want, the specific information of products and services are also provided to client. Designing and coding the website front- end with Bootstrap and AngularJs with team member.    Responsibilities:  • Created Web application template with HTML5 and CSS3 according to the wireframes came up by UI designer.  • Implemented all functionality based on javascript and jQuery.  • Developed Single Page Application with AngularJS framework, make AJAX call with $http service grab JSON data from backend server.  • Make sure all features are working across all breakpoints from desktop to mobile, implemented responsive design with bootstrap gird system.  • Managed scripting packages with Bower installation and Grunt for task runner such as linting, compilation, unit testing, minification.  • Embedded objects such as videos on webpage that respond accordingly when sizes of browser alternate.  • Commit and checkout code with SVN.  • Fixed cross-broswer compatibility issuesusedIE tester, Firebugs, Web Developer and Chrome DevTools.  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, SVN, GIT. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Western Michigan University Skills HTML, CSS,Javascript, jQuery,BootstrapFirebug, IE Teste, Sublime Text,Git Sourcetree Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Dev Technologies & Skills HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, JSON, Ajax.  Framework Bootstrap, AngularJS, Compass  Dev Tools WebStorm, NetBeans, Brackets, Notepad++, Visual Studio  Version Control SVN(Tortoise SVN), GIT(Tortoise GIT)  Operating Systems MS Windows, OS X  Others Bower, FireBug, IETester, Responsive Web Design Tester..