Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - TrueBlue Fremont, CA • Around 5 Years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Have an extensive experience in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS and JSON.  • Worked extensively on Bootstrap with AngularJS.  • Good experience working with Single Page Application (SPA).  • Extensive experience developing the pages in Responsive Web Design.  • Extensive experience using CSS3 Media queries  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Experienced in working AGILE methodology. Involved in Sprint planning and Scrums.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Strong experience with jQuery, jQuery plugins, AJAX, DHTML and JSON.  • Experience managing daily communication with offshore development teams. Work Experience Front End Developer TrueBlue - Tacoma, WA November 2013 to Present http://www.clp.com/    • Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Responsible for development of Non-Functional Web pages using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Developed UI for web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngualrJS, jQuery validations and JSON to implement a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed the responsive web application using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing jQuery library.  • Used AngularJS(ngGrid) for Grid data displays all over the application using Bootstrap with AngularJS.  • Worked with Firebug to locate the issue through different browsers.  • Used Photoshop for image editing and website design.  • Worked extensively with the backend team to integrate the HTML code into JSPs.  • Developed the custom data grids upon jQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, Java, and Maven Front End Developer Lending Club - Sunnyvale, CA January 2011 to October 2013 Lending Club is an online lending community where people can borrow and lend money, bypass the banks, and get better rates. By working together, members can borrow money more easily and at a better rate than they would get from a bank, or invest in a pool of loans at higher rates than those served by savings accounts or CDs. A proprietary technology called LendingMatch(TM) helps match lenders with borrowers using connections established through social networks, associations and online communities, and build diversified portfolios based on lender preferences.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress. Front End Developer AppLabs - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh February 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using the Struts framework.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (using embedded MQ) for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Developed different GUI screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages  • Implemented Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Structure (for data validation), JSP pages, Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to process client requests from the user interface  • Developed BMP Entity beans to represent the data and to perform operations on database  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON and AJAX Education ba in computer jntu - frmont Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems: Windows 98, Windows NT/2000  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery,  AJAX, JSON, AngularJS  RDBMS: Oracle, SQL server  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere 7, JBoss, Web logic 8  Development Tools: Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor, Wrangler, Eclipse  Configuration Management: Subversion, Tortoise SVN