UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - T-Mobile, Seattle WashingtonSept Seattle, WA Over 7 Years of IT Experience as an UI Developer with the core areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of E-commerce application. Work Experience UI Developer T-Mobile, Seattle WashingtonSept 2015 to Present Description  As America's Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation.  Responsibilities:  • Focused on development of Mobile-First websites that were compatible across devices and browsers.  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Participated in daily Scrum Calls and contributed effectively during discussion for effective solutions.  • Developed UI and front- end code to interact with the back- end of the application in Java.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript.  • Involved in UI testing to ensure a smooth User experience on the website and consistency of UI elements such as Buttons, Links, Text, Sizes, Layout and more.  • Cross-Browser website compatibility testing using different versions of IE, Google Chrome, Safari, Opera and Mozilla Firefox and issue fixing.  • Used POSTMAN for testing the APIs directly as a part of the integration testing to determine if they meet expectations for functionality, reliability, performance and security. e-commerce.  • Involved in the Source Code Analysis of the JS code using JSLINT, identifying the lint errors associated and resolving them.  • Involved in development of Single-Page Application(SPA) using Models, Views and Controllers of Angular.js as a part of team project.  • Worked on making the entire application accessible using ARIA and AA Standards across Chrome, Safari, IE, Mozilla and on devices of different breakpoints.  Environment:AngularJS, NodeJS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SCSS, Bootstrap, Adobe AEM. UI Developer Humana Medicare, TXJune 2014 to July 2015 Description  Humana Medicare is an Insurance Company which provides insurance through third party vendor with different plans. The project deals with the purchase of an annual insurance plan from the available four types of plans and also involved in fixing the home and Medicare front pages.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirements, participated in technical design and development  • Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers  • Developed enterprise grade applications using HTML5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery  • Developed UI and front- end code to interact with the back- end of the application in Java.  • Worked on making the entire application accessible using ARIA and AA Standards across Chrome, Safari, IE, Mozilla.  • Involved in documenting to the new changes.  • Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, Adobe photoshop, JIRA, AngularJS, Visual studio. Front- end Developer American Airlines Fortworth TX October 2013 to April 2014 Description: American Airlines, Inc. (AA) is a United States-based airline, operating an extensive international and domestic network, and is the world's largest airline by passengers flown. AAdvantage program is a program for the people who flying frequently to join a club, access their accounts, to view points, transfer points, claim missing points etc., through AA airlines to reward customer loyality. And customers should enroll the program to accrue points corresponding to the distance they travel and these points are redeemed for flight and non-flight benefits.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed UI layer components and pages using MVC, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with other Associates to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Involved in Debugging the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Involved in reducing the network load and update only the certain components of the website using AJAX  • Involved in Documentation of new changes in application for client needs.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.    • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010. Front - end Developer GGK Tech - IN February 2012 to June 2013 Description: GGK Tech health care technology project focuses on information about consumers wellness apps and registration for a free health care IT consultant  Responsibilities:  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Designed wire-frame for creating layout and communicating with clients and development team, the functionalities of accounting module like navigation, help, and search.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involves in work that is assigned through daily scrum calls.  • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript & other libraries.  • Involved in testing few pages to ensure that UI elements are perfectly working.  Environment: Photoshop, HTML, CSS, Dream weaver, JavaScript, JQuery. Front- end Developer Government Of India Ministry Of Coal, IndiaAug 2010 to December 2011 Description: e-CPMP (Electronic Coal Projects Monitoring Portal) is a project designed to enhance the efficiency and improve the communication between the industries to the Ministry of Coal.  Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation layer includes UI components, validations using HTML5, applying styles using CSS, used JQuery to make Ajax calls.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Developed the necessary front end user interfaces in JSP's, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Developed screens using JSP.  • Actively participated in Team meetings.  • Involved in bug fixing.  Environment: JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery. Front- end Developer Government Of India Ministry Of Coal, IndiaAug January 2010 to June 2010 Description: Bucco Couture is a web site developed for men's Formal garments. The Carmen Bucco project was to allow customers to book an appointment to meet the designer and discuss about their requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis process.  • Involved in user interface designing.  • Involved in bug fixing.  • Worked in some the modules of the application which involved front- end presentation logic developed using JSP and java script. Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), UI (7 years), USER INTERFACE (7 years) Additional Information UI DEVELOPMENT SKILLS    • Experienced in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of an application.  • Experience in web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Node JS.  • Experience in implementing Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using jQuery, Web API calls and JSON.  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop.  • Worked with Node js, Grunt for setting up local server, running tasks and managing dependencies.  • Well experienced in debugging websites using Browser Developer tools.  • Involved in every stage of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirement gathering, Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing & Production Support.  • Excellent experience in creating Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Dynamic Screenshots and Sitemaps.  • Used AXURE for creating Wireframes for Web Development.  • Involvement in using various IDE's, Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, WebStorm,Sublime, Adobe Photoshop.  • Experience in resolving cross browser compatibility issues (IE 10, chrome, Firefox and Safari)  • Experience with working in JavaScript framework like j Query and Angular.js  • Experience in CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in working with HTML Controls, User Controls, Master Pages and Themes.  • Experience in designing the web pages using WordPress Plugins.  • Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around user interaction models, workflows, wireframes, screen flows, mockups and prototypes.  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good communication skills and quick learning ability.  • Good knowledge in Styling and coding of CMS themes, email templates and practical knowledge of SEO in web design and development.  • Extensive experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) Framework.  • Involved Working in Agile methodology and also attending daily Scrum meetings to access the current progress in a Sprint.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap3,JSON, XML, AJAX  JavaScript Framework Angular Js, AngularJs 2.0, Node Js  GUI Tools DreamWeaver, Edit Plus, Notepad++,Sublime, WebStorm, Visual Studio  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, SQL  Operating Systems Mac OS, Windows XP/Windows7/Windows8  Development tools My SQL, work bench, WordPress.  Methodologies Agile, scrum, SDLC, Waterfall.