Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Astra Health Center Somerset, NJ • Over 6 years of professional experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for User Interface Development and RESTful Web Application as a Front- end Full Stack Developer.  • Hands-on experience in various domains like Health Care and Telecommunication.  • Expertise in web technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in MEAN Stack technologies like MongoDB, Express.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Proficient in designing and developing Single Page Applications using Angular.js and Angular UI.  • Proficient in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Solid experience of web service using AJAX to create Asynchronous Web Application and exchange data using JSON/XML between front- end and back- end.  • Solid experience in dynamic and interactive Data Visualization by D3.js, jQuery Fusion Charts.  • Strong experience of Relational Databases like MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Redis.  • Strong experience in front- end and node.js automation Grunt.js and Gulp.js.  • Strong experience in Node.js and its package manager NPM with popular packages such as express, mongoose, body-parser, bcrypt, jwt, morgan, moment, schema, socket.io, etc.  • Strong experience in JavaScript library React.js and JavaScript framework Redux, Vue.js and Backbone.js.  • Strong experience of CSS pre-processors like Sass and LESS.  • Strong experience in developing web based application using J2EE technologies like Core Java, Spring, JSP, Servlet, Tomcat, JDBC and Hibernate.  • Strong experience in cloud service platform as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) like AWS and Platform as a Service (PaaS) like Heroku and Cloud Foundry.  • Expertise in JavaScript Testing Framework like Jasmine, Mocha, Karma, Chai, QUnit and Java Unit Testing like JUnit.  • Experience in implementing geofencing API with Google App Engine.  • Experience in creating and maintaining JavaScript applications in Java using Google Web Toolkit.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies like Agile/Scrum and Waterfall along with TDD approach.  • Experience in deploying application with continuous integration tool Jenkins and bug tracking and project management tool JIRA.  • Experience in testing and handling cross browser compatibility issues across various browsers and platforms using polyfill solutions like Modernizr.  • Good knowledge in various design patterns such as Singleton, Factory.  • Solid proficiency with distributed version control tool GIT. Work Experience Front- end Developer Astra Health Center - Piscataway, NJ May 2014 to Present Project: EHealth Care System    Astra Health Center is one of the most popular medical center in New Jersey. It is an urgent care clinic, providing the best treatment to all Patients.  This project involved enhancement of user experience appealing for existing and new customers who can get on-the-go access to shopping different medical products. Provides information displayed patient's health summary, high risk, upcoming events and appointment history. It also offers data visualization and report views.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, create a responsive webpage and implement dynamic features by using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Implemented highly interactive features and redesign some parts of products by plain JavaScript due to some compatibility issues using jQuery.  • Analyzed business requirement to translate functional requirements into technical requirements using MVC framework Angular.js, making multiple developers to be able to work on separate modules simultaneously.  • Used Angular.js framework to create a Single Page Application.  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the document upload application.  • Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side.  • Designed and developed modules to retrieve data and improve data using Ajax calls by $http service in Angular.js.  • Used D3.js to accomplish data visualization for product report (pie chart and time series chart).  • Involved in using jQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation.  • Involved in Developing and Consuming RESTful Services using Spring MVC with Hibernate for fetching dynamic data for display.  • Created file and does Unit testing by creating Test Suites using Jasmine and does bugs and issues tracking, project management by using JIRA.  • Used continuous integration tool Jenkins to deploy application.  • Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for the development process.  • Committed code change into repository using version control tool GIT.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax, D3.js, JSON, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Jasmine, GIT, RESTful Web Service, Jenkins, JIRA, Agile Front- end Developer Teltik - East Brunswick, NJ December 2012 to May 2014 Project: Billing System    Telkit provides different wireless plans with unlimited talk & text packages and enormously fastest speed.  This project is refactoring a cloud-based billing system with a simple, elegant interface includes advanced features such as multi-process billing management and robust payment tracking to improve business relationships with customers, specifically focusing on retaining customers, in order to drive sales growth.    Responsibilities:  • Provided web design and improved layouts of the web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Produced page contents using Bootstrap responsive layout design to fit for different device.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture by using Angular.js.  • React and Functional Driven Angular.js expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization.  • Developed APIs using Ajax, JSON to implement more robust and efficient browser and server transfer applications.  • Used JavaScript library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Created new Rest API's that interacted with MongoDB to do various CRUD operations.  • Used jQuery Fusion Charts as reporting tool to visualize data interactively.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features using jQuery plug-ins.  • Developed, implemented and tested Node.js applications.  • Adapted Scrum methodologies and following TDD approach.  • Used Jasmine for unit test and deployed application with Jenkins.  • Worked with GIT to optimize code repository.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects by using JIRA and checking cross platform compatibility using Modernizr.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, jQuery Fusion Charts, Ajax, JSON, Node.js, RESTful Web Service, GIT, Jenkins, JIRA, Scrum, Modernizr Front- end Developer First Care Providers LLC - Newark, NJ May 2010 to December 2012 Project: Online Medical Appointment System    First Care Providers is a collaborative medical practice of nurse practitioners with expertise in diagnosis and treatment of various medical conditions for the residents of skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and for patients who need home health care services at the local and national level.  This project is to convert an online medical appointment system from old plain website to an elegant and rapid website, easily for patient to make an appointment with best doctor and to practice evidence-based medicine with compassion and care for each patient, while customizing our services to meet the individual needs of our clients.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed User Interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web Application, page navigation and form validation.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using jQuery Ajax connecting to a RESTful Service on a different domain.  • Used CSS Media Queries to create a responsive website across different size of screens, set breakpoints for smartphones, tablets and desktops.  • Designed and created a dynamic web page with reusable widget using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Applied jQuery Validation Plugin to validate the user input and improve their user experience.  • Interacted with the analytics team and worked on Address validation and SSN/SIN validation for different locale such as Great Britain, Canada and United States.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, jQuery, Web Service call and JSON.  • Involved in finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Enhanced website by creating new static model pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  • Integrated 3rd party API with Google Map to show the office location of the company.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, CSS Media Queries, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery Validation Plugin, Ajax, JSON Education M.S. in Electrical Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ Skills FRONT END (6 years), FRONT END DESIGN (6 years), FRONT-END (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: JavaScript, Java, SQL, C Front- end Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular.js, React.js, Vue.js  Back- end Technologies: Node.js, Express.js, Core Java, Spring, Spring MVC, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate Data Visualization Tools: D3.js, jQuery Fusion Charts  Other Tools: NPM, Bower, Grunt, Gulp Databases: MongoDB, Redis, MySQL, Oracle  Testing Frameworks: Jasmine, Karma, Chai, QUnit, Junit Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins  Version Control Tool: GIT Bug Tracking Tool: JIRA  3rd Party APIs: Google Maps API, Google App Engine, Google Web Toolkit Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): AWS Platform as a Service (PaaS): Heroku, Cloud Foundry  Software: WebStorm, Sublime 3, Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea Additional: Computer Algorithms, TCP/IP Protocol, Object-Oriented Design, etc.