Sr.sUI Developer Sr.sUI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.sUI Developer - ECRI Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ years of solid experience as a UI developer using AngularJS, ReactJS, XHTML/HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, XML/XSLT, MVC, Sass/less and INode  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service.  • Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, AngularJS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java.  • Experienced in using AngularJS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Temples, Events and Injectors.  • Experienced in creating Single Page Applications by Routing in Angular.js and Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Experienced in using AngularJS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Experienced in AngularJS structural framework for dynamic web apps and profound knowledge in concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Experienced in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications Node.js along with Express JS.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Expertise creating user validation forms and sending data to server using RESTful services.  • Extensively work with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and many other design applications.  • Involved in building applications using ReactJS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Used ReactJS with Redux to create a single page web application with efficient data flow between the client and server and used to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed SPA using ReactJS to utilize the HTML5 DOM features and update elements that are modified in the webpage.  • Configured routes between ReactJS and Flask to render the templates from the server-side.  • Used JQuery in directly manipulating the DOM yet separating the ReactJS Components.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN and extensive experience working under Agile methodologies environment (scrum, Kanban).  • Experience with various IDE's such as Visual Studio Code, Web Strom, Sublime and Notepad++.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Excellent Communication Skills, Self-motivated, Quick learner and excellent team mentor & player, ability to meet deadlines.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design to develop complex page layouts including various sections such as headers, footers, left side bars, content area and marketing area.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.    TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES:  Web Development HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML and PHP, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSTL, Struts 1.x/2.0, SOAP, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Oracle  Frameworks  AngularJS (versions 1.5, 16.), Angular 2/4, Typescript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, React db., ionic, Redux, BackboneJS, NodeJS, Struts 1.2, MVC Architecture.    Application Servers Tomcat Apache Server, Oracle WebLogic Server, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Databases SQL Server 2012, Oracle 8i,10g/11g, MYSQL, MSSQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  IDE's and Tools  Photoshop CS6, Dreamweaver CS6, Flash CS6, Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Web Strom, Firebug, Developer Tools, Edit Plus, JSfiddle, WebStorm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Apana, Notepad++    Programming Languages SQL, JavaScript  Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS-DOS, Unix  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP, and SOAP.  Version controls TFS, Git, SVN, Visual Source Safe.  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports.  Testing Tools Selenium, Cucumber, Gherkins, Chai, Nunit and Junit Work Experience Sr.sUI Developer ECRI - Plymouth Meeting, PA, US February 2017 to Present Description: ECRI Institute is an independent non-profit organization that researches approaches to improving patient care. It has been dedicated to bringing the discipline of applied scientific research to discover which medical procedures, devices, drugs, and processes are best, all to enable you to improve patient care.    Responsibilities:  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, D3JS, AngularJS, React.JS, Node.JS, LESS, SASS.  • Worked on making AJAX calls to connect database using RESTful web APIs and worked on integrating the middleware too front- end.  • Integrated the model and view part using Model View Models (MVVM) and developed user interface by using the ReactJs, Redux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJs and worked using ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps and used ReactJS for declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.  • Utilized a concept called Virtual DOM in ReactJS to create in-memory data structure cache, enumerate the resulting differences, and then update the browser's displayed DOM efficiently.  • Created React.JS components using JSX, followed FLUX design pattern for unidirectional data flow.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  Responsible for developing a front- end application using ReactJs and Redux architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Solid understanding of React Virtual DOM Algorithm for React performance optimization.  • Created UI templates for final look and feel using HTML5, Fireworks, AXURE, Flash, Dreamweaver and Photoshop.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, and Socket Stream.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Require.js, Backbone.js and jQuery.  • Designed / Developed Ajax Driven Web based application using JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSPs and Servlets.  • Parsed the XML based responses using JAXB Parser and validated XML against the schema.  • Allowed Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development.  Environment: ReactJS, Object Oriented JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Agile methodology, Dreamweaver, MVP, Usability Testing, Jasmine, MySQL, Windows, PostgreSQL. UI Developer Aurotech - Silver spring, Maryland, US February 2015 to January 2017 Description: Aurotech, Inc. is a CMMi-ML3 DEV and SVC assessed, small-business Management and Technology Consulting firm. It provides services to commercial marketplace, as well as to Federal government agencies with creative and actionable business-IT solutions. Our solutions help solve mission critical and complex business issues. Aurotech started its operation in 2007.    Responsibilities:  • Designed various modules using technologies like AngularJS, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Responsible for the overall layout design (Table-less), color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website and Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS3 & Bootstrap.  • Created client-side validation using technologies such as AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used HTTP, AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload and also experienced in consuming Web Service's API's and Web Services in HTML pages.  • Developed cross-browser/platform pages using CSS3 Media Queries and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Implemented paging functionality for various screens for quicker rendering of data and also to avoid crashing of browser.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Perform usability/accessibility and user satisfaction testing, including HTML5/CSS3 paper prototyping test. Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of jQuery frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Creating user information solutions by developing, implementing, and maintaining a wide range of products from single-page applications to complex data analysis systems.  • Modified, optimized, and created new sprites with Photoshop to generate CSS3- based UI elements.  • Integrated some kendo widgets date pickers, Numeric textboxes, Tooltips, Dialog boxes, drop-down list, Email, upload, grid etc.  • Integrate with various databases for retrieving the data using AJAX/JSON.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.    Environment: HTML (5), DHTML, XML, CSS, SASS, JSON, Grunt JS, JavaScript, Kendo UI, J Query, AngularJS, Node JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Visual studio 2010, SQL Server Management studio, PostgreSQL, Microsoft Visio, SVN. UI Developer EA Sports - Austin, TX, US February 2014 to January 2015 Description: EA Sports develops markets, publishes and distributes games, content and services that can be played by customers on various platforms, which include consoles, personal computers (PCs), mobile phones and tablets. As a UI developer, I was responsible to design and program user interface components for video games.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation of various projects.  • Designed websites, interfaces, and layouts to fit client's desires including developing responsive layouts using JavaScript, HTML5/XHTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development  • Involved in Wireframe creation and converted the wireframes into HTML5 and CSS based prototypes.  • Involved in writing application level coding using various API's and resolving browser compatibility issues using Ext.js.  • Extensively worked on Kendo UI for grid and Kendo spread sheet with AngularJS.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, GUI, Visual mockup creation, Creating HTML prototypes and implementation of Adobe Experience Manager Tool.  • Used Kendo Charts and D3.js for data visualization and various kendo models, dropdowns and windows.  • Worked on user interface design and development using Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, HTML and CSS.  • Handled performance issues by profiling and code refactoring.  • Integrated REST web service calls to get data from response and display them on UI and also used AngularJS services like $q, $http, $broadcast, $emit, $on.  • Performed Client-Side validations using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Used CSS pre-processor LESS and WEB essentials for converting LESS to CSS file while deployment.  • Used John Papa Style guide for AngularJS code organization, which uses IIFE, followed best practices for controller, directives, and services.  • Created calculator type panel with AngularJS two-way data binding and dynamic formatting.  • Migrated from SVN to GIT as the source control and TFS as repository. Good experience on creating branches, merging and stashing in GIT.    Environment: AngularJS,ExtJS,BackboneJS,NodeJS,Bootstrap,HTML/HTML5,CSS/CSS3,JavaScript, JSON, SQL, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, SVN, PostgreSQL. UI Developer Hcentive - Lakewood, CO, US March 2012 to January 2014 Description: Hcentive Health Group is private foundation dedicated to improving health and healthcare insurance. As an Organization that funds and arranges care for more than 70 million people, it has extensive data and experience on innovative approaches to improving healthcare.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Sunburst graph using D3JS with SVG elements.  • Developed various reports and charts using HTML Canvas, HTML SVG, D3JS, and SVG by passing JSON objects and Arrays as input both for mobile and web applications.  • Worked on Web/User Interface development using AJAX, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, Java Script.  • Engaged in Agile methodologies of Scrum for software development.  • Stored all the static content in CMS (Drupal), with the help of web services got the content and displayed on the web browser.  • Trained other programmer of Application Architecture and work flow.  • Developed the Web page using HTML, CSS and Adobe CQ5 Adobe Experience Manager.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular1.5 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, router etc.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like AngularJS.  • Code Reviews for every Screen and new functionality.  • Used AngularJS to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side. Experienced with source control tools like GitHub and JIRA.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Used Angular.JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with Java Web services.  • Worked with Drupal Views module to create functional management interface for users of the site.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AngularJS 1.5, GitHub, Maven, Git, MVC, Apache Tomcat, Nodejs, Drupal, Java Spring boot, LESS CSS, IntelliJ IDE, Sublime Text, Windows. Front End Developer Eagle Investment Solutions - Princeton, NJ, US November 2010 to February 2012 Description: Eagle Trading Systems Inc. is a financial investment advisory firm headquartered in Princeton, New Jersey. The firm manages 5 accounts totalling an estimated $481 Million of assets under management.    Responsibilities:  • Reviewing business requirements and functional designs for application.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards complaint HTML pages using CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Worked on Design, Wire- frames, JQuery, AngularJS, accessibility and optimization and Created various responsive web pages using Bootstrap and Media Queries and DS2 library.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Worked with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in JQuery.  • Created pages according to design requirements using CSS, CSS3 and Bootstrap and Used AngularJS for Model-view-View Model (MVVM) and Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.  • Implemented Routing in AngularJS using $routeProvider. Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Worked on AngularJS Routes using $scope object to create a Views using Controllers and Performed Client-side Validation across various Views using AngularJS.  • Web Technologies: Axure, Sketch, GUI, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, CSS3, SASS, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Web Design, Visio, Cross-browser compatibility  issues, Adobe Experience Manager.  • Developed various factories and services to share data across controllers in AngularJS.  • Used gulp as a build tool and also to validate JavaScript code with JSHint.  • Developed page animations using CSS, JQuery and AngularJ and worked on AngularJS in creating controllers, making AJAX calls using $http.  • Utilized JQuery plugins to build Rich internet Application (RIA) to make web pages look more intuitive and created User Stories from requirement in JIRA.  Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse IDE, MS Office, Adobe Photoshop, SVN. Jr Front End Developer Finolex Cables Pvt Ltd July 2009 to September 2010 Description: Finolex Cables Ltd is an Indian manufacturer of electrical and telecommunication cables based in Pune, Maharashtra. It is the flagship company of the Finolex Group, established in 1958.The company also manufactures polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sheets for roofing, signage and interiors. The company's product range is used for electrical usage, transmission of voice, data and images, for domestic, commercial and industrial applications, and for electrical products.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC and responsible for object-oriented design and worked closely with the business analyst's in gathering, understanding and implementing the requirements.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 as per company's standards.  • Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Worked on Web/User Interface development using AJAX, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, Java Script.  • Created UI templates for final look and feel using HTML5, Fireworks, AXURE, Flash, Dreamweaver and Photoshop.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of jQuery framework and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Web Design to develop complex page layouts including various sections such as headers, footers, left side bars, content area and marketing area.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed / Developed Ajax Driven Web based application using JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSPs and Servlets.  • Worked in Agile environment, attending everyday Scrum, Sprint planning and Sprint review.  • Used UndeScore.JS to use utility functions and Require.JS to load various scripts.  • Thorough understanding of application development life cycle methodologies.    Environment: Object Oriented JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Agile methodology, Dreamweaver, MVP, Usability Testing, Jasmine, MySQL,PostgreSQL Windows. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Teegala Krishna Reddy Engineering College