Director of Technology Director of Technology Director of Technology - Obelis Media Bayville, NJ Adaptable professional with 14+ years of experience and a proven knowledge of web design, server configuration,  and web platform development. Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the Website Manager/ Front- End-  Developer role at your company. Work Experience Director of Technology Obelis Media - Pine Beach, NJ February 2012 to Present Design, build, & maintain WordPress websites for clients.  Manage WordPress Multisite network of sites.  Develop & implement procedures for ongoing website revisions.  Custom WordPress theme development & customization.  Interact directly with clients to coordinate & implement website revisions.  Manage web servers, deployments, and backups.  Develop custom REST API integrations with 3rd party services.  Administration of web hosting, email accounts, and DNS settings. Front End Web Developer ioprint solutions - Bayville, NJ January 2005 to February 2012 Collaborate with management or users to develop e-commerce strategies and to integrate these strategies with web sites.  Recommend and implement performance improvements.  Create searchable indices for web page content.  Register web sites with search engines to increase web site traffic.  Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools,  management tools, and digital media.  Write, design, or edit web page content, or direct others producing content. Education A.S. in Mechanical Engineering Ocean County College - Toms River, NJ May 1998 Skills Wordpress, PHP, HTML, Javascript, Front End, Bootstrap Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/npymiewszfztkh0k Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jcorij56l9anfui4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.