Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Best High Technologies, LLC Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Front- end Developer Best High Technologies, LLC February 2016 to Present • Description: The client is MakerBot which is a global leader in the 3D printing industry. Our team is responsible for developing a HR Management System for their new employees' training service. This system includes several modules, like Timesheet Management, Applicant tracking and onboarding, Employee self-service and Scheduling system. My main duty is to design the all the front- end features and cooperate with back- end developers.  • Responsible for developing websites by HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Reactjs.  • Extensively used jQuery UI, Bootstrap and Font Awesome for styling the HTML elements and developed a responsive webapp.  • Built the Simple Page Application by React framework and Redux Architecture. Navigating the pages by React-router. Applied several the middleware in Redux, such as redux-thunk, redux-promise and redux-logger. Created and designed reducers and action dispatchers to maintain common updated state around all the container components using Redux.  • Used Webpack to bundle modules and deal with the pre-processing files like LESS via loaders.  • Used Fetch API to write various Ajax requests and resolved JSON for different modules.  • Efficiently used functional libraries like Lodash to manipulate complex collections involved within business logic.  • Mocked the dynamic data by Expressjs of Node.js.  • Evaluated the performance by React-Addons module and avoided the unnecessary render by PureRenderMixin.  • Implemented version control through Git. Front- end Developer Bond Network Company, LLC June 2013 to May 2014 • Description: Involved in developing the second phase of the logistics information management system which focused on managing the information and generating several enterprise reports including contract, detail freight list, packing list, shipping order, invoice etc. in export trade. My duty is get the data from the server side and visualize these data.  • Responsible for developing Front- end web applications using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, EasyUI, AJAX.  • Used jQuery Datatable framework to build-up most of the tables and grid lists and use its Datatable Editor to create, edit and remove each customer list.  • Used jQuery plugins for autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and also used jQuery template for markup.  • Designed PDF, excel and print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript.  • Hands on JSON for data transform and page transform. Front- end Developer Jing Tai Shoes Co., Ltd February 2012 to May 2013 Project: Jing Tai Taobao Shoes Webapp  • Description: Responsible for the operation and maintance of the Content Management System which involved in updating the new products, improving the User Interface, graphic design, layout and photography.  • Applied Taoke Content Management System to manage the layout of the Ecommerce platform and update the produces.  • Used HTML, CSS, Javascript, Photoshop to improve the user experience.  • Responsible for products photography including the shooting, advertisement designing, graphic designing, images retouching. Education Master Stevens Institute of Technology August 2014 to May 2016 Skills JAVASCRIPT (3 years), USER INTERFACE (2 years), jQuery (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), Git (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, ES5/ES6  Web Frameworks React.js, Express.js, Redux  UI Libaries Bootstrap, jQueryUI, Foundation, Font Awesome,  Language Javascript, Java  Tools NPM, Bower, Grunt, Webpack, Jasmine, Mocha, Firebug, Postman, Git/SVN, Sublime, WebStorm, Photoshop