Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - SleepScore Labs Escondido, CA On a daily basis, there are more than a handful of things running through my mind once the caffeine kicks in. Is this new technology the latest and greatest or just the flavor of the month? What idioms from different programming languages cross over into my realm? How big is my bug queue? Did we groom our backlog? Are my estimates accurate? Do I even have a comp? Will my solution scale?    I'm in depth with the presentation layer of your website or web application. But before ever diving into code, I'd need to first understand your core business.    12 years in web, with the last 10 in front- end web development. I've been hands-on with publicly traded companies such as Sony Electronics, The Active Network, Bridgepoint Education and Thermo Fisher Scientific.    I'm currently working on new web application initiatives for SleepScore Labs—a joint venture between Dr. Oz, ResMed and private equity firm Pegasus Capital Advisors, L.P. SleepScore Labs is focused on helping people understand and improve their sleep.    My current tech stack for data visualization apps include Angular, Bootstrap, Sass, HighCharts, GulpJS, TypeScript shipped to Microsoft Azure. CMS apps utilize WordPress and WP Engine. While eCommerce apps leverage Shopify.    Email mr@marklreyes.com to learn more.     Exploring roles in:  + UX  + Prototyping  + Teaching  + Remote Work  + ScrumMaster  + Full-time  + Contract (6 month+)    Industries which intrigue me:  + Broadcast Media  + Design  + E-Learning  + Financial Services  + Health, Wellness and Fitness  + Information Technology & Services  + Philanthropy  + Sports (MMA)    Specializations:  + Web Development  + Web Design  + Mobile  + Adobe Analytics  + Page Speed Optimization  + PPC Online Advertising  + Apache Solr Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer SleepScore Labs - Carlsbad, CA April 2017 to Present Support and development of all web assets. Web API consumption, CMS maintenance and an understanding of web development platforms and tools which ensure successful integration between web and mobile user interfaces. JavaScript Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA August 2014 to April 2017 • Involved in integration projects for the recent merge and acquisition of Life Technologies, specifically dedicated to enhancing the organization website.     • Help integrate functionality into new existing JAVA based applications running on a boostrap based library.     • In addition, capture and implement designs created by the UI team, add new functionality, enhancements and improvements on the overall website aesthetic.     • Rewrite existing code, and add new code on top of pre-existing code. Senior Web Developer Bridgepoint Education - San Diego, CA July 2013 to May 2014 • Principal developer in drafting forbes.ashford.edu and here.ashford.edu in a  span of five weeks - two sites designed to capture leads from Ashford  University's branding initiatives during the 2014 Winter Olympics. UI supported  browser experiences for iOS, Android tablet and desktop with fallbacks  developed for IE-8.    • Increased PageSpeed and Y-SLOW performance scores by 17% for here.ashford.edu by utilizing client-side and server-side techniques intended to  reduce network requests, cache assets, and minify JavaScript and CSS.    • Coordinated release schedules for Ashford University web properties.    • Designated team lead for Marketing Operations Group that included myself, one senior developer, two junior developers and one QA Analyst.    • Pair-programmed with junior developers on client-side solutions for bugs, and aided their assessment on business requests when introduced mid-sprint.    • Prototyped search functionality for rockies.edu with the use of Apache Solr,  Apache Nutch and JavaScript framework AJAX Solr.    • Partnered with the Software Development Manager in creation of an in-house  unit-testing framework leveraging the QUnit JavaScript library. Ran real time  tests on existing code in an effort to potentially uncover bugs on production.  Tests included DOM and HTTP Status Code checks.    • Collaborated directly with digital marketing agencies and internal stakeholders on SEO optimization. Led developers in prototyping solutions based off of business requirements and agency recommendations. Emphasis on topic-  specific main navigation, crawlable images, link building and usability.    • Engaged with Software Development Manager, Project Manager and Director of Web Marketing on prioritization and estimation for all projects.    • Applied mobile front- end development techniques including responsive and adaptive by leveraging popular templates such as twitter bootstrap. Employed  detection based JavaScript solutions for browser and device edge cases.    • Integrated Browserstack into the developer workflow in an effort to gain better  quality assurance for the increasing number of devices and browsers as dictated by our end-users.    • Developed a reusable jQuery plugin that manages affiliate id mappings to specific phone numbers. Data is stored as JSON in one central location with the  ability to add, modify or delete phone number mappings without editing the core architecture. Web Developer II ACTIVE Network - San Diego, CA July 2012 to July 2013 • Performed UI optimizations on event detail pages over multiple sprints that  contributed to a 9.7% increase in traffic proceeding with the event registration  flow while 4.4% completed the purchasing funnel.    • Addressed all front- end development issues with UX, Design, Product and offshore teams by leveraging project frameworks such as JIRA and ScrumWorks.  • Updated and maintained Ruby based application, widgets.active.com.  Refactored UI in accordance to Active 3.0 style guide. Added optional  placement ID tracking parameter, enabling end-users to indicate a widget's  domain location.    • Created UI for training guide sections Ironman and Couch to 5K, integrating  Brightcove Video Platform, DoubleClick advertisements, Facebook Like Box  Plugin, MapQuest, Leaflet.js and select Twitter Bootstrap components.    • Developed Facebook contests for sold sponsorships by leveraging Media  Factory, a user generated content platform, which allowed for moderation and data collection. Contests would be deployed as apps in accordance to  Facebook specifications and delivered via iframe with its source assigned from  Media Factory.    • Prototyped HTML advertisements on request by marketing team for deployment into FileMaker.    • Cross-browser tested all stories in cooperation with offshore QA team. Browsers  include Internet Explorer, Chrome, Safari, Opera and Firefox. Front- end Web Developer | Web Content Specialist Sony Electronics - San Diego, CA January 2009 to July 2012 • Executed monthly page-specific A/B tests with the use of Adobe Test/Target and Ensighten Tag Management.    • Performed web optimization best practices by reducing network requests through image sprites and consolidation of external CSS and JavaScript files.    • Partnered directly with Web Producers on quarterly VAIO category page  launches on execution and delivery of project roadmap as outlined by Product Managers.    • Assigned as Team Lead for 9 contractors by agency IDEA Integration of  Houston, Texas. Designated as a point of contact for employee  communications such as project hours, overtime and PTO.    • Built product detail pages for the digital imaging category with content  management system, WebSphere Commerce Accelerator.    • Created instant rebates and virtual bundles with WebSphere, documenting  those respective SKUs with Microsoft Excel and requesting Production Support  Group to parse spreadsheet as needed to ensure promotion functionality.    • Communicated with Production Support Group, Product Asset Library Team and Web Producers on ensuring deliverables of digital imaging products slated for CES '10, '11 and '12.    • Cross-browser tested all projects with web producers and creative team. Education Bachelor of Science in Media Arts Platt College - San Diego, CA 2007 to 2010 Applied Associates in Graphic Design Platt College - San Diego, CA 2007 to 2008 Bachelor of Arts in Business Management Economics UC Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA 2001 to 2005 Skills Front-end Web Development, Web Design, Adobe SiteCatalyst, Adobe Test&Target, Page Speed Optimization, Apache Solr, PPC Online Advertising Links http://www.marklreyes.com Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster June 2014 to Present Scrum Alliance  License 000332565 Additional Information Technical Skills   • Languages/Frameworks: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, QUnit, Prototype, Scriptaculous, RequireJS, SQL, Twitter Bootstrap, Apache Solr, Apache Nutch, AJAX Solr, Ruby and PHP.    • Operating Systems: MAC and PC.    • Design: Adobe Creative Suite, ImageOptim and Omnigraffle.    • Development: Jenkins, uDeploy, Versions SVN, Gitorious, Github, Ensighten Tag  Management, StormPost, Charles Proxy, PageSpeed, Y-Slow, Coda 2, Sequel  Pro and SQL Server Management Studio.    • Marketing: Google Analytics, Google AdWords, Yahoo Search Marketing,  Microsoft AdCenter, Adobe Test/Target and Omniture.    • Content Management: Open Text Website Management, WebSphere  Commerce Accelerator, Active Content Manager, WordPress, Edgecast CDN,  FileMobile Media Factory, Brightcove Video Platform, Akamai CDN, Cloudflare  CDN and Interwoven Teamsite.    • Project Management: Team Foundation Server, ScrumWorks, HP Quality Center,  JIRA, Microsoft Office and Evernote.    • Methodologies: Waterfall and Agile.