Freelance JavaScript Developer Freelance JavaScript <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer with years of experience building websites as a freelancer and a background in finance and technical support, knowledgeable in Node.js, MEAN (Angular 2+), Python/Django as well as MySQL and NoSQL database approaches. Seeking opportunities to apply my technical skills and provide creative solutions to real world problems.  Areas of professional expertise:    • Analytical background in data driven fields  • Leveraging technology to improve efficiency  • Organizing data into normalized databases    • Database development    APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT SKILLS  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2/7+, RxJS, Node.js, Express JS, MongoDB, Python/Django, MySQL, Ajax, jQuery, Docker, AWS, Gulp, Grunt, Bootstrap, as well as other JavaScript and CSS libraries. Work Experience Freelance JavaScript Developer May 2002 to Present • Social website in Angular 6 with Node.js and Angular Material.  • Redevelopment of site detailing the history of a groundbreaking educational program for children with Down Syndrome from HTML with PHP to Angular 6.  • Periodic Freelance Website Development for small businesses and organizations.  • Aggregate approximately 5 years of experience with HTML and CSS with 2+ years JavaScript. Front End Developer - Short Term Contract ADP March 2019 to August 2019 • Development of leave request module in Angular 7 for ADP standalone and integrated products  • Implemented RxJS to modify reactive form in real time based on user selections  • Implemented RxJS for mapping and filtering data sent to and received from backend  • Developed validation methods for data entered by user Front End Developer - Short Term Contract Moby October 2018 to November 2018 • Features and bug fixes to Custom CMS built in Angular 6 with CI production flow through Git.  • Enhancements to asset management functionality via server emitted observables and local data store.  • CSS modifications with flexbox for changes to Angular Material tables.  • Enhancements and modifications to reusable Angular generics form components. Front End Developer PrivacyWorks May 2018 to August 2018 - Short term contract  • Development of component layout and design in Angular 5/6 with SCSS and BEM method.  • Development of landing page in Angular with HTML, JavaScript, and CSS styling and animations.  • Implementation of server-side rendering with Angular Universal.  • Upgraded project from Angular 5 to Angular 6. Payroll Administrator Jordahl & Sliter, PLLC July 2016 to February 2017 Data access coding: Automated data integration between Sage software and Excel reporting spreadsheets. Payroll Analyst City of Redmond July 2008 to January 2016 • Performed payroll and benefits processing and auditing for all city departments covering over 750 employees and a $2.5m annual payroll  • Streamlined workflow: Converted numerous manual processes to software driven solutions which increased efficiency in a number of frequent tasks.  • Maximized software: Developed and coded complex databases and spreadsheets with Microsoft Office. Accounting Assistant Island County Public Works February 2002 to July 2008 • Departmental accounting support and oversight  • Database development: Designed and implemented database for leave balance reconciliation.  • VBA coding and formula development: Developed and coded spreadsheets and databases with Visual Basic for Applications to streamline frequently performed billing and reporting tasks. Education University of Washington 1987 to 1989 Seattle University 1986 to 1987 Skills Visual studio, Git, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-w-benson https://www.michael-w-benson.com https://github.com/freefaller69 Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS  Git, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Atom, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Lightroom