Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer Work Experience Front end Developer Ceannate Corporation March 2014 to May 2019 • Constructed engaging experiences using Sass and MVC.NET, Vue.js, Angular.js.  • Produced wireframes and prototypes to provide clear communication with the involved parties.  • Leveraged WordPress to market IonTution and Meta.inc to prospective clients.  • Overhauled the Intranet site using SharePoint, while Integrating REST APIs  • Facilitated meetings with stakeholders to determine needs and functionality for each project.  • Designed and executed collateral for prospective colleges & clients.  • Composed email client compliant HTML & responsive emails from design layouts.  • Mentored colleagues that had an interest in learning more about development and design. Front end Developer Aisle Rocket Studios June 2013 to February 2014 • Created responsive and interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 & jQuery for multiple clients.  • Integrated web banners to various pages via JSON feed and JavaScript.  • Produced compliant HTML emails that were tested in over 40 email clients.  • Detected bugs in front end code, and optimized the pages for large public facing clients.  • Collaborated with co-workers to launch an online app using new emerging technologies. Front end Developer United Airlines February 2013 to June 2013 • Produced compliant web pages with HTML5, CSS3 & jQuery for the United Airlines Intranet.  • Conducted multiple code reviews and design critiques to ensure a quality product. Front end Developer Aon Hewitt October 2012 to February 2013 • Created responsive sites for internal use, with HTML5, CSS3 & jQuery.  • Authored promotional videos public consumption using Adobe After Effects. Web Manager Unilever March 2011 to August 2012 • Consulted with the marketing department to create project scopes and guidelines.  • Negotiated with vendors to obtain the necessary assets for project completion.  • Evaluated and prioritized bugs in relation to project queue.  • Mentored and motivated team members to ensure deadlines were met. Unilever September 2007 to July 2012 Front end Developer September 2007 to March 2011 • Constructed cross platform compliant web page templates using CSS, HTML, jQuery & Flash.  • Compressed and optimized videos to reduce file size but maintain video quality.  • Contributed to the implementation of a workflow that helped maintain over 50 sites. Web Developer VSA Partners June 2007 to September 2007 • Coded websites using HTML, CSS and Flash for multiple campaigns.  • Created strict HTML emails with inline CSS. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Interactive Media Design The Illinois Institute of Art Chicago March 2002 to December 2004 Skills Visual studio, Api (2 years), Git (1 year), Html (8 years), Javascript, Angular.js (2 years), Vue.js (1 year), Json (3 years), Xml, Sharepoint (3 years), Sass (2 years), jquery (4 years), Rest (2 years), Jira (4 years), Wordpress (3 years), Illustrator (6 years), Photoshop (6 years), After effects (4 years), Indesign, Front End, UI (6 years), Front-End, User Interface, Angular, Angularjs (3 years) Links http://Seninpaulose.com