Lead Front End Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer Lead Front End Software Engineer - Workable Intuitive Recruitment CRM Boston, MA 9+ years in the digital media industry, ranging from executing advertising and rich media campaigns including full site web revamp to hands-on customized solutions developing, designing, analyzing and planning various Web or Single Page Applications for various clients using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Kendo UI, Backbone, Marionette, React.js, Redux, Angular, MongoDB, NodeJS, AJAX using RESTful API, PHP and MySQL.    ? Front- end Software Engineer with extensive Front- End experience in a wide range of applications  ? Experience with many popular frameworks like Backbone, React.js, Angular  ? Experience with cross browser compatibility and mobile responsive development  ? Interact with Restful API through native JavaScript .fetch API. Used together with Promise object  ? Work in Sprints together with other development teams and familiar with the Agile framework  ? Versioning with GitFlow workflow developing in different branch and organizing them into Hotfix, Feature, Release, Develop and Master branches  ? Experience with working with teams in different time zones and communicating via Slack, TeamViewer and Zoom.us  ? Experience with development in MVC patterns: model, view, controller, routers  ? Familiar with JavaScript methodologies such as Functional programming and OOJS  ? Experience with JavaScript ES6 syntax such as "const" and "let" and usage of the fat arrows to make cleaner codes and writing functions that always return a value  ? Experience with customizing Gulp build process to bundle dependencies using Browserify and Babelify to transpile ES6 to ES5  ? Experience with many NPM and Gulp build tools such as: Hbsfy, Plumber, Gulp-SASS, Gulp-Uglify, Gulp-Uglify-ES, Sourcemaps, Vinyl-Source-Stream, Vinyl-Buffer, Gulp-Concat, Gzip, Gulp-zip, Gulp-tar  ? Familiar with JIRA and using it to manage Releases to live clients  ? Knowledge of backend technologies: PHP, Java, NodeJS, Express, MongoDB, Elastic Search Work Experience Lead Front End Software Engineer Workable Intuitive Recruitment CRM - Boston, MA March 2017 to Present Workable is an intuitive recruitment software and applicant tracking system that gives recruiters the power of filtering using full boolean searches in a complex data structure and find the perfect candidate suited for the role. It is hosted on AWS and built using Backbone Marionette and Javascript ES6 for the frontend, along with Spring Boot for the backend. It integrates with Nylas API as an email broker so recruiters can send CV, send job descriptions and email candidates straight from the CRM without opening their email client. It also gives recruiters the capability to generate branded CV, shortlist candidate, set up interview and place candidates into jobs using the built-in recruitment workflows. These workflows are synced with your calendar and tracked with built-in KPIs to ensure your recruitment agency perform optimally.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for leading and coordinating the frontend team with the backend team by organizing daily standups to align the team with what needed to be done and delivered and who or what is blocking them. Using JIRA as a project management tool, implemented a process to capture and control the latest versions of our software to the clients.  ? Collect, evaluate and document requirements from product owners and users in order to develop new feature for the software.  ? Research, design and build rapid prototypes using HTML Bootstrap for clients and product owners before going into full feature development.  ? Organize, display, sort big data using an MVC framework (Backbone, Marionette) along with Javascript libraries (Kendo UI).  ? Develop data, process and network with email clients using Nylas as an email broker capturing and viewing user's email messages to be organized into the software.  ? Assess and test the NPM Gulp build process for automated build and minification of the assets. Constantly upgrade and develop maintenance procedures for our automated Gulp build process to make it more efficient using tools such as Browserify, Babelify and NodeJS.  ? Integrate and plan the RESTful APIs provided by the backend team which comes in a JSON object.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, Kendo UI, Javascript ES6, Backbone, Marionette, React.js, Angular, Underscore, Browserify, Babelify, Sublime Text 3, Postman, MongoDB, RoboMongo, Nylas API, NPM, NodeJS, Browserify, Babelify Senior Web Developer Nurun - San Francisco, CA October 2015 to January 2017 Publics / Nurun provide digital product and services to various clients. I played a key support role for projects such as Scoot and Nikon. Scoot is a low-cost airline. Scoot revamped their online platform, website and booking site and I was involved in ensuring the User Interface and User Experience are built well and allow the integration to the entire platform. Therefore, features have to be approached as a standalone component for it to be easy to implement in any parts of the platform. Scoot's booking site and e-commerce platform were built with HMVC Kohana framework. Nikon is a Japanese multinational corporation headquartered in Tokyo and specializes in optics and imaging products. Nikon commissioned a project that incorporates the social interaction of sharing photos online and tagging it using geolocation and visualizing it on a 3D globe in the browser. This was achieved using D3JS to visualize big data and various custom built RESTful API to communicate with the database.    Responsibilities:  ? Manage, collect and evaluate user requirements and develop specifications and wireframe.  ? Research and evaluate technical information for design, develop and test using HMVC Kohana framework to structure and build projects.  ? Evaluate performance and reliability of the framework and work together with the DevOps to develop data models for purpose of development.  ? Plan, design and co-ordinate the development and integration with various APIs provided by the backend team  ? Researched and source Data Visualization libraries for a project with Nikon. Plan, design and integrate with D3JS in order to visualize big data on the browser.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript ES5, Kohana HMVC, PHP MySQL, D3js, Gulp, NPM, NodeJS Lead Developer ( Front End) Decision Science November 2014 to October 2015 Decision Science is a group of consultants and analysts that helps companies to improve the efficiency of digital marketing by focusing on digital strategy, usability, and analytics. Some of Decision Science's clients were Great Eastern Life Assurance and StarHub. Great Eastern Life Assurance is the largest life insurance company in Singapore and Malaysia. StarHub is one of the three major telcos in Singapore. Both Great Eastern Life Assurance and StarHub did a complete site revamp of their global corporate websites in various markets such as Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei and Indonesia. It is built using Adobe AEM large-scale web content management system. The front end was built using a customized JavaScript framework and the features have to be built as components for ease of implementation to various parts of the website using Adobe AEM drag-and-drop feature.    Responsibilities:  ? Take ownership over Front End development projects for various clients  ? Collect and document users' requirements and develop logical and physical specifications  ? Research and evaluate technical requirements to design, develop and test rich media development projects  ? Develop data, process and data models to optimize project development and evaluate performance and reliability of data models  ? Plan, design and co-ordinate the development, installation, integration of digital media projects  ? Assess, test, troubleshoot, document, upgrade and develop maintenance procedures for digital media projects and integrated media campaigns  ? Lead and co-ordinate the front end team with the back end team in the development digital media projects and integrated media campaigns  ? Plan, formalize and execute training plans for front end team member to educate, mentor and upgrade the skills of team members  ? Responsible for planning and developing template files and assets for Adobe CQ5 projects before it goes into production  ? Breakdown each and every component into its own self standing component for each of drag and drop feature into the website building in Adobe CQ5    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES5, Angular,Kohana HMVC, PHP MySQL, D3js, Gulp, NPM, NodeJS Interactive Media Developer Avant July 2003 to September 2011 Avant works is a creative boutique agency which was started in 2003. Some of the clients that engage Avant works are The Health Promotion Board and Wolf Blass. The Health Promotion Board engaged Avant works to build them a promotional website targeted at young adults educating them about the dangers of online gambling addiction and online dating. Wolf Blass is an Australian winery based in Nuriootpa, South Australia. They engaged Avantworks to help build them their corporate website to promote the heritage and rich history.    Responsibilities: Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), HTML5 (3 years), FRONT END (2 years), Angular, UI, React, Front-End, Angularjs Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills / Stack  ? Front End: JavaScript ES5 and ES6, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/LESS/SCSS  ? HTML Framework: Bootstrap ¾  ? JS Framework / Libraries: Angular (1.5.x), Backbone (~1.1.2), Marionette (~1.8.8), React.js (~15.0.0), jQuery, underscore, lodash, Reactstrap, moment, Backbone Fire, Angular Fire, threejs, d3js,rafael,jQueryUI,KendoUI, Poly Glot, Faker  ? Version Control: GITHUB, GitFlow, SourceTree client  ? Application/Web Server: Apache, Express  ? Operating System: Windows (7,8,10), Mac OSX, Kali Linux  ? Development Tools: Sublime 3, IntelliJ 14, Netbeans 8