Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - IHG Alpharetta, GA • Front End Web/UI Designer/Lead/ Developer with 10+ years of extensive experience in developing web applications using Web technologies such as HTML 5, XHTML, XML, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript, PHP, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, Backbone JS, Node JS, Boot Strap, LESS  • Experience of using Drupal, Joomla, Word Press, Teamsite , AEM  • Experience with Agile and/or Lean UX ,Scrum, JIRA, RALLY  • Worked with SVN , GIT, Mercurial, CVS version controls  • • Familiarity with coding for accessibility (WCAG 2.0)  • Extensive experience in using Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe flash, In Design Dream Weaver CS4.  • Experience on Responsive Design, worked the HTML screens for various devices(such as iPhone, tablets, desktop).  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and Modification, working with Tables and Views and implementing user defined Functions and Stored Procedures for My SQL.  • In-depth expertise in applying Object Oriented Analysis and design patterns to business solutions.  • Experience of generating PDF files in PHP using PDF lib.  • Experience working with both WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Worked with various Web 2.0 applications involving blog maintenance, Video Library Management using Advanced AJAX and JavaScript.  • Worked with clients to develop project scopes, associated timelines, and expected deliverables.  • Experience designing and building public facing Websites.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  • Experience with coding UI using JQuery mobile and media queries  • Knowledge of writing code for ADA standards  • Payment Gateway Integration using PayPal.  • Sound knowledge in SEO, making the websites SEO Friendly and ranking in search engines    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE    MS Office, Windows 2000/XP/95/NT, LINUX, UNIX, MAC, Sun Solaris, HTML 4/5 , CSS 2/3, Java Script, JQUERY, FLASH, ASP, AJAX,, XML, XHTML, JSP, JSTL, JSON , DOJO, AngulerJS, Backbone JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Less, PHP 4/5, SQL, WEB 2.0, DOM, RSS, SEO, Movable Type, MS Office, Tomcat5.0, Apache, IIS, My SQL 4.0/5.0/5.1, Oracle, SQL Server, MS SQL, Adobe(CS4, CS3) Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, In design, Dreamweaver, MyEclipse4.5, Http, Ftp and TCP/IP, Smart Draw, Microsoft Visio, RCS, CVS, Mercurial, Joomla, Drupal, Word press, Team Site, WCAG 2.0, GIT,GRUNT Work Experience Senior UI Developer IHG - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to Present • Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, KENDO, Rally , GIT, GRUNT  • responsible for developing responsive HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to support strategic business and technology initiatives responsible for refactoring existing code to maximize reusability  • follow established IHGdesign patterns and use best practices for writing quality, defect-free software.  • Created a SaaS based Revenue Management for hire tool that manages consulting services for franchise hotels on different service levels  • Used Kendo grid to create hierarchial tables for three levels  • Worked closely with the business analysts, user interface designer and information design team to generate web mock-ups for the ASAP enterprise web application, ASAP Quick Help.  • Worked with editorial, internal business teams for technical specifications and design guidelines and had designed WebPages in Photoshop.  • Improve accessibility of the application by developing JavaScript based mouse over tool tips.  • Retrieved data in the front end dynamically using My SQL.  • Responsible for all stages of Web site creations for clientele, from initial design and architecture to development, deployment, and management of Web sites.  • Performed maintenance tasks on a daily basis ,making it more maintainable, and fixing a number of longstanding bugs.  • Used Firebug as browser debugger in JavaScript, html, CSS.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues. Front End Lead/Architect A&E NETWORKS - New York, NY April 2014 to August 2015 • Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Typescript, JavaScript, JQuery, Responsive web design, Bootstrap, PHP, Photoshop, Eclipse.  • Responsible in developing an enterprise level website/software which works with Publicists of the company.  • Developed a convoluted email system for publicists that is UI friendly which uses API s from Exact Target and can choose templates and send/schedule emails to their event subscribers.  • Developed a module that can plan upcoming events, schedules, send reminders, newsletters to Journalists, etc.  • Created tagging system using Bootstrap that tags Journalists to their groups easily and user friendly.  • The layout features a "Responsive design." This convention provides tremendous flexibility when viewed across devices of different resolution.  • Prototyped web layouts that can be used and maintained effectively with minimal code changes.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed and maintained dynamic DOM based JavaScript's for client-side functionality, dynamic row re-ordering, and tree menu generation. FREELANCE STORY WORLD WIDE March 2014 to April 2014 Freelance Web Designer/ Developer  • Environment: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, Balsamiq, Photoshop, Responsive web design, Omni graffle  • Created wireframes, prototypes, mockups, establishing style guides/sheets, Designed web and mobile experiences from initial concept  • Developed Bertolli Desktop and mobile website which are hosted on different servers from a PSD.  • Had implemented Ajax page loads , used JQuery plugins , dynamic loading of image tiles like yahoo food website , implemented persistant navigations , integrated social networking fb, twitter, Pinterest, email , print , Google analytical , deep linking of pages,.  • The Mobile site is made Compatible with all mobile phones. Web Developer ARCHIMEDES SYSTEMS - Waltham, MA May 2013 to February 2014 • Environment: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript , JQuery, PHTML, Responsive web design  • Developed and maintained their websites for their third party clients which involves in generating online questionnaires that generated reports and graphs based on input selected.  • Developed College Savings Planner and 529 Plan Comparison Calculator for clients like TIAA CREF, UBT , etc.  • Conceptualized and developed site navigation, icons, banners and page related graphics; performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed JavaScript functionalities to retain user selections on Dynamic Drop Down list whenever they are refreshed with new set of items.  • Created JavaScript photo galleries, video, audio content.  • Developed CSS to maintain the colors and positioning of design elements and managed the look and feel consistency of the entire web application.  • Involved in coding effectively and generating template based HTML from FLASH. Front End Developer TD AMERITRADE - Jersey City, NJ May 2012 to April 2013 • Environment: HTML, CSS, DOJO, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, Fire Bug, FTL  • Worked on core grid project, which deals with new features for a complete redesign of TDA website.  • Responsible for building modules in Dojo, adding features.  • Responsible for creating charts using dojox charts.  • Responsible for streaming server side data and updating on every data change.  • Built ftl data for accessing server side variables.  • Designed the modules according to designer requirement.  • Responsible for writing JavaScript functions with dojo xhr to connect to streamer server and updating data.  • Built tooltip dropdown functionality.  • Worked closely with the business analysts, user interface designer and information design team to generate web mock-ups for the ASAP enterprise web application, ASAP Quick Help.  • Conceptualized and developed site navigation, icons, banners and page related graphics; performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Prototyped web layouts that can be used and maintained effectively with minimal code changes.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed and maintained dynamic DOM based JavaScript's for client-side functionality, dynamic row re-ordering, and tree menu generation.  • Developed CSS to maintain the colors and positioning of design elements and managed the look and feel consistency of the entire web application. Front End Developer CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS - New York, NY September 2010 to December 2011 • Environment: HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, FLASH, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, Movable Type, Team Site, Mercurial, Word Press, PHP, Fire Bug  • Responsible for redesign, integration of Wedding wire for BRIDES website, involved pulling in JSON data, displaying results as per designer requirements, implementing user ratings, implementation of user reviews sections using JQuery.  • Responsible for creating FLASH based navigation, slideshow, photo gallery.  • Defined XML structures to control flash movies.  • Designed web layouts, animations, logos, created graphics.  • Communicate back and forth from html to flash via JavaScript.  • Developed flash mp3 and video players.  • Composed written technical specification and instructions explain how to control slide show application.  • Developed event booking application allowing client to add events to a database which feeds in to flash application.  • Responsible for the redesign of The New Yorker website.  • Refactored and styled the look and feel of Blogs, Articles, Slideshow pages, layouts, added new features, social buttons, media buttons, comment boxes, worked on registration forms.  • Conceptualize, design, develop, and implement the web pages that are visually pleasing, load quickly, and meet established design standards to be capable of high-traffic using JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, CSS and HTML.  • Implemented platform versions Twitter/FB like buttons, login buttons, FB comments, subscribe, face book plugins - face pile, like box, open graph protocol.  • Twitter - live stream.  • Maintained and created Blogs using Movable Type.  • Worked on Team Site for content management, adding new assets, working with existing ones.  • Worked on Forum pages for TEENVOGUE which includes pagination, login and comment boxes using JSP, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT.  • Redesigned Banners for News letters.  • Filtered comments using JQUERY that deletes unwanted text and pictures.  • Worked with Bright Cove video players.  • Refactored like/retweet buttons to load late in the sequence for a given page.  • Worked on slideshows to display well on IE 7/8, worked on rotators.  • Worked on login pop up boxes and their placement, made equal alignment of varied height divs using JQUERY.  • Worked on widgets in Wired magazine that can be registered multiple times using Word press and PHP. Senior WEB Developer BOBSON CONSULTING CORP - Newark, NJ April 2010 to August 2010 • Environment: DRUPAL,HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, Photoshop, XML, FLASH  • Developed a restaurant website that has a shopping cart and can process online shopping using HTML, CSS 2.0, JavaScript, XML which is Conceptualized and developed site navigation, icons, banners and page related graphics.  • Developed a Flash front end, mySQL/ PHP powered media database which will allow users to browse through images and videos.  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Implemented very rich GUI using HTML/DHTML, DOM, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues.  • Site user statistic report generated in multiple formats (XML, HTML, Excel, PDF).  • Developed CSS to maintain the colors and positioning of design elements and managed the look and feel consistency of the entire web application.  • Developed AJAX based ticker that can be changed daily using XML.  • Worked for an online advertisement /website agency.  • Incorporated the PayPal functionality and used shopping cart feature that automatically updates cost according to items in the cart.  • Used JavaScript to add map quest functionality that enabled automatic update of directions according to destinations Developed application by using HTML, CSS 2.0, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked with JQuery functionality and developed the feature of the thick box. Sr. Web Developer ARCHIMEDES SYSTEMS - Waltham, MA January 2008 to March 2010 • Environment: DRUPAL, My SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, CSS, DRUPAL, FLASH, Moo Tools, Photoshop, XML, RCS, PHP, AJAX, XPATH, DOM,WCAG  • Completely re-factored the website, rebuilding it from scratch using the existing design and interface, making it more maintainable, and fixing a number of longstanding bugs , in the process uploaded videos, created FLASH banners ,menu navigations.  • Created PHTML pages that retrieves data from database, does calculations, produces ezpdf reports that contains charts, tables.  • Produced PDF reports using Ezpdf.  • Developed application by using HTML, CSS 2.0, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Responsible in creating a pop up glossary using Javascript.  • Had used Jquery library and implemented accordions feature.  • In-depth knowledge of the Photoshop is used for designing and creation of the backgrounds, characters, headers for the FLASH content.  • Provided effective and functional web designs using HTML to customers that met their specific business/personal needs.  • Worked with editorial, internal business teams for technical specifications and design guidelines and had designed webpages in Photoshop.  • Used Javascript to add map quest functionality that enabled automatic update of directions according to destinations.  • Incorporated the PayPal functionality and used shopping cart feature that automatically updates cost according to items in the cart.  • Created JSON files for easy modifications and inputs for image galleries.  • Utilized Object-Oriented principles of Action Script 3.0 to maximize reusability and development resources.  • Developed interface for a calculator using PHP and JavaScript.  • Created a front end and backend for a college website which has input forms and data being stored in a database. Senior Web Developer CII - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2007 to December 2007 • Environment: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, Photoshop, XML, AJAX, My SQL, UNIX, Drupal, DOM  • Developed interactive custom GUI web parts using CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed the company's website in the NVI sector having client interaction with online reports and updating the website periodically upon users and the company's requests.  • Responsible in creating menus, flash content, html pages using CSS, JavaScript forms authentication.  • Worked on staff login page for password authentication creating user accounts.  • Developed websites compatible with Firefox, IE6 and above.  • Created forms in their dev area for internal registration and update of information.  • Developed and worked on the website New Ventures India which is world accredited project in the investors sector.  • Worker directly with clientele to ascertain requirements and projects goals, ensuring that all objectives were outlined and accomplished.  • Developed and maintained multiple websites on Enterprise level Content Management Systems.  • Created Web ads, banners, and e-newsletters to drive attention to Web site.  • Responsible for all stages of Web site creations for clientele, from initial design and architecture to development, deployment, and management of Web sites.  • Worked on both Front- End and Back- End of the site.  • Controlled Traffic and is responsible for efficient outreach of the site using SEO tools.  • Worked as Graphic and web designer.  • Designed created brochures, fliers and helped in maintaining graphic content in the website. Education Masters Degree in Computer Science UNVA in Virginia Osmania University India Links http://lakshmi.carbonmade.com