Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Wells Fargo San Francisco, CA • Around 9+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using React and Web Technologies.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, JEE, Frameworks (Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF), EJB, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, MVC Architecture, Web Services, JSP and Servlet.  • Extensive experience working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS, Ext.JS.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js   • Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Developed three early prototypes using React, React Native, Redux, GraphQL,Apollo, and AWS services Cognito, Appsync and DynamoDB.  • Worked extensively with Waterfall, RUP, Agile Extreme Programming (XP), SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO, Ext Js and JQuery.  • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper and WSAD for Java programming.  • Extensive Knowledge with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests.  • Develop dynamic features for a healthcare application supporting thousands of international users. Constructed with CoffeeScript, Backbone/Marionette, and React.  • Established basic website structure using ReactJS framework and web-pack module bundler.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA January 2016 to Present Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company headquartered in San Francisco, California, with central offices throughout the United States.    Responsibility- • Implemented Spring boot framework, learned and used new technologies such as Docker, Kafka.  • Involved in a project Development using Spring Web Flow and Hybris and developed front- end UI with JSF Richfaces Backbone.js.  • Implemented front- end with Angular.js, React.js, WebSockets, TypeScript. Performance optimization.  • Created a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React JS and media queries.  • Designed and developed applications with React.JS and SharePoint REST API • Developed UI for web platform using HTML5, Bootstrap, React.js, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON.  • Developed UI with ReactJS, Redux, Redux forms and material UI for more interactive web pages.  • Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Used React JS for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Implemented all the functionality using SpringIO / SpringBoot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using React, Redux, HTML, CSS (SASS), flex, Babel, Sagas.  • Used Redux-Sagas to manage side effects in React + Redux.  • Used Redux sagas for handling various asynchronous calls and Redux forms for implement payment and shipping forms in checkout page redesign.  • Replaced legacy custom state management system with Redux & Redux Sagas • Used components such as React Router, axios, Redux-form, Redux-saga, Redux-thunk.  • Vue.js was used to fetch data from server using axios, prepare and transform data to display in the forms.  • Used Flux for designing user interface pages as it provides official dispatcher, gulp for builds, Babel for es6 transpilation.  • Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Build controlled (MobX) and uncontrolled shared custom components with React and Typescript.  • Browser development with HTML5, CSS/Sass, JQuery, Knockout, KendoUI.  • Developed new features for large corporate websites using PHP, Ruby on Rails, BASH, Javscript, HTML/HAML, & CSS/SASS.  • Used frameworks such as Twitter Bootstrap, Bourbon, SASS, LESS and Compass.  • Implemented web system using new technologies such as Websocket, Less and Playframework.  • Worked on various JavaScript libs and frameworks - ReactJS, jQuery, lodash etc • Implemented homegrown library in conjunction with jQuery, lodash libraries for development.  • Implemented some tools customization based on Git and NPM, like Docco, Lodash, Stylus • Developed some functionality using Lodash library.  • Utilized Javascript ES6 import/export module, Browserify, Laravel Elixir and Gulp for javascript build.  • Worked on new ECMA SCRIPT ES6 standards.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Used Continuous integration tools like Hudson, Jenkins and developing the architectural flow of using SVN to CI • Developed angular.js modules, routers and services using typescript • Used webpack, babel and gulp for compilation for typescript to be converted to javascript.  • Used components such as React Router, axios, Redux-form, Redux-saga, Redux-thunk.  • Worked with React Js & Vue Js to change the stack from regular JS to Flux & Vuetify framework using Semantic UI.  • Worked on a Chrome extension and a front- end Firebase Cloud app for education and research professionals.  • Unit tested complex methods using Mocha-Chai library.  • Worked with Angular JS testing frameworks like Jasmine and Mocha for unit testing and integration testing.  • Tested all application controllers extensively with mocha and chai and Angular's built-in testing facilities.  • Used JEST for unit testing the applications.  • Utilized Jest and Enzyme for Unit testing of Volta App. Used Mocha and Chai for Unit testing of Data Migration.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using React, Redux, HTML, CSS (SASS), flex, Babel, Sagas.  • Worked with ECMA Script ES6 features. Used Babel, web pack with ES2015, and react JSX Presets • Created the initial application structure using React, React Router, Redux, Webpack, Babel.  • Reflux for state management, Webpack for build system, Babel, ES6, server-side rendering • Used webpack, babel and gulp for compilation for typescript to be converted to javascript.  • Worked on user interface changes, that includes JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS. Used tools like JSLint, YUI compressor • Worked on JSLint, JavaScript code quality tool.  • Executed JavaEE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, spring transactions and spring security modules.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes.  • Used SCSS/COMPASS, JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.JS.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Node.JS, LESS.  • Developing and Testing UX Designed Wireframes using React JS, Bootstrap.js with ECMA6 Standards.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, ackbone.js, Require.js • Created front end routing that connects with the database and manages the application's state using Redux.  • Implemented logging for support tools and user activities in MySQL database using PHP and Symfony framework • Experienced with AWS like EC2, S3, EMR, OpenStack cloud infrastructures.    Environment: Spring boot, Microservice, Struts, JSF, Angular.js, JavaScript, bootstrap.js, saga, thunk, react HOC, Material-UI, React Bootstrap, Axios, flux, mobx, nextjs, SASS, LESS, Lodash, JavaScript ES6 ,flow, typescript, React Router, Firebase, Mocha, Chai, Jest, babel, webpack, jslint, backbone.js, React, Redux, MySQL, REST, Docker , Kubernetes, GitHub, Agile ,AWS, AWS lambdas Sr. UI Developer Pitney Bowes - Stamford, CT October 2014 to December 2016 Pitney Bowes is a global technology company most known for its postage meters and other mailing equipment and services, and with recent expansions, into global e-commerce, software, and other technologies.    Responsibility- • Used Spring MVC to create front and back end components communicating on the Wildfly server.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Implemented client side Interface using React.JS (Redux and JSX).  • Created the initial application structure using React, React Router, Redux, Webpack, Babel.  • Develop and maintain custom Sencha Touch theme using compass/sass and Sencha Cmd • Company expert for all things HTML, CSS, Sass, and Grunt/Gulp related • Converted HTML / CSS / LESS site to hybrid ASP.net / HTML site.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Implemented front- end with Angular.js, React.js, WebSockets, TypeScript. Performance optimization.  • Implemented Typescript to generate javascript files.  • Worked on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS, Gulp and Webpack.  • Design and develop applications with ReactJS and SharePoint REST API • Experienced on React js on the front end styled using SCSS.  • Involved in designing web pages using ES6, JSX, SCSS and using React.js components extensively.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.JS, Angular.JS, Ember.JS.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Implemented a complete User Interface for the client web application using Angular.JS.  • Leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js & JMVC, D3.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Used Jooq as jdbc framework to do queries and call stored procedures on a Oracle database.  • Used mongoose for accessing for mongodb object models from node.js, for rendering in UI.  • Developed reporting application using node.js, javascript, jQuery/datatables, MongoDB, and ElasticSearch.  • Creation of SQL, PL/SQL scripts and KSH scripts (shell scripting) for interfaces.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Used Apache CXF to build web service clients.  • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application.  • Introduced JUnit with Jmockit for assembly testing and unit testing • Work with Agile Development Methodology both Scrum and Kanban board • Used AWS Dynamo DB for making solutions that can scale well with very little infrastructure.  • Created Cloud Formation Templates using JSON to manage a collection of related AWS resources.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Designed a data analysis pipeline in Python, using Amazon Web Services such as S3, EC2 and Elastic Map Reduce.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Development of Adapter framework using Servlets.  • Used WSAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Developed SOA (SAAS), service documents for Enterprise Applications.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application using Apache ActiveMQ.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS, Html5, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, DB2, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere, Portal, Subversion (SVN), Git, Junit, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3,JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Xml, JIRA, Linux Sr. Front End Developer Merck & Co - Kenilworth, NJ April 2011 to September 2014 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.    Responsibility- • Developed UI component using Wicket framework and Spring framework.  • Responsible in improving the performance of the application relate to hibernate, SQL.  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern as part of this project along with EXTJs for validations and controllers.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF.  • Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON which is acceptable by Dojo Grid.  • Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  • Developed and maintained, services based architecture, utilizing technologies like spring, Hibernate ORM, JBPM, JQuery.  • Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX.  • Responsible for OracleForms and maintaining CRUD operation on the database.  • Creating menus in Oracleforms and creating relevant forms& reports for the user.  • Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 Worked for Single sign on[SSO] for many web services WSDL, HTML.  • Experience in using development tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper, sql developer, Toad, soap UI.  • Used Splunk for monitor logs across horizontal scaled JBOSS server.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Involved in preparing the web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Cruise Controlwith Ant Builder • Constructed trade details into XML using Velocity template engine and validated XML against Schema.  • Developed code to enable communication between VSE (Smalltalk) based applications and IBM MQ Series.    Environment: Java, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF,DOJO, AJAX, JQuery, MYSQL,CRUD , Oracle, DB2, WSDL, APACHE CXF, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, Selenium, Water fall model, JSP, Xml, JIRA, Oracle Business Process Management (Oracle BPM), IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix Front End Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Philadelphia, PA September 2009 to March 2011 Sovereign Bancorp is the holding company for Sovereign Bank. Sovereign bank is largely a thrift bank, which means it takes on bank deposits in order to issue mortgage and other types of loans and doesn't engage in corporate banking, brokering, or underwriting.    Responsibility- • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side Java script validations and Server side Bean Validation Framework.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels.    Environment: Java, UML, Oracle, SQL, MS Office, Visio, Project, Windows & Unix platform. Software Developer Lucent Technologies - Seattle, WA April 2008 to August 2009 Lucent Technologies, Inc., was an American multinational telecommunications equipment company headquartered in Murray Hill, New Jersey, in the United States. It was established on September 30, 1996, through the divestiture of the former AT&T Technologies business unit of AT&T Corporation.    Responsibility- • Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in designing the data model for the system.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI) • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Developed Secured Single Sign on pages using SAMLSSO.  • Involved in migrating code from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Release management of the code between and different environments.    Environment: UML, MS Visio, Windows MS Office, JSP, HTML, XML, Dervlet, J2EE, AJAX, Java Script, HTML and IIS, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science New York University Skills Java (7 years), Javascript (8 years), Html5 (5 years), CSS3 (7 years), Dojo (4 years), React (4 years), Angularjs (4 years), Node (3 years), Sonarqube (4 years)