Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Bank of America Austin, TX • Over 8+ years of experience as UI developer in analysis, design and development of various enterprise and web based applications.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ES5 and ES6, Typescript, jQuery, Angular2, Angular JS, React JS, Redux, Node.js  • Fluent in developing applications using Angualr2 features like components, pipes, modules, templates, metadata, data binding, routing and Angular CLI.  • Expert in all aspects of AngularJS like routing, modularity, dependency injection, service calls and custom directives for single page applications.  • Working knowledge using component based architecture provided by Angualr2 with Typescript rendering the components using the additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Good hands on knowledge on creating components using @component directive, creating components inside another component.  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 2 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Experience on working with Angular JS to develop single page along with dynamic web applications.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Worked on MEAN stack based application and vast knowledge in creating Restful API using MongoDB and Express.  • Worked closely with Node.js and Express in designing Restful API.  • Experience in developing web applications using MVC & MVVC Architecture.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as LESS and SAAS.  • Proficient in using AJAX for implementing dynamic Web Pages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Experience in designing Database systems and writing SQL queries to perform CRUD operations on databases.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL  • Extensive experience in Testing, Debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using Firebug and Chrome Inspector Tools.  • Experience in build tools, Gulp, Grunt, NPM, webpack, webpack-loaders, Browserify.  • Experience in performing unit-testing using Jasmine, Karma and end-to- end testing using Protractor.  • Expertise in using source code control system such as SVN, GIT.  • Worked in Waterfall model and Agile based development environment, following the sprint deadlines and participating in scrum meetings.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, quick learning, creative problem solving, interpersonal and client interfacing skills with strong leadership skills.  • Experience in developing Web based applications using LAMP (Linux, PHP, MySQL).  • Extensive experience in using Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe flash, Dream Weaver, MS Visio and Microsoft Front Page.  • Strong Hold on Object Oriented Programming (OOP'S) Concepts in JavaScript and PHP 5.  • Working experience with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization.  • Excellent experience with PHP development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js and node.js  • Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL, MSSQL, or Oracle  • Solid hands on experience with LAMP Stack, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML5 Mobile Frameworks  • Strong programming experience in PERL with sufficient exposure to Windows, Linux.  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScript 3.0, and XML.  • Ambitious, have strong work ethic, have a strong willingness to learn.  • Excellent Team player and can work individually. Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Clear understanding of the entire project life cycle including Analysis, Design, and Development.  Worked on PHP5 and MYSQL, HTML5, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS3 and Drupal on Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 2.0, Ajax and JSON.  • Created custom Single Page Application(SPA) to supplant an inheritance line-of-business web application.  • Utilized Angular JS assets to access all data, encapsulating URLs and institutionalizing information to interfaces.  • Actualized AngularJS Controllers to keep up each view information, actualized precise Service calls utilizing Angular Factory.  • Tried all application controllers widely with Jasmine for unit testing.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like application design, development, debugging and testing the applications.  • Used Angular as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed Angular 2.0 custom directives.  • Composed, created, maintained Application utilizing JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS.  • Extensively used services to access data required for the UI components. Defined security policies and enforced HTTP and SOAP securities.  • Used Routes and Factory validations in Angular.  • Worked with Angular Controllers, services and Factory functions.  • Extensively worked on Rest Services and dependency injection.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, Ajax for form validation and other interactive features.  • Designed REST APIs that allow effective and low-cost application integration.  • Created various Mixins, Variables, Custom Fonts and Directives in SASS.  • Used React JS for building encapsulated components, to pass rich data through app and keep state out of the DOM.  • Developed Slide bar, Popover, Type ahead, Dropdown functionality using Angular Strap.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used Grunt to compile Sass files.  • For easy debugging used testing framework Jasmine and Protractor.  • Worked in various version control systems SVN, GIT & TFS.  • Worked in agile/scrum methodologies.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active player, helped in fixing bugs and carried out troubleshooting.  • Creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in Drupal.  • Used AJAX for every page for dynamically displaying the data without a page refresh.  • Involved in fixing the CSS for the browsers Safari, Chrome, Mozilla, Internet explorer.  • Used JQuery Scroll to plugins for the web pages to slide right and left as per the requirements on the modules.  • Extensively used JQuery Table sorter plugins as a data grid for sorting and freezing headers and footers for many tables which holds huge data.  • Extensively used XHTML, JavaScript, and CSS for the User Interface.  • Worked on fixing various front end and back end related bugs that further helped in understanding overall product development, using mantis bug tracking system.    Environment: Angular, PHP, HTML 5, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, XHTML, UI, MySQL, Drupal, SOAP, REST, Zend Framework. Sr. Front End Developer First data - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, Ajax and JSON.  • Extensively used Angular forms like Template Driven Forms and Reactive forms (Dynamic Forms) to perform form validation both on server side and client side.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and DOM manipulation using components in Angular for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front- end programming (HTML) for a web application that matches requirements.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one component to another.  • Used @Input and @Output for transferring data between child and parent components.  • Implemented Pipes to filter the data before displaying it to user.  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Implemented Guards like, canActivate CanDeactivate when user tries to navigate from one route to a different route.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and using ngIf to display the error messages  • Created reusable services and used them in different component using Angular2 Dependency injection.  • Created custom validators and used them in Angular Forms  • Created and Consumed RESTFUL Web Services using Angular2HTTP Module.  • Worked on webpack as module builder for build workflow for Web Application and webpack-dev-server as server.  • Used webpack to bundle Typescript and JavaScript modules and used Scaffolding tools like Yeoman to create the skeleton of the web application. Utilize package mangers like Bower and NPM.  • Used TSLint tool that checks Typescript code for readability, maintainability, and functional errors.  • Created unit test cases of Angular2 components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Analyzing and resolving issues found during the testing or pre-production phases of the software.  • Developed Guidewire Digital Agent Portal applications platform (Quote and Buy, Agent Gateway, Claims Portal, Account Management) for the Guidewire web-based Insurance Suite Applications (PolicyCenter, ClaimCenter and BillingCenter) using the Edge architecture.  • Responsible to fetch the data by sending a request to Guidewire Policy center and display the response received in the Portal.  • Applied the UI technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, SASS to build the responsive webpage.  • Built the functionality by JavaScript with its framework AngularJS.  • Applied some ES6 features to make code easily and organized.  • Created different custom directives, custom filters, services and controllers by using Angular.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services.  • Applied the form validation in AngularJS to make the form validate.  • Applied the AJAX call to read the JSON data from policy center.  • Performed unit test using Jasmine and Karma.  • Worked with source version control tool SVN to manage the code repository.  • Installed the latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the Node.JS environment.  Used the Webpack as the module bundler.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript(ES6), Angular, Typescript, SASS, Ajax, JSON, REST APIs, Visual Studio Code, TFS, Google Charts, SVN, Bootstrap, GUIDWIRE, Drupal, PHP. Sr. Web Developer Bravo Health - Baltimore, MD October 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented AJAX and JQUERY on front- end to make the web page more dynamic.  • Designed theme using HTML/XHTML, CSS.  • Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using Drupal  • Worked with YUI library  • Created XML scheme to be used with charts using Javascript. In trend reports subscribers, can generate charts from Any chart like Pie chart, Bar chart and other chart types using data collected from the MYSQL database  • Created DOM for datasets. Worked with datasets in JSON format. The datasets are collected from back end server PHP file using API and these datasets are then rendered on front end using JavaScript, HTML, DHTML and CSS  • Developed PHP based server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture  • Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System.  • Experience on media consulting with adobe photoshop, macromedia freehand  • Created front end interface using object oriented JavaScript and AJAX XHR with API the front- end interface can interact with server side PHP code which is called by using REST API through AJAX. The JSON data sets returned are then rendered in appropriate format such as pdf, xls, csv and charts.  • Worked with LAMP stack, NOC and IT operations.  • Worked on applications and developer them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python)  • Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML, and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal7  • Modified the source code per the requirement using Joomla  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS, SVN, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, JavaScript, node.js, Phpc, jQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScript 3.0, and XML.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Used structure analysis and design for formulating plans and outlining steps for developing programs.  • Created Web back- end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL/Oracle databases  • Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML, and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Used Javascript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Experience with infrastructure tooling like Hudson, Sonar, and Selenium  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7.  • Developed digital card single page application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON.  • Developed AngularJS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes.  • Developed AngularJS Filters to manipulate text within HTML views.  • Developed AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Developed AngularJS modules to separate application views, controllers, and models.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Angular JS.  • Implement pixel-perfect websites from wireframes  • Worked with symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Zend framework.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues, knowledge of 508 compliances.  • Parsing the JSON requests and responses. Creating reports from child data.  • Used Javascript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Search engine rank improvement using Google Analytics/Webmaster Tools and social media.    Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, SOAP, XML, Any chart, DOM, Drupal, Magneto, Zend Framework, WordPress, Adobe Photoshop, Macromedia freehand, Agile, LAMP, Bash, Python, Moodle, Google APIs, Ruby. Senior Front- end Developer Baxter Health - Chicago, IL June 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the site layout/user interface from provided design concepts by using standard HTML5/CSS, jQuery practices.  • Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Developed the front- end web pages by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS 1.X.  • Worked with Project Managers and other members of the Development Team to both develop detailed specification documents with clear project deliverables and timelines, and to ensure timely completion of deliverables  Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular JS 1.X and Bootstrap using Subversion for version control.  • Worked with UX designers and back- end developers to analyze and enhance the performance of web pages.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using Angular JS for DOM manipulation.  • Developed content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular.JS framework.  • Achieved AngularJS Authentication for the application, and stored generated token so that token can be sent with each request to secure resources in Web API.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, Express JS, AngularJS and Node.js.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern using AngularJS 1.X and developed reusable components with Angular JS custom directives.  • Utilized CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts and CSS Sprites to improve performance and decrease page load speed.  • Worked in agile/scrum methodologies.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows agile methodology.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms through Angualr JS 1.X custom directives validation controls.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, NodeJS as server-side technology.  • Worked on writing extensive unit tests using frameworks and test runners like Jasmine, Karma etc.  • Worked on CSS pre-processors like SASS and LESS    Environment: Angular, MYSQL, JavaScript, AJAX, PHPMYADMIN, , Drupal, Python, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, LESS MS Excel, Linux, MS Word, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio, SOAP, XML, JFreecharts, Agile, Perl, Python, Ruby, Web form security, JSP, Java, SSH, EXT.js, Moodle. Senior Front- end PHP Developer Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA October 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed different front- end forms for various catering services using PHP, Java Script, and Markdown.  • Developed web pages using HTML, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box model and HTML.  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Responsible for track on technologies stack includes Backbone JS, jQuery, Ext JS, LESS, Java, MySQL, Cassandra.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties  • Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify etc.).  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, NodeJS as server-side technology.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  • Developed Animation Button, Navigation Bars using Bootstrap.  • Helped to create a mobile friendly website with Bootstrap.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Used Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly. Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  • Updated the website from time to time for specific requirements.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.    Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XHTML, Node JS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, SVN, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010. PHP Developer Sun Trust - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented front- end layout and behavior with HTML, Javascript and CSS.  • Worked with REST based WebServices.  • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript & other libraries.  • Used rotator.js, Jquery slidemenu, easing plugin to implement the front end.  • Wrote SQL queries to fetch and store the data using MYSQL database  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, and CSS, jQuery other libraries  • Setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using Angular JS MVC architecture.  • Produced and consumed Rest Web Services, developed DAO's and DTO classed for services and consumed through Angular factory service calls from front end.  • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Prepared a Test plan which specified the testing approach and strategy and the scope of testing.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc.  • Worked on WSDL for building some specific web pages for database information.  • Worked with Visual Studio for converting web pages from .NET to PHP.  • Made various contributions to Drupal.org.  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7.  • Worked with LAMP stack, NOC.  • Using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.    Environment: Eclipse, PHP 5, XML, HTML, ZEND Framework, LAMP, Javascript, AJAX, CSS, MySQL, VPN, Cake PHP, Drupal, Jquery, Joomla, cake php, code ignitor, JavaScript. Java Developer Auto Trader - Manchester, NH May 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created various HTML Pages to Validate and record the Order Processing Parameters.  • Developed Java Servlets at server side for handling requests and responses from the web page that were developed using JSP, HTML.  • Deploying applications, configuring security, and testing the application under clustered environments (Both Vertical and Horizontal Scaling Work Load Managements).  • Developed data model and stored procedures  • Validate Framework was used for both client and server side validations.  • Responsible for maintenance and production support of the application documented design and functional aspects of the application.  • Integrated different components to establish a stable flow and reviewed all the deliverables produced by the team  • Implemented Database access through JDBC at Server end with Oracle as backend.  • Used DAO's and DTO's design patterns.  • Programming by Using Struts Frame Work with MVC architecture implementation.  • Used JDBC for communicating with the database.  • Develop Business logic for the customer in the servlets.  • Responsible for Database design and creating database tables.  • Defect fixing and Maintenance.  • Used Apache Tomcat 4.1 web servers to deploy this application online.  • Hands on experience in deploying and managing applications using web logic server.    Environment: - Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP1.1, HTML, Oracle 8i, Windows NT, TOMCAT 4.1. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), AJAX (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), JSON (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages PHP 5x/4x, Shell Script, Perl, PL/SQL, Bash, Python, Ruby.  Content Management Drupal  Frameworks MVC framework, CakePHP, MS Office, EXT.js, Moodle  IDE tools  Dreamweaver, Eclipse PDT, Zend Studio, PHP Designer, Microsoft Visual Studio, IBM Rational Application Developer, Adobe photoshop, JIRA.    Web Technologies  Angular, Typescript, JavaScript(ES6), CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery, DOM, Markdown, XHTML, XSLT, CGI, JSP, XHR, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate    Web Services WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API  Networking TCP/IP, OSPF, BGP, Cisco & Juniper Configuration, FTP, HTTP, DNS, DHCP  Applications/Web servers Apache Web Server, IBM Websphere, ZEND server  Databases MySQL, MSSQL Server, Oracle, MS Access, Postgre SQL, SQLite, MicrosoftSQLServer.    Operating systems Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Linux