Servicenow Developer Servicenow <span class="hl">Developer</span> Servicenow Developer - CSRA/FDA, MD MD IT Service professional with 7+ years of experience with 4+ years of experience as a ServiceNow Consultant for development, administration and implementation and other supporting applications. 1 year as Remedy administrator/ developer with good experience in Java Scripting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Servicenow Developer CSRA/FDA, MD October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a part of support activity resolve incidents by provided with proper root cause investigation.  • Worked on Service Catalog and implemented new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc.  • Designing of Content Management System which involved layout, CSS and Service Catalog work.  • Enabled service portal plugin and implemented service portal by designing the pages and configuring the features in the service portal.  • Utilized the Service Now Service Catalog for users to create Service Requests and Service Items.  • Service Now application development; including creation and configuration of Service Catalogs, Email Notifications, Data imports and exports.  • Involved in the upgrade of service now instance from Fuji to Istanbul.  • Worked on creating surveys after the closure of incident tickets and service Requests.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalog script/Client Script.  • As a part of support activity resolve incidents by provided with proper root cause investigation.  • Performs core configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Performed migration between various environments in service now using Update sets.  • Investigate performance issues, learn troubleshooting tools, and use system logs to find issues  • Establishes and maintains effective communications with customers, other technology specialists, and vendors about services.  • Use Administration of common platform applications: Knowledge Base, Service Catalog, Workflows, SLA's, Reporting etc.  • Managing client scripts, UI policies, UI actions and Data policies.  • Maintains existing applications. Creates code that meets system standards.  • Develop, configure and maintain Custom service requests using Advanced Interface forms in Service Request Management application to meet Request catalog requirements of the IT business users.  • Involved in cloning between various environments in Service Now. ServiceNow Consultant Caterpillar January 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the Business Requirements and Interacted with the Helpdesk users and end users to understand the existing functionality, current state processes, tools to get a better view of the Business Processes and functionality so as to document and configure the ServiceNow Platform.  • Deliver reporting and analytics solutions to business stakeholders using servicenow performance analytics.  • Define the right key performance indicators (KPI's) that align to business objectives.  • Create new jobs, indicators, breakdowns, widgets and dashboards.  • Manage recurring activities like job schedules, user access permissions, exception report creation etc.  • Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, Knowledge, CMDB in ServiceNow  • Responsible documentation for Configuration, Customization, Integration with External Services, Administrating ServiceNow processes (User management/Group management), writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  • Involved in discussion with other technical teams to meet the business and technical requirements for ServiceNow such as SMTP Admin, IBM Data power, Web-service Owners and DBA to build integration to external and internal systems, currently using as SMTP (EMAIL), MID Server and Web Service (Construction, integration, testing).  • Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans. Creating database views to pull the reports on variables which are being used by catalog items. Creating the UI pages and using them in catalog items.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items; Front- end web / GUI components using JavaScript, web-services integration using SOAP and REST , CSS, HTML5  • Created UI Actions, UI Actions, Business Rules, and Client Scripts extensively using Glide Forms, Records, Scratchpad, AJAX and Glide System used in.  • Experience with servicenow discovery tool service watch to discover and import CMDB items, establishing relationship between datacenter components which comprises business services.  • Worked on CMDB from the scratch. Configured multiple forms for Asset module using Configuration Management Database.  • Also I have working experience on Asset Management to track the finances of the company property, wherein I worked with colleagues from finance department and IT services end users. We used manage and oversee the asset lifecycle.  • I have also been involved in procurement management to some extent, like to track service catalog requests as well as creating and managing purchase and service orders.  • Creation of Workflows for Service Catalog items and Knowledge articles in ServiceNow.  • Coordinated the instance upgrade activities.  • Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and excluding some tables to not come under cloning.  • Working on order guides, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Worked on DISCOVERY Tool and troubleshooting it. Set up of mid servers and their connectivity.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates on requirement from the stake holders  • Resolving typical Users access and roles issues by checking active directory and users table.  • Re-designed workflows using workflow editor, Reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Writing script includes invoking them in reference qualifiers or variable scripting.    Environment: ServiceNow, Crystal reports 2008/9.x, Netcool, CSS, HTML, Web Services, CMDB. ServiceNow Developer/Admin Bank of America June 2013 to January 2015 Worked on the client's internal application for Service Desk, where the user will take care of any issues raised by various teams by checking logs, create problem/incident and assign them to corresponding teams to resolve the issue.    Responsibilities:  • Customization of applications and tables for Incidents and Service Requests for the first point analysison tickets and assigning them to other service lines based on the scope.  • Develop and maintain the application architecture for business functional areas in compliance with the enterprise architecture.  • Supported the team responsible for the implementation and administration of the ServiceNow installation, including managing system configurations, gathering and documenting user and process requirements, developed workflow customizations, and performed quality assurance testing and user acceptance testing.  • Tracking of Incident from creation to closure, with timely communication to business. Monitoring service level agreement (SLA's) and operation level agreement (OLA's).  • Worked on Incident management, Change management and Problem management modules as per the requirements, I have also worked on other modules such as, CMDB and Knowledge base.  • Daily tasks included customizing the existing or creating new Business Rules, Scripts- Includes; Client catalog script, Client Script. As per the business requirements. Creating UI Actions for Buttons and context menus on form and lists so that the whole application to any user is user-friendly any easy to handle.  • Designed and implemented ServiceNow Integration solution with Emails, SMS and Alerts to raise and resolve the incidents from remote locations.  • I have also worked on the plug-ins in servicenow application. Configured and enabled the chat functionality for Service Desk ticketing application built in servicenow.  • Develop code in mid-tier server integrating ServiceNow.  • Responsible for establishing the single sign on through LDAP, making the sign in process easy by using the company's login portal.  • Created transform maps for importing CMDB data and data from other company applications. Thus making the import of the data from existing database tables easy and quick.  • Created ServiceNow suite configuration in ServiceNow fulfillment, service catalog, Dash board.  • Communication with Business Clients and first point of contact/interface for application issues and outages between Business and Technology Team.  • Creation and Estimation of efforts for software change requests or enhancements. To make a calculated assumption for the business.  • Created directory system agent using LDAP server.  • Created portfolio in PPM module to measure the progress of several projects at the same time and to create multi-project reports for analysis.  • Worked on offshore team and can understand encryption/decryption methodologies.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts  • Imported many Configuration Items using import set tables and adding them to ServiceNow to get the work more streamline.  • Imported Active Directory to ServiceNow using data sources.  • Publishing new incidents in the Problem Management report and updating the same in Known Error Database and Root Cause Analysis report.  Environment: ServiceNow, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, HTML, Java script, CSS, CMDB. Developer/ Admin ServiceNow - Paramus, NJ June 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Recognizing the Business Requirements by interacting with the helpdesk users, fellow developers and end users to understand the current functionality, processes and tools to get a better understanding of the Business Process and to document, support, develop and configure the ServiceNow Platform.  • Customizing user administration on ServiceNow for the client, like managing users, groups, roles and Microsoft active directory, to make everything more efficient, easy to access and streamline. Helping the company's internal users and thus in the growth of the company itself.  • Customizing data management as per the business requirements in the form of ServiceNow tables, Import Sets and CMDB.  • Creating database views to pull the reports on variables which are being used by catalog items.  • Implementation of different policies in ServiceNow such as UI Policies, Data Policies, UI Actions, Business Rules and Client Scripts. Making the ServiceNow application more user-friendly and providing good user experience.  • Responsible for maintaining Update Sets, Upgrades, Performance and Troubleshooting, ServiceNow Hi support. Helping the other departments to get all the updates and to deploy the application in timely manner.  • Created transform maps for importing CMDB data. Thus making the import of the data from existing database tables easy and quick.  • Created ServiceNow suite configuration in ServiceNow fulfillment, service catalog, Dash board.  • Creating new applications, adding and installing new applications from store.servicenow.com, activating required plug-ins.  • Setting up notifications through Email so that it is easy to raise incidents anytime as well as resolve the incident from remote location and Subscription based notification.  • MID Server installation and configuration. Environment: ServiceNow, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Remedy Developer HIBU - King of Prussia, PA October 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and evaluation of the requirements within ITIL framework and industry best practices.  • Configuring Remedy ITSM, Asset Management, RKM and SLA Management.  • Creating Remedy Forms and Workflow objects to customize BMC Remedy OOB applications and custom functionality.  • Defined, developed, and implemented Asset and Change management requirements using the Remedy asset and change management modules.  • Interacted with BMC and internal teams to help solve critical issues.  • Working with Discovery tools to discover and Import Configuration items into Remedy CMDB.  • Configuration of CMDB, Normalization engine and creation of Re-con jobs.  • Manual creation of CI's which are non-discoverable.  • Asset management activities like CI management, catalog management, creation and maintenance of Contracts and Software Licenses.  • Raising Purchase requisitions and working with procurement teams.  • Maintaining Asset Life Cycle.  • Creating Asset to People, Contracts and Location relationships.  • Involved in the various customizations of Asset Management module for the hardware Request Process, Asset Decommission process    Environment: WINDOWS 2008, BMC Remedy ARS 8.1, ITSM 8.1 Suite, SLM 8.1, SRM 8.1, RKM 8.1 and  CMDB 8.1 Front End Developer United Telecom Limited July 2008 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed an HTML framework for modern browsers with a Flash fallback solution for older.  • Extensive use of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in setting up design specifications together with the business analysts and system designers and developed various components and web pages as per client's requirements and to test the changes in the various environments before implementing in Production.  • Communicated directly with clients to establish project parameters, wrote proposals for design work, analyzed competitor web sites, determined web site content, produced site maps for client approval, and communicated progress with client throughout length of project.  • Communicated with clients, to address changes that were required to change the entire user experience so that it will help the company, on the feedback they provided.  • Provided internet related services including web site design, front- end web development, domain name registration, web hosting, search engine optimization / submission  • Responsibilities included editing pages in Adobe Dreamweaver and other text editors such as UltraEdit and Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio and Zend Studio.  • Created images in Adobe Photoshop and Image Ready, freehand, ACDsee in accordance with web design standards, along with HTML emails.  • Worked with programmers, developers, graphic artists, and editors to create, maintain and upgrade existing website.  • Built interactions and templates that used JavaScript.  • Developed automation scripts and apps to quickly publish content.  • Wrote documentation for procedures and standards of course content and publishing. Environment: Windows 2000/XP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), DATABASE (4 years), DREAMWEAVER (3 years), ServiceNow, Crystal reports 2008/9.x, Netcool, CSS, HTML, Web Services, CMDB (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    CSS (8 years), database (4 years), Dreamweaver (3 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (6 years)  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • IT Services: ITSM suit, ITIL V3, ServiceNow, CMS, SCR, SAM, and LDAP  • Programming Languages: C, C++, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Software Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, SCRUM  • Database: MySQL  • Web/Application Servers: IBM Web Sphere 6.x, Web Logic 10, Apache Tomcat  • IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans, Webstorm, JetBriansPyCharm  • Version Control Tools: CVS, SVN ,GitHub  • Tools and Packages: Rational Rose, Ant, Maven, TOAD, MS Office, Dreamweaver