Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Sunnyvale, CA • Over 7+ years of experience as UI developer in analysis, design and development of web-based applications.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Strong proficiency in JavaScript, including DOM manipulation and the JavaScript object model.  • Thorough understanding of React.js and its core principles.  • Experience with popular React.js workflows (Redux).  • Familiarity with newer specifications of ECMAScript.  • Familiarity with RESTful APIs.  • Experience in build tools, Gulp, Grunt, NPM, webpack, webpack-loaders, Browserify.  • Experience in performing unit-testing using Jasmine.  • Expertise in using source code control system such as SVN, GIT.  • Building reusable components and front- end libraries for future use.  • Ability to understand business requirements and translate them into technical requirements.  • Optimizing components for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers  • Worked in Waterfall model and Agile based development environment, following the sprint deadlines and participating in scrum meetings.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, quick learning, creative problem solving, interpersonal and client interfacing skills with strong leadership skills.  • Excellent Team player and can work individually too.  • Experienced in leading and mentoring team with size of 4 to 6 members. Work Experience Front- End Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Work with the Business team directly to gather complete information about the requirements.  • Analyze the requirements and prepare engineering requirements specifications.  • Analyze the technical challenges for implementing the requirements.  • Involved in the end-to- end Solution architecture, design and development of a Responsive Web Application using JavaScript, ReactJS, CanJS, jQuery, and SASS.  • Write Front End code based on the final designs (comps), keeping accessibility, scalability and pixel perfection in mind.  • Write Unit and Integration Test cases.  • Performing code review and make sure that team is following best coding standards.  • Schedule meetings with offshore team to share the requirement and explain the work process and the timeline.  • Provide warranty support after project completion.    Tech Stack: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, React, CanJS, jQuery Jasmine, Webpack. Technology Lead Infosys Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Work with Onsite Leads to gather complete information on the requirements.  • Create wireframe/prototype for the requirements and demo it to the business.  • Analyze the technical challenges for implementing the business logic for the requirements.  • Write Front End code based on the identified components.  • Do the Unit and Integration testing.  • Implemented, tested and provided post release support.    Tech Stack: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, React, CanJS, jQuery Jasmine, Webpack. Technical Lead iGATE Patni - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2006 to April 2012 Position: Technical Lead  Responsibilities:  • Designed the Prototype for the requirements.  • Prepared the design document and Test Case for the requirements.  • Implementation of business logics required to plot the reports and charts through Stored Procedures, Functions and Views, using PL/SQL for Oracle and T-SQL for MS SQL Server databases.  • Responsible for Functional and Regression testing.  • Adhering to the client's specific coding standards, verifying codes before sending them for AQ Approval and working on the feedbacks.  • Involved in building & deploying the application package.    Tech Stack: Java, JSP, XML, Struts, Davisor Chart, T-SQL, PL/SQL Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Typescript, Json, Xml, Html5, Sass, jquery, Ajax, Css, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Jira, Dom, Windows 10