Partner, CTO Partner, CTO Partner, CTO - JKLM Services, LLC Parsippany, NJ Dynamic, highly experienced Internet Development Professional with diversified experience in development, marketing, and project management. Strong team and leadership values.    In-depth technical knowledge of internet marketing, complete project life cycle development. Broad understanding of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, Liquid, Joomla, Wordpress, SharePoint, Shopify, and Social Media. Apply technical, clinical information to business and marketing strategies.    PROFILE  ? Reputation: Groundbreaker Internet Development Professional with a portfolio highlighting excellent project management, ability to attain cost savings, and foster strong relationships with key stakeholders.  ? Core Attributes: Used out of the box thinking to demonstrate leadership and innovation, optimize cutting edge processes, and funnel additional streams of revenue.  ? Personal Mission: Central component of operations to establish structure and enable prompt delivery of needed systems to meet client needs with little to no supervision and resources. Work Experience Partner, CTO JKLM Services, LLC - Parsippany, NJ May 2013 to Present From inception to full execute of company and internet properties.  ? Manage complete PPC campaign using AdWords.  ? Manage complete social media, SEO for all aspects of the company.  ? Responsible for all aspects of accounting & monthly reporting.  ? Sales & Marketing  ? MajorLeaguePets.com / GearToGetOut.com / NotJustForPets.com Senior Director, Technology APC Postal Logistics - Rutherford, NJ September 2016 to July 2018 Direct interaction with 4 Owners, CFO, 4 Location Managers in weekly srum style meetings.  ? Overseeing all technology operations $100mm/150 employee company, and evaluating them according to established KPI's  ? Devising and establishing IT policies and systems to support the implementation of strategies set by upper management and the goals of the company.  ? I am analyzing the business requirements of all departments to determine their technology needs and resolved them by updating the old server-based system to AWS. We also upgraded and maintained a network of 4 locations and 100+ computers and industrial equipment.  ? Lead the opening of our third location in Illinois, including the networking and software integrations. Developer, Project Manager Applied Cognetics / National Web Leads - Brooklyn, NY September 2005 to May 2013 Manage and maintain over 200 lead generation websites using HTML, CSS and .Net to build the front end products.  ? Manage complete PPC campaign using Adknowledge, AdWords, Trellian, Advertise.com, and others.  ? Manage complete social media for all aspects of the company.  ? Ran a successful podcast called Daily Dollar Newsletter, named by U.S. News and World Reports as one of 8 Savvy Personal Finance Podcasts.  ? Developed and maintain DailyDollarNewsletter.com and the daily mailing list of over 1 million emails.  ? I have managed a full life cycle for the development of our proprietary software acxFusion. acxFusion brings Ad Network reporting directly to your Desktop and allows you to monitor how your business is doing in real-time.  ? Helped grow the company to over $10M in sales by developing a flow to construct over four websites per week.  ? Tracked and scheduled all production using Microsoft Share Point and Zendesk.  ? Manage ad network accounts in Direct Track, Link Trust, and Has Offers ad networks. Project Manager, Front End Developer 1800Communications - Hicksville, NY February 2002 to September 2005 Brought company from developing one website a month to over three per week.  ? I have developed 100+ websites since starting with the company, allowing them to sell out to CarsDirect.com.  ? Develop workflow and experience web properties.  ? Manage the full life cycle of all web properties from concept, design, and implementation.  ? Manage efforts of 4 marketing associates, 2 graphic designers, and 1 copywriter.  ? I coordinated the efforts of senior management, marketing, and technology for planning and specification of new projects.  ? Managed production of trade show promotional collateral, and creative material.  ? Tracked and scheduled all production using Microsoft Share Point. Project Manager, Front End Developer Vistaar Technologies - Parsippany, NJ June 1999 to February 2002 Traveled to Mumbai, India to lead user experience design and development of several B2B web properties.  ? Developed User Interface & experience for a multidimensional database application.  ? Constructed and maintained the corporations' Intranet.  ? I have developed many prototypes to be used as demonstrations for Vistaar Technologies clients.  ? Supervised international team members, front end developers, and GUI design team to build multiple software applications in India.  ? Worked closely with the UI department to create fluid, user-friendly sites with comprehensive GUI and navigation.  ? Attended all client-facing meetings, which allowed for the development of positive, long-lasting client relations.  ? I have designed creative, strategic solutions for clients such as Row2 Technologies, Starship, and Chembourse.  ? Called upon to "think out of the box" and invent new functionality to add to the user experience. Education Full Stack Certification Rutgers University July 2018 to November 2018 Mastering Project Management Villanova University October 2013 to December 2013 Advanced Strategic Project Management Villanova University August 2013 to October 2013 Project Management for IS Villanova University June 2013 to August 2013 New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ February 1999 to May 1999 Dover Business College - Paramus, NJ March 1998 to February 1999 Bergen Community College - Paramus, NJ September 1991 to May 1992 Skills Project Management (10+ years), Ecommerce (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Liquid (10+ years), Shopify (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Databases (10+ years) Links https://MajorLeaguePets.com https://GearToGetOut.com https://NotJustForPets.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/jasonmartocci/ Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Developer November 2018 to Present Rutgers Coding Bootcamp Mastering Project Management December 2013 to Present Villanova University Advanced Strategic Project Management September 2013 to Present Villanova University Project Management for IS July 2013 to Present Villanova University