Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer and 'Application - Security Champion Columbus, OH Work Experience Full Stack Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH August 2016 to Present Created REST API layer for entitlements application using Spring Boot 2.0 and Hibernate/JPA.  ? Designed and developed entitlements web application using React.js and Bootstrap.  ? Identified and fixed code vulnerabilities using Blackduck, Sonarqube, and static scanning.  ? Setup continuous integration and automated code deployment using Jenkins.  ? Developed a suite of integration tests for RESTful services using in-memory database. Qlikview Developer / Data Analyst JPMorgan Chase June 2015 to August 2016 Designed, developed, implemented, and supported Qlikview dashboards.  ? Worked with end-users to collect requirements and acquire the necessary domain knowledge.  ? Integrated data from various sources (including Greenplum, Sybase, QVDs, and CSVs).  ? Optimized existing dashboards using Qlikview set analysis language.  ? Used custom queries to create Star and Snowflake schema for efficient data representation. Qlikview Administrator JPMorgan Chase January 2015 to June 2015 Setup Qlikview Server and Publisher for managing user access, scheduling data refreshes, and distribution of dashboards.  ? Developed an automated deployment tool for Qlikview dashboards. Agile Developer JPMorgan Chase June 2013 to December 2014 Created REST API layer for a new application using JAX-RS, JAXB, and Hibernate.  ? Designed the front- end for a new web application using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Took over responsibility for maintaining a legacy application built with VB6.  ? Developed an application to monitor changes in Sybase tables and send email notifications.  ? Used Mule ESB to map, transform, and route messages between applications. Front End Manager Wegmans - Princeton, NJ June 2011 to February 2013 Front End Manager Super Fresh Food Market - East Windsor, NJ August 2008 to April 2011 Trained and managed front end associates to uphold high standards of customer service.  ? Evaluated and resolved customer inquiries and complaints to assure customer satisfaction.  ? Oversaw cashier accountability and reconciled cash drawers. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Computer Science in Mathematics and Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ May 2013 Skills Java, Hibernate, Javascript, Ui design, Restful services, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Cassandra, Data analytics, Data management, Nosql, Ui, Time management, React Additional Information SKILLS  ? Well-developed skills in prioritizing, decision making, time management, and verbal/written  communication acquired through work experience in management and supervision.  ? Highly proficient in Java and developing RESTful services.  ? Web development using React.js and Angular 2 javascript frameworks.  ? Data management using SQL (Oracle and Sybase), NoSQL (Cassandra), and HQL (Hibernate  and JPA).  ? Extensive interactive UI design experience for data analytics and visualizations.  ? Practical knowledge of Twelve-Factor App methodology and developing microservices for  Cloud Foundry.