front end developer, salesforce, commerce cloud <span class="hl">front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span>, salesforce, commerce cloud Graphic designer "Freelancer - JSON Burke, VA Seven years experience as a UI/UX designer and web  developer with HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Less, Sass, jQuery,  Bootstrap, jQuery UI, WordPress, Salesforce, Commerce  cloud  - Ten years experience with Adobe Photoshop, CorelDraw,  Adobe Illustrator, AutoCad.  - Working with Visual Studio, Eclipse, Notepad ++  - Five months experience as an international student intern in  US. 5. Experienced designer with artistic vision. Expert on UI  and UX, mobile designs and layouts. Excellent presentation  and communication skills. Responsible and hard working.  Fluent English. Good team worker and fast learner.    Projects links - https://www.activtrades.com/en/  - https://www.proznanie.bg/  - https://www.villeroy-boch.ca/shop/fr/home Work Experience front end developer, salesforce, commerce cloud EC4U - Sofia, BG July 2018 to Present Working on commerce cloud and salesforce projects as front end developer. Coding pixel perfect designs and layouts for desktop and mobile pages, bug fixing, designing from scratch of new pages. Good orientation within back- end.     Front- end developer ActivTrades - Sofia, BG July 2015 to July 2018 BG    Working on big projects with Visual studio built on MVC .Net and Angular  Js, using html, css, less, jQuery. Coding pixel perfect designs and layouts for desktop and mobile pages, bug fixing, designing from scratch of new  pages. Good orientation within back- end .Net code.  Taking courses of Angular 2. Creating UI Javascript plug-ins. Front- end developer Proznanie - Sofia, BG October 2013 to July 2015 BG    Working with html5, css3 (SASS/Compass), JavaScript (JQuery), Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, PHP, PHP active record,  developing, designing ui testing.  Working with a big team on a web-based platform for online  meetings and online education. Working on a website for online  courses.  Designing UI/UX and developing components for the platform.  Testing. Implementing plug-ins. Experience with SVN(Tortoise).  Experience with MVC(ZendFramework).  Experience with eclipse, Visual Studio. Juniour mobile front- end developer BitMix - Sofia, BG October 2012 to 2013 BG    Working with html5, css3, javaScript, xml rss feeds on several  mobile applications projects. Fixing bugs, creating sliders, and news templates, listing screens, using jQuery, jQuery mobile,  moustache.js, bootstrap platform, Iscroll and other platforms and libraries.  1. The Times mobile application - Ipad-mini html template for the application  2. Bootstrap platform - CSS branding templates.  3. g-mail e-mail html templates.  4. the Sun - fixing bugs with vertical and horizontal scroll on mini apps, adding local storage, designing carousel and transitional  effects for the slides  5. Creating javaScript sliding menu.  6. Creating with javaScript html, css - football mini app with tabs, several screens, dynamic ui.  7. listing screen for news app - creating mini application with mustache.js, ellipsis.js, javaScript html css templating with content Graphic designer "VALtronic"OOD - Sofia, BG February 2010 to 2011 BG    Design and prepare projects for advertising, design banners, work  on the design look of the web site and prepare articles and brochures,  using  software such as Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Adobe  Photoshop, Acrobat Reader. Working on project documentation. Organize,  send and translate mail from foreign and native business partners and office  correspondence, organize office work, work with clients. Intern US GS Architects - US September 2003 to July 2010 MD, US Designer Bized EOOD - Sofia, BG January 2009 to October 2009 BG  Designed project in graphic programs like Auto Cad and Photoshop. Designer Cvetni Idei - Sofia, BG February 2009 to September 2009 BG  Designed project in graphic programs like Auto Cad and Photoshop. Freelancer US Architecture Inc - US March 2006 to 2008 VA, US    Assist in production process of cd sets, elevations, site plans, plans elevations, details of variety of projects-office buildings,  schools, healthcare facilities, using Auto Cad. Freelancer US Architectural April 2006 to 2007 images, VA, US    Scale models, assist preparation of details of scale models for different kinds of buildings, assisting in preparing visualizations  interior and exterior working with Photoshop, 3DS max, C4D. Working under the supervision of project manager July 2004 to September 2004 Surveys and CD  sets of remodeling projects of retail interiors and remodeling family  houses-interior and exterior, using Auto CAD 2005. Working under the supervision of project manager 2004 to 2004 Education master degree University of Forestry - Sofia, BG September 2001 to June 2006 Telerik Academy - Sofia, BG Skills Excel, Ms office, Outlook, Word, Outlook express, Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe photoshop, Javascript, Bootstrap, jquery, Html5, Sass, Ui, Wordpress, Front End, CSS3, React Additional Information Computer Skills • HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, JavaScript,  Jquery, Jquery UI, React.js, Salesforce lightnng components  • WordPress  • Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator  • MS Office(Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook express)