Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation New York, NY • SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer) around 9+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support,  • 5+ years of experience in providing User Interface and User Experience Design and development with most usable enterprise wide applications.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Responsive design.  • Experienced working with Angular JS, React JS framework.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Eexperience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including Spring, Hibernate, iBatis, JDBC, , Struts, EJB, Servlets.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Proficient in developing web pages with HTML5/CSS3 from PSD template.  • Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  • Extensive Knowledge with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS (Java Messaging Service), IBM Web sphere MQ Series.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Boston, MA March 2016 to Present Mercedes-Benz (German pronunciation) is a global automobile manufacturer and a division of the German company Daimler AG. Using your mobile device to manage your Mercedes-Benz Financial Services account or shop for a new Mercedes-Benz vehicle has never been easier. When you download the My MBFS app, you bring a world of on-the-go convenience to your fingertips.    Responsibilities:  • Created a Single Page Application using AngularJS with AngularUI Router to implement nested views.  • Developed custom service and factories based on client's demand which extends the core AngularJS.  • Implemented a complete User Interface for the client web application using AngularJS.  • Development is in a LAMP/WAMP environment with a Laravel Framework.  • Utilize the Laravel framework for the api endpoint and Vue.js for frontend.  • Researching JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for frontend.  • Worked on various terminologies like jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Ionic framework.  • UI design for web page and front- end web development updated to Material design spec from Google.  • Created integrations between BitBucket and Rackspace.  • Exposure in using Atlassian products like Bitbucket, Jira, Trello and SourceTree for Issue tracking, Code review and release management.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML5  • Architect and design for new Application as J2EE Web application and Oracle ADF.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  • Excellent knowledge on Complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. Expert in benchmarking and load testing  • Basic Experience with SOA &REST  • Applications developed in Eclipse IDE with Java, Google Web Toolkit, Hibernate, CSS, JBoss, HTML& Oracle DB.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  • Expert in handling Protractor, for performing end-to- end test framework for Angular applications.  • Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Developed applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used Rest, WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js., AngularJs CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  • Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - Eclipse, Maven, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular.js, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, HTML, CSS, XML, PHP, JIRA, Bitbucket, AWS, Laravel, Ionic, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, SVN, Windows XP, Linux Sr. Front End Developer ABC Healthcare Plans, Inc - Reston, VA November 2014 to February 2016 Health insurance is insurance that covers the whole or a part of the risk of a person incurring medical expenses. By estimating the overall risk of health care and health system expenses, among a targeted group, an insurer can develop a routine finance structure, such as a monthly premium or payroll tax, to ensure that money is available to pay for the health care benefits specified in the insurance agreement.    Responsibilities:  • Developed single page application with Angular JS, Node.js,.  • Developed the PHP web applications with CodeIgniter Framework  • Used LAMP for hosting the PHP application.  • Created innovative web applications over the full web development stack in Laravel  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS controllers for two-way data binding between product components and data objects.  • Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL5, and PHP) architecture using Laravel Framework.  • Eveloped web applications using MVC frameworks like ZEND, Laravel, CodeIgniter, CakePHP.  • Designed hybrid mobile app with angular2 and ionic framework.  • Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Was involved in UI development, and Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL Taglibs.  • As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS,RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS,RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  • Mentoring of junior members for Agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing  • Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Developed application code using Eclipse-Galaxo IDE and configured with Maven and JBoss  • Extensively used IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features.  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Involved in development with HTML5 for video streaming.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML5 and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Build a new CRM application Using - Jhipster, Spring Boot, Angular.JS  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.    Environment: React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, XML, PHP, JIRA, AWS, Laravel, Ionic, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Github, Junit, Agile, Eclipse, Git. Sr. UI Developer Verizon - New York, NY December 2013 to October 2014 Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications that offers wireless products and services. With 146 million subscribers as of April 2017, Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States. The company is headquartered in Basking Ridge, New Jersey. with features like Estimate a Payment, Apply for Credit, Register your Account, Make a Payment, or Add Auto Pay.    Responsibilities:  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked onSpring/HibernateApplications  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Developed Web Services using WSDL and XML.  • Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  • Migrated data from legacy system (text based files, Excel spreadsheets, and Access) to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Involved in creating UI components using CSS,DOJO and JQuery.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Integrated EMC Documentum with Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) for Content Management.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Environment: Java, Jquery, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD , SQL Server, DB2, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, XML, JIRA UI Developer American Motors Corporation - New York, NY May 2012 to November 2013 American Motors Corporation (AMC) was an American automobile company formed by the 1954 merger of Nash-Kelvinator Corporation and Hudson Motor Car Company. The Detroit Hudson plant was converted to military contract production and eventually sold. The separate Nash and Hudson dealer networks were retained.    Responsibilities:  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used client side Java scripting: JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.    Environment: Java, UML, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model. Java Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY June 2010 to 2012 Worked for Citi Bank Home Loans Mortgage Banking. Here we maintain Mortgage Data Mart (MDM) as one central, complete and consistent database that hosts the data for all mortgages for downstream systems, reports and user queries. As a loan passes through multiple stages during its life cycle, MDM provides a centralized source for all business units to work with the same information.    Responsibilities:  • Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  • Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience  • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in designing the data model for the system.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI)  • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Used CVS tool for Version control.  • Used web services in production analysis.  • Developed Secured Single Sign on pages using SAMLSSO.    Environment: UML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle. Software Developer Merck & Co - Kenilworth, NJ August 2008 to May 2010 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Functional requirements of CDP Module  • Involved in Design discussions.  • Involved in Integration and full testing of the application.  • Responsible for coding/development of Discussion Forums, Blogs, Personalization using web parts, Home page, Theme Management, Home page Gadgets.  • Developed a new Themes and skins.  • Enhancement of modules like catalog, web list, forums to support multiple sites  • Analyzing and fixing defects in the application systems.  • Assisting in technical design & enhancements to the system based on business requirements    Environment: Java, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, HTML. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Oregon State University