Sr. React Software Developer Sr. React Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. React Software Developer - IBM Raleigh, NC na Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. React Software Developer IBM - New York, NY January 2016 to Present IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software, and offers hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. Consumer portal used by sprint customer to setup plans and make payments using various device through phone, computer etc. User can also select Bolton addOn service once account is setup.    Duties- • Involved in developing the Spring Boot Application with iBatis classes for ORM Mapping.  • Experience with Spring boot and Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring boot framework, learned and used new technologies such as Docker, Kafka.  • Involved in a project Development using Spring Web Flow and Hybris and developed front- end UI with JSF Richfaces Backbone.js.  • Implemented front- end with Angular.js, React.js, WebSockets, TypeScript. Performance optimization.  • Created a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React JS and media queries.  • Designed and developed applications with React.JS and SharePoint REST API • Developed UI for web platform using HTML5, Bootstrap, React.js, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON.  • Developed UI with ReactJS, Redux, Redux forms and material UI for more interactive web pages.  • Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Used React JS for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Implemented all the functionality using SpringIO / SpringBoot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using React, Redux, HTML, CSS (SASS), flex, Babel, Sagas.  • Used Redux-Sagas to manage side effects in React + Redux.  • Used Redux sagas for handling various asynchronous calls and Redux forms for implement payment and shipping forms in checkout page redesign.  • Replaced legacy custom state management system with Redux & Redux Sagas • Used components such as React Router, axios, Redux-form, Redux-saga, Redux-thunk.  • Vue.js was used to fetch data from server using axios, prepare and transform data to display in the forms.  • Used Flux for designing user interface pages as it provides official dispatcher, gulp for builds, Babel for es6 transpilation.  • Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Created UI components using ReactJS, Flux Architecture. Used Lo-Dash methods for functional programming uses, and RxJS for handling event streams.  • Built web applications from scratch with React with Redux and MobX • Build controlled (MobX) and uncontrolled shared custom components with React and Typescript.  • Browser development with HTML5, CSS/Sass, JQuery, Knockout, KendoUI.  • Developed new features for large corporate websites using PHP, Ruby on Rails, BASH, Javscript, HTML/HAML, & CSS/SASS.  • Used frameworks such as Twitter Bootstrap, Bourbon, SASS, LESS and Compass.  • Implemented web system using new technologies such as Websocket, Less and Playframework.  • Worked on various JavaScript libs and frameworks - ReactJS, jQuery, lodash etc • Implemented homegrown library in conjunction with jQuery, lodash libraries for development.  • Implemented some tools customization based on Git and NPM, like Docco, Lodash, Stylus • Developed some functionality using Lodash library.  • Utilized Javascript ES6 import/export module, Browserify, Laravel Elixir and Gulp for javascript build.  • Worked on new ECMA SCRIPT ES6 standards.  • Worked with ECMA Script ES6 features. Used Babel, web pack with ES2015, and react JSX Presets • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Used Continuous integration tools like Hudson, Jenkins and developing the architectural flow of using SVN to CI • Developed angular.js modules, routers and services using typescript • Used webpack, babel and gulp for compilation for typescript to be converted to javascript.  • Created the initial application structure using React, React Router, Redux, Webpack, Babel.  • Used components such as React Router, axios, Redux-form, Redux-saga, Redux-thunk.  • Worked with React Js & Vue Js to change the stack from regular JS to Flux & Vuetify framework using Semantic UI.  • Developing a native mobile app using React Native, firebase, Node.js, and npm • Developing web applications and webpages using React Js, firebase, jQuery, Bootsrap, and npm • Worked on a Chrome extension and a front- end Firebase Cloud app for education and research professionals.  • Unit tested complex methods using Mocha-Chai library.  • Worked with Angular JS testing frameworks like Jasmine and Mocha for unit testing and integration testing.  • Tested all application controllers extensively with mocha and chai and Angular's built-in testing facilities.  • Used JEST for unit testing the applications.  • Utilized Jest and Enzyme for Unit testing of Volta App. Used Mocha and Chai for Unit testing of Data Migration.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using React, Redux, HTML, CSS (SASS), flex, Babel, Sagas.  • Worked with ECMA Script ES6 features. Used Babel, web pack with ES2015, and react JSX Presets • Created the initial application structure using React, React Router, Redux, Webpack, Babel.  • Reflux for state management, Webpack for build system, Babel, ES6, server-side rendering • Used webpack, babel and gulp for compilation for typescript to be converted to javascript.  • Worked on user interface changes, that includes JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS. Used tools like JSLint, YUI compressor • Worked on JSLint, JavaScript code quality tool.  • Designed several UI screens with GUI, reactjs, redux, saga, thunk, react HOC, Material-UI, React Bootstrap, Axios, flux, mobx, nextjs, sass, less, Lodash the help of 3 Builder (RIA) • Used CSS, reactjs, redux, saga, thunk, react HOC, Material-UI, React Bootstrap, Axios, flux, mobx, nextjs, sass, less, Lodash for applying style in entire applications.  • Executed JavaEE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, spring transactions and spring security modules.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes.  • Used Hibernate ORM solutions with EhCache mechanism.  • Designed base project structure and different modules using Microservices architecture.  • Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  • Used SCSS/COMPASS, JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in grails and JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.JS.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Node.JS, LESS.  • Developed the application using ReactJS, Bootstrap.js with ECMA6 Standards.  • Developing and Testing UX Designed Wireframes using React JS, Bootstrap.js with ECMA6 Standards.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, ackbone.js, Require.js • Created front end routing that connects with the database and manages the application's state using Redux.  • Implemented logging for support tools and user activities in MySQL database using PHP and Symfony framework • Working knowledge includes webMethods adapters like JDBC, Oracle Apps, JMS, SEIBEL, MQ and SAP.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) to maintain a centralized storage for server hosted on two boxes • Experienced with AWS like EC2, S3, EMR, OpenStack cloud infrastructures.    Environment: Spring boot, Thymeleaf, Microservice, Struts, JSF, Angular.js, JavaScript, bootstrap.js, saga, thunk, react HOC, Material-UI, React Bootstrap, Axios, flux, mobx, nextjs, SASS, LESS, Lodash, JavaScript ES6 ,flow, typescript, React Router, Firebase, Mocha, Chai, Jest, babel, webpack, jslint, backbone.js, React, Redux, MySQL, JDBCSQL server, REST, Jboss wildfly, Docker , Kubernetes, GitHub, Agile ,AWS, AWS lambdas Sr. React Software Developer Trek Bicycle - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to December 2016 Trek Bicycle Corporation is a major bicycle and cycling product manufacturer and distributor. Designed and developed extensive additions to existing Struts/Java/J2EE Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques. Mentored and trained a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.    Duties- • Configured Hibernate, Spring and MyFaces (JSF) to map the business objects to MySQL Database using XML configuration file.  • Used Spring MVC to create front and back end components communicating on the Wildfly server.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Implemented client side Interface using React.JS (Redux and JSX).  • Created the initial application structure using React, React Router, Redux, Webpack, Babel.  • Develop and maintain custom Sencha Touch theme using compass/sass and Sencha Cmd • Company expert for all things HTML, CSS, Sass, and Grunt/Gulp related • Converted HTML / CSS / LESS site to hybrid ASP.net / HTML site.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Implemented front- end with Angular.js, React.js, WebSockets, TypeScript. Performance optimization.  • Implemented Typescript to generate javascript files.  • Effected consistent build process for all Javascript components using gulp and webpack.  • Worked on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS, Gulp and Webpack.  • Design and develop applications with ReactJS and SharePoint REST API • Experienced on React js on the front end styled using SCSS.  • Involved in designing web pages using ES6, JSX, SCSS and using React.js components extensively.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.JS, Angular.JS, Ember.JS.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Implemented a complete User Interface for the client web application using Angular.JS.  • Leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js & JMVC, D3.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js, React.js.  • Used Jooq as jdbc framework to do queries and call stored procedures on a Oracle database.  • Used mongoose for accessing for mongodb object models from node.js, for rendering in UI.  • Developed reporting application using node.js, javascript, jQuery/datatables, MongoDB, and ElasticSearch.  • Creation of SQL, PL/SQL scripts and KSH scripts (shell scripting) for interfaces.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Used Apache CXF to build web service clients.  • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application.  • Introduced JUnit with Jmockit for assembly testing and unit testing • Work with Agile Development Methodology both Scrum and Kanban board • Used AWS Dynamo DB for making solutions that can scale well with very little infrastructure.  • Created Cloud Formation Templates using JSON to manage a collection of related AWS resources.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Designed a data analysis pipeline in Python, using Amazon Web Services such as S3, EC2 and Elastic Map Reduce.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Development of Adapter framework using Servlets.  • Used WSAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Developed SOA (SAAS), service documents for Enterprise Applications.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application using Apache ActiveMQ.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS, Html5, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, DB2, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere, Portal, Subversion (SVN), Git, Junit, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3,JSP, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Xml, JIRA, Linux Sr. Front End Developer American Motors Corporation - New York, NY April 2012 to September 2014 American Motors Corporation (AMC) was an American automobile company formed by the 1954 merger of Nash-Kelvinator Corporation and Hudson Motor Car Company. The Detroit Hudson plant was converted to military contract production and eventually sold. The separate Nash and Hudson dealer networks were retained.    Duties- • Developed UI component using Wicket framework and Spring framework.  • Responsible in improving the performance of the application relate to hibernate, SQL.  • Implemented Struts MVC design pattern as part of this project along with EXTJs for validations and controllers.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF.  • Developed Contract List to pull all the contracts which returned a JSON which is acceptable by Dojo Grid.  • Development of AJAX toolkit based applications using JSON.  • Developed and maintained, services based architecture, utilizing technologies like spring, Hibernate ORM, JBPM, JQuery.  • Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX.  • Responsible for OracleForms and maintaining CRUD operation on the database.  • Creating menus in Oracleforms and creating relevant forms& reports for the user.  • Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 Worked for Single sign on[SSO] for many web services WSDL, HTML.  • Experience in using development tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper, sql developer, Toad, soap UI.  • Used Splunk for monitor logs across horizontal scaled JBOSS server.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Involved in preparing the web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Continuous integration to build the project using Cruise Controlwith Ant Builder • Constructed trade details into XML using Velocity template engine and validated XML against Schema.  • Developed code to enable communication between VSE (Smalltalk) based applications and IBM MQ Series.  • Implemented Micro-Services Architecture for various components using Spring Boot and Apache Tomcat • Designed, developed and implemented CRH on Vertica DB and Linux    Environment: Java, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF,DOJO, AJAX, JQuery, MYSQL,CRUD , Oracle, DB2, WSDL, APACHE CXF, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, Selenium, Water fall model, JSP, Xml, JIRA, Oracle Business Process Management (Oracle BPM), IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix Front End Developer CVS - Seattle, WA September 2010 to March 2012 The Concurrent Versions System (CVS), also known as the Concurrent Versioning System, is a free software client-server revision control system in the field of software development. CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island.    Duties- • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts.  • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side Java script validations and Server side Bean Validation Framework.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels.    Environment: Java, UML, Oracle, SQL, MS Office, Visio, Project, Windows & Unix platform. Software Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY April 2009 to August 2010 The Concurrent Versions System (CVS), also known as the Concurrent Versioning System, is a free software client-server revision control system in the field of software development. CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island.    Duties- • Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  • Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in designing the data model for the system.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI) • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Developed Secured Single Sign on pages using SAMLSSO.  • Involved in migrating code from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Release management of the code between and different environments.    Environment: UML, MS Visio, Windows MS Office, JSP, HTML, XML, Dervlet, J2EE, AJAX. Software Developer Merck & Co - Kenilworth, NJ February 2008 to April 2009 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint venture.    Duties- • Analyzing the Functional requirements of CDP Module • Involved in Design discussions.  • Involved in Integration and full testing of the application.  • Responsible for coding/development of Discussion Forums, Blogs, Personalization using web parts, Home page, Theme Management, Home page Gadgets.  • Developed a new Themes and skins.  • Enhancement of modules like catalog, web list, forums to support multiple sites • Analyzing and fixing defects in the application systems.  • Assisting in technical design & enhancements to the system based on business requirements    Environment: Java, J2EE, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML and IIS, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science New York University Skills Java, Python Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating System: Solaris, SuseLinux, Windows and Ms-Dos.  Languages  Java, C, C++, COBOL.  Methodology  OOAD, Agile, SDLC and UML.  J2EE Skills  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JAXP, JTA, JMS, Web Services, JPF.  Web Technologies  HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, SOAP, Axis, WSDL, UDDI, JQuery.  Frameworks  Struts Framework, JSF, Spring Framework.  Design Patterns  MVC, DAO Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern.  Database/Tools  Oracle, DB2, SqlServer, Hibernate, TOAD.  Web/App Server  Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss  IDE/Tools  Eclipse, Net beans, WebLogic Workshop, ANT build script, Maven build script  Version Control: CVS, Star Team, Subversion, Git, Clear Case, VSS, MS Visio  Sr. React Software Developer  Work Status: US Citizen    Work Responsibilities    • SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer) around 9+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using React and Web Technologies.    • Expertise in developing applications using Java, JEE, Frameworks (Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF), EJB, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, MVC Architecture, Web Services, JSP and Servlet.    • Extensive experience working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, React.JS, Ext.JS.    • Developed three early prototypes using React, React Native, Redux, GraphQL,Apollo, and AWS services Cognito, Appsync and DynamoDB.    • Worked extensively with Waterfall, RUP, Agile Extreme Programming (XP), SCRUM Methodologies.    • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.    • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO, Ext Js and JQuery.    • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper and WSAD for Java programming.    • Extensive Knowledge with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.    • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests.    • Develop dynamic features for a healthcare application supporting thousands of international users. Constructed with CoffeeScript, Backbone/Marionette, and React.    • Established basic website structure using ReactJS framework and web-pack module bundler.    • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills.