Sr UI/UX Developer Sr UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr UI/UX Developer - American Express • Around 8 years of experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementations of client/server, web based applications and UI applications.  • Strong front- end GUI skills using scripting languages like JSP, HTML5, DHTML, Java Script, DOM and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS3)  • Proficient in Web designing & development, using Adobe Dreamweaver, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON and Ajax.  • Extensively developed front end web applications using JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Implemented web applications using JavaScript and Angular JS on several platforms like Banking, e-comers, Networking domains and Insurance.  • Knowledge in development of responsive Single Page Application using frameworks like Angular JS.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design and used different templates to develop different application.  • Wrote extensive HTML/HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages.  • Wide experience in using various IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans, Brackets, Sublime text, Web storm and Visual Studio.  • Good involvement in spring MVC, restful web services and hibernate.  • Good working knowledge in Application servers such as JBoss 6.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x.  • Has good knowledge in Software Testing using Jasmine, Mocha and Karma.  • Has good exposure to polymer JS and web services like REST, SOAP.  • Handled Browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS and JavaScript for IE, Firefox, Safari and Chrome browsers and also have good experience in W3C accessibility.  • Has good experience with global delivery environment.  • Experience working with SDLC methodologies like iterative, Agile/Scrum and waterfall development methodologies.  • Has good working experience with usability testing for web applications.  • Strong work experience in working with version controls like SVN and GIT.  • Excellent skills in programming using wide variety of languages and ability to adapt new latest technologies & work in Multi-platform environment.  • Has the motivation to take independent responsibility and be a productive team member, accompanying a strong programming and analytical background.  • Excellent analytical, Interpersonal, fast learner, hardworking and good team player with strong written and verbal communication skills.    Technical Skills:    Operating System: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS DOS, Unix  Scripts: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  Database: My SQL, NoSQL SERVER, MS SQL.  Debugging tools Developer tools, Firebug, Bugzilla  Version Controller Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server, SVN, GIT  IntegrateDevelopment Environment Visual Studio 2008, Dreamweaver CS3, Eclipse  GUI Editors Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Brackets, Web storm, Jboss  JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS, Angular 2, EXT JS, D3, React JS, Node JS, JQuery, Polymer JS  Others  MS Office 2003-2010, AdobePhotoshop, DOM manipulations, Responsive Web Design, Karma, Grunt, Jasmine, Rally, Confluence, Jira Work Experience Sr UI/UX Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as a UI/UX Developer, assisting my team in developing different Web-based applications.  • Responsible for building a new website and for the maintenance of New Online Platform.  • Developing rich interactive graphics and data visualizations of large structured data in browser-friendly formats using media queries.  • Working on various applications by writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  • Enhanced an existing Angular application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and enhanced performance.  • Writing code in HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript making use of Bootstrap framework.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  • Involved in up gradation and maintenance of website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in working with Amazon web services and content management system (CMS)  • Manage projects and serve between clients and multiple internal groups to ensure clarity of goals and adherence to deadlines.  • Changed all java script code into structured &object oriented JavaScript by defining some global variables and methods.  • Fallowed OOPs concepts like encapsulation and polymorphism for design and development.  • Prepared and presented technical proposals to clients and also involved in usability testing to measure the ease of use.  • Used back base front end products to create and manage customer interactions.  • Worked with mobile development for android and IOS to make more responsive applications.  • Creating custom UI components and implemented UI MVC framework.  • Implemented AJAX calls with Angular JS and handled request and responses for various modules.  • Worked with different JavaScript frameworks like react.js and react-native framework.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Involved in working with REST API to render the data into my application.  • Used Dependency Injection (DI) concepts in Angular JS.  • Working with the team, helping them builds out their markup and CSS. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Working through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Integrated with the back- end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Addressed all business requirements and user interfaces with created specifications.  • Used graphics to present complex information and data quickly and clearly in the format of visual representation.  • Worked with data reporting and big data database to handle large volumes of data.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Involved in polymer JS and bootstrap training classes which are provided by client.  • Involved in SDLC methodology like Agile/Scrum based approach and participated in sprint planning, retrospective meetings and also implemented pair programming concepts.  • Organized scrum calls and code review meetings, also involved in resolving and creating of bugs using JIRA web.  • Brought the HTML and CSS of an existing web site to the latest web standards.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Participated in team building activities and planning increment meetings.  • Used GIT as source control to control the versions of code and to store repositories.  • Involved in working with different unit testing components like Mocha and used jasmine framework.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major bugs for supported browsers    Environment:  HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Apache Tomcat, Web storm, GIT, JIRA, Developer tools, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Jasmine and Eclipse. Sr JavaScript Developer Local Edge - Buffalo, NY May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Agile methodology and involved in retrospective, sprint planning meetings.  • Responsible for design, configuration, development, validating & testing of Rewards Push Notification for e-comers Application.  • Application Architected and developed using Angular JS, MVC framework.  • Worked on SVN to control a source code as well as to store repositories.  • Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Efficiently utilized Angular Js Controllers, modules and models to control manage and bind the data in the application respectively.  • Created forms including input fields and buttons in Angular Js applications and validated them using Angular JS validations instead of HTML inbuilt validations.  • Implemented external controllers for the angular JS applications to make the code simpler.  • Involved in test driven development (TDD) and fallowed different steps like add test, run all tests if any test fails then refactor the code and retest it again.  • Worked with usability testing and fallowed different methods like hallway testing.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Created client side validation tool using technologies such as AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with OOPs concepts like encapsulation, polymorphism and inheritance.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree  • Coding using Google & Yahoo APIs and used AJAX calls.  • Worked with react-native framework to develop native applications.  • Involved extensive use of the Web services like REST and SOAP.  • Built Rich Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.  • Designed and documented REST APIs for collection and retrieval of data including JSON data formats.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web service.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Developed cross-browser compatibility HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design aspects for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular js  • Implemented paging functionality for various screens for quicker rendering of data and also to avoid crashing of browser and also used web interface.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, bootstrap and JavaScript also involved in working with jQuery mobile applications.  • Involved in working with NoSQL database.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Worked with waterfall methodology.  • Used Tortoise SVN to store source code and done different operations like update, check in, check out, sync, diff and delete.  • Worked with Mozilla firebug to fix bugs and make application more dynamic.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Responsive Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Ajax, Eclipse, Firebug, React.JS, node.js, Angular.js, NoSQL, Tortoise SVN. Sr UI Developer Vanderbilt - Nashville, TN October 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Methodology which involved daily scrums.  • E-comers Application Architected and developed using Angular JS, MVC framework.  • Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Created client side validation using JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with jQuery UI for Effects.  • Database are used to configuration data to the application.  • Implemented Controller framework deploying spring controller.  • By utilizing Spring IOC framework executed application Service layer  • Integrated Spring Security for multiple users.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using Google's AngularJS MVC framework (which means JavaScript, HTML, and CSS), JQuery, JSP and AJAX.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Angular JS.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery UI  • Implemented paging functionality for various screens for quicker rendering of data and also to avoid crashing of browser and also used web socket interface.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Integrated with the back- end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Sublime Text, Firebug, Backbone.JS, spring, Team Foundation Server, NoSQL, node.js, angular.js. UI Developer Pennsylvania Dept of Transportation - Harrisburg, PA November 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used the Agile Methodology to create stories, iterations, sprints, as well as organize daily stand-up meetings, story workshops, and sprint reviews.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML.  • Analyze and report on test findings and interface with Developer teams to maintain & implement usability standards and UI style guides.  • Used the Ajax to call the Java functions from the webpage via jQuery without performing a browser refresh.  • Designed graphics, buttons, logos and flash animation for the website.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Actively Participated in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  • Developed different web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created data access layer, Stored Procedures and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used mapping tool Hibernate for persistence data.  • Wrote the Hibernate-mapping XML files to define java classes-database tables mapping.  • Used Hibernate Template for various database update, insert, delete operations and for invoking functions, stored procedures, triggers.  • Providing support for System Integration Testing & User Acceptance Testing  • Involved in resolving the issues routed through trouble tickets from production floor  • Participated in Technical / Functional Reviews.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Developing semantic markups and Wireframe development. Web application prototyping and development using Dreamweaver and Fireworks.  • Remodeled web pages and server side components to fit into a standard framework, which highly improved manageability.    Environment: Java 1.5, Struts 1.1, Hibernate, JSP, JSON, Tomcat, My Eclipse, Oracle 10g, JQuery, JUnit, HTML5, CSS, Java Script. JAVA/ Front End Developer HUMANA - Lexington, KY November 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed the website and created/developed web interfaces.  • Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company's needs and goals.  • Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Developed HTML documents with CSS Style Sheets.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Worked closely with the programmers for project requirement analysis.  • Enhanced website by creating presenting new static models pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS.  • Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere.  • Created a CSS framework for designers as well as implementing parts of Object Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  • Developed some kind of document to implement the client side requirement successfully.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, J2EE, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Adobe Flash, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Web Developer ZETA Interactive September 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on web application development using HTML.  • Created used interfaces using JavaScript.  • Developed the Web Interface using Java Server Pages, HTML and CSS.  • Worked with core java and C language concepts.  • User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, indexes.  • Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JQuery  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS page layouts.  • Involved in working with J2EE and some core technologies.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards  • Experience working closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Objective C, Struts, HTML, DHTML, Custom Tags, ANT, Java Script, XML, JDBC, Oracle (PL/SQL), Web Logic, JUnit, Notpad