Production Superintendent Production Superintendent Full Stack Web Developer Anchorage, AK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Superintendent US Air Force - Military - Various January 2016 to Present Responsible for the overall maintenance effort of 600 aircraft maintainers over 12 specialties on 26 E-3B/C/G AWACS aircraft. Management of day to day maintenance activities, scheduled maintenance, major inspections, quality control and setting short and long term maintenance priorities. Responsible for the leadership of small and large teams, ranging from 80 - 600 personnel. Liaised with aircraft engineers and command-level leadership to ensure the availability of resources and maintain the long-term serviceability of aircraft. Web Designer/ Developer Robert Half Technology - Oklahoma City, OK January 2014 to Present Wide range of contract positions, including:  • Wordpress theme development  • Frontend and backend PHP development  • Frontend development with React, Sass, Rest API  • Full stack development with NodeJS, Express, Sass, MongoDB, Rest API Full Stack Web Developer Freelance January 2009 to Present Provides complete web design and development to clients worldwide. Services include: Full stack development, front end design and progressive web app development  • Created React progress bar library. Implements Progress Bar.js as a React component with full support of the underlying API.  • Developed a headless content management API for retrieval and creation of blog and page content. The self-hosted, open source API is designed for quick integration in AJAX-based interfaces. Uses PHP and MySQL.  • Developing a team-based task management integrated application platform. The platform uses React for web-based clients, and Node.js, Express.js and MongoDB for server-side interaction. Mobile and desktop apps are planned.  • Created Tinker Air Force Base’s “Virtual Wingman” web-based mobile application, which gives Airmen quick access to helping agencies. Employs PHP/MongoDB/AJAX.  • Developed tools for front end developers to solve common design/interaction problems, including a responsive sizing bookmarklet, a JavaScript responsive design script and automatic mobile menu functionality. Front End Developer Shape Fitness (Contract) - Oklahoma City, OK January 2017 to November 2018 Front end developer, working with:  • React  • Sass  • Rest API    Developed public front end, including customer acquisition tools, and sign-up/membership management interface. Developed internal customer acquisition tool set. Section Chief US Air Force - Military - Oklahoma City, OK February 2013 to January 2016 Responsible for the supervision and management personnel and equipment for 20-member component repair section and 300-member aircraft maintenance unit. Responsible for ensuring training, qualification, evaluation and worldwide deployability of personnel and equipment. Education Bachelor's in Professional Aeronautics Embry Riddle Aeronautical University-Worldwide - Various August 2004 to May 2009 Skills React (3 years), Node (4 years), Javascript (8 years), PHP (8 years), CSS (8 years), Leadership (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Express (4 years), MongoDB (4 years), HTML 5 (8 years), SQL (7 years), Nodejs, Jquery Links https://github.com/ronaldroe/ Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Master Sergeant March 2000 to Present Aircraft maintenance, production superintendent Commendations: • Air Force Meritorious Service Medal • 2018  • Air Force Commendation Medal • 2016   • Air Force Meritorious Service Medal • 2016   • Air Force Commendation Medal • 2011  • Air Force Commendation Medal • 2007 Certifications/Licenses Security Clearance September 2016 to September 2021 Top Secret - SCI