Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Pfizer New York, NY • SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer) around 8+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support,  • 5+ years of experience in providing User Interface and User Experience Design and development with most usable enterprise wide applications.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Responsive design.  • Experienced working with Angular JS, React JS framework.  • Professional experience in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Rest JS, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery that follows W3C Web  • Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Illustrator CSS3.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Notepad, Notepad++, Sublime Text2, Brackets and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Proficient in developing web pages with HTML5/CSS3 from PSD template.  • Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  • Extensive Knowledge with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS (Java Messaging Service), IBM Web sphere MQ Series.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Pfizer - New York, NY March 2016 to Present Access information designed for healthcare professionals, including details about Pfizer medicines and patient support materials. The safe disposal of unused medicines includes sharps. Sharps are medical implements such as needles, syringes, injection devices, and lancets. Disposing of sharps the wrong way can cause needle stick and injury that may result in the transmission of disease.    Responsibilities:  • Used JavaScript for developing UIComponents like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Experience in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expertise in web-based GUIs development using Applets, JSP, HTML5, CSS.  • Experience in development and implementation of Restful Web APIs, and exposes endpoints using HTTP verbs like GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries like AngularJS and jQuery, Bootstrap  • Worked with Angular 2.0 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  • Expertise in front- end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo  • Worked in using React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front- end development.  • Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML5  • Architect and design for new Application as J2EE Web application and Oracle ADF.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  • Excellent knowledge on Complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. Expert in benchmarking and load testing  • Basic Experience with SOA &REST  • Applications developed in Eclipse IDE with Java, Google Web Toolkit, Hibernate, CSS, JBoss, HTML& Oracle DB.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  • Expert in handling Protractor, for performing end-to- end test framework for Angular applications.  • Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE.  • Practiced relevant agile development methodologies and worked daily with subversion and current networking technologies.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, using MS SQL Server.  • Use of open-source technologies are used extensively to provide leading-edge solutions - Eclipse, Maven, REST, SOAP, RabbitMQ.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux Sr. UI Developer Verizon - New York, NY November 2014 to February 2016 Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, that offers wireless products and services. With 146 million subscribers as of April 2017, Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States. The company is headquartered in Basking Ridge, New Jersey.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) that follows W3C.  • Transformed design mock-ups into cross-browser compatible HTML/CSS layouts and implemented dynamic Elements and reusable libraries with JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating AngularJS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Worked on AngularJS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture, ReactJS features like Components, Lifecycle methods, unidirectional data flow using the Flux Architecture.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Developed JSPs, Struts Actions and ActionForms, Tiles layouts and DB2 SQLs.  • Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Was involved in UI development, and Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL Taglibs.  • As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  • Mentoring of junior members for Agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing  • Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Developed application code using Eclipse-Galaxo IDE and configured with Maven and JBoss  • Extensively used IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features.  • Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Involved in development with HTML5 for video streaming.  • Made some changes in the ASP Services as well, Created model in the ASP pages.  • Developed responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, Java Script, and JQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front- end UI team.  • Wrote AJAX calls to populate tables, tab menu and other components with JSON data in AngularJS.  • Extensively used HTML5, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting for form validations.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven. Sr. UI Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - New York, NY December 2013 to October 2014 Mercedes-Benz (German pronunciation) is a global automobile manufacturer and a division of the German company Daimler AG. Using your mobile device to manage your Mercedes-Benz Financial Services account or shop for a new Mercedes-Benz vehicle has never been easier. When you download the My MBFS app, you bring a world of on-the-go convenience to your fingertips with features like Estimate a Payment, Apply for Credit, Register your Account, Make a Payment, or Add Auto Pay.    Responsibilities:  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked onSpring/HibernateApplications  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Developed Web Services using WSDL and XML.  • Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Used WebServicesfor creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAPmessages for getting insurance plans from different module and usedXML parsersfor data retrieval.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  • Migrated data from legacy system (text based files, Excel spreadsheets, and Access) to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Involved in creating UI components using CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Selenium-Sikuli Integration for Distributed Remote Execution  • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Integrated EMC Documentum with Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) for Content Management.  • Primary UI developer for Google Web Toolkit (GWT)-based VDI-in-a-Box management console  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development    Environment: Java, JEE, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD , SQL Server, DB2, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA J2EE Developer Goldman Sachs - Dallas, TX May 2012 to November 2013 Worked as a Developer on the AMR. AMR is the Account Management and Reconciliation system developed by Goldman Sachs. The AMR offers a more effective tool for account management, client reporting and account reconciliation. It provides the user with real time information consolidated views, and various different viewing options. The Mission of the AMR is to create one entry point for a common, consolidated view while offering quality real time data. AMR is a multi-tier architecture based application. Front end is made of swing components.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts.  • Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side Java script validations and Server side Bean Validation Framework.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  • Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  • Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  • Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  • Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  • Used client side Java scripting: JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  • Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels.    Environment: Java, UML, , Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model. Java Developer Microadeptech - Austin, TX June 2010 to 2012 This project is an e-commerce site. It Provides access to catalog products that can be purchased using secure transactions over the internet. It covers online sales, purchase, inventory handling and maintenance of the customer database.    Responsibilities:  • The application was designed on Struts Frame work to make use of MVC pattern.  • Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  • Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  • Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience  • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in designing the data model for the system.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI)  • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Used CVS tool for Version control.  • Used web services in production analysis.  • Developed Secured Single Sign on pages using SAMLSSO.  • Involved in migrating code from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Release management of the code between and different environments.    Environment: UML, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows. Software Developer Instancy - Jersey City, NJ August 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Functional requirements of CDP Module  • Involved in Design discussions.  • Involved in Integration and full testing of the application.  • Responsible for coding/development of Discussion Forums, Blogs, Personalization using web parts, Home page, Theme Management, Home page Gadgets.  • Developed a new Themes and skins.  • Enhancement of modules like catalog, web list, forums to support multiple sites  • Analyzing and fixing defects in the application systems.  • Assisting in technical design & enhancements to the system based on business requirements    Environment: Java, J2EE, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML and IIS, Windows XP. Education Master's in Computer Science Oregon State University Skills HTML (9 years), J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), AJAX (7 years), CSS (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating System: Solaris, SuseLinux, Windows and Ms-Dos.  Languages: Java, C, C++, COBOL.  Methodology: OOAD, Agile, SDLC and UML.  J2EE Skills: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JAXP, JTA, JMS, Web Services,  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, SOAP, Axis, WSDL, UDDI, JQuery.  Frameworks: Struts Framework, JSF, Spring Framework.  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern.  Database/Tools: Oracle, DB2, SqlServer, Hibernate, TOAD.  Web/App Server: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss  IDE/Tools: Eclipse, Net beans, WebLogic Workshop, ANT build script, Maven build script  Version Control: CVS, Star Team, Subversion, Git, Clear Case, VSS, MS Visio.