Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- End Developer and Engineering Manager at TEN: The Enthusiast Network Irvine, CA I'm a senior front- end developer and engineering manager, with 7+ years of experience leveraging JavaScript and CSS frameworks to build responsive websites, and interactive features, that drive business growth and improve UX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer TEN: The Enthusiast Network - Santa Ana, CA October 2013 to Present Manage an agile team of front- end developers building W3C standards-compliant, responsive, HTML5 web projects  reaching over 25+ million monthly users.  • Use React to create custom Gutenberg blocks in WordPress 5.0, and investigated transitioning to a headless WordPress  setup using React on the front- end, powered by GraphQL.  • Contribute to the development of a custom WordPress plugin that facilitates rapid iteration, and feature rollout, of 20+  content-rich media sites in the company portfolio.  • Improved SEO best practices, such as Shema.org structured data, accessibility standards (A11Y, ARIA) and Lighthouse  performance audits, that have resulted in 20%+ year-over-year growth in click-through rates and organic traffic.  • Help shape strategic front- end vision, and drive key engineering objectives of the development team.  • Organize and facilitate Agile methodology, including sprint planning, daily stand-up, sprints, reviews and retrospectives.  • Perform a wide array of operations including technical documentation, performance optimization, analytics and SEO. Front- End Developer TEN: The Enthusiast Network - Santa Ana, CA July 2011 to October 2013 • Spearheaded shift toward mobile-first, adaptive web design and advertising as an engineering objective.  • Introduced progressive and lazy-loaded content into established development process in order to improve page speed  and perceived site performance. ED/BD Program Instructor Rowland Unified School District - Rowland Heights, CA October 2005 to June 2011 • Mentored students with history of dangerous behavior, such as assault, drug abuse, theft, vandalization, and runaways.  • Developed Individualized Web Developer Intern New Century Financial Group, LLC - Irvine, CA February 2005 to May 2005 • Front- end development, and deployment support, of corporate intranet site with focus on cross-platform usability Information Technology Support Specialist Intern Fremont Investment & Loan - Anaheim Hills, CA June 2004 to November 2004 • Provided technical support of software, networking and system integration for hundreds of local and remote users. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Pomona, CA September 2006 to June 2009 Skills Front-End (7 years), Javascript (7 years), React (3 years), CSS3 (7 years), User Interface, Front End (7 years), UI, Jquery (7 years), Bootstrap (7 years), HTML5 (7 years) Links https://jeffmayfield.io https://github.com/JMayfield Additional Information Programming/Markup Languages  • JavaScript, ES6, PHP  • HTML5, JSX, JSON    CSS/JS Frameworks and Libraries  • React, Redux, jQuery  • CSS3, SASS/LESS, PostCSS  • CSS Architecture (BEM, SMACSS)    Content Management  • WordPress, Magento    Build Tools  • NPM, Webpack, Babel, Docker, Grunt    Version Control / Deployment  • Git, SVN  • Jira, Bamboo    Soft Skills  • Agile Methodology  • Performance optimization (Lighthouse)  • SEO (Schema.org, Document Outlining)  • Web Accessibility (A11Y, ARIA)