Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer - Humana Inc Louisville, KY • Over 10+ years of Professional experience in developing a web-based interface (UI) to provide best User Experience using Angular4/2, HTML5/4, CSS3/2, AJAX, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, Backbone.js, and jQuery.  • Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS and SASS.  • Experience in making use of expanded HTML5 semantics and popular HTML5 APIs.  • Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML5 and their behavior on different browsers.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design (RWD), Bootstrap and making webpages cross browser compatible.  • In-Depth knowledge of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Frameworks, Backbone, AngularJS, HTML5.  • Strong experience with jQuery plugins, Validator, Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, and JSON objects.  • Experienced in configuring client-side development environments, build tools and tests utilizing modern client-side programming concepts (e.g. AMD, TDD, CI, Grunt, Git, SASS) • Worked on JavaScript framework (AngularJS) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  • Wrote unit and end-to- end tests using Mocha, Jasmine, Jest and protractor.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Experience in designing User Interface using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other Third-Party Controls (Telerik Controls) to enhance the performance, looks and features of the website • Participation in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Experienced in working with IDE's like Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Sublime, IntelliJ IDEA and Net Beans.  • Worked closely with information architects, developers and others to produce a team-driven end product which leads to a top-notch user experience.  • Experienced in working with Redux framework for data communication.  • Strong communication skills, with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  • Worked to develop fully responsive front- end features using Angular JS directives, controllers, factories, and services.  • Strong experience with Cross browser compatibility issues and optimization for web, including CSS sprites and best practices.  • Extensive work experience in content management tools like Drupal, Word Press. Work Experience Front end Developer Humana Inc - Louisville, KY March 2018 to Present Description: Single page web application to view policies. Agents / Underwriters can view policies using this app. This application is developed for auto and property (home, Condo and Renters) includes different transaction types.    Responsibilities: • Closely worked with the customer SCRUM to build the internal web application.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design, Analysis, Code Development and Estimating the Time-Line for the project.  • Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Involved in designing the front- end applications using web technologies like HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using ReactJS.  • Updated and rendered individual state in the application using React components when data changes.  • Used Redux from ReactJS for state management whenever there is huge data.  • Achieved APIs calls from back end NodeJS using React axios.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, using $http Services.  • Used ReactJS built in Declaratives, Components and Props, and filter functionality to develop UI.  • Currently building internal application to manage business workflow. ReactJS on the front end and Laravel on the back end. The application streamlines the business processes of setting up a site for A/B testing.  • Involved in writing the front- end code for the application using ReactJS.  • Created ECMAScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture.  • Created React reusable services to separate components and application.  • Used @Input and @Output decorator to pass data between child and parent components.  • Developed custom directives (element, Attributes and classes) using React.  • Rendered HTML from stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Developed new GUI widgets in YUI, JavaScript (ES5&ES6), HTML, CSS3.  • Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects.  • Used JIRA for Agile processing management.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Worked with Jasmine and Karma testing and performed Unit testing and performance testing using Junit.  Environment: ReactJS, Mongo DB, Git, OOJS, ECMAScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Restful, Jasmine and Karma. UI/Web Developer Stericycle - Houston, TX January 2016 to March 2018 Description: Login and Customer Services - Project is to upgrade the user interface of the single page application for internal staffs to monitor and manage the customers. The new system's UI delivers greater user experience, ease of maintenance and function extension.    Responsibilities: • Developed various pages in the applications in front end technologies HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, AngularJS, ES6 and Angular 2.0.  • Involved in migrating the whole code base of Angular 1.4 to Angular 2.0.  • Responsible for development of the web pages from mock-ups.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  • Used D3.js to compare sales across the years, when our webpage is interacting with data, by Using D3.js we focused on binding data to DOM elements and also, we reused code and add specific functions to our content.  • Worked with CSS3 and bootstrap to create Responsive web designs for multiple departments/pages.  • Created animation effects during the data load, waiting for the Ajax response using JQuery.  • Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA.  • Developed dynamic UI using Angular JS and produced dynamic, interactive data visualizations using JavaScript library like D3.js.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the NodeJS environment.  • Improved the performance and response time of the application by implementing AJAX.  • Contributed to client and server-side Development using HTML5, CSS and LESS, JavaScript frameworks, libraries such as NodeJS, AngularJS, etc.  • Worked on Continuous Integration and code version using GIT.  Environment: AngularJS, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, ReactJS, Bootstrap, Typescript, Jasmine, Karma, Git, Twitter Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, Grunt, Bower. Web UI Developer Mogean INC - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to December 2015 Description: Mogean Campaign - Mogean passively connects businesses to real-life context about their customers. The project aims to maintain an internal Inventory Management system; with modules such as User Dashboard, Customer Profiles, Client Management, Customer Search, Sales Reports and Transaction Reports.    Responsibilities: • Developed single page responsive Web UI using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, AngularJS, and D3js.  • Developed heat maps and line graphs, bar charts for the Dashboard.  • Extensively Implemented user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation Buttons and Icons.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Developed various reports and charts using HTML Canvas, HTML, SVG, D3JS, and SVG by passing JSON objects and Arrays as input both for mobile and web applications.  • We used High-charts third-party library to create line and pie charts. We are also explored D3.js for some of the other complex visualizations.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles and fixed major bugs for supported browsers and platforms.  • Design and develop the next-generation IoT Framework, using industry standard protocols. This solution suite covers the end-to- end spectrum from Device Management.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, and CSS Border.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D Animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Implemented procedures for development of HTML5 and Java applications for mobile devices.  • Coordinated with software engineering teams for interactions between mobile UI and back- end staff.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Angular js.  • Utilized Google Maps API to enable Google map search for near locations.  • Implemented zip code functionality using Location Manager API and also implemented Google Maps API.  • Developed business logic along with connecting the application to the server with REST web services.  • Download and upload content from back- end web server via REST API.  • Implanted JSON to create interaction between server and application.  Environment: AngularJS, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, D3js, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Express.JS, Coffee Script, Photoshop CS6, Illustrator CS6, Git. Front end Developer Comerica Bank - Dallas, TX January 2014 to February 2015 Description: Credit Clearance - The project was to add functionalities to the portal and implemented various portlets including custom login, admin panel, profile and account creation, eligibility, enrollment and claims.    Responsibilities: • Developed AngularJS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes. Developed AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Designed and developed application using CSS3and HTML 5 and achieved responsive layouts using Bootstrap grid system.  • Developed front- end, cross-browser HTML/DHTML templates and all GUI features via HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Experience in designing, developing and deploying cloud-based solution using core AWS services.  • Worked on migration of SQL Server on premises to Windows Azure.  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback session.  • Used jQuery CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, Jasmine Framework.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Configured web server plug-ins Apache 2.2 for WebLogic application servers.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Provided technical assistance to other team members regarding client website, applications and user experiences.  • Perform application upgrades, patches and identify and troubleshoot bugs that involve Tuxedo, Tomcat and Apache.  • Worked extensively with Java, Android Touch frameworks and third-party API including Java mail API.  Environment: AngularJS, LESS, Express.JS, Java, AJAX, Maven, Mocha, Tomcat, Git, Agile, Axure, swagger, web socket programing, Dojo. UI Developer Xerox - Wilsonville, OR November 2012 to December 2013 Description: Online Products - Xerox has been a leader in document technology and services. It continues to build on heritage of innovation. They know are the world's leading enterprise for business process and document management, global services from claims reimbursement and automated toll transaction to customer care centers and HR benefits management.    Responsibilities: • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Developed Responsive web design using Media Queries.  • Designed and provided responsive layout for application using CSS3 media quires.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test.  • Developed cross-browser compatible website styles using CSS3with IE 8/9.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations • Developed Rest architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Involved in writing JavaScript for dynamic manipulation of the elements on the screen and to validate the input.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server-side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Responsible for Oracle Forms and maintaining CRUD operation on the database.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS3, XSLT, SQL, Sublime Text, JSHint, Tomcat, Git, Agile. UI Developer Global InfoTech Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2008 to October 2012 Description: This project is the Logistics Solution for the e-business platform. E-Logistics contains three modules Supplier, Buyer, Transport. Worked on the transport module that consists of service order and shipping details.    Responsibilities: • Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, Windows 2000/XP, MYSQL. Education Bachelor's