Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - ABC Healthcare Plans, Inc ? Over 9 years IT experience including designing, maintaining and coding the front end application by using JavaScript libraries.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  ? Expertise in XML.  ? Experience in working with frameworks like Struts, Spring and Hibernate  ? Experience in using Java IDE tools like Net beans and familiarity with other IDEs such as Eclipse.  ? Experience in using MySQL databases to write complex SQL queries, and familiarity with databases like SQL  ? Experience in using frameworks and tools like J Unit.  ? Extensive experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures and Triggers.  ? Experience of development in different environments like Windows 98/20007/XP.  ? Well versed with complete systems life cycle development processes of design, development, testing and implementation.  ? Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/process frameworks like SDLC and tools like Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  ? Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSP pages that interact with Servlets.  ? Document preparation including Requirement Specification, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Experience in working with Virtual and Multi National Team.  ? Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills.    Certification & Education: Work Experience Sr. UI Developer ABC Healthcare Plans, Inc July 2015 to Present Health insurance is insurance that covers the whole or a part of the risk of a person incurring medical expenses. By estimating the overall risk of health care and health system expenses, among a targeted group, an insurer can develop a routine finance structure, such as a monthly premium or payroll tax, to ensure that money is available to pay for the health care benefits specified in the insurance agreement.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Developed Responsible Web Design (RWD) UI using HTML5, CSS3 media queries, Ajax, Angular.Js and Bootstrap.js.  • Responsible for implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, Angular.JS for all client side UI Validation.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  • Implemented business logic using Struts action components in the Struts and Hibernate framework.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the jsp pages wherever needed.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  • Worked in using React.JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React.JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Developed the reusable components like custom directives in Angular.JS.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web Application,  • Used Ag-Grid for grid view, UI-Select for custom dropdowns and controls.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style sheets.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI.  • Implemented Node.JS at server side to provide restful API to client-side backbone application.  • Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  • Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget based application using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web Application, page navigation and form validation.  • Developed complex, usable, attractive and cross-browser web interfaces that account for speed, file size, readability and accessibility.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.    Technologies Used: Java, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Node.js, HTML, Sencha Ext.JS, Action Script, AJAX, Agile, UNIX, Web 2.0, SOA Junit, SOAP, Subversion, Adobe Flex , JMS, EJBs, JSF, PL/SQL, IBM RAD, Apache CXF, XSLT, JDBC Sr. UI Developer Harris Bank October 2014 to June 2015 Project Brief: AML provides a comprehensive Reporting and query capabilities. It capture's customer Details Store compliance rules monitors transactions and flags any violation of transactions against customer profile and compliance rules. The system generates all statutory Reports and provides for generation of Suspicious Activity Reports.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Efficient in up gradation and migration from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008/R2.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Used Ext js controls like DataGrid for sorting data and ordering data columns  • Implemented server side using Spring MVC.  • Extensive use of Spring DI - Dependency Injection and AOP - Aspect Oriented Programming.  • JSTL to render the server side data on JSP as view part.  • Appropriate use of design patterns which enhances and improves the reusability of the code.  • Extensive use of Spring, Hibernate Template for the persistence layer as ORM framework.  • Incorporated Log4j as a logging technique.  • Use of Weblogic application server to deploy the application  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Worked on AJAX for building dynamic latest content using ILOG JRULES.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures and functions using PL/SQL editor.  • Carried out complete SDLC by following both agile and water fall model and generated cross test summary and generated customized reports suiting to the needs of the client  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Oracle was used as a relational database used for CRUD operation.  • JUnit tool is used as part of Unit Testing and followed by the regression testing.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  • Deployed the application and support for the production issues.    Technologies Used: JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, CSS, HTML, XML, Struts, JSF , Web Services, EJB, JIRA, ITEXT, PL SQL Developer, SVN, Java, JEE, Spring, Hibernate, STRUTS , EJB, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Sr. Web Developer AT&T February 2012 to September 2014 Project Brief: I have worked and involved in BCNS IT Service Provisioning group project. I used Java, J2SE, Spring, Hibernate, OOAD, Maven, SOAP.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Designed UI using JSTL, HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  • JavaScript services developed for user profile API necessary for inspecting and applying privileges across the portal.  • Portal architecture and application design using JavaScript and the Ext.JS component framework. Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML, Ext.JS and JavaScript.  • Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  • Planed, developed, implement, debug and support user friendly front end applications for products and client sites.  • Worked extensively with JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Created standards compliant HTML, CSS and JavaScript pages as needed  • Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  • Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns.  • Created JUnit test cases to cover unit testing for the components.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts Framework in Payroll module.  • Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC framework for the application.  • Business Component has been implemented using EJB Session Beans technology in order to provide a scalable, reliable, manageable, extensible, distributed and object-oriented framework.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using JBoss Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Coded different deployment descriptors using XML. Generated Jar files are deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Implemented log4j API for exception handling, logging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code.  • Used Toad tool to create Views and Stored procedures.  • Enhanced the code according to the business requirements.    Technologies Used: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows, J2EE, JDK, Servlets, JSP, Struts, EJB, Spring, SWING, JMS, iBATIS, Rational Rose, LDAP, JBoss, JIRA, Linux, CVS, ClearCase, Selenium, EJB. Front End Developer Konica Business Technologies July 2010 to January 2012 Project Brief: Business software or a business application is any software or set of computer programs used by business users to perform various business functions. These business applications are used to increase productivity, to measure productivity and to perform other business functions accurately.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the user interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and AJAX.  • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Efficient in up gradation and migration from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008/R2.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Worked with Spring MVC and used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Technologies Used: J2EE, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Web Developer NWMSU May 2008 to June 2010 Project Brief: The main goal of this project is to enhance the services of the educational department by offering the new and existing students a web-based tool for submitting their artifacts. The new site offers students with an easy and fast system to upload artifacts both on campus and off campus. It also offers the faculty and administrator to perform their functions like viewing the reports and administrative tasks like adding, dropping students, adding new semester, enrolling students etc.    Role & Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Wrote complex SQL queries, stored procedures in PL/SQL.  • Presentation tier was incorporated using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.    Technologies Used: Java, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, EJB, Struts, JDBC and Oracle Education Masters in Technology UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA