Senior UI Engineer, Team Lead Senior UI Engineer, Team Lead Senior UI Engineer, Team Lead Smyrna, GA To obtain a challenging position that utilizes my skills in efficient and intuitive user-interface design for web applications while continuing to learn and expand my knowledge of emerging web technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Engineer, Team Lead Pindrop Security 2015 to August 2019 • Key player in the design and implementation of company's flagship product using technologies such as Ruby on Rails, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, SCSS, HighCharts  • Handpicked by CEO to design and implement various demo applications in order to showcase new features to potential clients, as well as infrastructure apps for internal use  • Assisted other teams in their efforts to develop lightweight ReactJS/Redux/GraphQL applications  • Collaborated with project managers/stakeholders to provide technical solutions, from defining requirements to estimating QA time efforts, increased UI test coverage by 80%  • Assisted multiple teams with various process improvements and initiatives including root cause analysis, failure modes and effects analysis, retrospectives, etc.  • Hired and trained a winning eight-member team of UI developers  • Selected to join the inaugural cohort of The Leadership Consortium (Harvard Business School), a first-of-its kind leadership accelerator that unleashes the full potential of participants to lead at senior levels of a global organization. Through a customized mix of participant development and direct company engagement, TLC enables strategic investment in diverse, high-value talent and discontinuous leaps in individual and company performance. Senior Front- End Developer InComm October 2011 to May 2015 • Primary role in the conceptualization, design, and implementation of critical features  • Responsible for all front- end implementations and maintenance, using MVC technologies such as Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap Framework  • Worked closely with Marketing department on adopting a cleaner, more modern style on Zeevex's desktop and mobile sites  • Lead front- end developer for a long-term project with GAME UK to implement GameWallet virtual currency web platform for online payments  • Work with the engineering team to ensure visual consistency and quality across all user-facing features  • Hand-craft and manage cross-browser style sheets, scripts, and templates following industry best practices and established style guidelines  • Responsible for the creation of all graphical elements using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator CS5 Senior Web Developer EyeWonder June 2009 to December 2011 • Developed solutions for implementation of various rich media ads on clients' web sites using solutions such as XSLTs, jQuery, Javascript and new front- end web technologies written in HTML5 and CSS3.  • Worked closely with the support team to find solutions on live campaigns under time sensitive deadlines. Implemented long-term solutions for future executions.  • Handpicked by senior management to design a new UI for the company's .Net enterprise platform and lead a team of two in the actual execution of the wireframes  • Asked by senior management to join software engineering team to help contribute to the creation of an intense 2-year web application that integrated EyeWonder with their clients by allowing them to run, track, and report on live campaigns and MediaPlans. Technologies utilized included .NET (3.5), Ajax, JavaScript, Telerik, jQuery, Web Services and SQL Server 2008.  • Lead designer in building EyeWonder's billing suite that was responsible for applying rates to several entities to be utilized in the creation of campaigns. Web Solutions Developer Prenova March 2007 to April 2009 • Single-handedly redesigned employer's corporate web pages, enhancing site's artistic flair, effective color scheme, and creative use of various "widgets" (buttons and Flash elements) to better convey company's marketing vision. Developed with HTML, JavaScript, CSS2 and Flash MX.  • Worked closely with a team of 5 to develop a web portal for customers, providing a range of available reports of customer's energy spending, real-time dashboard with interactive graphs, and Ad Hoc reporting with e-mail distribution. Developed with C# .NET, Microsoft SQL 2005, CSS2.  • Single-handedly developed company's internal dashboard, providing the call center with information about all tickets entered in the system.  • Worked closely with the departmental lead to enhance employees' all-in-one application, revamping the menus and screens to provide more user-friendly environment.  • Maintained variety of applications, web pages, and databases.  • Designed promotional materials including product logos, e-mail templates, multi-media interactive content, company's business cards, letterhead, PowerPoint templates, pamphlets, imprinted corporate gifts, and tradeshow exhibit booths, using tools such as Photoshop CS4, Illustrator CS4, Dreamweaver CS4, Flash MX. Web Developer Granter Media, LLC December 2006 to February 2007 • One of two developers handpicked by senior management to revamp client's Internet site to provide enhanced e-commerce focus. Developed using PHP, JavaScript, Flash and MySQL.  • Developed integrated database and shopping cart features, and met aggressive two-week project timeline.  • Single-handedly redesigned one of the company's most profitable web pages, enhancing site's artistic flair, effective color scheme, and creative use of various "widgets" (buttons and Flash elements). This web site was featured in the February issue of Men's Health magazine. Education BS in Computer Software Systems Georgia State University 2009 to 2014 Skills Git, Javascript, Reactjs, Php, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Html5, Java, jquery, Ui, Mysql, Asp, Asp.net, Web design, Ux, Quality control, Graphic design, Illustrator, Architecture, Front End, React, CSS3, Front-End Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gospodinova Additional Information SKILLS    • Operating Systems: Mac, Windows  • Stack: HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, CSS3, SCSS, LESS, Cypress, Ruby on Rails, Java, ASP.NET, PHP, MySQL, Git  • Graphic Design: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Sketch  • Specialties: Web design, graphic design, UI/UX architecture, troubleshooting, quality control