Full Stack .Net Developer Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .Net Developer - Unilever Andover, NJ • 9+ years of experience in .NET development, application development based on analysis, design, development, and execution of business applications.   • Experience in Client-Side Technologies and frameworks such as .Net and SQL Management Studio   • Extensive programming experience using ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle database, JavaScript,   • Experienced in ASP.Net MVC 5.0 which helps in implementing Model, View, Controller.   • Excellent communication skills with strong background working directly with team and clients to identify business objectives and establish requirements.   • Hands on experience in design using Object oriented Programming Principles like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Worked on Token Authentication for the Security Side Applications .  • Experience in developing highly interactive web application using JAVASCRIPT, HTML 5, CSS, JSON , D3.JS, Angular 5 and Bootstrap, Angular Js.   • Ability to create web applications writing on HTML, CSS, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.   • Proficiency in building responsive and mobile optimized websites using Bootstrap.   • Proficient in Writing, Analytical Skills and Verbal Communication Skills.  • Worked with resources like AZURE Cosmos DB in Microsoft Azure along with ASP.net Technologies.  • Strong team builder having excellent analytical skills with capability to handle new technologies.  • Having experience in workflow frameworks and also micro- services .  • Solid skills for Management such as Communication & Time with good team skills for improving the intention to work in fast paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .Net Developer Unilever - Englewood Cliffs, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Testing of Web Form.  • Experience in creating web applications using Bootstrap, HTML5, React JS and CSS3 taking PSD to HTML directly.  • Developed Views and WebForms using MasterPages, Layouts,HTML helper and JQuery with engine using MVC3 model.  • Work experience on Tokenization as Asp.net tokens for providing the security for all types of clients  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2 andAJAXtechnologies for front end user input validations.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.  • Implemented technical use cases by designing and developing the appropriate web pages in Asp.NET using C# code behind.  • Involved in developing ASP.NET application using MVC 3 design pattern.  • Developed and Consumed XML Web Services (SOAP).  • Developed UI with JavaScript, JSON,Node JS,HTML5,jQuery UI and D3.JS.  • Implemented MVC design pattern for developing the Web Application and used MVC5 application using Razor syntax for view engine, also used C# for the back end.  • Designed, developed and implementation of services using SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used ADO.NET as a data source for accessing databases.  • Stored Information about queries, exchanges and bindings and distributed database.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Experience migrating from Microsoft SQL to MongoDB.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for reading/updating records in the database.  • Involved in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data and ensure system integrity and security Written LINQ functions for data access.  • Worked on Message Queue Tasksfor Bypassing and receiving messages, specifying and falling when time-outoccurs and overwriting the message.  • Experience in programming tasks-stored procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL Server with TSQL.  • Participated in periodic technical reviews of various modules and developed schema to improve them.  • Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), sub-version and GitHub.  • Actively participated in Scrum meetings of the project implemented in Agile project management methodology. .Net Developer CBS News - New York, NY November 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting, analyzing and understanding the business requirements from the customers and business analysts.  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for analysis, design, development, documentation and testing of projects and deliverables.  • Implemented UI using ASP.NET, C#, .NET, MVC 4.0, HTML5, XML, D3.JS, JavaScript,React JS, Node JS, CSS3, Angular JS, Angular 2, AJAX, Bootstrap, Express and server controls.  • Experience in addingMulti-factor authenticationto Asp.NET and C#for prevention of fraud.  • Designed UI using the HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery 2.1.1, Knockout.Js, BootstrapTwitter- Type ahead  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  • The tech stack is AngularJS,Angular 2 Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used WPF of .NET for creating control templates and more appealing visual appearance.  • Developed code to validate the user credentials for authenticating user to access the WCF service.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for retrieving, querying, storage, and data manipulation for achieving continuous database connectivity.  • Customized Publishing pages with workflows in SharePoint 2010 Designer.  • Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  • Used and Worked on Mongo-DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Experience in Installing, Administering, and Optimizing MongoDB instances  • Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB.  • Created and maintained databases, tables, stored procedures, indexes, database check constraints, and business rules using T-SQL.  • Written simple to complex stored procedures using TSQL to retrieve the data from SQL Server database.  • Developed extensive Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, also developed classes for connecting to the SQL Server Database.  • Handled the SQL Server data tables to the WSS custom list. Synchronized SQL data with the respective List items on the SharePoint 2010 server for daily updates.  • Used MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing for building applications.  • Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation.  • Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and effective high-quality software development. Front End Developer EBay - Bellevue, WA May 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow- ups.  • Developed user interface usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS and Bootstrap and Azure.  • Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, jQuery to perform client-side validation  • Developed middle layer using C#.NET and ASP.NET.  • Created and used User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the Database programming.  • Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  • Used forms based Authentication and role based Authorization for security.  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, and ASP.NET MVC pattern are used to develop the UI screens.    • Involved in designing database, creating tables, writing complex queries and writing Stored Procedures using SQL 2008.  • Used SSRS to generate reports and integrated with asp.NET web page using report viewer.  • Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis reported by Help Desk  • Tested the application as per the test cases and business logic using unit test and fixed the bugs.  • Followed Agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development. .Net Developer CVSHealth - Florham Park, NJ November 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and deploy multiple components and Version Control, Dynamic Content, A/B Testing, Categories, Tags, and Search etc.  • Designing and defining the structure and architecture of API, and using business logic based on interactions with stakeholders and product owners and working on functioning of UI  • Designed a Web application using Web API with AngularJS/Angular2.  • Worked on Microsoft Technologies for the project such as Visual Studio 2017/15, .NET framework , C# 4.7.2, Sql Server 2017/16.  • Design and implementing components using ASP.NET (C#) and JavaScript, using latest industry standards and best practices.  • Used Bootstrap styles extensively to get the right styling for the Web Pages.  • Working on creating Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#.  • Involved in developing user manuals and help documents.  • Proficient knowledge and working experience with Angular 2, C#.Net and Microsoft SQL Server.  • Includes development of new applications, testing and supporting various platforms.  • Problem solving in troubleshooting skills along with documentation.  • Involved in code writing with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON,XML.  • Created templates and bind different components with specific models using Angular JS/ Angular2.  • Using Sql Server 2017 database as back- end along with ADO.NET Entity Framework and Linq to access the database tables.  • Participated in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data.  • Communicate effectively with the scrum master, product owners and business stakeholders/ end clients and fellow team members to facilitate understanding of deliverables, prioritization, and required effort.  • Converting solution for each existing ASP.Net 1.1 / 2.0 application into ASP.Net web application using new Kindred Standard Common Library and .Net Framework 3.5 and SQL 2005.  • Developing the view models and controller actions method to fetch the data from the back end rest services and send it as Json objects to the views.  • Writing the Contract models, Domain models to consume the Rest Services and converters to map between contract models and domain models.  • Contribute to production deployments, including technical documentation, participation in change control processes, and creation of release notes. Sr .NET Developer Huntington Bank Columbus OH - Columbus, OH April 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed different components using C#.NET language and built on n-tier architecture with extensive use of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Techniques likes Inheritance, Interfaces etc.  • Created UI for the project using MVC framework and Bootstrap style for making responsive web screens.  • Expertise in Azure infrastructure management (Azure Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure, Azure Storage, Azure AD Licenses, Office365).  • C#.NET console and WPF apps, VBScript, BASH and Batch for file management and server side tasks.  • Involved in installation, configuration and administration of Microsoft Azure cloud windows Server.  • Used Ajax Controls to avoid flickering while post back, CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Designed Client-side validations using JavaScript and Server-side validation controls in ASP.NET.  • Extensively involved in designing the SSIS packages to export data of flat file source to SQL Server Database.    • Migrated the application from Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) to Platform as a Service (PaaS) by converting existing solution to Windows Azure Worker Role.  • Issues were determined via reviewing code of Java, PHP, VBscript for various Customer connectors that utilized the API of the Enterprise class applications  • Extensively SSIS used for high performance data integration solutions, including extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) packages for data warehousing.  • Created WCF services and communicated them with JavaScript to display certain information and consumed Web services using WCF for online transactions using C#.  • Assisted customers with correct documentation and technical assistance with Microsoft Azure platform.  • Moderate and contribute to the support forums (specific to Azure Networking, Azure Virtual Machines, Azure Active Directory, Azure Storage) for Microsoft Developers Network including Partners and MVPs.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive Web Design (RWD) and media queries based on CSS, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front- End Framework.  • Developed Web services for handling data for two-way binding.  • Worked on Azure Site Recovery and Azure Backup- Installed and Configured the Azure Backup agent and virtual machine backup, Enabled Azure Virtual machine backup from the vault and configured the ASR.  • Created Azure Web Application projects, updated and deployed ASP.NET Web apps, Web Jobs using visual studio, GitHub and Azure Resource Manager.  • Design and development of REST Services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Created and deployed XML Web Services using ASP.NET and C#, used them to generate the proxy class files based on the web services and consumed in web application.  • Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture, enabling multiple developers to work on separate modules simultaneously, reducing effort time for the project.  • Used MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself by using NInject.  • Develop and implement automation through VBscript and Power Shell scripting and other technologies for software deployment and Operating System Deployments.  • Designed frontend with AngularJS for making web site a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed UI Design using WPF, Silverlight, AJAX, Web parts and Web Forms.  • Create organized reports for management using SQL/ASP/ASP.NET/VBScript/JavaScript by designing stored procedures and functions to update, insert, and delete records  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings, and events. Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery, and AngularJS.  • Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, Angular 4 5 6, AngularJS Models, and AngularJS Controllers.  • Responsible for coding the web application using C# by following layered architecture and ADO.NET.  • Worked extensively on production issues reported via JIRA daily.    • Developed code, Unit Tests for different components of Application and automation of Test Scripts using Telerik (Kendo UI) Framework. Extensively used SQL*Loader for loading data into Oracle database from flat files.  • Used Web Forms, master page, user controls, console application, business logic, logging, tiers, classes, Oracle tables & stored procedures to read & update Loan IQ Oracle tables via .NET Enterprise Library.  • Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation. Used GitHub to run test cases in suite for reporting and analysis.  • Worked with the Development, Test, and Production environment in Cloud-Microsoft Azure.  • Used Azure architected application and familiar with Azure storage, web roles, media services, service bus, mobile services, Access Control service, HD insight etc.    Environment: Agile, Microsoft Visual Studio, .NET Framework, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Bootstrap, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Entity Framework, Telerik UI, Kendo UI, JIRA, LINQ, MVC, VBScript, Responsive Web Design (RWD), WPF, WCF, Web API, SOAP, Web services, Rest services, Silverlight, SharePoint, NInject, Oracle, GitHub, Azure. .Net Developer Nelnet Financial Inc - Omaha, NE May 2009 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed different .NET components using VB, C# language for enterprise-level web applications using Object Oriented Programming techniques like Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Interfaces etc  • Plan, design, and configure automated solutions for Workstations and operating system deployments with MDT and SCCM, Power Shell, batch files, and VBScript.Also performed health assessments for existing SCCM environments, Computer Deployment Assessments, and consulted on WaaS (Windows as a Service).  • Designed, configured and developed the web application using ASP.NET, C#, VB, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap. Maintained a consistent look and feel across all the pages within MVC 3 application by Razor layout.  • Developed the UI (user interface) using ASP.NET, MVC5, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 3 4, Bootstrap, Ajax, jQuery, Angular.JS and Telerik controls. Developed the components like Controllers, Views, Layouts, Action Filters in ASP.NET, MVC5.  • Developed front end for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Built the Responsive UI screen using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Migrating an On-premises virtual machine to Azure Resource Manager Subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets. Worked on MSMQ Windows Services.  • Followed Agile Development methodologies with daily scrums for the application development.  • Created and consumed WCF & WEB API web services for implementing business logic.  • Used WPF in creating different animated scenes using the combination of transforms, animation and color effects. Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and SQL Queries and LINQ in SQL Server.  • Developed and consumed ASP.NET web services and WCF Services (ASP.NET 4.5) to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications.  • Identifying opportunities to improve infrastructure that effectively and efficiently utilizes Office 365 and the Microsoft Azure Windows server 2008/2012/R2, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft  • Implemented WCF Contracts such as Service Contract, Operation Contract, and Data Contract.  • Created custom and user controls for reuse.  • Developed and maintained stored procedures, User Defined Functions, Indexes, Views, Tables and Relationships on SQL Server 2012 database. Developed Restful APIs for the third-party systems using WEB API.  • Wrote complex Oracle, SQL queries, views, stored procedures and functions.  • Used Dataset, Data Table, Data Adapter, Data Reader and other ADO.NET connectivity controls.  • Wrote SQL queries, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers in Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012  • Worked on Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications.  • Worked in MSSQL Reporting Service (SSRS) to generate reports and charts. Used IIS for hosting web application.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.NET MVC5.0, Web Services, REST, WCF, ASP.NET, OOD, OOPs, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, jQuery, MS Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010, MS SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Entity Framework, LINQ, IIS, AJAX Toolkit, WPF, C#. Net, VB.NET, ASP.NET, VBScript, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, Bootstrap, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), JavaScript, jQuery, Agile Development, Silverlight, Telerik Controls, Team Foundation Server. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Analysis services, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Silverlight, .net core, Vb.net, Visual basic, Xml, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    .NET Technologies ASP.NET, .NET CORE,ADO.NET, VB.NET, Ajax, Web Services, Silverlight, WPF.  Web Technologies ASP, VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular Js, Windows Azure, CSS.  Programming Languages C#.NET, Visual Basic.NET, C, C++, Java, PL/SQL  Database SQL Server SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)  Database MS-SQL Server 2016/2014, Oracle 11g, MySQL, MongoDB, TSQL  Development Tools MS Visual Studio.NET 2017/2015/2013,2012, 2010/2008, Microsoft office suite  Web Servers I Microsoft IIS (5.0/6.0, 7.0, 7.5), Windows Server OS 2008/2012.