Front- end Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Web Developer Eagan, MN Work Experience Front- end Web Developer Wells Fargo Financial - Minneapolis, MN April 2019 to August 2019 • Primary UI developer responsible for ADA-compliant updates to an enterprise-level web application. Created SASS/CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and JSP code based on ADA Compliance review and recommendations.  • Modified existing and created new site code, collaborated with design and business elements to improve the usability of both existing site elements and updated page designs. Front- end Web Developer (contractor) OPTUMRX/BRIOVA - Eden Prairie, MN March 2018 to September 2018 Worked directly with design team to improve OptumRx website usability through hands-on testing, design analysis and user flow development.    Developed web page layouts and styling updates for the BriovaRx Consumer portal website. Web Developer Connexions Loyalty - Eden Prairie, MN March 2017 to December 2017 • Created web page templates and customized client mini-sites for Fortune 500 Clients' travel and brand loyalty websites.  • Completed comprehensive redesign implementation of customer-facing travel and loyalty websites using SASS/CSS, JavaScript and HTML 5. Web UI Developer Wells Fargo Home Mortgage/Wells Fargo Bank NA - Eagan, MN June 2015 to December 2016 • Developed interface functionality enhancements and display improvements for web-based software applications using jQuery, JavaScript, YUI, JSP, AJAX, CSS and HTML.  • Provided usability and functional design improvements and reference, input on CSS/JavaScript Best Practices, and UI Development coding standards to application developers. Senior Applications/Web Developer Merrill Corporation, Inc - Saint Paul, MN July 2014 to May 2015 • Developed and modified custom interface functionality for web-based document services software, using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, CSS and HTML.  • Mentored application developers in User Interface development best practices, including CSS/JavaScript coding standards. User Interface Developer Table Trac, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN July 2012 to July 2014 • Developed custom interfaces and functionality for web-based casino management software utilizing jQuery, Web Services, AJAX, RESTful services, JavaScript, JSON, XSL, CSS and HTML.  • Developed and implemented interactive web-based kiosk gaming and information screens to enhance casino's Players Club user experiences, including iPad, touchscreen and web-based applications. Senior UI Developer - Lead Digital River, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN January 2011 to July 2012 • Lead UI Developer with the Site Design group, responsible for daily maintenance, bug fixes, new feature and custom project development requests for eCommerce clients utilizing HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Struts.  • Mentored junior developers on best practices, involving CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, code formatting, and web usability. Web UI Developer / Team Lead Internet Broadcasting Systems, Inc - Saint Paul, MN October 2006 to January 2011 • Created web pages and content for major market television stations, including time-sensitive enhancement/functionality requests, interactive content integration, bug fixes, content correction and display/browser issues.  • With the Production Site Services development group, responsible for UI development and coordination with external advertisers to incorporate custom content across network television website presences.  • Provided junior developers with platform training, design and development best practices, and served as a knowledge resource for site usability and code reviews. Education Bachelor of Arts degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Metropolitan State University April 2008 Skills CODING (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), Front End Web Development (10+ years), CSS3 (5 years), UI (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), Front End (10+ years), Jquery (10+ years), HTML5 (4 years)