Lead Front End UI Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI Engineer Lead Front End UI Engineer - LegalZoom Jersey City, NJ • I have over 18+ years of experience developing high profile Web-sites, highlights include:  • Expert level web-development and design skills with Fortune 500 companies and enterprises such as Fox, Yahoo, Walmart, NFL, DirecTV, Experian, Variety, Taco Bell, Herbalife, Sony Pictures, and Anheuser Busch.  • Hands on experience with providing leadership for up to (10) direct reports, and providing baselines for technical documentation, the development of site standards and best practices, testing, quality assurance, and reporting.  • Extensive experience in development cycles including test-driven and design-driven develoipment.  • Experience on content management systems, many back end languages, RichMedia Ads, CDNs, Video production. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Front End UI Engineer LegalZoom April 2015 to Present Employee)  I was brought in to modernize the entire front end and build process by introducing NodeJS, GulpJS, JSON, Handlebars and new practices. I then documented, presented and deployed the process company-wide. Overall page load speed increased, rapid prototyping through a custom page builder occurred, and mobile/responsive web design was introduced for the first time along with a complete site redesign. In addition, I lead and mentor junior developers and do regular classes and code reviews. Sr Front End UI Engineer & Lead Primitive Logic September 2014 to April 2015 Consultant)  Working on 2 large Gas/Electric utilities to revamp customer facing features as part of a specialized consulting team, I also attend business, technology and stakeholder meetings. I will assist in evaluation and scoping of initiatives, and interviewing other front end/UI developers to enhance Primitive Logic's Front End (aka UI) practice.    My technical role involves developing in AngularJS, NodeJS, GruntJS, Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle ADF, SVN, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, and accessibility with ARIA attributes for screen readers and ADA (disability) compliance. As well as creating a toolkit and overseeing other developers. Sr Front End UI Engineer Aysenberg April 2014 to August 2014 Consultant)  • Build responsive product sites for toy brand Bandai and gaming site Nexon.  • Create new UI from scratch in HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Foundation, Grunt, AngularJS Sr Front End UI Engineer HealtDataVision July 2013 to March 2014 Consultant)  • Optimize CSS, HTML, JS assets and organize folders  • Single page applications created using Durandal, JavaScript, HTML and CSS Sr Front End UI Engineer Lynda.com January 2013 to May 2013 Consultant)  • Update existing courseware templates in jQuery, CSS and HTML  • Single page application URL routing and push state changes in Angular.js Sr Front End UI Engineer/Lead Fox TV Distribution June 2012 to December 2012 Contract)  • Add new screens and functions to release date tracking and windowing application  • Create new UI for growing internal application in HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  • Create Excel-like data grids to track global TV and film release dates for all media types Sr Front End UI Engineer (offsite) Walmart Labs September 2011 to May 2012 Contract)  • Enhancements of massive ecommerce site under registry and lists (baby, wedding, wishlists)  • Backbone.js, Node.js, Twitter Bootstratp, Grunt, Stylus, Sass, Handlebars, and Thorax to construct templates  • Construct and document APIs and Virtual Machines for new developers Sr Front End UI Engineer/Consultant Xcentium Inc April 2011 to September 2011 Consultant)  • Consult on projects for clients as subcontractor  • Write CSS, HTML, JavaScript for client sites using Sass, Grunt, Node  • Prototype demo sites for clients Sr Front End UI Engineer Yahoo Sports December 2010 to April 2011 Contract)  • Enhancements to high volume sports sites. ie; Rivals.com (180 sub-domains), fantasy sports forums  • Write CSS, HTML, JavaScript/YUI, ASP for legacy sites  • Create additional HTML5 pages for mobile-only domain Sr UI Engineer (offsite) AON Hewitt May 2010 to December 2010 Contract)  • Write CSS, HTML, JavaScript and custom Velocity templates  • Launch LifeRay builds for UI developers.  • Code review on Jr. developers. Sr Front End UI Engineer/Lead BeachBody April 2009 to May 2010 Employee) Enterprise Web Developer UI/CMS NFL November 2008 to April 2009 Contract-Perm)  • Create CSS for specialty functions like message boards from third party provider Pluck  • Maintain CSS and HTML in custom TeamSite DCRs  • Create secondary CSS, HTML and Jquery to consolidate 32 club -sites; ie: Packers, Patriots Sharepoint Front End Developer LKQ Corp January 2008 to October 2008 Contract)  • Slice PSD images for production graphics.  • Create HTML, CSS and Custom Jquery to support new GUI  • Launch 12 custom Sharepoint sites containing department or subsidiary corporate branding. Enterprise Web Developer UI/CMS Herbalife September 2006 to November 2007 Contract)  • Create HTML, CSS, Jquery and production graphics based on design comps from multiple sources.  • Incorporate new templates in to Teamsite.  • Establish design docs, copy deck, style guides, and standards and practices from scratch.  • Encode and maintain CDN videos. Web Developer Church of Scientology March 2006 to August 2006 Contract)  • Develop CSS, HTML, jQuery for 10 non-profit Websites  • Code custom front end and site modules in Drupal Enterprise Web Developer Experian June 2005 to March 2006 Contract-Perm)  • Reskin and enhance applications in Sharepoint sites for global marketing team.  • Code front end and site modules for business and personal financial services projects in global marketing.  • Work in international division porting old content to new design and import to TeamSite.  • Encode and maintain CDN videos like BrightCove with video SEO. Enterprise Web Developer Variety.com July 2004 to April 2005 Contract-Perm)  • Contract to perm developer and maintenance. Maintained Typepad blogs, layouts and CMS modifications.  • Support writers and event promoters with desktop apps and Web-formatting content. Web Designer/ Developer CreativeLink - Irvine, CA January 2004 to July 2004 Freelancer)  • Freelance developer, designer and brand coordinator. Clients included Taco Bell, DraftFCB, Sapient, King's Hawaiian Bread, Home Shopping Network and Kaiser Permanente Healthcare for everything from banners and micro-sites to product development and branding. Web Designer/ Developer Big Interactive, West LA, CA - San Diego, TX April 2003 to November 2003 and Orlando), Busch Gardens Theme Parks, Sesame Place and Water Country USA.  • Responsibilities included, pre-design requirements gathering, design and development, QA, launch, relaunch, post launch support and ongoing maintenance. Developed sites with: ASP.Net, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop. Web Master LowestPaintBallPrices.com - Costa Mesa, CA October 2002 to May 2003 Freelance)  • Recruited to develop an entire e-commerce package which included 8 additional shopping carts, an online auction, and b2c for paintball airsoft and products.  • Responsible for the ongoing maintenance of the site. Web Developer VirtualMediaVision.com - Venice, CA December 2001 to September 2002 Employee/Partner)  • Responsible for both Web Producer and Web Developer roles for a boutique design agency in Culver City, CA. Web Developer InternetConnect.net - Los Angeles, CA October 2000 to June 2001 Employee)  • Duties included: designing new websites, updating company websites, interactive media designs, photographs for press releases, and in-house development of DSL services. sales and website Victory Interactive/ThunderSeat - Irvine, CA January 1999 to August 2000 Irvine, CA. 1/1999-8/2000  Game Producer (Employee)  • Duties included: managing a team of 10 artists and programmers on various video game projects.  • Incorporated hardware division materials into source-code, as well as all operations, advertising, product development, sales and website.  • Xmas season sales grew 300% in 96 and 97. Education business Launched initiative called "UI University" for junior developers Bachelor's Skills UI Certifications/Licenses Life and Health Insurance