Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - GE CORPORATE San Ramon, CA ? Around 10 years of IT experience in Software Development having an in-depth knowledge and extensive work experience on different types of web-based applications and architectures.  ? Extensive programming experience in developing Web based applications and Client- Server technologies using JSP, Servlets, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, XML, DOM and XHTML/DHTML.  ? Proficient in using front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as AngularJS, Backbone.js to develop Responsive Single Page Application.  ? Hands on experience in user interface development frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap and Ionic UI.  ? Developed applications using AngularJS single page applications (SPAs) to improve page performance.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery to develop custom validations for validating various inputs given by the user.  ? Excellent knowledge in JavaScript frameworks like Underscore.js, React.js and Backbone.js.  ? Basic knowledge to build Data Visualization and Geo-Clustering using D3.js.  ? Experienced in understanding the server side technologies like Java, ASP.Net, Ruby, and Python.  ? Familiar with major web application Servers like Web Logic, WAMP Server and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  ? In-Depth knowledge of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  ? Proficiently Apply JavaScript tasks runner like Gulp and Grunt to make web development easy to maintain and understand.  ? Basic understanding of CSS pre-processing platforms, such as LESS and SASS.  ? Solid knowledge in software development life cycle including requirements analysis, design, development, maintenance, implementation and testing.  ? Knowledge in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing.  ? Experience with SVN Source Control and Git for code management.  ? Used different cross-browser testing tools like BrowserStack and IETester to improve the performance of the web pages.  ? Good Experience with working in Agile and Waterfall environments.  ? Excellent knowledge on MVC frameworks like Struts, Spring.  ? Excellent Knowledge on Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  ? Responsible for checking cross-browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  ? Solid working Experience in various IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, Notepad++ etc.  ? Experience in creating as well as editing images for the websites using Photoshop and InDesign.  ? Experience in implementing Web applications, Web Content Management and Digital Asset Management solutions using Abode CQ5 platform.  ? Experienced both in working on Designing table-less layouts and table-based layouts.  ? Experienced in writing database queries, tables, stored procedures and triggers using database like SQL and Oracle.  ? Involved in creating unit test cases using Jasmine.  ? Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  ? Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  ? Adaptive to team environment and also has the capability of completing complex tasks independently.  ? Strong Communication skills with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer GE CORPORATE - San Ramon, CA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Strong hands-on background on UI frameworks like ReactJS, Redux, ES6 JavaScript, CSS/CSS3, CSS Pre-processors, Web pack, NodeJS, core JavaScript, development of reusable & performance efficient UI components using JavaScript.  ? Strong hands-on & conceptual background of basic UI skills like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Asynchronous communication with backend layers.  ? Background on working on web development projects or portals including above skills.  ? Understanding of JS frameworks like NodeJS and all its internal features & aspects.  ? Good hands-on background on advanced CSS specific tools like pre-processors (LESS, SASS)  ? Strong knowledge about RWD (Responsive web design) concepts, ways to achieve RWD in both web as well as native development scenarios.  ? Hands-on working background (or adaptability to work on), on various latest & advanced UI frameworks, (like ReactJS, Redux as mentioned above), & relevant knowledge of associated tools like Webpack bundler, Nodejs, Redux-Thunk, Flux, uni-directional data flow, As-synchronous API calling (using Axios for example) & communication.  ? Strong hands-on knowledge about source controls systems like GIT, and build tools like Teamcity/Jenkins & other tools like JIRA, HP ALM  ? Adaptability to work on advanced native development frameworks like ReactNative.  ? Adaptability to work on other native development frameworks like Android/iOS in both web or hybrid and native development scenarios.  ? Strong background or exposure of interaction with UX team to get understanding about templates/wireframes & overall layout to be translated into corresponding UI.  ? Strong exposure to closely work with middleware team, to analyze APIs that provide data to front end layer. (JSON format), consuming API provided data & monitor any errors & exceptions for handling the same on front end level.  ? Background on frameworks like D3.js, JQuery, EmberJS, TypeScript etc. is preferable or would be advantageous on the top of above primary skills.  ? Exposure of working on native mobile app development using android, iOS, windows 8 for mobile, frameworks will be advantageous.  ? Background on working on project that run on Agile mode.  ? Strong communication skills to interact effectively will all stakeholders of the project.  Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Typescript, Angular4/5/6, Bootstrap (3.3.2/4), MDB Angular, AJAX, JQuery, SOAP, MySQL, NPM, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Maven, JUnit, SASS and PaaS, Restful, Grunt, and GitHub. UI Developer JPMC - Columbus, OH March 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile process, Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  ? Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning.  ? Heavily used jQuery to create various components such as Tabs, Accordions and Auto-completes etc.  ? Hand coded HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery to create the front- end.  ? Built more user-interactive web pages using jQuery plug-ins, AJAX, JavaScript, and Angular JS.  ? Wrote code to build Views and Models as part of MVC pattern using Angular JS.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Involved in using Bootstrap for effective design of web pages.  ? Hands on experience with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  ? Used Oracle as a database in this project.  ? Developed code to fetch data from back- end and populate on UI using AJAX and JSON.  ? Used AJAX to call the java functions from the webpage via JavaScript/jQuery.  ? Used Firebug and web developer toolbar for finding and fixing bugs.  ? Developed the application using NetBeans IDE.  ? Used SVN for version control and JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity and improve communication.  ? Performed Grunt jobs to minify HTML, CSS and JS files in order to improve the performance of the website.  ? Maintain, enhance and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS, Photoshop, web services, NetBeans IDE, SVN, Oracle, Agile and JIRA. UI/Web Developer HP - Chicago, IL November 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UXteam to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  ? Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript  ? Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver innovative user interfaces and components.  ? Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and JQuery UI.  ? Extensively used Angular2 with HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap to create rich User Experience.  ? Developed Angular 2Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using ng model.  ? Used Angular.js for developing single page web applications.  ? Used Angular 2for Client-side validations while rendering JSON validation errors in the backend.  ? Used Node. JS Application in building the minified versions.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries.  ? Spearheaded adoption of Responsive Web design principles.  ? Creating interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript front end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs, and design standards.  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, and Illustrator for the front- end development such as graphics and multimedia's.  ? Converted existing websites to Responsive websites.  ? Used Jasmine to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives, and various parts of AngularJS application.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone JS and Node JS.  ? Build service-based architectures and platforms using core JAVA, Servlets, JSP and Web - Services.  ? Worked with Node.js to give a structure with rich API over a RESTful JSON interface.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  ? Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  ? Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  ? Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Involved in rendering custom HTML tags using React.js.  ? Implementing client-side Interface using React.js.  ? Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  ? Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERYUI Library.  ? Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the JSP page.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for DynamicHTML generation.  ? Generated new and edited existing design with CSS to accommodate new changes in design UI Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN July 2011 to October 2013 Environment: HTML5, CSS3, J Query, Handle Bars, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Jasmine, Grails, Angular 2, Angular.js, MongoDB, Node.js, React.js, JSON, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS and Windows.  Client: Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN July 2011 - October 2013  Role: UI Developer    Responsibilities:  ? Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 along with using Jquery and Javascript.  ? Converted the entire secure payment system into Angularjs from pure Javascript. By identifying controllers for shared components.  ? Worked with team UI/UX team in redesigning the front end for the entire website.  ? Researched on different Node framework like Express and KOA, to identify which framework will suit our need to develop the application.  ? Implemented the user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of website using HTML, XHTML, CSS3, Angularjs and Handlebars.  ? Worked on creating SEO compatibility by using Angularjs hashbang mode.  ? Developed fast loading images using Adode Photoshop 3.  ? Provided user authentication on Node backend service through customer OAuth2 server using Passport js.  ? Used Ajax and JSON to make asynchronous calls to project server to fetch data on file.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting web applications.  ? Used Postman as a REST API client to test out the restfull services created using Node.  ? Wrote Javascript object oriented code for inheritance and used module pattern for creating scalable code.  ? Used Typescript along with Angularjs for code with different types makes it less prone to run-time errors.  ? Customized and created a built script using Gulp and Node for internal use.  ? Helped in integrating the Node backend with the Angular UI.  ? Used Curl to fetch third-party API JSON data.  ? Developed CSS styles to maintain uniformity of all the screens throughtout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Used Jenkins for automation and continuous integration.  ? Contributed in decision making of the software and hardware requirements and tool evaluation.  ? Developed applications for CRM applications using Angularjs for SPA's.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JSON, Handlebars, Javascript, Adobe Photoshop, Jenkins, Xhtml, cURL. Front End Developer CLEARTRIP - INDIA - IN March 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for developing the partner Homepages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS and jQuery.  ? Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, JSON, and AngularJS.  ? Involved in writing dynamic functions to read JSON objects and display on HTML pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Used CSS Pre-processors SASS and LESS.  ? Responsible for creating website-based applications using JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Used JavaScript and AngularJS for validating client-side validations  ? Creating a range loop directive and components in AngularJS, ReactJS and also Implemented MVC framework.  ? Involved in developing react components for the partner homepages using ReactJS.  ? Created SPA for the End User providing route technologies with faster and responsive using AngularJS Framework.  ? Used AngularJS for controllers and services, NodeJS for server applications.  ? Applied HTTP Service and REST web service to connect the Front- end AngularJS to Back- end NodeJS.  ? Experience in using ReactJS to build web components such as signup form and rule form.  ? Used ReactJS to improve rendering performance.  ? Designed a loan calculator using React.js and displayed the results in a pie chart format using D3.js.  ? Developed JSX files for maintaining contents like video, images, audio and display them in flash application. Used Responsive Web Design.  ? Used WebStorm to integrates with NodeJS allowed for running, debugging, and unit testing of NodeJS apps  ? Developed a core component of Analytics with BackboneJS and Implemented to create a dynamically changing website and for building User interfaces.  ? Made AJAX calls using BackboneJS for getting the data and parsing it for showing on the web page.  ? Used BackboneJS and ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture-built components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid.  ? Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  ? Experience in popular build tools for JavaScript projects like Grunt or Gulp or Webpack task runners, Ant and Maven etc.  ? Installed Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Gulp  ? Worked on many custom modules and widgets using ReactJS/CSS/HTML and made those cross-browsers consistent.  ? Used Version control system GIT and webpage screens for various modules using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX and AngularJS.  ? Used ReactJS, HTML, CSS, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript to produce high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface.  ? Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Defined all AngularJS controllers in a JS file and reused in various pages of application  Conceptualized, designed and developed the UI that are visually pleasing and highly efficient.  ? Provided effective and functional web designs to customers that met their specific business/personal needs.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SASS, REST, SVN, GIT, Gulp, DOM, ReactJS, XML, WebStorm, jQuery, AngularJS, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, D3.js. Education Bachelor's Skills Front End, UI, Front-End, React, Javascript, Angular, CSS3, HTML5