Principal Software Engineer Principal Software Engineer Dearborn Hts, MI * Over 20 years of experience in software Development. Good working knowledge on database and XML.    * Solid understanding of object-oriented design, multi-tiered architectures, multi-threading, design patterns, use case methodology, and all aspects of software life cycles.    * Strong analytical and programming skills. Ability and desire to learn new technologies.    * A team player, good communication skills and thrives in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Software Engineer Meridian Health Plan - Detroit, MI April 2018 to Present Meridian    ? Design, develop and integrate high-volume, high-performance, high-availability system and software solutions using Meridian approved technologies  ? Provide system and technology solution direction for complex business requirements  ? Review, analyze, construct, troubleshoot, identify root cause and proactively implement sustainable corrective actions  ? Understand business and technical requirements; develop, document, and implement solution designs  ? Propose and present technical solutions to Meridian Committees and Councils  ? Work with other developers, architects, engineers, database administrators, business analysts, QA and delivery leads in project delivery and solving technical issues including front and back end architectural frameworks  ? Participate in design and code reviews  ? Ensure that deliverables meet or exceed functional, technical, and performance requirements  ? Define and Participate with the benchmarking in metric-based operational excellence to establish SLAs for each of the various lines of business and implement best practices in proactive monitoring of software applications  ? Follow and enhance established design, development, source code management, and deployment processes in order to manage extensible, stable code bases  ? Consistently meet task deadlines while maintaining high quality of deliverables  ? Take ownership of software throughout their lifecycle  ? Stay current with the fast-changing landscape of browser based application development in order to and actively engaged in one or more external industry forum or group to maintain knowledge of latest product offerings to provide advice and recommendations  ? Perform other duties as assigned Sr. Front End Developer Trinity Health - Livonia, MI July 2014 to April 2018 Trinity Health    ? Responsible for making complex design choices to be used by the development teams.  ? Leading moderate to highly complex programming tasks, providing review of various development tasks and documentation. Provides analysis of problems and recommends solutions.  ? A key contributor in client/technology interactions in the development of technology solutions  ? Leading system design and specification development, programming logic and flow-charting, testing, debugging, and documentation    ? Interfacing with Enterprise Architecture & Infrastructure teams on strategic designs and initiatives.  ? Leading the troubleshooting of complex problems in development and production environments, ensuring timely resolution of issues.  ? Participating in an agile development process to create new features and functionality and maintain existing code  ? Getting involved with an entire technology team - in the early stages of product development and design to deployment of web applications  ? Performing product design & troubleshooting exercises of extremely high complexity which require extensive research and analysis.  ? Excellent HTML and JavaScript skills including JavaScript MVC frameworks (Backbone, EmberJS, HandsonTable, ReactJS)  ? Good understanding of the DOM and using jQuery  ? Developing across multiple browsers  ? Cross-platform support using responsive web design  ? Working with server-side code using AJAX to make pages dynamic  ? Knowledge and understanding of internationalization  ? Happy using browser debugging tools  ? Working with version control systems (e.g. SVN)  ? Using Git, npm  ? Comfortable creating dynamic pages using JSP's and Apache Tiles to form layouts  ? Familiarity with handling JSON, FlatBuffers  ? Experience with build tools such as Maven Vantage Developer Compuware Corporation January 2001 to August 2014 5+ years of experience designing complex Java based software systems using object-oriented methodologies and design patterns  ? 5+ years of experience developing Java based REST APIs, including management features such as authentication/authorization, rate limiting and analytics, for external customers and enterprise SOA integration  ? 5+ years of experience developing applications which extract and manipulate data from a live production data store  ? Strong ability to troubleshoot and solve performance optimization problems in an enterprise software environment  ? Proficiency in the use of relational databases, specifically Microsoft SQL Server, including schema design, query optimization and administration    ? Work with the product management and development teams to translate business strategies and requirements into solutions, articulating technical vision and strategy.  ? Help develop architectural designs, prototypes, and simulations to illustrate product functionality.  ? Develop prototype code to validate architectural design decisions, ensuring maintainability, performance, security, scalability and time to market.  ? Research and evaluate competitive products, evolving technologies, and standards, and understand their impact on current and future products.  ? On a daily basis Java developers design, develop, test, document and deploy programs to support distributed software systems using latest technologies.  ? Participated in Development Sprints - providing daily scrum status of sprint deliverables.  ? Interacted with Architects and solution partners in design and implementation of software solutions.  ? Ensured compliance with company policies and guidelines around coding standards and development best practices as well architecting solutions within the defined technology stack.  ? Estimated level of effort, time, and external dependencies for completion of various design and development task/deliverables.  ? Identified risks/potential roadblocks to project/team goals/targets.  ? Assisted with coding and did code reviews.  ? Collaborated with application teams to design and document technical solutions based on business and technical requirements  ? Collaborated with build teams to implement technical designs utilizing state of the art technical platforms and infrastructure  ? Developed and documented reference architectures for standardizing platforms  ? Collaborate with application and build teams to evaluate and adopt new technologies  ? Demonstrated good exposure to Web 2.0.  ? Showcased a strong understanding of design principles and methodologies.  ? Designed and developed primarily internet / web pages and applications.  ? Developed proof-of-concepts and prototypes of easy to navigate user interfaces (UI) that consists of web pages with graphics, icons and color schemes that are visually appealing.  ? Familiarity to code, test, debug documents and implement web applications using a variety of platforms.  ? Successfully completed and being a part of 20 development release cycles of a product line generating yearly revenue of nearly $100,000,000  ? Successfully completed and being a part of a development release cycles of a product using Java, Eclipse, Lifeway, Flex, Dojo  ? Documented and implemented functional requirements and design specifications.  ? Localized VantageView for different international locales  ? Communicated with customers to overcome installation and configuration problems, providing consultation to customers and customer support.  ? Developed software in accordance with CMM guidelines within a CMM Level 3 Organization  ? Developed dashboards and web-based reports for an application performance management reporting solution, and converted COM/VB6 and ASP portions of these components to C#/ASP.NET/ASPX/ASHX/ASP.NET AJAX  ? Designed and developed reusable class libraries that encapsulated business and data access logic using C# and ADO.NET  ? Migrated project source code source from Visual SourceSafe (VSS) to Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Modified existing build processes and process documentation to support TFS.  ? Developed and maintained dashboard reporting architecture and components using Liferay portal framework and Java J2EE  ? Developed dashboard portlets using MVC architecture with XML/XSL (view) and Java Servlets (controller)  ? Developed efficient client/server communication within Dashboard components of the application by writing AJAX-enabled web service calls utilizing Dojo JavaScript library API  ? Developed customized, reusable and loosely-coupled widget modules by leveraging Dojo's classing and package loading system  ? Improved load times and performance of client-side components of the application by introducing and streamlining Dojo JavaScript library custom build process using Apache Ant  ? Improved performance of application server components by performing performance analysis of Liferay portal framework and implementing improvements in Liferay framework configuration and source code  ? Served as a liaison between QA and developers, ensuring that the testing and technical documentation provided for the product is accurate  ? Worked at customer sites alongside sales engineers to develop customized enhancements to the product when needed, always producing high-quality work under tight deadlines  ? Development team utilized an agile software development process based on Scrum Skills Applied - Detroit, MI September 1998 to December 2000 Knows how to use SQL Server Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer.  ? Able to design Relational Database models and create Database Schemas.  ? Has written numerous Stored Procedures and Database creation programs using T-SQL.  ? Created Visual Basic COM components using ADO to query/update databases.  ? Wrote Microsoft services applications using C++.  ? Involved in designing and implementing an ASP web application.  ? Designed architecture using UML (Use case and Deployment diagram).  ? Implemented user interface tier using ASP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Modified programs for scientific computing. C, C++ and UNIX shell scripts.  ? System Administration.  ? Administrated 4 SGIs run on UNIX (system backup, account management, software installation, etc).  ? Database Design and Implementation.  ? Analyze requirements. Systems analyst, Software developer Skills Applied September 1996 to July 1998 Large scale distributed relational database applications, Client-server architecture, AIX, Novell, and SCO.    September 1996 - July 1998  Systems analyst, Software developer, HGI & Associates    ? Programming Industrial Applications in Pascal, COBOL.  ? Wrote and modified programs for scientific computing. C, Visual Basic, UNIX shell scripts.  ? System Administration.  ? Testing, troubleshooting and documentation.  ? Structural, functional design of system, Data Modeling.  ? Design user interface & Coding.  ? Creating macros, procedures and modules for MS Access database.    Skills Applied  Pascal, COBOL Visual C++, C, Visual Basic, Linux, Windows98, Windows NT and Client-server architecture via TCP/IP. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering Wayne State University - Detroit, MI December 2000 Skills Ado (10+ years), Ado.net (10+ years), Ajax (10+ years), Ant (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), Api (10+ years), Asp (10+ years), Asp.net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Dojo (10+ years), Eclipse (10+ years), J2ee (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Ms asp (10+ years), Ms sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Sql server (10+ years), Visual basic (10+ years), Xml (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS    Languages/Platforms/Tools Web Technologies Data Technologies  Java/JavaEE  C#  Visual Basic .NET  .NET Framework  Visual Basic 6  Java J2EE  Visual Studio  Eclipse  Visual SourceSafe  Team Foundation Server  Subversion  IIS 5/6/7  Apache Tomcat  Apache Ant    EmberJS  ReactJS  Backbone  JavaScript  Dojo Toolkit  JQuery  ECMAScript6  NodeJS  Mocha  Bootsrap  SemanticUI  Balsamiq  Visio  GIT  Grunt  Bower  AJAX  JSON  FlatBuffers  HTML/XHTML/CSS  XML/XSLT  CofeeScript  Handlebars  REST API  PrettyPhoto  Motools  ASP.NET 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5  ADO.NET  Classic ASP  ADO  Liferay  Flex  ASP.NET    T-SQL  SQL Server