Principal Front End Technical Consultant Principal <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Technical Consultant Principal Front End Technical Consultant - Oracle Algonquin, IL Senior Front End Developer with 10+ years experience with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. Strong eCommerce professional proficient at applying ideas from contributing departments into new designs. Strengths include strong communication and organizational skills, problem solving, the ability to understand and communicate complex ideas, and the ability to multitask effectively. Work Experience Principal Front End Technical Consultant Oracle - Itasca, IL October 2014 to Present Senior Interface Developer Micros Retail - Westmont, IL August 2008 to October 2014 Oracle acquired Micros in 2014 Senior Technical Producer Fry, Inc - Westmont, IL April 2006 to August 2008 Micros acquired Fry in 2008    Responsible for translating a detailed design and/or collection of art assets and wireframes into a finished cross browser-ready file according to customer and team specifications. Works with clients and engineers to develop front- end solutions for retailers in various industries including fashion, jewelry and groceries. Also updates to customer legacy sites. Implement mobile responsive and/or adaptive design when required.    ? Front end web development in a JAVA environment using HTML5, JSP, CSS3, LESS/SCSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, SVN, Git, JIRA.  ? Front end implementations of Oracle Commerce Cloud.  ? Implement WCAG guidelines when required.  ? Lead multiple IDs or act as primary ID for projects as needed.  ? Perform basic front end engineering and modify front end JSP Java code as needed.  ? Developed CSS strategies to present different brands for multi-site implementations using a standard JSP code base.  ? Convert legacy code for implementing mobile responsive design.  ? Use CMS to add/edit front end content developed both internally and by clients.  ? Train clients on use of CMS to add/edit front end content.  ? Perform functionality and cross browser testing on developed pages before handing off to QA.  ? Work directly with cross-functional teams that included project managers, designers, and technical developers.  ? Train and mentor Junior Front End Developers.    Client sites have included: Wyevale Garden Centres, Alex & Ani, Spencers, Spirit Halloween, ABC Fine Wine and Spirits, bebe, Lilly Pulitzer, James Avery, Tourneau, Pendleton, True Value Hardware, USTA, Orchard Brands, Dollar Tree, Hannaford Bros., Charming Shoppes, Boston Proper, PacSun, Eddie Bauer, IMS/Swiss Colony. Web Designer/ Developer Cygnus Business Media - Beltsville, MD September 2005 to March 2006 Web designer/ developer for Cygnus Interactive, a division of Cygnus Business Media, reporting to the Creative Director. Responsible for branding, aesthetic design, coding, and function of Cygnus Interactive and its brands of websites.    ? Website development using Photoshop, HTML/XHTML, JSP, and CSS.  ? Create new designs for existing sites in order to give a fresh look and feel as well as to bring the sites up to current standards using XHTML and CSS.  ? Work with cross-functional teams that included site managers, marketers, and technical developers.    Affinity Groups contributed to: Locksmith Ledger, Mass Transit Magazine, Wide-Format Imaging, Aircraft Maintenance Technology, Firehouse, EMT World. Education Bachelor's of Arts degree Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL Skills HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (5 years), Jsp (10+ years), Responsive Design (5 years), Cross browser testing (10+ years), Agile (6 years), JQuery (10+ years), JIRA (6 years), SCSS/LESS (5 years), E-Commerce (10+ years), Bootstrap, Front End, Front-End Groups Lions Club non-member volunteer Present