Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Talemetry Inc & Jobvite Indianapolis, IN Key Points:  ? 10+ years of Experience in Web/Software Development Industry.  ? 3 Years of work with React JS, Node JS, Flux, Angular JS, Web   components.  ? Comfortable with any JavaScript based Library.  ? Team lead Experience for 1.5 years.  ? Experience in UI Frameworks Foundation, Bootstrap, Materialize UI.  ? Experience in Agile methodology, JIRA and GIT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Jobvite - Indianapolis, IN July 2019 to Present "Same work as my Talemetry"  Skills - ReactJS, Relay, Graph QL, Ruby on rails, Modern Relay, Javascript, Backbone, HTML5/CSS, Webpack.    ? Worked on their Front- end CRM/Application processing application which is used by more than 1 Million users everyday.  ? Mostly focused on Front- end functionality and working on backend when required  ? Designing web application with accessibility features AAA rated.  ? Providing solutions which are scalable for the large user base.  ? Delivered product on time with complex requirements. Full Stack Developer Talemetry Inc January 2018 to Present Skills - ReactJS, Relay, Graph QL, Ruby on rails, Modern Relay, Javascript, Backbone, HTML5/CSS, Webpack.    ? Worked on their Front- end CRM/Application processing application which is used by more than 1 Million users everyday.  ? Mostly focused on Front- end functionality and working on backend when required  ? Designing web application with accessibility features AAA rated.  ? Providing solutions which are scalable for the large user base.  ? Delivered product on time with complex requirements. Front- end Engineer Contiq Inc September 2017 to January 2018 Skills - Angular5, Javascript, HTML5/CSS, Webpack, Rx JS.  ? Worked on their Front- end web application with Angular 5/ Rx JS  ? Managing timelines / Conducting code review and providing  recommendations for re-factoring Ensuring code efficiency /  optimization  ? Managing testing environment.  ? Providing solutions which are scalable for the large user base.  ? Implemented SVG/PNG compression techniques.  ? Delivered the product on time with complex requirements.    Projects: Slide analytics web application: app.contiq.com Team Lead Kabuni Technologies Inc December 2015 to September 2017 Skills - React JS, Flux, Node JS, Grunt, Gulp, Craft CMS, Express,  Javascript, HTML5/CSS, AWS, Cloud66, Docker, API.ai, Chatbots, Tensorflow    ? I am the Lead Developer will be part of the core executive team and responsible for hiring and managing a team of 12 developers (UI devs, code-behind devs and senior devs).  ? Directing code architecture Directing systems architecture: current tech stack is Linux, NGINX, Docker Lead Dev may amend as needed.  ? Managing timelines / Sprint planning Conducting code review and providing recommendations for re-factoring Ensuring code efficiency / optimization  ? Managing testing environment.  ? Serving as point of contact between technology and business teams Leading code creation  Projects: Ecommerce site- app.kabuni.com(taken down recently to push new project), Marketing pages-kabuni.com, Giant Touch screen apps, Designcampus.com. Front end Developer Vidao Inc May 2014 to December 2015 Skills - AngularJS, Polymer, WebComponents, WebRTC, NodeJS, Express,  Javascript, HTML5/CSS.  ? Worked on their product named as yWorld made in AngularJS & Foundation.  ? Unit testing with libraries like jasmine and karma.    ? Dependency control with bower and CSS compilation with grunt.    ? Currently working in an Cross platform messenger named as Vidao based on Polymer and Webcomponents.    ? Projects: Vidao Messenger & yWorld. Freelance SEO and Social 2008 to 2015 Web Developer/Designer  Skills- Logo Design, UI/UX, SEO and Social media integration, Payment gateways,  Wordpress and Flyer design.  ? Business sites for restaurants and Real estate and small freelancing jobs. Web Developer SEO and Social February 2014 to March 2014 Skills - AngularJS, Template toolkit, PHP, Javascript, HTML5/CSS.    ? Worked for their home website with Perl Catalyst framework using template toolkit, JavaScript and HTML5- www.devradius.com    ? Worked on some Wordpress and AngularJS Websites which are mentioned on their portfolio. Assistant System Engineer-Trainee SEO and Social February 2012 to September 2012 Skills - Jquery, Java, Javascript, HTML5/CSS and Android.    ? Worked for client MRewardz to produce mobile hybrid application in jQuery and HTML5.  ? Worked in ASP.NET for making Banking website with Common Bank Australia.  ? Worked as Blackberry IDE Developer for the project HY5 Canvas which is IDE developed by TCS to develop mobile apps in the graphical user interface (GUI)  ? Helped android teams when they have tight deadlines with WestLife Insurance.    ? Projects: mRewardz, HY5 Canvas, WestLifeInsurance- Canada. Education New Media Design and Web British Columbia Institute of Technology - Vancouver, BC March 2014 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 Skills Javascript, Node, React, Angular, Nodejs, Jquery, AWS Additional Information ? Keeps on topic and is organized, independently and within a group.  ? Realizes importance of maintaining professional attitude, appearance.  ? Treats all transactions between clients and agency with discretion.  ? Able to multi-task while keeping priorities and deadlines in perspective.  ? Approachable to clients and coworkers.  ? Can be authoritative without being domineering.  ? Skilled in the Internet, Photoshop, Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.    Papers Presented    ? Presented 8 papers about Artificial Intelligence, Ethical Hacking, Network Security and Brain Gate System and won prizes at some reputed colleges.