Front End / Tech Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> / Tech Lead Front End / Tech Lead - Halliburton Houston, TX • Over 12+ years of extensive experience in IT Industry Developing, Managing, Leading, Implementing the web based applications and UI applications.  • Extensive experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including identification of business needs and requirements gathering, architecture, UI Design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  • Experienced in developing applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2/5/7/1.2, Typescript, Ext.js, JQuery, AJAX, XUI, JSP, node and ATG.  • Knowledge in UI development, UX design, development, documentation, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, wireframes, project and team management.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular, Bootstrap, Responsive Web design.  • Skillful in Angular Features like creating custom Directives, Pipes, Dependency Injection, Modules and expertise in implementing Lazy Loading and Routing.  • Explored new features and gained good knowledge in Angular 1.2/2/5/7.  • Expertise in developing Responsive Web Design, REST Service Application with Reusable Code and High Quality & Performance using suitable Front End Technologies.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Expertise in using frameworks like CSS blueprint and used CSS Sprites to increase the efficiency of web pages.  • Extensive Knowledge in CSS2/CSS3, and SASS.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Significant experience in web design tools like Photoshop and Adobe XD.  • Experience with versioning tools like Tortoise SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment.  • Excellent communication skills, interpersonal, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a very good team player and ability to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customers. Work Experience Front End / Tech Lead Halliburton - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Leading 7 Members team and involved in understanding problem statement and giving solution, code review and offshore Coordination  • Responsible for project Estimation, SOW and PO  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 7, TsLint, JSdoc and QUNIT  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Developed client side Angular 7 services to implement custom business logic for reusable components.  • Written Typescript classes to construct Angular 7 Components.  • Used Angular 7 features such as lazy loading module and resolve guard to deliver better performance and user experience.  • Interacting with offshore lead for application development and planning the task and derive the output  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe XD.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like JQuery.  • Developing CSS Style for web pages using SASS and Bootstrap.  • Developed the Responsive design to make the portal compatible with Mobile/Tablets/PCs/MAC by defining media queries.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Developing front end screens to be cross-browse & cross-platform.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, SASS, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, JIRA, TFS, NPM, JavaScript, Responsive Web Design, Angular 7, TypeScript, Node.js, JSON, REST and Windows. Front End / Tech Lead Ericsson - Santa Clara, CA November 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  • Responsible for project Estimation, SOW and PO  • Involved in Video Streaming and broadcasting.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 5, Bootstrap, GIT, NPM, JIRA, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Leading 30+ Members team and involved in understanding problem statement and giving solution, code review and offshore Coordination  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Integrate the application with the business layer utilizing Angular routing for navigation and services to consume RESTful API's and to communicate between components using Dependency injection provided by Angular 5.  • Interacted with Restful Web services using Angular 5 Http Module.  • Designed Responsive Web Design websites optimized for different displays.  • Created functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe XD.  • Used Visual Studio Code as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Used CSS frameworks and pre-processing platforms (SASS & LESS).    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, XHTML, JSON, GIT, TFS, JIRA, NPM, Responsive Web Design, bootstrap, Angular 5, Node.js, Photoshop, W3C and Windows. Front End / Tech Lead Thales - San Jose, CA July 2013 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing, development and testing of the application.  • Involved in Project Estimation  • Interacted with Restful Web services using Angular 5 Http Module.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular1.2 / Angular 2, REST Interface, JSON, JQuery.  • Used CSS frameworks and pre-processing platforms (SASS & LESS).  • Responsible to frontend Architecture  • Checking cross browser compatibility and accessibility  • Involved modules like canvas wiring diagram, Seat Arrangement, SVDU Device placement    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery, MVC, Angular.js, Angular 2, TypeScript, GIT, JIRA, NPM and SASS. Front End / Senior Software Developer Iron Mountain October 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing, development and testing of the application.  • Development of Prototype  • Checking Cross browser compatibility and Accessibility.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS, REST Interface, JSON, JQuery  • Involved in Code review and release notes    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery, Extjs, SVN, and JIRA. Front End / Senior Software Developer WELLS FARGO February 2012 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Development of Prototype using HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY  • Converting table layout to table less layout  • Performance optimization using image sprite, removing Inline styling, reusable components  • Involved in Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  • Checking Cross browser compatibility.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON and JQuery  • Involved in Code review and release notes    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY, AJAX, SVN, and JIRA. Front End / Web Designer CVS Pharmacy June 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Development of Prototype using HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY  • Handled UI / UX Team Members  • Converting table layout to table less layout  • Checking cross browser compatibility  • Integrating HTML pages to ATG framework  • Create Mobile, Tablet and Desktop version of website  • Create visual design as per client requirement  • Create sprite sheet    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY, AJAX, SVN, Photoshop and ATG. Front End / Software Developer Daily Tribune January 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Development of Prototype using HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY  • Develop table less layout  • Checking cross browser compatibility  • Integrating HTML pages to PHP framework  • Create Mobile, Tablet and Desktop version of website  • Create sprite sheet    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQUERY, AJAX, SVN, Photoshop and PHP. Front End / Software Developer San John's Hospital April 2007 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Development of Prototype using HTML, CSS, Javascript  • Develop table less layout  • Checking cross browser compatibility  • Integrating HTML pages to JSP framework  • Create sprite sheet    Environment: HTML, CSS, Javascript, SVN, Photoshop and JSP. Skills Ajax (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Jquery. (10+ years), Photoshop (7 years), Subversion (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    JavaScript Libraries Angular.js, Angular 2/4/5/6,PureMVC, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ext.JS (4.0), Node.js  Web Technologies HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Typescript, Responsive Web Design, DOM, SASS  IDE & Tools Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, TFS, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe XD, Photoshop.  Version Control SVN, GIT.    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Data Base SQL.    Operating Systems Windows, and Linux.