Web Application Architect Web Application Architect Front End Engineer Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Architect Bloomberg BNA - Washington, DC November 2017 to Present As the project technical lead, I helped deliver the Fish Tank Style Guide (https://fishtank.bna.com), code repos providing foundational color, space, typography and icons assets from the guide, and the accompanying component library, fishtank-vue (https://github.com/bloomberg bna/fishtank-vue), to BloombergBNA engineering teams.    I helped scope and plan UX and engineering deliverables for the project team over 2 week sprints. I worked with the UX lead to develop acceptance criteria for the VueJS component library, I built and enhanced over a dozen individual UI component.     As early member of the engineering team building Bloomberg Governments BGOV On The Go app, many of the components I built were first used in the app, a hybrid mobile application use Cordova and VueJS.    Following VueJS coding best practices to build stateless components, I also mentored and trained team members, and engineering teams to build and use the components. I helped write documentation to help ensure work committed reflected these practices.    Additionally, I helped plan, build, and continuous deployed updates to the library's documentation site, https://fishtank.bna.com. Senior Front- End Developer EPAM Systems May 2014 to Present Working alongside information architects, designers, Sitecore and .NET application developers, I developed responsive front- end interfaces and single page applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Angular 1.5. I used Git and SVN as repository solutions for code, and Jasmine to write unit tests.  Based on project parameters and data from business analysts, I helped brainstorm and identify UI and interaction solutions, utilizing cross-browser capable elements, responsive design strategies and progressive enhancement that gracefully degrade across legacy browsers.  Working with Sitecore/.NET web application developers, I helped structure front end code deliverables to integrate into Sitecore templates.  I also took an active role in thought leadership efforts through on-going research and sharing of industry trends and developments, and attending area developer and UX meet-up events around AngularJS, Web Components, and NodeJS, as well as conferences like An Event Apart DC. Lead UI Developer Pentagon Federal Credit Union May 2017 to November 2017 Alongside a vendor development team, I helped build the new PenFed mobile banking app using the Ionic 2 Mobile App Development Framework. I worked with business analysts and designers to code Ionic/Angular components that met business requirement and UX designs. I assisted in sizing and composing stories in sprint epics, and provided dev ops support by compiling and deploying QA test builds for Android and iOS. Web Developer Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide September 2010 to October 2013 I built responsive front- end interfaces using standards-based modern HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  I developed client websites using WordPress and Drupal.  I was the first developer to promote Responsive Web Design (RWD) to address mobile design and development goals, and built sites using the Bootstrap, Foundation, 960gs RWD framework.  On client projects, I integrated social sharing and integration functions using Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, etc. platform APIs.  I participated in project scoping and brainstorming, and conducted technical research to identify project capabilities.  I produced technical analysis and recommendation documents to identify project elements such as scripting, frameworks, and CMS.  I conducted in-person and online training of clients on deployed projects, and information sessions to Ogilvy staff on emerging web technologies and techniques. Designer/ Developer Citizen Communications - Washington, DC August 2009 to August 2011 Brand development and logo design. Social media strategy development for product launch. Website design and development on Drupal 6 Platform. Freelance Design and Web Development Citizen Communications January 2008 to September 2010 for small and mid-sized businesses and non-profit organizations. Education Bachelors of Fine Arts in Fine Arts Concordia University - Montréal, QC 1997 to 2002 Skills CSS (7 years), Git (3 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (7 years), Angular, Front End (9 years), UI, Front-End, VueJS (1 year), Node, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, Jquery Links http://www.brianakpa.com http://github.com/bakpa79 http://codepen.io/bakpa79 https://fishtank.bna.com https://github.com/bloombergbna/fishtank-vue https://github.com/bloombergbna/fishtank-space https://github.com/bloombergbna/fishtank-colors https://github.com/bloombergbna/fishtank-type https://github.com/bloombergbna/fishtank-icons Additional Information Skills    Proficient in: HTML, CSS/SCSS, JavaScript, Angular 2+, VueJS  Developing skillsets: ReactJS, Redux, RxJS, Typescript, NodeJS  Tools Used: Git, SVN, Gulp, NPM, Webpack, Atom, Visual Studio Code, Cordova, Xcode, Android Studio