ReactJS Developer ReactJS <span class="hl">Developer</span> ReactJS Developer - Bic Graphic Clearwater, FL • Over 9+ years' experience in implementing UI components using ReactJS along with Redux Framework and JS ES extensive experience in developing Redux forms with react life cycle.  • Extensive Full-Stack/ Front- End development experience building, deploying, and maintaining web apps with CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, HTML5, Bootstrap, NodeJS, AJAX and JSON  • Deep experience with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 (Bootstrap, Media Queries), jQuery UI pluginSkilled in creating Single Page Applications (SPA) using ReactJS and implementing React routers,  • I've used react as the main library in several apps including my latest enterprise e-commerce project for the 3rd largest comic book publisher in the nationI understand the component lifecycle and how to truly make them re-useable.  • Experienced in webpack, ES6, React API, Redux-promises, Ajax; ES6 makes JS so much more powerful, I use it in any and all my projects.  • I've switched off of grunt over a year or so ago to strictly using webpack for all my preprocessing and compiling, it's lightweight nature is a joy to use.  • Well versed in CSS Pre-Processors as SASS, LESS to add nested rules, variables, selector inheritance to CSS3Skillful in developing Responsive/Adaptive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap framework.  • Strong experience with NodeJS; I've built several apps in Node, from an mobile API platform for a social media/interaction appTo the foundation for a next-gen e-commerce platform.  • In-depth understanding of RDBMS and Database Design in Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server.  • Comfortable working with JSON data format to consume RESTful web services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ReactJS Developer Bic Graphic - Clearwater, FL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed front- end using Html, CSS, Javascript, React, Redux, Bootstrap.  • Currently redesigning site with everything from contact page to landing page all using ReactJS.  • Working on building a custom cms to move off of wordpress being built using NodeJS, ReactJS  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Developed Container components as the logic layer for the UI components  • Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  • Implemented ReduxForm to build Report Data Grid, tree grid, and developed DataGridItemswhich can be dragged by IRD system users.  • Developed Navigation bar, manu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  • Used Redux to manage the whole stateDeveloped the well-designed store, actions and reducers.  • Implemented React router for building the single page application  • Used webpack as the module bundler.  • Using an e-commerce API in replacement of woo commerce  • Managed to switch from digital ocean over to aws environment using s3, ec2, mysql. Angular front- end Developer Parking Nexus - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to February 2017 Description: This application contains three different portalsUsers can choose to use employer portal, employee portal or broker portal base on their rolesThe system provides functionalities such as "check eligibility", "find brokers", "choose health care providers" and "online payment"Before employees can enroll their health care plan, their employer has to register them on the employee rosterIf employers or employees do not know how to go through the process, they can get help from an authorized brokerThe broker's portal provides full functionalities to broker so that they can help both employer and employee.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)including gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens usingHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  • Developed web page quickly and effectively using Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS MVC Architecture to split the UI logic into Views, Models and Collections.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive using Bootstrap CSS framework.  • Worked on creating login authentication modules using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Created Angular components like Controllers, Services, Directives and Forms to collect different user data.  • Worked on Angular forms validation to do client side validations.  • Worked on Unit testing with Karma and Jasmine.  • Designed the application to allow all users to utilize core functionality, as well as business specific functionality based on login ID  • Used Angular JS controllers to update entity models and Tasks database.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js    Environment:  MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.js, RESTFUL web service, Bootstrap 3. Web Developer SouthWest Airlines - Dallas, TX February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code  • Utilized React to build reusable components with JSX including (landing, forms, and buttons), resulting in optimized rendering and performance  • Develop prototypes to determine the best solution for the user and the core purpose of the website.  • Incorporate algorithms and existing database information through the use of API's  • Developing the back- end server with Node.js, Express, NPM, Titan and Redis Full Stack Web Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO January 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Develop and design functionality on both aesthetic front- end and logical back- end  • Developed the main database project through agile design and the breakdown of responsibilities to smaller teams  • Partnered with 4 developers to review progress in the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and identify data storage capabilities  • Developed client-side portals for sales reps and medical doctors using Angular.js MVC pattern  • Created style sheets for web pages through CSS LESS approach.  • Facilitated transition of data from Oracle to Salesforce platform every two weeks and secured a new budget of $12M in order to accommodate increasing volume of data storage on the Oracle platform  • Managed expectations and facilitated the transition of a large team into smaller working groups to allow for more efficient means of communication and implementation Software Engineer Covance - San Diego, CA March 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • I designed, developed and implemented the Oracle database from an in house database for Bic Graphic  • Used Ajax, OO JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the front end client side application  • Created HTML markup, style sheets for new applications and provided support during integration  • Partnered with a team of four developers to build a customized Oracle database from an original stock Oracle system through consistent communication, clear road maps and distribution of work for code creation  • Identified end product functionality expectations and managed error tickets  • Assisted graphic artists and manufacturing team with issues and system performance in real-time  • Utilized feedback from key partners to increase production and optimize system performance through efficient connections of the RM and Oracle database  • Facilitated team development to accomplish implementation of a database design project for two major companies  • Increased production from art to manufacturing by 18% and reduced costs through system efficiencies Software Engineer Bic Graphic - Clearwater, FL September 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • I designed, developed and implemented the Oracle database from an in house database for Bic Graphic  • Used Ajax, OO JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the front end client side application  • Created HTML markup, style sheets for new applications and provided support during integration  • Partnered with a team of four developers to build a customized Oracle database from an original stock Oracle system through consistent communication, clear road maps and distribution of work for code creation  • Identified end product functionality expectations and managed error tickets  • Assisted graphic artists and manufacturing team with issues and system performance in real-time  • Utilized feedback from key partners to increase production and optimize system performance through efficient connections of the RM and Oracle database  • Facilitated team development to accomplish implementation of a database design project for two major companies  • Increased production from art to manufacturing by 18% and reduced costs through system efficiencies Education Computer Programming Saint Petersburg College - Clearwater, FL Skills CSS (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), AJAX (4 years), jQuery (4 years), Java Additional Information SKILLS    Web Development: HTML5, SASS, LESS, Atomic CSS, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, PHP, JSON, JDBC, AJAX, XML, XHTML, MVC, DOM.  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, React.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap.  Database: MySQL, MSSQL, Teradata, PLSQL, MongoDB.  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  IDEs worked on: Notepad++, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text2  Microsoft Publisher Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, Web Sphere.