Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Waxahachie, TX Motivated programmer seeking next great professional challenge. Extensive experience with a variety front- end web development environments as well as design software. A team player willing to do whatever it takes to get the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Michaels Stores, Inc - Irving, TX April 2014 to Present Translated design comps into usable websites and/or rich media with regards to SEO, and usability and accessibility best practices. Worked within existing code and CMS (SalesForce) platforms to build out pages and made edits to existing pages with supplied content. Wrote clean HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Worked collaboratively with strategy and creative teams and other developers. Maintained expertise in existing rich media tools as well new tools and technologies being developed. Developed social media websites/applications. Web Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX July 2013 to April 2014 Provide input to management on page/interface design. Rendered web pages in HTML with using Dreamweaver, hand coding according to project requirements. Created responsive pages with HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. Create emails for corporate correspondence using mass email best practices. Edited graphics and created sprites as necessary. Tested cross-browser compatibility. Adapted pages as needed for integration with proprietary content management system. Web Developer One Technologies - Dallas, TX August 2009 to June 2013 Developed and maintained various landing pages and enrollment forms for proprietary credit monitoring   product. Rendered web pages in HTML with using Dreamweaver / Visual Studio or hand coding according to marketing team requirements. Created responsive mobile pages with HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. Integrated front- end user-interface with back- end controls. Edited graphics and created sprites with Photoshop or Fireworks as necessary. Tested browser compatibility in Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome. Web Developer State Engineer's Office, State of Wyoming - Cheyenne, WY November 2002 to May 2009 Performed all web design, content updates, and web administration for the agency. Built, designed, and secured intranet and internet for the agency. Maintained software, upgrades, and enhancements to website. Assisted in training users on new web products and access. Provided technical support to the public and agency personnel on site issues. Coordinated content accuracy and information control for website submissions. Ensured appropriate security and worked with administration to maintain appropriateness of SEO website. Integrated, shared, and linked web products with other agencies as required. Participated on committees crucial to the presentation success of state’s IT Initiative project. Recommended hardware and software upgrades and enhancements to the Administrator. Senior HTML Programmer 3Stone Productions - Dallas, TX January 2000 to January 2001 Rendered web pages in HTML with using Dreamweaver / Ultra Dev or hand coding according to client speci?cations. Integrated front- end user-interface with back- end VBScript / JavaScript coding and worked closely with programmers in regards to debugging and usability. Provided guidance and aid to junior programmers. Created or edited graphics with Photoshop or Fireworks as necessary. Worked with ASP and other database integration technologies. MIS Director Lease Acceptance CorporaMon - Dallas, TX March 1999 to January 2000 Administered Novell LAN (NetWare 3.12) with 20 users. Maintained Windows 98 workstations’ hardware/software. Responsible for Y2K preparedness, network standardization, maintenance and security. Provided management with guidance on technical issues Education English University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Skills CSS (10+ years), Dreamweaver (5 years), HTML (10+ years), JavaScript. (7 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Wordpress, Angular, Javascript, Front End, CSS3, Front-End, Jquery, HTML5, Node, React Military Service Branch: Marine Corp Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant November 1984 to March 1992 Infantry. Military Police. Nuclear/Biological/Chemical Warfare Defense Additional Information Skills  Software: Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver; Adobe Fireworks; Adobe Illustrator; Adobe Photoshop; ESRI ArcGIS (v.9.x); ESRI ArcIMS(v.9.x); Microsoft Visual Studio; Microsoft SQL Server; git  Languages: CSS. HTML. JavaScript. jQuery. Light Java, php and SQL.