Sr. UI/ Front- End- Developer/ Mean Stack Developer Sr. UI/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span>-<span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/Mean stack remote roles Killington, VT • Having 10+ years of experience in developing Web Applications using HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular (2/4), Node.js, Express JS, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, JSON.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java.  • Expertise in Angular JS framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Temples, Events and Injectors.  • Expertise in creating Single Page Applications by Routing in Angular.js.  • Create desktop application with Angular JS and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/ Typescript SPA domains.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web Forms 2.0 in Angular 2 and their Validations.  • Create desktop application with Angular 2/4 and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Expertise in Angular JS structural framework for dynamic web apps and profound knowledge in concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives.  • Developed the backend by using Node.js, Express and MongoDB.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications Node.js along with Express JS.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using Media Queries and Bootstrap, Material Design lite for styling mobile applications.  • Highly skilled at front- end engineering using Object-Oriented JavaScript.  • Well experienced in writing test cases in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Developed enhancements to Mongo DB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Extensive knowledge in Mongo DB concepts and good knowledge in Administration.  • Good experience in automated build process by using Jenkins and Maven.  • Expert skill in Photoshop and fluent in Illustrator, OmniGraffle, or other creative wireframes  • Extensive experience creating wireframes (Balsamiq, Sketch, etc.)  • Experience creating seamless logon experiences, especially with multifactor authentication  • Experience with Agile / Kanban board / SCRUM  • Experience with Jira  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and in preparing test cases.  • Expertise creating user validation forms and sending data to server using RESTful services.  • Expertise in working on AWS to integrate the to integrate the Server and Client-side code.  • Used Jenkins for build Process to Generate Continuous Integration and Version Control is done by GIT.  • Extensively work with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and many other design applications.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt and NPM to build and test applications.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Expertise in Video Coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and java Script.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN.  • Familiarity with at least one MV* JavaScript framework (Angular.js, React.js, Express.js, Hapi.js)  • Proficient with modern JavaScript language (ECMA Script)  • Strong understanding of web standards (http protocols, browser, html, etc)  • Proficient with unit testing (Jasmine, Mocha, etc)  • Experience providing REST/SOAP APIs for user interface consumption  • Experience with build tools (ex/ Grunt, Gulp, Webpack, etc)  • Proficient with UI automation tools (protractor, etc)  • Experience with NoSQL Databases (Mongo, Cassandra, Couch, ReThink, etc)  • Familiarity with CSS preprocessors (Less, SCSS, etc)  • Experience with SEO optimization  • Good experience in unit testing by using Karma and Mocha.  • Extensive experience working under Agile methodologies environment (scrum, Kanban).  • Experience with various IDE's such as Visual Studio Code, Web Strom, Sublime and Notepad++.  • Experience in working on MAC, Windows, and Linux - Ubuntu operating systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/ Front- End- Developer/ Mean Stack Developer January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS 3 based on the W3C standards.  • CreatedREST API's as Micro serviceswith MEAN stack.  • Used Express on top of Node makes easy to develop server, routing and other functionalities.  • Converted the Micro service from Angular 1.6 framework to Angular 2.  • Developed a Data Visualization application using HTML Canvas and SVG.  • Used d3.js to display credit report in chart format.  • Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery, Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Created Master Pages, CSS Styles Sheets and Integrated to Silver light and got approval from Business Stake holders.  • Extensively used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML5 elements.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Developed the custom data grids upon jQuery framework to deliver the business data.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Used SASS for creating CSS frameworks store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value.  • Worked with Grunt, Gulp, Express modules of NodeJS and Bower for managing UI dependency.  • Worked in MEAN stack MongoDB, Express, Node, and Angular.  • Used routing schemes to develop single page applications (SPAs) using UI router library (changed this)  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations, and passing attributes from one screen to another.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Created React components with testability and reusability of components across the organization in different applications  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and Redux library.  • Developed React/Redux code using functional programming best practices to enable efficient pure function testing.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with the most current Webpack and babel build configurations  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, jQuery, JavaScript ES5, AJAX, Angular.js,Angular2, React.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, EXT.js, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Webpack, GRUNT, Firebug, DHTML, Adobe, Flash, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Git, AWS. Sr. Mean stack Developer Node.JS and Express JS July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Daily programming in server and client side by using Angular.js, Node.JS and Express JS.  • Worked on Front end by using Angular JS, and JavaScript Frameworks.  • Extensive use of Angular.js for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user interface in Angular JS.  • Worked on Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Extensive knowledge of and use of Angular.js directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Good knowledge in AngularJS and Responsive Web Design.  • Good experience in JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups (PSD).  • Used Node JS, Angular JS and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Used the new tags from HTML5 like section, article, header, footer, canvas for animations.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes in CSS.  • Experience in Using SASS and LESS  • Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Worked the backend by using Node JS, Express and Mongo DB.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • As a backend developer, I was responsible for creating RESTFUL Web using Node.js & Express.js.  • Implemented Routers & History in Single Page App (SPA).  • Developed client side drop down menus, search bars and drop down toggles using Twitter-Bootstrap.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Implementing and provisioning Adobe Data Workbench tool to understand online and offline data together to gain a 360-degree view of customers.  • Responsible for managing the implementation of Adobe Analytics, including Adobe Dynamic Tag Manager (DTM) and integration  • Responsible for managing the implementation of Adobe Analytics, including Adobe Dynamic Tag Manager (DTM) and integrating with AEM CMS platform for various clients.  • Used AdobeTarget extensions to at.js to support Single Page Application implementations.  • Design and Develop Micro services platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, Gulp and NPM to build and test applications.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and end to end testing using Protractor.  • Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and Communication.  Environment: Angular.js, Node.JS, Express JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, Sublime, Maven, GIT, Mongo DB, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt, Protractor, Micro Services.JIRA Sr. UI/Mean stack Developer Bootstrap and Express February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created and deployed new features to sustain and amend existing applications under MVC pattern using Node.JS, Bootstrap and Express.  • Created a custom responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular JS.  • Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API's using Angular.js $http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed the backend by using Node JS, express and MongoDB.  • Developed multiple POCs to create a interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, Express JS, and Node.js.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML 4/5, CSS 3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Developed client side drop down menus, toggles and search bars using Twitter-Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap and used SASS for CSS.  • Responsible for parsing JSON data to & from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front- end application in JSON format  • Used Local Storage to store & retrieve insensitive user data during transition between the different pages.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Responsible to for making the dynamic page's using AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between HRMS and Finance.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  Environment: Angular JS, Node.js, Express JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, MVC, MongoDB, Handlebars, RWD, Eclipse, WebMatrix, JSP, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, Grunt, JASMINE , AWS and HP Quality Center. UI Developer Tractor Supply, TN January 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using Backbone.js, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Worked extensively on Spring MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Enhanced and built reusable components across different modules using Custom directives and CSS classes.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, and MySQL.  • Environment: Backbone JS, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Spring MVC,  • Linux, Apache and MySQL. UI Developer Societe Generale, NJ June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Understand each and every module and gathered and managed the project content by using Content Management System (CMS).  • Designed the web pages by using HTML, XHTML, CSS and deploy the script using with JavaScript.  • Developed secured web applications by using client scripting such as JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote external CSS file, which linked to the HTML file to increase the traffic of the web site.  • Involved in software coding, testing, and debugging for web presentation layer using HTML and CSS.  • Developed the application logos and images by using Adobe Photoshop CS3 and Illustrator.  • Developed the Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with the help Adobe Dreamweaver CS3 and Adobe Contribute CS3 and AJAX.  • Designed the graphic objects, illustrations, images (vector and bitmap) and banners with using Adobe Flash MX and F Script, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Developed the user interactive web applications and Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) using with the help of Adobe Dreamweaver CS3.  • Developed E-commerce enterprise applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, PHP Script, JSP Script and CSS based on the W3C standards.  Environment: CSS, CMS, SEO, HTML, XML, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, Macromedia Flash MX, Action Script, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver MX and SQL Server 2005. Web Developer Thales Avionics - Irvine, CA May 2006 to May 2010 Responsibilities  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSF, making using of Bootstrap framework and testing the functionalities using JUnit.  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. My Specialty is large scale CSS (Sass), focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery.  • Implemented Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12-column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  • Worked on XSLT to query DOMs.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls.  • Used XSLT to process XML data to HTML.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Created Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with existing styles and new CSS that was implemented.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers which include IE6.  • Involved in a Waterfall based approach to UI Development.  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented program development.  Environment: JavaScript1.2, CSS, HTML, JQuery1.3, JSF, XML, XPath, AJAX, MVC, Junit, Windows 8, XSLT. Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, TYPESCRIPT, JENKINS, JSON, SVN, AJAX, DREAMWEAVER, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JBOSS