Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer Dallas, TX SUMMARY  • Around 3 years of professional experience in the field of IT including Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, and Maintenance of multi-tier Systems using Object Oriented Analysis/Design Methodologies.  • Very comfortable programming in Linux, Unix, and windows environments.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Good experience in maintaining CMVC (Configuration Management & Version Control) RCS (Revision Control System), Subversion, CVS and Git  • Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of Portals and UI Applications including HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and Angular.  • Experience in Agile methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in using Content Management system(CMS) like WordPress.  • Experience in Object-oriented development and tiered network application, along with the ability to define and conduct unit testing of programs written or modified.  • Experience in building Single Page Applications (SPAs) using Angular1.x/4.x, Angular Material UI, Bootstrap, NodeJS.  • Experience in optimization of front end code for multiple browsers, platforms, and devices with a keen focus on accessibility, site performance and scalability.  • Exposure to modern development tools and practices including Git, Jenkins, agile and continuous integration and ability to write secure, testable and robust object-oriented code.  • Experience in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and Angular resources.  • Experience in creating wireframes and mockups using various tools like moqups, balsamiq, iRise studio.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Proficient in developing websites with AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO and jQuery.  • Experience with developing JavaScript and jQuery for DOM manipulation and AJAX interactions.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and WebStorm.  • Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability and SEO/web standards.  • Excellent oral/written communication and presentation skills.  • Comfortable working independently, self-starter and motivated. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX July 2016 to January 2018 Project: Express Ticketing STAR Tool  Description: Express Ticketing STAR is a web-based tool built in support of the AT&T Express ticketing application. STAR tool provides Support Tools, Administration, and Reporting to executives, subject matter experts, product leads and support personnel.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing Reports page and Status Reports page with a graphical timeline to represent the log actions based on user interactions on the tool.  • Used bootstrap and jQuery to design the Reports page and other graphical plugins like google charts to display statistical data efficiently.  • Developed Reports page using jQuery Datatables plugin to display, sort and paginate the report data based on date and time. Implemented search functionality both on the page and each column of the table using JavaScript.  • Handled Ajax calls and backend Perl scripts to update the DOM and managed the ajax loaders on the page.  • Maintained cross-browser compatibility & implemented Responsive design using Bootstrap, custom media queries etc.,  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.  • Designed and developed Status Report timeline to display the Transaction details based on the ticket number entered. The timeline is divided into number of log actions performed per session each day to display the date, session, action and description.  • Designed form to enter the Asset ID and display validation panels dynamically based on the JSON returned from the Ajax call and display the panels based on validation of previous panels dynamically.  • Responsible for Form Validation and dynamic display of components based on the form values entered.  • Responsible for responsive design using various jQuery and bootstrap components like modals, panels, popovers, accordion, tooltips, datatables etc.  • Design code with web frontends using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and JavaScript libraries as Angular and jQuery.  • Used Jira for tracking and Updating project issues.  • Responsible for maintaining and updating the code repository using Source Tree, Git, code cloud and bitbucket and peer reviewed and tested code of other developers to ensure bug free functionality.  • Used Developer tools for examining, modifying and debugging HTML, CSS and JavaScript. To observe the network request and errors caused when the DOM loads and to check the responsiveness, page console and debugger.    Project: QUAD (Quality Activity Distribution)  Description: This tool can be used to make Quality assessments on WFA/C and BMP tickets worked by the scrubbing team and update the logs with quality assessments, identical to what is being worked into UD from GRETA to save time on log entries. It can be used to review the log entries from the time of ticket conception thru ticket closure and assess how the ticket was processed. The QUAD tool has Worklist page, WFA Worksheet page, BMP Worksheet page, Reports page and Site Admin page. The user could be built in to the tool with different access levels and can access the tool with Global Login. Redesigned and developed the entire tool with new design and functionalities and was responsible for converting most of the server-side code to client-side code for better functionality and page rendering.  • Responsible for styling, design and development of the front- end UI of QUAD.  • Used bootstrap for the front- end design along with HTML 5, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for setting up repository and code cloud management along with handling merge conflicts and pull requests.  • Database management using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and Transact SQL.  • Used SOAP UI, WSDL for API testing and obtain the required data using those API's. Responsible for getting the working payload and determine mandatory fields in WSDL.  • Designed and developed the homepage to display the volume of tickets categorically based on the date range selected and the permission level the user has to the tool.  • Designed and developed the reports page to display the statistical data of user interactions and the scrubbing performed on each ticket depending on the categories selected from the page and based on the roles selected.  • Designed the timeline for WFA and BMP worksheet pages to display the technician logged actions based on the date and time of the action performed with markers based on start, restored and closed actions.  • Responsible for counting and displaying the total users and their permission levels on the site admin page with search, edit and sort features. The permission levels can be assigned to each user on this page from the options in the table.  • Created mockups and wireframes before beginning the sprint and design the UI based on the mockup planned.  • Used various jQuery and bootstrap plugins to enhance the User Experience and simplify the usage of the tool and reduce the number of clicks/operations to perform a task.    Environment: Python, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, MySQL, SQL Server, Transact SQL, Visual Studio, Bootstrap, SOAP UI, Ajax, JSON, DataTables, Google Charts, API Integration, Jira, iRise Studio, Balsamiq. Front- End Developer Datamatics Global Services Limited - IN January 2014 to December 2014 Datamatics is a global provider of Consulting, Information Technology, Data Management and Business process management services to several Fortune 500 companies. Its customized solutions help enterprises maximize productivity, improve speed and accuracy.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating wireframes and mockups using various mockup tools and present the design with the ideal functionality on various devices.  • Responsible for maintaining the design to be responsive and cross-browser compatible.  • Develop clean, reusable, and well documented front- end code using advanced JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5 & CSS3 techniques, with a focus on object-oriented design.  • Modified components on the website with CSS and jQuery animations and plugins to make it more user-friendly.  • Developed Single Page Applications(SPAs) using Angular along with rest of the team and redesigning and developing an entire project from ASP.NET to AngularJS to enhance the performance issues of that project.  • Participated in team meetings to present the wireframes and mockups with enhancement ideas.  • Perform website maintenance and enhancements by integrating new requirements into existing designs.  • Create documents and specifications for functional requirements.  • Re-skinning, updating and complete redesign of an existing website, using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Participated in all phases of the agile development cycle and meticulously iterating the front end based on the feedback received.  • Developed advanced and flexible UI templates based on prototypes, design components and interaction documents.  • Work together with engineering, graphic design, user experience and project management teams to analyze requirements and outline proposed solutions.  • Produce elegant interactive solutions to complex problems that perform effectively across cross-browser and cross-domain environments.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, MySQL, Bootstrap, Web Services, GIT, GitHub, SVN, Linux, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Sublime Text. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering Binghamton University - New York, NY Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna University Skills BOOTSTRAP (4 years), Git (2 years), HTML5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Angular 5 (1 year), Agile (3 years), TypeScript (1 year), ES 6 (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jaya-sai-kishan-chapparam Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS Windows, Linux, Unix  METHODDLOGIES Agile, Waterfall  WEB TECHONOLOGIES HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, jQuery, TypeScript, APIs, LESS, SASS/SCSS  FRAME WORKS Bootstrap 4, Angular 5  SOFTE WARE TOOLS Visual studio, Eclipse IDE, Sublime text, Notepad++, SSMS, WebStorm, iRise studio, Balsamiq  VERSION CONTROL Git, GitHub  DATA BASE MySQL