Director of Marketing / Sr Graphic Website Designer Director of Marketing / Sr Graphic Website Designer Sr Graphic Website Designer / or / Contractor Hollidaysburg, PA A dependable, creative individual who is eagerly charging into the ever-growing advances in technology and design. Looking to secure a position in a hard-working environment; where creativity is practiced and encouraged. Marketing and Design are not only a career choice; but, also a passion, which has resulted in the dedication to learn new techniques, and the determination to expand and share the knowledge and skills currently possessed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Marketing / Sr Graphic Website Designer Consultant / contractor - Hollidaysburg, PA October 2007 to Present Marketing Director   Website & Graphic Designer and Developer   for Absolutely American Inc. (now as needed)    Responsible for the design of as well as maintaining the companies identity. Design of a vast verity of marketing material including:  Website Design  Specializing in Website design and development. Strong ability to create visually-pleasing designs by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. Able to code and assemble Websites by means of Dreamweaver and other HTML editors. Experience is the customization and use of multiple Content Management Systems such as: WordPress    Proficient in writing and troubleshooting HTML and CSS. Able to work with JavaScript and PHP. Extensive experience in working along with a back- end programmer, together creating custom database driven Websites by using PHP,  ASP and ASPX.    Graphic Design   Able to conceptualize and produce creative, meaningful graphic elements including: illustrations, logos, brochures, business cards, and other marketing material by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. These graphic elements may be applied to interactive media and print Senior Website & Graphic Designer & Front- End Developer Willetts - Cumberland, MD February 2010 to February 2013 Website Design  Specializing in Website design and development. Strong ability to create visually-pleasing designs by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. Able to code and assemble Websites by means of Dreamweaver and other HTML editors. Experience is the customization and use of multiple Content Management Systems such as: WordPress, Architect, VisualStudio.Net and .Net Nuke. Proficient in writing and troubleshooting HTML and CSS. Able to work with JavaScript and PHP. Extensive experience in working along with a back- end programmer, together creating custom database driven Websites by using PHP,  ASP and ASPX.    Graphic Design   Able to conceptualize and produce creative, meaningful graphic elements including: illustrations, logos, brochures, business cards, and other marketing material by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. These graphic elements may be applied to interactive media, print, and video. Sr Website Graphic Designer & Front- End Developer Affinigent, Inc - York, PA May 2007 to October 2007 Website Design  Specializing in Website design and development. Strong ability to create visually-pleasing designs by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. Able to code and assemble Websites by means of Dreamweaver and other HTML editors. Experience is the customization and use of multiple Content Management Systems such as: WordPress, Architect, VisualStudio.Net and .Net Nuke. Proficient in writing and troubleshooting HTML and CSS. Able to work with JavaScript and PHP. Extensive experience in working along with a back- end programmer, together creating custom database driven Websites by using PHP,  ASP and ASPX.    Graphic Design   Able to conceptualize and produce creative, meaningful graphic elements including: illustrations, logos, brochures, business cards, and other marketing material by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. These graphic elements may be applied to interactive media, print, and video. Website Design Teacher / Instructor Harrisburg Area Community College - Harrisburg, PA January 2006 to June 2006 I had the opportunity to teach Sr Graphic Design students Website Design and Animation. Being only 24, at the time, I knew I wanted to experience teaching so I jumped at the opportunity when the Art Department Director contacted me.     The excitement grew as the class was essentially a blank canvas with a topic for me to master. I had freedom of writing my own curriculum for the course, schedule to follow, set specific learning points, wrote my own lesson plans, assignments, and projects, which included providing my own materials to use to assemble particular hands-on projects.     This was my first team I led, in fact, they thought me how to lead. They helped me understand how it’s important it is to slowdown, take my time explain things, and stay on track so everyone as a team can follow. Also, I left there with greater understanding on how to properly communicate Website Design when working with Designers of other types of mediums. Whether it be an Interior or Graphic Designer or a architect laying out their own webpage mock-up, I can review and communicate with them any areas of concern or things to keep in mind in the mock-up that may not translate to a website very well, why and any examples or suggestions.    I am proud to say they continued to use the curriculum and material I had created after my departure. I had decided to stick with focusing on my full-time position with the firm. Website Graphic Designer & Front- End Developer Flash Avenue - York, PA July 2004 to November 2005 Website Design  Specializing in Website design and development. Strong ability to create visually-pleasing designs by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. Able to code and assemble Websites by means of Dreamweaver and other HTML editors. Experience is the customization and use of multiple Content Management Systems such as: WordPress, Architect, VisualStudio.Net and .Net Nuke. Proficient in writing and troubleshooting HTML and CSS. Able to work with JavaScript and PHP. Extensive experience in working along with a back- end programmer, together creating custom database driven Websites by using PHP,  ASP and ASPX.    Graphic Design   Able to conceptualize and produce creative, meaningful graphic elements including: illustrations, logos, brochures, business cards, and other marketing material by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. These graphic elements may be applied to interactive media, print, and video. Web Designer AFFINIGENT, INC - York, PA October 1999 to July 2004 Website Design  Specializing in Website design and development. Strong ability to create visually-pleasing designs by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. Able to code and assemble Websites by means of Dreamweaver and other HTML editors. Experience is the customization and use of multiple Content Management Systems such as: WordPress, Architect, VisualStudio.Net and .Net Nuke. Proficient in writing and troubleshooting HTML and CSS. Able to work with JavaScript and PHP. Extensive experience in working along with a back- end programmer, together creating custom database driven Websites by using PHP,  ASP and ASPX.    Graphic Design   Able to conceptualize and produce creative, meaningful graphic elements including: illustrations, logos, brochures, business cards, and other marketing material by utilizing Photoshop, Illustrator, and Fireworks. These graphic elements may be applied to interactive media, print, and video. Education Associate in MultiMedia Design Bradley Academy for the Visual Arts - York, PA July 1999 to December 2000 Additional Information    2012 & 2013  ISEE International Award Winner for Best Chapter Website ~ (www.PotomacISEE.org)    2004  Recognized in the Central Pennsylvania Business Journal Horizon Interactive Award ~ (YorkCatholic.org)  Horizon Interactive Award ~ (hr.BankAHB.com)  Horizon Interactive Award ~ (SusvalleyPolicy.org)    2005  Honored as returning alumnus to participate in Bradley Academy Alumni Gallery Exhibition and Round-table  AXiem Award ~ (SusvalleyPolicy.org)  Horizon Interactive Award ~ (hr.BankAHB.com)  Horizon Interactive Award ~ (SusvalleyPolicy.org)    2002  Horizon Interactive Award ~ (MyConstructionPlanner.com)    2000  Alpha Beta Kappa National Honor Society  Recognized for Perfect Attendance while attending Bradley Academy