Jr. Front End Programmer Jr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Programmer Web Developer Carolina, PR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Front End Programmer New York Film Academy - New York, NY July 2018 to Present – Create e-mail marketing campaigns and landing pages based on mockups and provided content.  – Segment mailing lists by making queries on the database.  – Deliver approved e-mail campaigns to the target market using an E-mail Marketing Automation Platform.  – Update the New York Film Academy (nyfa.edu) website.  – Perform QA testing to e-mail campaigns, landing pages, and the website.  – Keep track of workflows on Asana (a Project Management tool).  – Work closely with the Development, Design, and Marketing teams. Web Developer, Freelance Second Language Design - Remote February 2018 to July 2018 – Active communication with the team of designers, developers, and clients such as The North Carolina State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine (painfreecats.org) and Acupuncture Remedies (aprpc.com).  – Develop WordPress websites for clients based on mockups and provided content.   – Perform QA testing across modern platforms and devices.  – Deliver the website to the client in their private hosting provider (e.g. Bluehost, GoDaddy). Software Tester, Freelance uTest, Applause App Quality, Inc - Remote September 2014 to July 2018 – Execute test cases in web and native applications.  – Perform exploratory testing to identify any GUI, functional, or technical bug.  – Perform localization testing by verifying translations from English to Latin American Spanish.  – Submit a detailed bug report. Accounting Assistant Office of Fiscal Services, University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR March 2008 to June 2015 – Advised employees on student employment policies and hiring procedures.  – Facilitated training to employees on how to record payroll entries through the database.  – Verified on-campus student-employee payrolls.  – Processed direct-deposit applications for student's financial aid.  – Assisted clients, produced letters, and other clerical duties. Education Certificate of Completion in Web Development Per Scholas and General Assembly - New York, NY June 2017 Bachelor's in Accounting University of Puerto Rico - Rio Piedras, PR June 2015 Skills Front End, HTML5, jQuery, JavaScript, Wordpress, React.js, Node.js, CSS3, Email Marketing, PostgresSQL, SQL, API, Bootstrap, GitHub, Git, SCSS Links https://francheska.io https://github.com/francheska-guzman https://linkedin.com/in/francheska-guzman