Front End Web developer • Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">developer</span> • Freelance Clermont, FL A Full Stack Web Developer with a passion for Front End design and development. Creative and user-friendly websites and web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and ReactJS. Work Experience Front End Web developer • Freelance May 2018 to Present • Consulted with client to outline website goals, illustrate wire frame, and site functionality  • Developed a user-friendly architecture by programming site navigation, social media links and organizing site content into a logical catalog  • HTML, CSS, JavasScript, ReactJS Professional Athlete Independent Contractor March 1994 to October 2013 • Performing  • Tour Scheduling  ? Coordinating appearances, lodging and travel  • Public Relations  ? Coordinating media appearances  ? Writing and distribution of press releases  • Branding  ? Creating a creative marketing plan to build the brand across a variety of online platforms.  • Social Media Marketing  ? Creating creative and unique social media campaigns  • Web Design (HTML, CSS)  • Training and Mentoring athletes Owner Rockstar Entertainment ltd - Dublin January 2006 to August 2009 • Training and mentoring athletes  • Marketing and recruiting talent  • Managed financial transactions and controlled the budget Education Certified Full Stack Web Developer in UCF Coding Boot Camp (Full Stack Web Development) University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL November 2018 to May 2019 Skills AJAX, CSS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, Front-End, UI, React Certifications/Licenses UCF Coding Boot Camp (Full Stack Web Developement) May 2019 to Present A fundamental working knowledge of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Firebase, Node.js, Express.js, MySQL, MongoDB, Mongoose, & React.js. The ability to work with diverse teams on demanding time-lines to build fully functional web applications from start to finish. In addition, they have exhibited the skills necessary to learn new technologies & resolve issues independently.