Network Administrator (On Call) Network Administrator (On Call) Full Stack Software Engineer with 2 Years Experience New York, NY A passionate Full Stack developer experienced with all aspects of software development. I have a proven track record of clean, consistent, and efficient work delivered on time. I am a self-motivated developer with a desire to grow professionally while creating great user applications and robust enterprise systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator (On Call) Dataroom Media Hosting - New York, NY January 2009 to Present Provide onsite support for deploying, maintaining, and configuring client servers for media hosting company. Provided remote customer assistance along with triaging issues between development team and customer service team. Full Stack Software Engineer LBi Software Inc. - Melville, NY October 2016 to October 2018 Full stack software engineer for Major League Baseball, with a focus on building internal web ap- plications to manage player profiles, registration, contracts and statistics. Worked closely with club managers, international scouts and project managers through the full software development lifecycle - from concept through delivery of next-generation application while also providing live product  support.    • Improved load times by up to 40% through refactored queries, dedicated views, new indices and overall code improvements.  • Created and managed new project responsible for aggregating all shared CSS, Javascript code, and AngularJS directives between various applications. IT Technician/ Developer Multiverse IT - Garden City, NY February 2015 to March 2016 Provided on site IT support to corporate office of 30 in-house employees and 15 remote employees. Supported software installs, hardware troubleshooting and network configuring. Developed web application for generating online report to view on mobile devices by technicians in the field. Leveraged server sided scripting to facilitate account migrations and account management. Front End Developer (Remote) Institute for American Responsibility - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to January 2016 Worked as sole developer for non profit start up to build website and social media presence. Implemented PayPal to accept donations and grow client base. Provided consultation on tech stack and tools to allow leadership to efficiently manage organization. Product Owner Intern Bank of America - Newark, DE June 2014 to August 2015 Led multiple projects through their planning and development phases while coordinating requirements between line of business and the development team/technology architects, ensuring accurate deliverable. Created an Agile Advocacy group to teach the Agile method to over 10 teams. Created educational modules for Scrum teams transitioning from the Waterfall methodology to the Agile  methodology. Education B.S. in Computer Science Queens College - New York, NY August 2012 to May 2016 Minor in Mathematics Queens College - New York, NY August 2012 to May 2016 Skills MYSQL, Javascript (3 years), Java (3 years), CSS, Jquery, Git Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandrugutu http://www.thegutuproject.com Additional Information Languages: Java, Javascript, AngularJS, React, Mobx, SQL, HTML, CSS, Jasmine, Spring Tools: Git, Pivotal, Liquibase, MyBatis, JBoss, Tomcat, Maven, Grunt, JIRA 