Front End /Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> /Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End /Web Developer - OSI Engineering, Inc Columbus, OH • Around 10+ Years of Experience as a User Interface/ Design/ Front End Developer (UI/UX) in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, ASP.NET, XML, Bootstrap, JAVA, SPRING, Java Script, jQuery, PHP, REST, ReactJS, AngularJS, Angular6, Redux, NodeJS, TypeScript. Solid knowledge of DOM manipulation, CSS selectors and preprocessors (LESS, SASS) and experienced in CMS (Content Management Systems).  • Experience in software design and development of JAVA/J2EE related to various industries with solid understanding of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) skills.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Model View Controller (MVC) framework such as AngularJS.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, D3 js, RDBMS, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js.  • Have Experience in JavaScript (including AJAX, DOM manipulations, JSONP, event models etc.) and have experience on Angular2.0  • Deep understanding of Angular.js and its core principles.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, Knockout.js, Wire-framing, and HTML5.Good experience with Angular JS directives ng-app, ng-unit, ng-model for initialization of Angular JS application data.  • Worked on RWD (Responsive Web Design) and implemented applications based on Angular.js  • Adept in designing UI patterns and applications with the help of Sublime Text, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and GIT.  • Experienced in integrating databases like MongoDB, MySQL with webpages like HTML, PHP, CSS to update, insert, delete data with simple ad-hoc queries.  • Expertise in database development using SQL and PL/SQL creating tables, stored procedures, views, indexes and triggers.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Experience in Linux system administration, DevOps, AWS Cloud platform and its features.  • Experience in creating test suites using jasmine and worked on tools like NPM (Node Package Manager), Bower and Grunt.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and Clear Quest for bug fixing.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Experience working with various Web and Enterprise Application servers like Apache TOMCAT, JBOSS, Web Logic and IBM Web Sphere.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Extensive knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Extensive experience working in Agile and Waterfall (SDLC Methodologies) environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End /Web Developer OSI Engineering, Inc - Campbell, CA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created interactive prototypes using Balsamiq and InVision.  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular JS.  • Implemented two-way data binding through scope in applications built on Angular JS and one-way binding when necessary.  • Created model binding and API calls using Angular JS.  • SEO to designing valid HTML, CSS and Flash. Maintained hosting and database accounts and connections.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript and hand coding of HTML, XHTML and CSS.  • Developed Navigation Bar, Drag and drop slide scroll bar using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Developed form validations utilizing Angular JS messages modules.  • Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Developed claim screens for customers using Angular JS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Implemented re-usable templates with JavaScript handlebars and generating layouts.  • Developed data visualization tools using Algorithmic Programming, WebSocket's, JSON and AJAX for market sentiment indicators, live streaming price panels, live events count down widget, economic calendars.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and account.  • Used various jQuery plugins date picker, dialog boxes to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Create user-centered designs by considering market analysis, customer feedback, and usability findings using Angular JS.  • Created pages to display results of customer satisfaction survey using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Build landing pages, campaign microsite's, homepage updates, newsletters for email marketing campaigns, marketing forms and redesign existing pages using Angular JS, jQuery, Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Used jQuery to perform AJAX to get JSON data from the backend and parse it on the front- end.  • Created SQL scripts for tuning and scheduling with SQL server.  • Tested created pages using JavaScript testing frameworks Mocha, Jasmine, Karma.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM, DOM Functions using Firefox and IE developer Tool bar for IE.  • Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  • Design and develop prototype video to showcase company features.  • Used browsers developer tool for Chrome, IE and Firefox Firebug daily.  • Worked with production support team for the application deployment in UAT and Production.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, JAVA, CSS3, Bootstrap, Foundation, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, WebSockets, Node JS, JIRA, Firebug, YSlow, Balsamiq, InVision, GIT/GitHub, Eclipse. Full Stack Web Developer BlackRock - San Francisco, CA September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Re-architected and enhanced an existing Angular.JS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spins up, enhanced performance and offline with client caching.  • Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Developed a single page, UI-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular.JS, JavaScript API.  • Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery to interact with web Services and user controls.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used React.JS for creating reusable UI components.  • Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  • Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Worked with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.JS.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using React.JS.  • Fetched data from mongo DB using Mongoose of Node.JS.  • Used Test Driven Development (TDD) as part of Agile process.  • Responsible for cluster maintenance, adding and removing cluster nodes, cluster monitoring and troubleshooting, manage and review data backups, manage and review Hadoop log files.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JavaScript, and CSS.  • Creation of REST Web Services framework for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Node.JS.  • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, and JavaScript.  • Used Agile methodology for design and development of project.  • Backend testing and development of the DB by writing scripts to test the integrity of the application NoSQL/Hadoop databases.  • Experience in working with the HBase as a NoSQL DB in the MapReduce framework.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for merging jar files into existing repository.  • Wrote test cases using jasmine.  • Used GitHub for source control management.  • Developed Integration test cases using Protractor to test the web application using Mocha.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Developed complex SQL queries for reports.  • Designed and developed application screens using Swing, HTML, JSP, Node.JS, Angular.JS, and CSS.  • Worked on creation of MongoDB databases, collections and deploying JavaScript's using mongo shell.  • Developed XSD for validation of XML request coming in from Web Service.  • Bulk loading of the data into Cassandra cluster using JavaAPI's.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, Angular 2/4/5/6, Node.js, React.js, Vue.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, jQuery, MongoDB, JDBC, MongoDB, NPM, AWS, Web Services, Scrum, Apache Tomcat, Linux, LESS, Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe flash, Dream Weaver, Agile, GIT, Oracle, Hadoop, NoSQL, PL/ SQL,REST, Eclipse, WebLogic, Protractor, Jasmine, MAVEN. Angular JS Developer EPSILON - Irving, TX August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Angular.js built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Created Angular.js controllers, services and used Angular.js filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Leveraged Angular.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URL's and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed API Gateway using Node.js and Used MongoDB as a Database for storing information.  • Used Dreamweaver as CSS and HTML Editor for designing new pages.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Distributed handling of WebSocket communications using Node clusters to improve latency and load bearing capabilities  • Implemented web system using new technologies such as WebSocket, Less and Play framework.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client-side validation.  • Implemented JavaScript front end built using Angular.js.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Fetched data from mongo DB using Mongoose/ monk of Node.js  • Implemented Rest web end points using restify on top of Node.js  • Developed back- end messaging infrastructure for real-time web application in JavaScript, and Node.js  • Used MVC architecture of Node.js Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Used Node.js built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Designed and implemented core front end API using Node.js.  • Used Bootstrap or customization of web application.  • Used Backbone.js to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model View Controller)  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP protocols.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  • Developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Used Web services (RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Prepared Java/J2EE development structure for maven,  • Designed the UI and have drawn the UML Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed and implemented web applications into system using SCRUM Agile methods.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and Version control.  • Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved in migrating existing WebSphere Portal applications to WebSphere Portal.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Developed Oracle objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Procedures, Functions and Packages in PL/SQL.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application.  • Used AGILE SCRUM development Methodology to ensure teamwork, collaboration and process adaptability throughout the life-cycle of the project.    Environment: ANGULARJS2.0/4.0, WebSocket, React.js, Backbone.js jQuery, CSS, HTML5, DB2, Junit, SVN, Java, Scrum, Spring, Hibernate, MongoDB, SOAP, Eclipse, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, SOAP Web Service, PHP, SQL Server, TFS, Node.js, REST services. Web Developer Berkley Mid-Atlantic Group - Richmond, VA July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • The design and development of web portal software applications and enhancements, within an Agile team environment.  • The creation of software applications and enhancements utilizing SharePoint 2013, ASP.NET Web Forms, Windows Forms, WPF, MVC 5, C#, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, CSS and third party controls.  • The design and creation of middle-tier and data-tier objects.  • The design and creation of WCF, SOAP and REST API Web services.  • Data objects creation and modification utilizing SQL Server 2012.  • Interfacing with business units for requirements gathering and analysis.  • Researching and prototyping new technologies utilizing VMware, Windows Server 2012 and SharePoint 2013.  • The creation of GUI screen design and mockups utilizing Balsamiq.  • The creation of UML data modeling utilizing Visio 2013. Software Engineer Jenzabar - Harrisonburg, VA June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and enhanced web based software applications utilizing Java, Microsoft ASP.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript AJAX, LINQ and SQL Server.  • Provided management with project time estimates.  • Worked with quality control analysts on troubleshooting and fixing software defects.  • Created prototypes and recommended new technologies or designs, as needed.  • Created software documentation for the intended audiences of analysts and end users. Senior Applications Analyst Alaska Airlines - Seattle, WA May 2007 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • GUI development and enhancement utilizing C#, C++, HTML, XML, ASP, ASP.NET and CSS, HTML, Java and JQuery.  • Developed Web Services and Middle Tier business objects utilizing C#, SOAP, XML, COM, COM+, ASP and ASP.NET, in a client-server N-tier environment.  • Developed and enhanced barcode scanning applications.  • Created UML object models utilizing Visio.  • Evaluated new software products and technologies.  • Managed small-sized development projects.  • Provided backup server administration for Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 2000 servers. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of North Texas Skills JAVASCRIPT (9 years), SQL SERVER (7 years), SQL (9 years), JAVA (7 years), jQuery (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, Typescript, SVG, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap, Foundation, AJAX, JSON.  Script Libraries jQuery, jQuery UI, React JS, Redux JS, Grunt, Gulp  Frameworks Angular JS, Angular 6  Databases: MS Access, Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL, PostgreSQL, Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra.  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Google Chrome Web Debugger, IE Developer Tool  IDEs & Build Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio code, Atom, NetBeans  Version Control Tools: GIT, TFS, SVN, P4V  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Designing Software: Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, MS office, Sublime Text Editor, Notepad++, Atom, Visual Studio Code.  J2EE Frameworks: Spring3.0, Hibernate3.x, 3.0JDBC