Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Front end Developer MomentoUSA - Bellmawr, NJ January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular2, Bootstrap, LESS and Sublime Text Editor.  • Created HTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications  • Worked the backend by using node JS.  • Involved in Writing jQuery based Ajax Requests.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specic views and synchronize data with server.  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front- end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, Java Script & CSS to the requirements of the client.  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes  • Used Angular HTTP module for consuming RESTful web services.  • Code maintenance using merge tools. Maintaining code in GIT-HUB and involving in merging activities.  •Implementing Angular's router to ensure users experience smooth page transition with minimum load time.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3,, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular 2, Node.js, Bootstrap, JSON, SCRUM, Agile Methodology Front end Developer Varuna Global Services LLP - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with a team of front end UI developers in designing, developing, deploying and testing of UI design concepts and prototypes.  • Good experience working with the design implementation phase.  • Worked on developing custom web forms using JavaScript.  • Using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS developed presentation layers.  • Hands on experience on developing web pages using Ruby on Rails web application frameworks.  • For logical implementation part at client side for all applications used jQuery library functions.  • Followed all the Stages in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Worked on Cross Browser Compatibility for Safari and Chrome using XHTML, CCS3 and JavaScript.  • Worked on Bootstrap in creating CSS templates.  • Worked on Agile methodology in order to send regular updates to the team.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, SASS, AngularJs, Sublime Text. Education Master's Degree in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Fairleigh Dickinson University Teaneck USA 2017 Bachelors in Electrical and Electronic Engineering in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Kakatiya University Warangal 2010 Skills Ajax (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), HTML (2 years), Java Script (2 years), jQuery (2 years) Additional Information Skills    Languages HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, Typescript  Version Control Tools GIT, Subversion, gitHub  IDE Sublime Text, webstrom, Eclipse, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studios.  Desktop Tools MS Office, Photoshop, MS Visio    Operating Systems Windows, Mac