Director of Technology Director of Technology Director of Technology Astoria, NY Over 15 years of experience in front- end web development, back- end development, interactive/single page application development and CMS development. Also have experience in designing for both print and web, information architecture(UX/UI), search engine optimization, responsive design, and Dev Ops. Work Experience Director of Technology Bond Gifting May 2016 to March 2019 Responsible for staffing, resourcing, and hiring developers in the technology department. In charge of managing 8 engineers, outside contractors, and quality assurance engineers. In charge of Coordinating and managing projects across all of our company's digital products products. Lead Front- End Architect in all client facing products. Enforcing best coding practices and repository management. Working with the CTO, Product Managers, and Marketing Directors to road map and plan out quarterly goals, and company/project initiatives.    Technology Stack:  HTML5, CSS(SASS/SCSS), Javascript(Node, GULP lodash, React, Redux) Web Engineer February 2014 to May 2016 Web Developer responsible for developing user various technologies and platforms. Lead developer for most Toyota related projects which includes being responsible for all front- end architecture and planning, assisting in technical direction, setting goals and managing expectations, maintaining consistent code practices and repository management. Lead Senior Developer Technology Stack February 2013 to February 2014 HTML5, CSS(SASS, /SCSS, STYLUS), Javascript(Vanilla, Jquery, Backbone, underscoreJS/lodash, Grunt, Node, Angular, Handlebars, CommonJS, Babel), Jade/Pug, PHP, Pearl, Java, TeamSite, ASP.NET(with VisualStudio), Tumblr.    Dujour Media. 2/13 - 2/14  Lead Senior Developer  Lead Developer in charge of staffing and managing all in-house and outsourced developers. In charge of planning and managing all digitally related projects, sprints, version control, agile development and relations between digital staff and editorial. Lead developer and architect on all web related projects.    Technology Stack:  HTML5, CSS, Javascript(Jquery, Backbone, underscoreJS), PHP, Wordpress.    American Media Inc. 12/11 - 2/13  Front- end Web / UX Developer / Drupal Developer  Front- end (and eventually back- end) web developing for Drupal based websites. Also in charge of creating JavaScript based applications to be used on multiple CMS platforms, plug-in creation and research + development projects.    Technology Stack:  HTML/HTML5, CSS, Javascript(Vanilla, Jquery, ProtoType), PHP, Drupal.    Opsdivina 3/06 - 12/11  Frontend Developer / Lead Developer  In charge of frontend development and some backend development. Eventually leading a team of 3 to develop various websites using various technologies and platforms such as Wordpress and Joomla. Also in charge of putting information architecture specs when required.    Technology Stack:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Javascript(Vanilla, Jquery, MooTools, Prototype), PHP, Coldfusion, CommonSpot, ASP.NET    Jamalsmith.com 11/04 - 12/09  Freelance Web Developer  Responsible for developing a variety of websites in e-commerce, flash, and HTML for a wide range of clients ranging from non for profits to entertainment and fashion.    Technology Stack:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, and Illustrator    Wireless World Technologies 8/05 - 3/06  Graphic Designer / Web Developer  In-house designer/ developer for a startup mobile technology company based out of New York. Severed in the development team as the primary developer.    Technologies Uses:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, and Illustrator    Sound Greetings 11/04 - 6/05  Graphic Designer  In-house graphic artist responsible for setting up layouts and designs for printing. Also in charge of any design commissions from clients.    Technologies Used:  Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign    BH Consulting 3/03 - 10/04  Graphic Designer / Web Developer  Responsible for designing and developing all websites and micro-sites under the company's investment.    Technologies Used:  HTML and CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Front- end Web / UX Developer / Drupal Developer American Media Inc December 2011 to February 2013 Front- end (and eventually back- end) web developing for Drupal based websites. Also in charge of creating JavaScript based applications to be used on multiple CMS platforms, plug-in creation and research + development projects. Frontend Developer / Lead Developer Technology Stack March 2006 to December 2011 In charge of frontend development and some backend development. Eventually leading a team of 3 to develop various websites using various technologies and platforms such as Wordpress and Joomla. Also in charge of putting information architecture specs when required.    Technology Stack:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Javascript(Vanilla, Jquery, MooTools, Prototype), PHP, Coldfusion, CommonSpot, ASP.NET    Jamalsmith.com 11/04 - 12/09  Freelance Web Developer  Responsible for developing a variety of websites in e-commerce, flash, and HTML for a wide range of clients ranging from non for profits to entertainment and fashion.    Technology Stack:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, and Illustrator    Wireless World Technologies 8/05 - 3/06  Graphic Designer / Web Developer  In-house designer/ developer for a startup mobile technology company based out of New York. Severed in the development team as the primary developer.    Technologies Uses:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, and Illustrator    Sound Greetings 11/04 - 6/05  Graphic Designer  In-house graphic artist responsible for setting up layouts and designs for printing. Also in charge of any design commissions from clients.    Technologies Used:  Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign    BH Consulting 3/03 - 10/04  Graphic Designer / Web Developer  Responsible for designing and developing all websites and micro-sites under the company's investment.    Technologies Used:  HTML and CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Freelance Web Developer Jamalsmith.com November 2004 to December 2009 Responsible for developing a variety of websites in e-commerce, flash, and HTML for a wide range of clients ranging from non for profits to entertainment and fashion.    Technology Stack:  HTML, CSS, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, and Illustrator Graphic Designer / Web Developer Wireless World Technologies August 2005 to March 2006 In-house designer/ developer for a startup mobile technology company based out of New York. Severed in the development team as the primary developer. Graphic Designer Technologies Uses November 2004 to June 2005 In-house graphic artist responsible for setting up layouts and designs for printing. Also in charge of any design commissions from clients.    Technologies Used:  Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign    BH Consulting 3/03 - 10/04  Graphic Designer / Web Developer  Responsible for designing and developing all websites and micro-sites under the company's investment.    Technologies Used:  HTML and CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Graphic Designer / Web Developer BH Consulting March 2003 to October 2004 Responsible for designing and developing all websites and micro-sites under the company's investment.    Technologies Used:  HTML and CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Education Associates in Digital Media in Computer Science La Guardia College Skills Coldfusion, Css, .net, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Redux, Json, Php, Xml, Html5, Sass, Flash, Actionscript, jquery, Information architecture, Ui, Teamsite Additional Information Skills  Languages and Pre-Processors  JavaScript, CSS, SASS, Stylus, JSON, XML, HTML/XHTML/HTML5, Flash/Actionscript (AS1-AS3), PHP, ColdFusion,  Frameworks and Platforms  jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, Backbone, Underscore/LoDash, NodeJS, Angular, Zend, Drupal, Wordpress, Joomla, TeamSite, Jade/Pug, Tumblr, CommonSpot, Bootstrap, CommonJS, AMD, Mootools, NPM, .NET  Applications and Technologies  Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, Fireworks, Web Storm, Zend Studio, GIT, GIT Tower, VIM Sublime, Atlassian Jira and Confluence, AWS.  Professional  Web development, UI/UX design and development, consulting, website administrator, project management, information architecture, research and planning, quality assurance, scrum and agile development.