Software Designer Software Designer Web Developer Austin, TX Front End Developer committed to the user journey, user flow, UX, design and development of user portals and integrations. Willing to lead by example and participate in coding and debugging. Continually considering strengths and improving limitations of product. Experienced with road mapping/project planning efforts and having ownership for delivery. Actively engaged in project management efforts as the teams execute on plans and strong role experience in communicating progress and status to stakeholders. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Designer IBM - Austin, TX September 2017 to Present •Created the digital strategy for service offerings, which is inclusive of organic and earned  projects ensuring optimal client journey both on and off IBM domain.  • Lead management of new web pages as well as the integration and maintenance of existing.  • Delivery and maintenance of digital content including product demo videos, data-sheets, case  studies, product brochures.  • Collaborated with Marketing for branding and digital strategies when planning for Collaboration  Solutions home page and campaign updates; content optimization, SEO for search ranking, UI/UX research.  • Delivery of software UI/UX design to development team for production of IBM Domino  Applications on Cloud offering.  • Produced video content for strengthening digital strategy and marketing campaigns:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=55Hh-rUQ7G4  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y4sf5LPKrzc  • Reported trends and insights from data driven analytics/metrics to stakeholders with digital  media presentations.  • Worked cross functionally and collaborated with offering management and marketing for support and maintenance of product collateral.  • Reviewed projects for Domino Applications on Cloud and other offerings to ensure full journey  for customer satisfaction. Campaign Strategist IBM March 2015 to September 2017 Collaborated with Marketing for branding and digital strategies when planning for Collaboration  Solutions home page and campaign updates; content optimization, SEO for search ranking, UI/UX research.    • Guided an organic effort to build the sales enablement website from start to finish.  • Managed the GitHub repositories for my team and trained team for use.  • Integrated existing material and migrated it to the HUB with updates.  • Utilized and educated colleagues on best practice using HTML for page creation.    Software Designer    • Designed and developed a new sales enablement website solution for ICS Sellers leading a team of five which consisted of 140+ web pages, 70 datasheets & value propositions for IBM  Collaboration Solutions Offerings (IBM Manager's Choice Awarded).    • Achieved goal of 100% clicks/visits by the IBM Collaboration Solutions Sales team & engagement of the HUB via digital campaign of sellers.    • The email campaign to visit our new HUB website resulted in an open rate of 70% (IBM  Manager's Choice Awarded).    • Aesthetically branded and produced IBM Collaboration Solutions social media channels:  https://www.youtube.com/user/ICSSupportVideos/featured  https://twitter.com/IBM_ICSsupport    • Developed organized data driven metrics for stakeholders with digital media data analytics.  • Responsible for: Website Creation, Marketing, Templates, User Administration.  • Consistent attention to strategy according to IBM Enterprise and Social Brand Guidelines.  • Created collateral for deal signings from $20k - 308K.  • Ran go-to-market effort campaigns (incentives) included increased marketable contract sales.  • Supported and maintained lifecycle of product collateral.  • Effectively developed strategy for executive communication including news and updates.  • Successfully created and administered IBM Connections Communities. Front End Designer/ Developer IBM September 2010 to September 2013 • Effectively modeled marketing and development strategy for Region-20 business websites.  • Produced new websites for Region-20:  http://www.esc20.net  http://www.esc20.net/topp  http://www.txeis.net  • Trained new user groups for content management systems in classroom settings.  • Onboarded power users with one-on-one assistance and training.  • Updated websites with UX Research resulting in improved usability.  • Content Strategized Region-20 Information Technology.  • Maintained web systems with large document structure. Developer Front End Design 2008 to 2010 Integrated-Internet, Moses Recording Studios, South America Travel, Webhead Tech    • Coded from low resolution design for client websites.  • Designed high resolution wireframes for web applications.  • Designed and implemented high-resolution wireframes for web applications.  • Successfully proposed and developed a marketing strategy for company clients.  • Visited popular and unknown places in South America for travel website.  • Authored in depth and personal storied articles about destination and journey.  • Responsible for: Website Creation, Marketing, Photography, Video Production. Content Strategist / Web Designer MATT.org March 2006 to 2008 • Presented to leadership website implementation status updates.  • Successfully managed writers and content creators' contributions to the website.  • Monitored domain activity and reported to leadership website analytics.  • Successfully maintained 100% working up time for website during traffic spikes, MATT  television commercials increased http requests.  • Assisted colleagues with technical assistance and instruction.  • Engaged with local and national politicians for developing MATT.org. Content Strategist / Visual Designer The 401(k) Company 1999 to 2003 • Designed high resolution wireframes for web applications.  • Responsible for presenting leadership with website implementation and all status updates.  • Created finance and account summary visualizations simplifying complicated displays.  • Aesthetically produced money over time data models for display of client 401(k) accounts.    IBM AWARDS  12/14/2016 IBM Collaboration Solutions Eminence and Excellence Cash Award  09/28/2016 IBM Collaboration Solutions Manager's Choice Award - 2016  3X IBM ICS Manager's Choice Award in 2015 Education B.B.A. in Computer Information Systems Texas State University - San Marcos, TX September 2014 A.A.S. in Associate of Applied Science Electronic Graphics San Antonio College - San Antonio, TX March 2010 Skills Ux, Front-end, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, Cascading Style Sheets (10+ years), Sql, UX Design (10+ years), Architecture, Sketch, Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), Axure, Wireframe, User Experience Links https://ibm.biz/HT-LinkedIn Certifications/Licenses Amazon Web Services Essentials July 2019 to Present Linux Academy's AWS Essentials Course  Core services, features, and benefits of AWS, while also gaining valuable hands-on experience. This course covers all the basics, including:    • Creating an AWS Account  • Configuring Access Management  • Virtual Networking, Routing, and Security  • Compute, Storage, and Database services  • Monitoring and Metrics  • Fundamental Cloud/AWS terminology  • Understand and use core services of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Understand and use Identity & Access Management (IAM)  • Understand and use Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)  • Understand and use Simple Storage Service (S3)  • Understand and use Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)  • Understand and use RDS/DynamoDB (databases)  • Understand and use Simple Notification Service (SNS)  • Understand and use CloudWatch (monitoring)  • Understand and use Elastic Load Balancing (distributing traffic)  • Understand and use Auto Scaling (scalable & elastic architecture)  • Understand and use Route 53 (domains & DNS) JavaScript Fundamentals July 2019 to Present Issued by Udemy Node-RED: basics to Bots May 2019 to Present This badge earner understands how to create simple to complex applications in the Node-RED flow editor. These applications include a Node-RED boilerplate that uses JavaScript and built in IBM Bluemix; a REST API; Watson cognitive applications that can translate text, analyze tone, replay audio and video, and send tweets to Twitter; and a Facebook Messenger bot that uses the Watson Conversation service.  Issued by IBM  https://www.youracclaim.com/users/homero-tristan/badges Enterprise Design Thinking Co-Creator May 2019 to Present As a Co-Creator, the badge earner is an active contributor on Enterprise Design Thinking engagements. They help bring real-world user outcomes to life by growing collaboration skills and finding opportunities to step up and lead.  Issued by IBM  https://www.youracclaim.com/users/homero-tristan/badges IBM Agile Explorer January 2014 to Present Issued by IBM  https://www.youracclaim.com/users/homero-tristan/badges Enterprise Design Thinking Practitioner January 2019 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/users/homero-tristan/badges Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  10+ years working with HTML, CSS, web application code design and architecture  Front- end framework: Angular, Bootstrap, Carbon, Drupal, React  JavaScript, NodeJS, XML, SQL, JSON, LINQ  Adobe Creative Suite, Sketch, GitHub, Trello  Data-driven UX design and analytics