Software Engineer Software Engineer Austin, TX I am currently looking for internship opportunities in software development and web development in the summer of 2020. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Beijing CE Vanlink Technology Co., Ltd. - Beijing May 2013 to June 2016 1. Generated responsive websites for the Equipment Operation and Maintenance Management System of Beijing Public Transport Holdings (Group) Co., Ltd. using Html5, Javascript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS, SCSS, and Java.    2. Led the design and development of a weekly healthy recipe system. The system mainly uses Flex, Html, CSS, Javascript, and Java. Front- End Developer ClearStone Beijing - Beijing May 2011 to May 2013 ClearStone Beijing was a startup company that customized party costumes.    Participated in the analysis and design of different websites, and built them with technologies such as PHP, Smarty, NodeJs, JQuery, MySQL and MongoDB. Although some of these websites might serve similar purposes, I tried to make these websites unique so that they could address specific consumer needs. Some examples are as follows.    1. www.PartyQu.com is a website designed for an online store to sell holiday merchandise.    2. www.piqipiqi.com is an online store served for young people who buy student supplies.    3. www.clearstone.cc is the company's portal. It advertises who we are and what our purpose is. Project Development Manager Beijing DaTang HengTai Information Technology Ltd Co. - Beijing July 2004 to May 2011 I took the lead in designing a comprehensive management system for the city of Beijing. I was in charge of the development of the system. In addition, I participated in developing the software and deployed it for customers. I was also responsible for the maintenance. The system was constructed by using Delphi 6.0 and MS SQL Server 2000. Development Engineer Beijing Vigorous Software Development Ltd. Co. - Beijing August 1999 to July 2004 1. Developed XinWei Information Management System for Commercial Concrete Company with three-tier architecture using Delphi 7.0, and used PowerDesigner 9.5 for database design.    2. Designed and created a series of small desktop products, such as XinWei Commodity Management for Small Middle-Sized Companies, XinWei Catering Management, Flexible Data Query System and so on. The development tools I used for the programming included Delphi 6.0, ErStudio 5.0, Visio 2002, MS Access, MS SQL Server, and Rational Rose. Education Associate in Computer Science Austin Community College - Austin, TX January 2017 to May 2019 Skills HTML, Javascript, AngularJS, Actionscript, Java, PHP, Git, MySQL, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular, Python, Photoshop, Jquery, Nodejs Links http://www.porrychen.com