Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Front End Developer Work Experience Systems Analyst New York Campaign Finance Board - New York, NY September 2010 to June 2016 - I was part of a team of developers that helped to update the candidate campaign software from a desktop application, to a web application using .Net environment. - For this project and others I developed I used the Visual Studio .Net and the add on tool Nuget to utilize the latest packages like (MVC, BootStrap, KnockoutJS and Angular). I also used the Team Foundation Server source control to manage the project requirements and track code progress. Web Developer 2008-2009 SalesElement - New York, NY January 2008 to January 2009 - I was lead developer of database driven web applications for various clients in the .Net environment. One of the projects I developed was an online reporting tool for Ridgewood energy to display sales reports which also used the Google chart API to display the data in charts. (See Samples Section.) -For this project and others I developed we used the software Surround SCM for source code management we also used Test Track to document the bugs and the bug fixes we implemented. Application Developer General Plumbing Corporation - Brooklyn, NY May 2007 to December 2007 -My job responsibilities were program modifications, recompiling, rebinding, testing and debugging in house software that was used for invoice, order processing and accounting using VB .NET. -Using the .Net data tools along with SQL server in generating reports and displaying information. Using my knowledge of SQL and TSQL to write complex queries, stored procedures and views to complete these tasks. Front End Developer CDMi 2004 to 2006 - I developed websites for a media agency. Using HTML, ASP and vbscript to create dynamic content for these sites. I have worked on a number of sites.  - I also did graphic production for these sites which involved taking the mockup of a website and using Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator to layout the site. Junior Web Developer Long Island University 2003 to 2004 My duties were to use my knowledge in .NET, ASP, SQL Server. In a web environment to create online applications. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Api, C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Sql server, Sql, Html5, Mvc, Ajax, Asp, Web based, jquery, Crystal reports, Angular, Front End, Front-End, Java Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9gwwl-xuhyuhi-2v Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.