Front- End Web Developer/Graphic Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Graphic Designer Front- end Web Developer Fishers, IN Creative and highly-motivated Entry-level Front- End Web Developer with a conscientious work ethic and excellent problem-solving abilities. An art educator/author with a background in traditional publishing, project and events management and marketing seeking to transition into web and applications development. Exceptional editing and proofreading skills alongside strong organization and presentation skills. Currently working to become a Fullstack Developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer/Graphic Designer Freelance 2016 to Present • Design and development of illustrations and logos for clients using Adobe Illustrator, Adobe PhotoShop and ProCreate  • Contributed to the design and development of website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript Project Coordinator/Co-author Rex Publishing Company January 2003 to April 2015 • As a project coordinator and co-author of a Philippine textbook series from first and second editions, I coordinated with various teams on the different aspects of traditional publishing from series conception and development to marketing. Faculty International School Manila January 2001 to January 2013 • Art teacher for elementary and middle school students with a focus on alternative media and STEM applications Assistant to the Curator/Director Hiraya Art Gallery June 1997 to February 1999 • As the Assistant to the Curator for a top gallery known for its cutting-edge work, I was involved in various aspects of arts management from working with artists and embassies to conceptualizing exhibitions, events management, marketing and sales. Education Front- end Web Development Udacity - 2018 January 2018 to November 2018 Master's in MA Education (Candidate) Ateneo de Manila University - 2001-2003 June 2001 to March 2003 Skills CSS3/CSS Grid/Flexbox, JavaScript, Front End, HTML5, jQuery, React, UI, Bootstrap, Adobe PhotoShop, Adobe Illustrator, Bash/Shell Scripting, Git, WordPress, Drupal, Angular, Jasmine, Front-End, CSS3, Node, User Interface Certifications/Licenses Front- end Web Development Nanodegree November 2018 to Present • As a Grow with Google Challenge Scholar, I worked and qualified for my second scholarship from Google leading to a Front- end Nanodegree from Udacity.  • We worked on various aspects of web development paying attention to responsiveness and accessibility with a focus on test-driven development. In addition, the program required us to interact and work together by helping each other search for solutions and looking for bugs in each other’s code. This developed our research skills and openness to accept feedback especially with regards to making the code more effective and efficient but still human-readable. Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5bn-xvxl7ramv9tc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.