Web developer Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Web developer - Online Optimism New Orleans, LA Work Experience Web developer Online Optimism - New Orleans, LA October 2018 to Present Wordpress development for an all-digital marketing firm. Custom plug-ins, custom templating, and cross-platform  mobile- and desktop-responsive development. Freelance web developer and UI designer New Orleans, LA September 2016 to October 2018 Designed and built SEO-friendly web sites in Craft CMS and Wordpress for my own clients and as a subcontractor. Creative Technologist Sanders/Wingo Advertising - Austin, TX September 2014 to September 2016 I made animated advertising and microsites for AT&T, and I built proof-of-concept web sites and illustrated  presentations for Sanders/Wingo's new business team. I was technical liaison to the Amsterdam development team. Freelance web developer and UI designer in New Orleans New Orleans agency Alford Advertising October 2012 to September 2014 Produced sites for New Orleans agency Alford Advertising. I was also the front- end developer on a New York startup  called Eatucator that created custom coupons for small groceries and farmers' markets. I also designed and built a music-oriented dating site called Rockcalling, from scratch, using Ruby on Rails. Developer II iSeatz October 2011 to October 2012 in New Orleans.  I worked closely with the design firm on our American Express Travel project, and led a difficult but time-saving effort to standardize our front- end-facing code, to make it consistent and thereby simplify the front- end styling. Senior Web Developer McCann/MRM Worldwide - New York, NY June 2010 to October 2011 Javascript and jQuery development, as well as HTML and CSS, to animate and beautify web sites for clients like Smirnoff, Crown Royal, Home Depot, and U.S. Army. Eliminated excess server costs for Home Depot Garden Club through a simple rebuild of an image carousel. Front- end developer at Huge Design in Brooklyn January 2010 to May 2010 I developed page layout elements for NBC's website iVillage, along with interactive features like a Body Mass  Calculator, in a HAML/SASS environment. Front- end developer Turner Broadcasting - New York, NY June 2009 to December 2009 I did daily development and styling tasks and created special seasonal feature designs for Turner's Expression Engine- based, high-traffic women's blogging site The Frisky. Senior Developer BrandWizard - New York, NY October 2008 to May 2009 As the front- end lead I worked with the designers and the back- end developers to complete complex re-skins of our  company's asset management software product, for clients including Mercedes-Benz, Hilton Hotels, and HSBC.  315 Tricou Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70117 // 504-812-8475 // david@davidrhoden.com Education JD Loyola New Orleans School of Law BA in English University of Tennessee - Knoxville, TN Skills HTML5, Javascript, Front End, Jquery, Wordpress, PHP, Angularjs, Angular, HTML, Bootstrap Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/msytrxsaf3m0kucs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.