Lead Visual Designer and Front- End Developer Lead Visual Designer and <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Visual Designer / Front- End Developer Silicon Valley, CA Working collaboratively with back- end programmers, I design and develop user interfaces, rapid prototype layouts, while always keeping my clientele’s preference in mind. My extensive knowledge and strong foundation in graphic design, typography, and page layout allows me to build web experiences effectively and efficiently in a time sensitive environment. I've been designing and developing for the past 10 years. Work Experience Lead Visual Designer and Front- End Developer VECTOR LAUNCH, INC January 2019 to August 2019 Created new style guides and maintained current brand guidelines for this start-up rocket launch company. Worked closely with the director of marketing and CMO to develop and design ad campaigns, social media assets, user guides, data sheets and additions to the company website.  • Led the design efforts on a government proposal for the United States Air Force. Vector was awarded the $3.4 million bid to provide rocket launch services.  • Developed the visual design system for GalacticSky, the company's software defined satellite platform. Collaborated with software developers and managers to design and develop the second generation customer-facing website to further push marketing efforts. UX Designer / Front- End Developer Contractor SVE, LLC January 2011 to October 2018 Working on web and desktop-based applications for US Sports Timing, including RM Timing Systems (www.rmtimingsystems.com), MyRegNow (www.myregnow.com) and RM Races Live (www.rmraces.live). Handled the design and front- end development of a race results platform, registration platform and desktop based application for race event timing. The web applications were built on ASP.NET MVC Razor, Knockout JS, jQuery and the Twitter Bootstrap framework. The services are used widely throughout the US and has been currently adopted to other countries around the world. Also worked on over 20 race event micro-sites running on content management systems with custom-built themes.  • Collaborated with over a dozen race organizers to design event themed web sites  • Web-based applications developed to be fully responsive in layout and contain an extensive enterprise-level administration section  • Event results pages have received over 50,000 unique page hits each day  • Worked closely with back- end programmers to improve page speed load Art Director & Web Interface Designer MATRIXWEBS.COM, LLC June 2005 to December 2010 Oversee art and design direction of all projects from beginning (client interviews) to end (production and publishing). Specializing in website design/development, and identity/print design. Juggling multiple projects at a time with direct client interaction.  • Led design and front- end development for SaaS applications including an on-line  file scanning suite and time tracking software Web Developer & Designer ACTIVO, INC 2008 to 2009 Design the user experience for various websites. Production of HTML prototypes, revisions and supplying organized source files for back- end developers. Graphic Designer SPARTAN BOOKSTORE 2004 to 2005 Ad and poster design for seasonal promotions. Management of products on the bookstore website. Product photography and editing for the web. Collaborated directly with the store director and others on the marketing team. Education Bachelor of Arts in Design Studies Graphic Design SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY - San Jose, CA August 2000 to June 2005 GED SILVER CREEK HIGH SCHOOL - San Jose, CA August 1996 to June 2000 Skills Front-end, Prototyping, Web design, Ux design, Graphic design, Illustrator, Wordpress, Visual studio, Docker, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Vs code, Svn, Asp, Css, Mvc, Ux, Ui, Front End, CSS3, Front End, Jquery, CSS3, HTML5, User Interface Links http://www.edwardmargallo.com https://www.behance.net/edwardmargallo https://stackoverflow.com/users/286455/edwardm Additional Information SKILL SET   • UI / UX Design   • Graphic Design  • Rapid Prototyping  • Responsive Web Design  • Logo & Identity Design  • HTML, CSS, SCSS  • Bootstrap, Grid, Flexbox  • jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile  • Intermediate JavaScript  • Semantics and Structured Data  • SEO and Page Speed Optimization  • Wordpress CMS, Orchard CMS  • Gitlab, Azure DevOps, SVN, JIRA  • WPF/XAML  • Adobe Photoshop  • Adobe Illustrator  • Adobe InDesign  • Adobe XD  • Visual Studio, VS Code  • MS Office, Windows, macOS  • Azure and AWS Experience  • Worked in ASP.NET MVC environments  • Worked in Node / Vue environments  • Experience with Docker Containers