Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Montgomery, TX "Six Sigma Master with multiple skillsets to improve your bottom line"    Bottom-line results-driven professional seeking new career challenges in business administration where a proven work ethic, successful track record, analytical acumen, and various skillsets used to solve complex problems can be fully utilized and further developed supported by multiple years in leading service-driven/consumer product organizations. Exceptional skills in key functions of sales, human resources, marketing, product, change, and financial management. Diverse Qualifications include:    ? Six Sigma Master/ Developer ? Process Improvement ? Business Development  ? Purchasing/Vendor Negotiation ? Pricing/Data Analytics ? Procurement/Planning  ? Supply Chain/Project Management ? Recruiting/Hiring/Training ? P&L Ideologies/Fleet Mgmt.    "Jeff achieved tangible business results by using advanced statistical analysis, project management and data reporting." (CJ Setter, MBB Trainer) Work Experience Front- End Developer August 2014 to Present Self-taught web developer in six months using various languages and libraries such as HTML, CSS, Java-Script, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap and WordPress to produce websites and browser projects for various clients. ( Developer projects listed above) (Inventory Manager/Buyer) Multiple Auctions Manheim, Big H, and Adessa - Houston, TX January 2007 to Present Managed a team or individually purchased inventory at Auto, Marine, RV, Heavy Equipment, Power-Sports and Salvage auctions for resale to commercial/private enterprises and individuals (local, national, and international). Supply Chain Fleet Analyst The Brock Group [Oil and Gas] - Houston, TX July 2014 to February 2015 Hired as a short-term project analyst by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources to help turn around a company's mismanaged and aging Fleet inventory of 1800+ vehicles/equipment which consisted of project site personal work trucks, commercial work trucks, special order project vehicles, project site maintenance equipment and executive company vehicles.    • Helped save $3.4M in six months which had a 3% impact on annual profits.  ? Changed a culture of capital inventory mismanagement by eliminating waste and non-profitable expenditures.  ? A mediator for job sites, company executives, and project managers to manage fleet inventory production needs that were critical to job site profits.  ? Recruited to join a team of seven people to get a new supply chain department operational in two weeks.    • Performed in depth cost/benefit maintenance repair analysis for tickets from various repair sources by approving and denying Fleet inventory management expenditures for project job sites.  ? Replaced and procured "Just-in-time" Fleet inventory for project job sites for maximum industrial service efficiency.  ? Worked with third party vendors to manage fleet inventories to maximize service offerings in various industries such as Oil and Gas, Energy, Construction etc. SAP and CGC ERP acumen. Project Manager/Business Analyst Park and Sell - Conroe, TX January 2005 to December 2008 Ascended quickly through ranks with increased responsibility & various management assignments that positioned the company to capitalize on new growth and development. Managed high-value key accounts and projects in the private and public sectors while overseeing diversified product inventories and negotiated contracts to expand those inventories.    • Launched change management strategies that exceeded projected improvements by 65%.  ? Instituted TQM into business policies and designed a seasonal inventory procurement control system which increased economic performance by 70% and slashed unnecessary operating expenses by 55%.  ? Organized new supply chain parts distribution channel networks that increased customer savings by 60%.  ? Implemented new online sales strategy/process market focus for auto distribution that added $4M in gross margin while recruiting, hiring, and training personnel.    • Created and implemented a multiple year strategic business plan for a "hybrid startup" and established new territory sales teams, ultimately growing sales from $2M to $10M through performance standards.  ? P&L responsibilities that increased operating income from break even to $6M.  ? Negotiated long and short term contract agreements for rapid inventory expansion and govt. disaster relief.    COMPUTER APPLICATION EXPERIENCE  Microsoft Office: (PowerPoint, Word, Access, Excel, Outlook, Visio), Microsoft Windows, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, WordPress, SQL, Audio and Video Multimedia Projects using Nero, E-bay Linked-In Lion (27,600) connections, Social media, E-Commerce, Torrents, Cloud Seed-boxes, ERP systems, Six Sigma projects Education MBA in Business Texas A&M University Commerce December 2012 Bachelor's in Business Administration Stephen F. Austin State University - Nacogdoches, TX December 2002 Certifications/Licenses Six Sigma Master Black Belt June 2015 to Present