Cloud Engineer Cloud Engineer Cloud Engineer - Homeland Security DHS Lorton, VA Work Experience Cloud Engineer Homeland Security DHS - Washington, DC January 2019 to Present • Design and deploy cloud solutions on AWS.  • Managed configuration and connectivity of customer virtual networks through VMware tools.  • Providing technical support for O365/EMS services while working closely with Microsoft.  • Developed Collibra Connect custom integrations for data ingestion (Data Service Agreements, Data Elements, Data Quality Controls, Data Quality Results) into Collibra. Consultant/Admin DDE Consulting Service - Washington, DC November 2017 to December 2018 • Development and implementation of various applications using SharePoint, .NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET, CSS, JavaScript/JQuery and REST.  • Creating intranet and Internet sites on SharePoint 2013/2016 on cloud within Office 365 provided site collection, customizing the look and feel, setting up the complete user environment / permissions.  • Developed solution requirements, identified and applied Agile best practices, and created development roadmap.  • Created Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with Private and Public Subnets.  • Developed, tested and integrated commercial products into Amazon Web Services (AWS) using AWS EC2, EBS, Trusted Advisor, S3, Cloud Watch, Snapshot, Cloud Front, IAM, Security Groups, Auto-Scaling.  • Redesigned infrastructure for high availability using multiple AWS availability zones. Junior Front End Developer DHS TSA Accenture Federal - Chantilly, VA August 2016 to September 2017 • Developed SharePoint Site for CCMS application- a web-based application that resides on iShare platform.  • Design, develop, test and deploy SharePoint Server 2013 farm/sandbox solutions and apps in an on-premise environment.  • Developed web parts based on requirements using HTML/DHTML/XML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed, developed, and published InfoPath forms to work with SP lists, libraries and forms and attached it with workflow.  • Used SSRS to build numerous excellent reports both using Database SQL and SharePoint Lists as data source.  • Designed powerful custom workflow (list, reusable and site) using SharePoint Designer to automate business process. SharePoint Developer Bench Mark Management LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to December 2016 • SharePoint developer responsible in implementing advanced SharePoint features, establish standards and accepted practices.  • Developed ASP .Net REST services in C#, implemented AJAX, JavaScript, call code to retrieve JSON data and update front- end for highly interactive web pages and web applications.  • Maintained Active Directory users and groups for implementing security.  • Creating, monitoring and managing user accounts and monitoring Service health in Office 365.  • Deploy, Configure and Maintain VM's on Azure Cloud. Application Developer VSE Corporation - Alexandria, VA August 2013 to June 2014 • Worked through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle and post production support.  • Used VS to develop, package ASP.NET solutions and deploy to a supplemental Infrastructure that hosts IIS website.  • Designed and maintained unique looks and feel of sites using CSS, JavaScript and HTML. Additionally designed and manipulated these pages using SharePoint Designer.  • Developed solutions (Site definition, Content Type, Lists Definitions and Visual web parts) using visual studio and deployed them using PowerShell.  • Closely worked with business analyst in gathering business and functional requirements. Systems Engineer General Dynamics - Woodbridge, VA February 2008 to July 2013 • Performed E2E systems engineering, integration and testing of SATCOM systems of combat vehicles. Extensive experience with AN/PRC-117 & AN/PRC-155 UHF SATCOM radios.  • Provided Systems Engineering support to the MK46 weapon systems. Participated in technical interchange meetings.  • Served as a lead for the Integrated Product Teams to execute System Engineering tasks.  • Prepared engineering documentation including specifications, drawings, test procedures, test reports. Prepared problem reporting and configuration management processes using Clear Quest, DOORS, RSD and CMMI application software.  • Prepared software failure reports for analysis of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV) and Stryker Programs.  • Performed root cause analysis of field trouble reports for STRs (System Trouble Reports). Patent Engineer US Patent & Trademark Office - Alexandria, VA September 2006 to January 2008 Served as an engineer in the investigation and preparation of comprehensive reports for electrical circuitry including various types of Flat-Panel Display technology such as AMLCD (Active Matrix-LCD), PMLCD (Passive Matrix LCD). Test Engineer Kulicke & Soffa Industries - Milpitas, CA February 2000 to August 2006 • Responsible for test programs generation on automation machines for various product applications such as Flip chip/BGA/wire bond. Extensively used ScanMan, MicroCraft and PCM.  • Configured, installed and test complex server architectures and component configurations in a server platform.  • Developed procedures and activities of testing the Server, firewalls protection devices, Network and Storage. Designed and fabricated circuit boards for testing purpose. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Dayton - Dayton, OH Skills LABVIEW, PCM, HP3070, TERADYNE, OSCILLOSCOPES, Python Certifications/Licenses AWS (Amazon Web Service) Certified Solutions Architect April 2019 to Present AWS (Amazon Web Service) Developer Associate May 2018