Senior Software Engineer, Hawser, Remote Senior Software Engineer, Hawser, Remote Senior Front- end Engineer - Talus Analytics Longmont, CO Work Experience Senior Software Engineer, Hawser, Remote hawser.org 2016 to Present I am a partner at Hawser, a personal media start-up. I am currently the sole engineer (working a few hours a week). For more information, see  http://hawser.org.  • Leadership: Partner in making business decisions, future product decisions  and current product direction.  • Technologies: Scala, Html, Javascript, CSS, Postgresql, Mobile, Ionic, Cordova, Angular 5, Typescript. Senior Front- end Engineer Talus Analytics - Boulder, CO February 2019 to August 2019 Accomplishments: Contributed on four different products. Played a major role  in designing the new software architecture for all products going forward.  • Technologies: React, React Hooks, HTML, JavaScript, SASS, D3 JavaScript  library, Pycharm (IntelliJ). Senior Full-Stack Engineer Lena - Boulder, CO 2018 to 2019 • Leadership: Designed the LENA Speed Test feature.  • Accomplishments: Increased development time from three to five features  per development cycle.  • Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, Java, Hibernate, SQL  Server, D3 JavaScript library, IntelliJ, (and a little Vue JS). Senior UI Engineer, Here Nokia - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2017 • Leadership: Lead developer on three projects.  • Accomplishments: Redesigned and implemented the UI for the Leaf product.  • Technologies: Angular JS, JQuery, JQueryUI, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bower, Grunt, Java, Groovy, Grails, Mongo, IntelliJ, Agile, OpenLayers. Senior Front End / Full Stack Engineer Firstlook Systems - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2014 • Leadership: Senior developer on the Firstlook product.  • Accomplishments: Created the tasks and estimates for the 3.0 release of the Firstlook product (within two months of being hired). Wrote software for all  technology stacks.  • Technologies: JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, JSP, JSTL, Java, C#, Amazon S3, SQL  Server, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Agile. Senior Front End / Full Stack Engineer Westell - Aurora, IL 2010 to 2012 • Leadership: Interviewed, hired and led an 8 person contractor team.  • Accomplishments: Wrote many design specifications for the HomeCloud product.  Coded the application framework and the applications ( front- end and back- end).  • Technologies: JQuery, JQuery UI, JavaScript, HTML, Felix OSGI, Smart Google  Web Toolkit (Smart GWT), Java, Eclipse, Linux, Agile, Scrum. Front End Software Engineer Panduit - Orland Park, IL 2009 to 2010 • Leadership: Led the initiative to evolve the Data Center Manager product.  • Accomplishments: Coded prototypes of the new product in both Flash/Flex and Silverlight, as well as maintained the current product.  • Technologies: Flex/Flash, FlashBuilder 4, Silverlight, SOAP, J2EE, Jboss, Java  Swing, Tortoise SVN, and Eclipse. Game Developer 1st Playable - Troy, NY 2009 to 2009 • Leadership: Designed and coded exceptional cut-scenes.  • Accomplishments: Worked on four game titles in three months.  • Technologies: C++, Visual Studio, Nintendo DS Development Kit, Tortoise SVN. Java Front- end Lead Rest Web UI 2001 to 2009 programmer Telecom Software Engineer Alcatel-Lucent - Naperville, IL 1990 to 2009 Leadership: Lead front- end Engineer on over 50 new features. Led various  development teams on those features. Vastly reduced programming effort by creating a framework to display all of the equipment pages. Authored the Web  UI standards.  • Accomplishments: Provided great user experiences. Created hundreds of equipment images, with an eye for color balance, shading, and 3D effects.  Invented a new approach to displaying Layer 2 connections. Created the company's first real-time REST Web UI.  • Technologies: Java, Java Swing, NetBeans, Fireworks, AdventNet NMS, Linux, HTML, Javascript, JSP, AJAX, EXT, Eclipse, Subversion, ClearCase, C++, HP  OpenView, 4ESS Programming language. Education MS in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL BS in Electronics Engineering Technology DeVry University - Chicago, IL Music North Central University - Minneapolis, MN Skills Javascript Links http://soulguardian.info Additional Information • Software Engineer for 28 years.  • Experienced mentor and superior software architect.  • Going beyond implementing specifications, constantly working with product owners to  create the best possible product.  • Quickly becoming a leader and subject-matter expert, taking ownership of projects and  functional areas.  • Interviewed many engineers, having a high degree of success choosing the best people.  • Making project-level decisions, achieving more than my sprint commitments and helping  others make theirs.  • Focused on delivering products in the simplest, most efficient manner possible, knowing  that simplicity is the key to high quality.  • Not merely a fan of all that is new and shiny, but determining the best technologies to  complete projects in the shortest time.  • Blind to status, learning from all who have fresh ideas and solutions.  • Mastery in authoring specifications, writing design documents, and creating Agile user  stories.  • Able and eager to learn new technologies such as React/Redux, VueJS, AWS,  Typescript, Ruby/Rails, etc.  • View my personal website, http://soulguardian.info, for more detailed information.    Recent endeavors include lead roles in designing React and AngularJS Web applications. Direct  experience in the following technologies: React, Angular, JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, AJAX,  JSON, Restful Web Services, Bower, Grunt, Groovy, Java, Scala, C#, JSP, SQL Server, Mongo  and MySQL. Operating systems and development platforms include Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual  Studio, Windows, Linux, Git, and designing images. Personal creative endeavors include  designing games.