Front End Developer, UX Designer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, UX Designer Front End Developer Charlotte, NC Enthusiastic front end web developer, looking for a mutually beneficial role where I can continue to grow into web development by solving meaningful problems for a progressive organization. Proven track record of timely execution, with a strong sense of ownership and responsibility. I have a four year foundation as a freelance front end developer, and over 10 years of experience as a designer. Persistent and curious, constantly pursuing self-education on new skills to diversify myself as a developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer, UX Designer Freelance/Self employed - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to Present I have worked with clients on freelance development and design projects, including front end development and UX design. I have helped small companies achieve creative solutions within a set of constraints, be it budget, quick turnaround, or a refresh of their brand. I handle the entire development from research and conceptualizing, to coding, to testing and deploying the websites.  • Responsive web development and UX design using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap for Bean Vegan Cuisine.  • Responsive web development and UX design using HTML, CSS, CSS Grid, Flexbox, Boostrap, JavaScript, and JQuery for daynya.com and strongassyoga.com.  • WordPress layout and content updating for Namaste Green health coaching. Designer Arzberger Stationers - Charlotte, NC July 2011 to Present • Solely responsible for maintenance and updates of company WordPress website. This includes editing and updating photos, content, and making changes to the current site design.  • Consulted on UX design of arzbergerstationers.com throughout the build of the site.  • Conceptualized and designed a web-based catalog of products to supplement the current physical offering available to customers. This will eventually turn into an online ordering portal.  • Worked on developing the current product line, from which the company sells. Participated in the design process, surveying current market trends and implementing them in a way that speaks to our demographic.  • Provided creative direction for my entire time at this company. This has given me hands on experience with working on teams, taking design feedback, and contributing to projects beyond my personal scope of experience. Graphic Designer Daynya Quigley - Charlotte, NC January 2004 to Present I have worked with clients for over a decade on freelance graphic design projects, including branding and logo creation, as well as designing of printed materials. I have helped small companies achieve creative solutions within a set of constraints, be it budget, quick turnaround, or a refresh of their brand. This involves research, studying of customer demographics, helping clients figure out what will attract customers, and assisting them in achieving their vision.  • Teacher training manual design and layout for Yoga Shala Charlotte.  • Branding and logo design for Tom Jones Construction, First Settlers Lodge, Penny Rae Vintage, Bizzy Coworking. Designer/Customer Service JM Graphics - Charlotte, NC February 2008 to June 2011 Efficient design and production of commercial print projects in a fast paced, high volume work environment. This often involved short deadlines and finding solutions to urgent design issues, while maintaining maximum efficiency. Strong customer and inter-team communication skills to create products that exceeded customer expectations. Production Manager Catawba Publishing August 2007 to February 2008 Supervision of the overall production process of paperback books. To improve efficiency and accuracy, I implemented new work flow management processes, and was a communication liaison between sales, customer service, design, and production. Education Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design in General Assembly La Roche College - Seattle, WA Multimedia Communications Community College of Allegheny County - Pittsburgh, PA Links https://daynya.com