WEB DEVELOPER, Freelance WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span>, Freelance Web Developer Miami, FL Work Experience WEB DEVELOPER, Freelance Frontend and Backend January 2011 to Present development in HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and PHP.  • Build templates to be later developed and implemented into a final product.  • Test website/web application compatibility on multiple browsers and debug for errors.  • Set up web server hosting, infrastructure maintenance and traffic monitoring. DEPLOYMENT CONSULTANT Acceleration eMarketing, Inc February 2017 to March 2019 • Build emails and SMS campaigns for the Customer in the Salesforce Platform  • Manage the customer's email campaign calendar to ensure that regularly-scheduled sends are completed in a timely fashion, and that unscheduled sends are executed in accordance with pre- agreed customer deadlines  • Perform campaign-specific testing to validate functional and rendering performance of the emails and SMS campaigns  • Manage customer revision and approval process through the deployment of proofs  • Manage subscriber data, import and segmentation using a combination of messaging tools and database queries  • Monitor the campaign post-deployment to validate completion and communicate accordingly to the Customer  • Co-ordinate client reporting and post-deployment  • Collaborate with email Marketing Services Manager and email Campaign Managers to manage, create and deploy campaigns on behalf of Acceleration and Salesforce customers WEB DEVELOPER Y&R Miami January 2016 to July 2016 • Design marketing emails with Adobe Photoshop then code them in HTML and CSS.  • Create ad banners in Flash, HTML5, JavaScript, and GreenSockJS.  • Plan the architecture for secure, encrypted websites using JavaScript and PHP frameworks.  • Developed a successful microsite for a contest which increased brand awareness for one of our clients in Brazil.  • Lead the initial discussion about which technologies to use on in-house and client websites.  • Spearhead a small team from several departments, working between them to stay as close as possible to the client's vision and creative design.  • Maintain company website through WordPress. Update templates periodically. FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER Red Fish Media, LLC January 2016 to February 2016 • Developed promotional websites for clients using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Code search algorithm to query client website with JavaScript through a JSON formatted database.  • Link up the front end with the backend using AJAX and RESTful services.  • Implement responsive design with Twitter Bootstrap, based on PSDs provided by the creative team. ASST. GRAPHIC DESIGNER & CODER, Bush Renz, LLC July 2015 to January 2016 • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP develop client websites.  • Retouch and manipulate photographs in Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Setup the local network infrastructure using OS X Server and also helped with the onboarding process of new employees.  • Administer G Suite (formerly Google Apps for Work) accounts and Applications.  • Design page mockups and wireframes.  • Meet ever changing deadlines with short notice. WEB DEVELOPER eMerge Americas April 2015 to May 2015 • Worked nonstop, around the clock, updating the company website before and after the event.  • Helped reduce server bandwidth costs and speed up performance with image and code optimizations.  • Design and implement custom website templates for WordPress.  • Update social media accounts for eMerge Americas.  • Promote event schedule and ticket sales through Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. SOFTWARE SUPPORT SPECIALIST Phunware, Inc July 2014 to February 2015 • Responsible for phone and email support with end users.  • Code the initial template using HTML, CSS and JavaScript for in-house CMS for clients on a daily bases.  • Train users via an online webinar, on the use of the software and how to maintain their own database.  • Call clients to schedule meetings and answer escalated help desk tickets.  • Maintain a large database of customers which would be updated every day and generate a report of all changes weekly.  • QA software for front and back end users. Validating fixes and reporting any new bugs.  • Work closely with programmers to ensure functionality of proprietary in-house software. GRAPHIC DESIGNER, Freelance October 2006 to January 2011 • Design logos, flyers, infographics and business cards with Adobe Photoshop.  • Present new branding and marketing strategies. Work on company presentation decks for a pitch.  • Create custom typography and SVG graphics in Adobe Illustrator.  • Redesign websites and implement user friendly interfaces. Education Associate in Computer Science Miami Dade College - Miami, FL 2003 to 2004 Skills Git, HTML (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), Wordpress, PHP, AngularJS (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), Jquery, C#, NET, Bootstrap 4, ReactJS (3 years), Bootstrap, Angular, Front End Links http://www.hospedales.com Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2014 to Present Salesforce.com Email Specialist April 2017 to Present