Full Stack .NET/Web Designer/ Developer Full Stack .NET/Web Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .NET/Web Designer/ Developer - Capital One Seattle, WA, WA • Over 7+ years of experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Coding, Testing, Implementation & Product support of various applications with involvement in all stages of software development life cycle.  • Experience in developing Web based applications and Client-Server technologies using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML/DHTML & XML, DOM, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular.JS/Angular2, TypeScript and JSON.  • Experienced in Web applications using ASP.NET WEB API, WIN FORMS, WWF, WCF, WPF, LINQ, MSMQ and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using RESTful, Web Services (WSDL, XSD, XAML, XSLT, XML & SOAP).  • Experience on RESTful API's, Design patterns(MVC(RAZOR), MVP, MVVM) code-first initial developments, Telerik, MVC controls, AJAX controls, VBScript, Visual Basic, developing using the N-tier architectures and applications.  • Experience in developing applications front end using AngularJS, Angular2/4, DOM, Knockout JS, Node JS, HTML 5, DHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript framework, Crystal report 9, MS Access, Expression (Blend and Design), AJAX controls, jQuery, VBScript.  • Solid understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD& OOPS) Dependency Injection, UML and RDBMS principles.  • Extensive experience in .NET Technologies .NET Framework 4.5, 4.0, 3.5, 2.0, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ.  • Strong knowledge in building applications in Electron.  • Worked on POC to create modular desktop app on Electron compiler with latest JavaScript ES6 Using react.js.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  • Proficient at developing Single Page Application (SPA) with AngularJS controllers, directives, factories, services, routing, DOM manipulation using JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS/2/4. Experience in MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular 2 and NodeJS) Stack application development.  • Good experience in ASP.NET server controls and AJAX controls such as Script Manager, Update Panel and Modal Popup Extender.  • Experience in using third party controls like Telerik, Infragistic, Fusion charts and Far point.  • Hands-on experience using one-way/two-way data-binding, filters, UI-routers and creating custom directives in Angular 2.  • Experience in creating, and publishing Web API (REST), Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) and WCF Services.  • Having Knowledge of Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules, familiar with Node.js, React JS, Grunt and Gulp.  • Mobile: IBM Worklight, Cordova, Objective-C, Android, J2ME, PhoneGap, Titanium  • IBM Enterprise Modernization: IBM Worklight, IBM Portal, IBM HATS  • Proficiency in multiple databases likes MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Sybase.  • Experience using Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS) and SVN for version Control.  • Extensive experience in relational database development, for creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions using T-SQL and PL/SQL in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Worked with IIS and .NET Assemblies during application deployment and experience in using XML Serialization.  • Having great Experience in developing and utilizing SharePoint components including templates, forms, custom lists.  • Created and maintained SSIS packages to Import/Export data from flat files, XML, Excel and Oracle.  • Developing SSIS transformations utilizing various tasks and transformations like Control flow task, data flow task, script task etc., and transformations such as Lookup, Derived Column, Conditional Split, Data Conversion etc.  • Expertise in designing and deployment of Reports for the End-User request using SSRS and tableau, crystal reports and created many Drill through, Drill Down, Matrix/Tabular Reports, charts, parameterized reports using SSRS.  • Proficient in Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design Pattern, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Created Angular2 components, implemented Interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator.  • Extensively used new software tools in designing user interfaces and adapt to the changing environment.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework in the browser, event-driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA, GitHub, Rally and Jenkins.  • Experienced in working with Angular2 components like Directives, Service Interface, Polymer.  • Expertise in maintains websites, software and understanding and modifying existing code.  • Experienced in Testing frameworks with mocha, chai, Protractor & Jasmine.  • Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code.  • Extensive Knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Backbone.js, AngularJS, Underscore.js, and Bootstrap.  • Good report creation skills using Microsoft Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS with proficiency in using Report Designer as well as Report Builder.  • Good in creating stored procedures, Triggers, Functions and Optimizing Queries for performance by looking at execution plan using MS-SQL Server.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like MySQL.  • Integrating Flex and React apps with Node.js backend on an embedded serve.  • Experienced in ECMAScript 5&6 (ES 5/ES 6) feature like default parameters, Template literals, Multi line strings etc.  • Implemented IBM WorkLight & IBM Portal Responsive Integration design Architecture.  • Assist with configuration of network infrastructure within Azure including, storage, load balancing, virtual machines.  • Experience in dealing with Windows Azure IaaS - Virtual Networks, Virtual Machines, Cloud Services, Resource Groups, Express Route, Traffic Manager, VPN, Load Balancing, Application Gateways, Auto-Scaling.  • Team Player with Focused/Committed / Get-the-Job-Done Attitude, highly organized and able to work independently.  • Highly Curious about new front- end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Able to effectively communicate with wide range of clients and coworkers.  • Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack .NET/Web Designer/ Developer Capital One - McLean, VA April 2017 to Present Description: Company provides retail, commercial, and corporate banking services to individuals, businesses, and institutions. The company Community Banking segment offers checking and market rate accounts, savings and time deposits, individual retirement accounts, and remittances and lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education and residential mortgage loans and credit and debit cards    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 4.0 along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  • Implemented React.JS on the front- end side which uses ES6 classes combined with JSX files to create React JS components, also used node.js with NPM, web pack, CSS3, bootstrap, and html5.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 5.0 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in TypeScript, HTML5 and CSS3 using the latest web.  • Worked on POC to create modular desktop app on Electron compiler with latest JavaScript ES6 Using react.js.  • The project operates on Agile project development cycle with Bi-weekly sprints, daily standup, retrospective sessions and sprint planning.  • Developed responsive, elegant views for web designing using the Angular JS 2.0/4.0 and Bootstrap Frameworks  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4.  • Expertise on MVC frameworks like Angular.JS for creating Single-Page Applications(SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives.  • Business end user facing front pages using Angular JS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Used Bootstrap 3 framework for making responsive web designing and mobile-first web interface  • Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript  • Implemented to making browser compatibility and mobile friendly using Bootstrap Library.  • Extensively involved in coding with Angular JS 2.0/4.0 and java script to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar  • Implemented grid modules in React.JS combined with AngularJS for increased performance.  • Developed React classes in JSX and added event handlers.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implementing Unit Testing with jasmine & karma from client side and analyzed code coverage.  • Developed application using ASP.NET Core along with a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Build and deployed ASP.NET Core application to Azure Cloud Service.  • Involved in implementation of Object Oriented Concepts during the development.  • Responsible for UI design with Angular, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Html5, CSS3.  • Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization.  • Implemented layout in portrait and landscape mode using resolution screen available according to the device and Android backward compatibility.  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Built Custom Web Parts for SharePoint Portal using ASP.Net.  • Tested all the modules with unit testing with the help of mocha, fail-tests & making it to work, also used Jasmine & postman to test API coming from Express JS.  • Developed Web API's to receive and send JSON messages and web services using WCF.  • Integrated external libraries and RESTful APIs into Android apps using Entity Framework.  • Handled local data storage using SQLite, wrote SQL query interface to store, delete, update, sort user and ticket data.  • Successfully migrated an application developed in Angular 1.6 to Angular 2.0  • Created various stored procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports using SQL reporting services (SSRS).  • Created SSIS packages and migrated data between different databases.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular2, MVC5, TypeScript, React.JS, Agile, Bootstrap, WCF, REST API's, Web pack, TSLint, MAC and Visual Studio. Full Stack .NET/Web Developer Bank of New York Mellon - Boston, MA April 2016 to March 2017 Description: The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly referred to as BNY Mellon, is an American worldwide banking and financial services holding company headquartered in New York City. BNY Mellon has always been at the forefront of innovation, leading the way with new thinking as well as products and services designed to help clients succeed. From cloud computing to mobile platforms to big data technologies it is creating new ways for developing and delivering solutions to clients. NEXEN is a new open source, cloud based technology platform is designed to empower clients. The project uses HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js and jQuery in the front end, Agile development Methodology JIRA for issue tracking.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed client business requirements, worked with business and design team to refine and implement requirements for UI solutions.  • Worked with an Agile, Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with monthly iteration, involved in sprint planning and retrospectives.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Developed Angular.JS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models.  • Used Angular.JS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller, ng-route etc.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services.  • Developing WCF Services, involved in defining Endpoints, Data Contracts, Message Contracts, Bindings, Session Management, and Transaction management in service layer.  • Also created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  • Worked on AngularJS, used its two-way data binding to achieve the feedback functionality from the user and $event. stop Propagation () for nested clicks on a section.  • Created many controllers for each page with dependencies included such as $q, $location, $window, $routeParams and all the services to be used on the controller.  • Created the tree view structure and search functionality for the list of contracts in application configure page.  • Worked on POC to create modular desktop app on Electron compiler with latest JavaScript ES6 Using react.js.  • Compiling the application and implemented tasks using Grunt like preprocess, JSCS and karma  • Worked on form validations and drop-down menus for contract creation page.  • Utilized Angular UI-bootstrap and followed EY styling standards.  • Involved in Angular JS training and future implementation for EY Leases phase II.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code management.  • Used Web based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features like GIT-LAB and GIT-HUB.  • Closely worked with QA for fixing the desk check observations.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Agile, Bootstrap, WEB API's, ASP.NET, C#, TFS, SQL Server, NPM, Windows and Visual Studio. NET/Web Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to March 2016 Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States, and provides broadband subscription television services through DirecTV. AT&T is going to introduce a cloud-based DVR streaming service as part of its effort to create a unified platform across DirecTV and its DirecTV Now streaming service with U-verse. The aim of the project was to reduce the time taken to process the applications. Development included user management feature User Interfaces (UI) using Angular.js, jQuery, ASP.Net MVC 4.5 using industry best practices. NET/Web Developer TFS April 2014 to June 2015 Environment: Visual studio 2015, Angular2, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC, LINQ, WCF, MS SQL 2012, JQuery, IIS 7.0, T-SQL, CSS, JavaScript, XML, HTML, Typescript, Entity Framework, SSIS, SSRS, Team Foundation Server(TFS) and Agile.    .NET/Web Developer April 2014 to June 2015  Client: Ernst & Young, Tysons Corner, VA  Description: Ernst & Young (EY) is a multinational professional services firm. The organization operates as a network of member firms which are separate legal entities in individual countries. This project involved the development of EY Leases Accounting Navigator Tool that helps to track the contracts or lease information of the company properties.    Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Created user interface using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Bootstrap is used for making the pages responsive to the changes in User Interfaces  • Worked on MVC framework like AngularJS as a development framework to build single page applications.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge.  • Experience with jQuery, Angular JS in templating and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using JavaScript and ASP.NET validation controls for performing Form Validations.  • Worked with technologies like jQuery and Ajax to make more attractive and easy to use website.  • Worked on developing web application on a mobile platform using jQuery mobile, jQuery Google API plugin.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Involved in the development of SOAP-based XML Web Services like Financial account management and Purchase Orders which forms the business logic components of the system.  • Used Grunt as the automated task runner for a better development/build/production workflow  • Used Node.js (npm) as the package manager for development workflow dependent plugins.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, and Google Chrome.  • Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify.  • Collaboration with team members design, analysis, coding, testing, and review website.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, Agile, Adobe Photoshop, Bootstrap, Ajax, SOAP, JSON, jQuery. NET/UI Developer IBM - New York, NY July 2013 to March 2014 Description: IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York with operations in over 170 countries. IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software and offers hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. IBM has a large and diverse portfolio of products and services. These offerings fall into the categories of cloud computing, cognitive computing, commerce, data and analytics, IT Infrastructure, mobile and security.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, and jQuery UI.  • Used jQuery to handle the client-side validations.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages.  • Used to update the HTML pages using jQuery, Ajax via JSON response.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter.  • Involved in Writing, Modifying complex Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Developing User Control for Common Functionality in the ASP.NET.  • Performed validations using Validation Controls.  • Used Bootstrap front- end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database as the backend.  • Used AngularJS to develop a standalone test application, in the scope of future usage of the framework.  • Creating browser compatibility web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox.  • Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM.  • Performing new website support research in the areas of Latest Web Technologies, Usability, Accessibility, and User Experience.  Environment: Visual Studio.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript, SQL Server, XML, CSS, C#.NET, HTML, CSS, Angular.JS, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Eclipse, Bootstrap. NET/Web Developer TriHealth - Cincinnati, OH June 2012 to July 2013 Description: TriHealth is the integrated health care system that formed as a partnership between Good Samaritan Hospital and Bethesda Hospital, Inc. TriHealth is a full-service, not-for-profit health system that provides a wide range of clinical, educational, preventive and social programs. The Enterprise Data warehouse has all the data from Patient, Physician and Hospital perspective. The Clinical Warehouse has data about the Patient Encounters, Diagnosis and Results.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Webpages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery CSS and server controls.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Used various server controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Developed Custom Controls and User controls for reusable part of the web pages using C# with ASP.NET.  • Worked with AJAX enabled WCF services using C# and ASP.NET.  • Implemented the functionality for the plugin using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, WCF and Entity Framework.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Developed front- end using AngularJS, jQuery, HTML based on MVC architecture.  • Used LINQ Data context object with ADO.NET Entity Framework for LINQ, invoked tables and stored procedures.  • Extensively worked with Controllers, Directives, Scope, Model and Modules in AngularJS.  • Extensively used MVC for the designing on multiple devices.  • Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of the Nunit testing framework.  • Used Validation Controls for corresponding validations required for business logic in Web Forms.  • Worked on T-SQL programming (triggers/views/functions) in SQL Server including data integrity and schema enhancements.  • Developed Web Pages using SPA (Single Page Applications) Framework, HTML, CSS, Angular JS.  • Used Entity Framework Code First Approach and LINQ to create the data layer for the application.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2010, Implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables.  • Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source code control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.  • Integrated custom Administration Back- End into SiteFinity CMS.  • Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.  • Modified applications according to the user's requirements.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#.Net, ADO.NET, OOP, XML, AJAX, WCF, WPF, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, IIS 6.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, MVC, SOA, SQL Server, SSRS, SSIS, Win Forms, T-SQL, AngularJS, TFS, TDD, NUnit, HTML, and DHTML. Front End Developer Computer Science Corp - San Francisco, CA January 2011 to June 2012 Description: Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) was an American multinational corporation that provided information technology (IT) services and professional services. CSC initially provided programming tools such as compiler and assembling software. CSC provided software writing services to major computer manufacturers like IBM and Honeywell and secured their first contracts for the U.S. public sector with NASA. CSC ranked among the leading IT service providers in the world. It provides application services will helps to develop, manage and modernize apps to accelerate the digital transformation and the business results. It provides the Enterprise and Cloud application services to deliver value and innovation to the enterprise applications, with industry, business process and systems integration services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front- end code using advanced JavaScript, jQuery, HTML & CSS techniques, with a focus on object-oriented design.  • Created the user interface for all the static and dynamic pages.  • Coded application logic in ASP.NET using C# as code behind.  • Designed end user interface using Web-forms in ASP.NET with various Validations Controls.  • Developed data layer logic for user logging which lets user to access the specified services.  • Coded and optimized ADO.NET for data access.  • Consumed Web Service for searching the files and logging into the application at the company.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page.  • Extensively used the jQuery library for visual effects, event handling, and document manipulation.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Resolved several cross-browser compatibility issues across application pages.  • Tested for compliance with specified standards such as accessibility standards in the client's region or domain.  Conducted observational user testing, or reviewing designs against usability heuristics.  • Worked together with engineering team to ensure that layouts are developed in a fluid and flexible manner to allow for seamless back- end integration.  • Worked closely with graphic design and user experience teams to ensure industry standards and best practices are being used across all client applications.  • Participated in project planning sessions with project managers, UX team members, and engineers to analyze requirements and outline proposed solutions.  • Developed clean, reusable and well-documented code.    Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER 2008, Web-Services, Visual Studio.NET 2008, Angular.JS, T-SQL, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe. Software Developer Kavayah Solutions Inc June 2009 to January 2011 Description: Kavayah Solutions Inc the subsidiary of Kavayah Solutions Inc. Kavayah Solutions Inc. He has now grown to an extent where it poses a stiff challenge to homegrown software companies in IT global delivery and manpower attraction. It now operates the following business lines from which contributes to worldwide IBM in a global delivery framework: Software Labs (ISL), Research Lab (IRL), Linux Technology Center, Global Business Services (GBS), Global Technology Services (GTS) formerly known as ITD-GD (Information Technology Delivery - Global Delivery), Global Business Solutions Center (GBSC), Sales and Distribution (S&D), Integrated Technology Services (ITS).    Responsibilities:  • Participated in enhancements, design reviews, and ensured design meets functional and operational needs.  • Developed the App using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Servlets.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used ADO.NET technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation of interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  • Implemented DAL using ADO.NET components like Data Set, Data Provider, and Data Reader to store and retrieve database information.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery and .NET Validation Controls for performing client-side validations.  • Designed a Master Page and used CSS for to provide a consistent look and feel of inherited web pages.  • Implemented and Consumed WCF Services.  • Automate financial consolidation process using IBM Worklight custom built in Framework.  • Implementing Agile Methodology for Installation, configuration and administration of IBM WorkLight.  • State Management Techniques are used to maintain state at control level using View State and at application level using Sessions. Wrote SQL Queries, views and stored procedures using T-SQL.  • Involved in Writing SQL, TSQL queries, functions, Stored Procedure, and packages.  • Worked on .NET Security features such as Authentication & Authorization, Forms-based Authentication, Authorizing Users, Roles and User Account Impersonation, tracing.  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control and file sharing.  • Performed Unit Testing (Mocking objects) on data access and business access layers.    Environment: Visual Studio 2005, MS SQL Server 2005, C#, ASP.NET, Agile Methodology, Web Services, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MS Visio 2007. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (8 years), ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), C# (7 years), MS ASP (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages .Net Framework, VB.NET, C#, ASP.Net, HTML, T-SQL, VBScript, XHTML, DHTML, WSDL, CSS, XML, XAML.  Operating System Windows NT /Vista/7.  .Net Technologies ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Windows Forms, Web Forms, AJAX, Web Services, ActiveX, WCF, WPF, LINQ.  Web Application Servers IIS 7.0/ 6.0 / 5.0.  Technologies  Angular.JS, Angular2, Angular 4, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Kendo UI, knockout.JS, React.JS HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 3/2, Telerik UI for Silverlight.    RDMS Oracle 10x/11x, MS-SQL Server  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS Package.  IDE Tools Visual Studio 2015, FrontPage, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, UML.  Version control tools Visual Source Safe 6/5, Team Foundation Server.  Methodologies Waterfall and Agile Scrum