UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Interactive Media & Web Specialist Pittsburgh, PA Polyglot programmer and advocate of accessibility, web-standards, and open-source technologies with over 15 years of experience in planning, creating, maintaining, and optimizing interactive experiences. Work Experience UI Developer American Eagle Outfitters - Pittsburgh, PA October 2018 to July 2019 Create temporary experiences and A/B tests through Adobe Target. Implement the Notify Me out-of-stock notification system, which generated over 1000 hits on its first day. Make other solutions permanent in the Ember portion of the UI.    Technologies: EmberJS, Javascript, Adobe Target, HTML5, CSS, GIT, OSX Senior Interactive Developer Garrison Hughes - Pittsburgh, PA April 2018 to September 2018 Create animated html5 ads, build and send email campaigns, manage digital videos, and maintain existing WordPress sites.    Technologies: WordPress, HTML5, CSS3, Animation, Grunt, BASH, GIT, OSX Front- end Developer Barkley REI - Pittsburgh, PA August 2017 to December 2017 Create an Assemble.io front- end, and a WordPress site for two Universities    technologies: WordPress, Assemble.io, Handlebars, Grunt, Bower, yeoman, BASH, GIT, OSX Fullstack/Senior Developer Fireman Creative - Pittsburgh, PA July 2016 to August 2017 Create bespoke WordPress sites mainly in the nonprofit and realty sectors. Creating systems, organizing projects, and working closely with clients to fulfill their vision. Document processes and produce tutorials for clients.    Technologies: WordPress, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, SVG, jQuery, Ansible, Vagrant, Roots.io, BASH, OSX, UBUNTU, Digital ocean    Clients: ISAC Pittsburgh, Out & Equal, Sweet Life at Honey Farms, Curavi Technical Specialist III (Javascript) Contractor at Google - Pittsburgh, PA December 2014 to November 2015 Develop and maintain customizable functions to validate, clean, and optimize product data feeds across various shopping engines for a variety of clients and migrate VBScript to JavaScript.    Achievements: Create a Chrome plugin in 30 minutes to replace the new tabs page with a JavaScript REPL.  Create a function to standardize ISBN, EAN, JAN, and UPC barcodes to GTIN numbers and coalesce to back as many barcode formats as possible.    Technologies: JavaScript, VBScript, BASH, Perforce, Goobuntu/Linux    Clients: Jet.com, Vistaprint, Amazon, Tesco, Neiman Marcus, Walmart, Cabela's, and many more Brander - Team COBRA Branding Brand - Pittsburgh, PA November 2013 to August 2014 Work with critical, major, and minor issues and updates on existing user-friendly cross platform mobile websites and apps for major retailers across the globe.    Technologies: PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Node, SVN, GIT, OSX, Ubuntu/Linux    Clients: American Eagle, Hot Topic, Speedo, Timberland, Tumi Japan, and more Web Developer Skyword - Pittsburgh, PA January 2012 to November 2013 Maintain and implement new features and upgrades in existing custom content publication system, promote and improve best practices.    Achievements: Redesign corporate Wordpress site, maintain internal design & development wiki.    Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery, Java, JSP, Struts2, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, BASH, SVN, OSX Full Stack Web Developer Songwhale - Pittsburgh, PA March 2011 to November 2011 Implement cross-platform mobile websites and multimedia, redesign and modify multiple WordPress sites, templates, and plugins, and modify existing projects. Update and optimize a python game and make it cross-  platform compatible. Setup and administer virtual hosting for projects.    Achievements: Build and execute an email marketing campaign in under 24 hours for DOTS. Launch a web  app for CalU students and professors to create and share decks of flash cards.    Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery, Python, PHP, Photoshop, xHTML/HTML5, CSS3, SQL, MySQL, Postgres, Django, Nginx, WordPress, Sorenson Squeeze, FFmpeg, Bazaar, BASH, Windows, CentOS/Fedora/Linux    Clients: BAMP, UPMC, DOTS, CalU, Clique Vodka, Dibella's Old Fashioned Submarines, Pittsburgh Penguins, Pittsburgh Pirates, and more Web Developer WorldDealer - Pittsburgh, PA March 2008 to April 2010 Maintain and develop eCommerce websites for over 200 automotive dealerships nationwide, including  marketing and mobile sites, custom CMS modules, SEO Optimization, and 3rd party technologies.    Achievements: Create a proprietary search API and associated front- end for use on all sites, create WEP- compatible template for use on all mobile devices    Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery, ColdFusion, Flash/ActionScript 2 & 3, Photoshop, (x)HTML, CSS, msSQL, Windows XP    Clients: Day Automotive, Baierl Automotive, Findlay Auto Group, Kelly Auto Group, and more Multimedia Designer MedRespond - Pittsburgh, PA June 2006 to July 2007 Film, edit, compose, render, optimize, and transcribe thousands of videos for use in an online patient education  system. Design and Animate Marketing materials for print and web.    Achievements: Develop best-practices for compression, storage and playback of all digital media.    Technologies: Flash/ActionScript 2, JavaScript, After Effects, Premiere Pro, Photoshop, Sorenson Squeeze, Windows XP Education Bachelors of Science in Interactive Media Design in Interactive Media Design Art Institute of Pittsburgh 2002 to 2006 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Java, Css, Flash, Illustrator, Microsoft office, Photoshop, Windows xp, Mac, Mac os, Wireframe, UX, Sketch, UI, User Experience Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jkirchartz Additional Information SKILLS    Mac OS 9/X, Windows XP-10, Fedora, Ubuntu/Debian (10+ years), Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop,  Illustrator, Fireworks, Flash, etc) (7 years), GIMP & Inkscape (6 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), JavaScript  (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Python (5 years), PHP (6 years), Java (2 years)    LINKS    http://github.com/jkirchartz    http://jkirchartz.com    http://jkirchartz.com/Glitchy3bitdither/    http://www.linkedin.com/in/jkirchartz