React Developer React <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Vancouver, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience React Developer 503 Collective - Portland, OR February 2019 to Present I am responsible for development in both React and React Native applications in an agile environment using React JSX and Typescript. Typical duties include, integration of third party React libraries including Formik, React Bootstrap, and Auth0, developing and consuming JSON/RESTful APIs and using tools such as Postman, creating React Class and Functional Components using hooks. Technologies include MacOS, Microsoft Visual Studio, Atlassian Jira, Bitbucket and Git. The development environment is start up based, we are building a complete system, backend, middleware and front- end for a large well established client in the automobile sector. There is a small team of dedicated developers on this project who in a short amount of time have built something that we are all very proud of, and I often joke that we are swiss army knives not developers. Full Stack Web Developer Beaming White - Vancouver, WA May 2017 to January 2019 As a LAMP stack developer, I am responsible for helping to build and maintain websites, integration of third party API's, and development of applications that will be used both internally and for consumers.   Custom content solutions and site builds are implemented using Laravel, Vue JS, JavaScript, J Query, Ajax, PHP, MySQL, Eloquent ORM, Propel ORM, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, and Github.   I work closely with multiple departments to assess their technology needs and implement solutions that meet the demands of an ever-changing business environment.   I have built multiple sites that support retail products, including integrations with Groupon, Shipstation, Authorize.net, and Paypal. For the pre-existing brands I have done site maintenance for WooCommerce, Open-Cart and Custom PHP builds, including the integrations necessary to support local and offshore commerce. I have developed multiple WordPress plugins based on specific internal needs.   My most recent projects include a custom CRM and an Inventory Management Software Application. Front End Web Developer HTML Global - Glenview, IL April 2016 to February 2017 I was responsible for full stack web development and site maintenance for a variety of clients including North Chicago Community School District D187.  As a full stack developer it was my responsibility to use design principles for UX / UI and create site mock-ups, then collaborate with clients and address their feedback in the site implementation.   Custom content solutions and site builds were implemented using JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, SFTP/SSH Management, WordPress, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Testing using Frameworks and the Chrome Developer Console, and Hosting on multiple platforms including Media Temple, Engine, and Digital Ocean.  I would manage many of my own projects, budgeting hours for design, development and client training considerations, client facing and customer communication.  Management of offshore resources including budgeting, oversight of workflow, meetings, and progress reporting to other internal departments. Cambia Health IT Staffing Solutions LLC – Portland,OR - Portland, OR January 2016 to April 2016 Responsibilities  Software scripting, hardware deployment, IT Support Services.    Skills Used  Command line scripting, software and hardware. Lead Bartender The Hutch LLC - Portland, OR May 2013 to June 2015 Hiring and training of new employees  • Accounting, Excel Database Management, Inventory Management  • Product Purchasing and Event Promotion Financial Night Auditor Staybridge Suites Portland Airport - Portland, OR September 2012 to May 2013 Accounting and Excel Database Management Summer Housing and Conferencing Coordinator Portland State University - Portland, OR May 2012 to September 2012 Database Management using Conferencing Programming Software  • Coordinated with multiple on campus departments including Facilities Planning and Maintenance  • Bookkeeping and Account Reconciliation  • Seasonal Student Position Bar Manager McMenamins - Portland, OR June 2001 to December 2011 Hiring and training of new employees  • Accounting, Product Purchase, Inventory Management  • Micros Point of Sale Software Programming Education Certificate of Completion in Full Stack Development: Python, Django, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 PDX Code Guild - Portland, OR 2015 to 2015 Bachelor's in Social Science / Public Health Portland State University - Portland, OR 2010 to 2014 Skills Python (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), Django (1 year), HTML5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Linux / Ubuntu (Less than 1 year), Pair Programming (2 years), AWS Deployment (Less than 1 year), Agile (2 years), SDLC (2 years), Project Planning (2 years), Accounting (5 years), Management (8 years), php (3 years), Ajax (2 years), Wordpress (4 years), AngularJS (1 year), Vue JS (1 year), Laravel (2 years), JIRA (2 years), Angular CLI (1 year), MySQL (2 years), Mongo DB (Less than 1 year), JSON (1 year), Mac OS X (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Git (2 years), Node JS (Less than 1 year), Angular (1 year), HTML, Bootstrap, Front End, Jquery, React Native (Less than 1 year), React (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/brandon-estevez/59/235/8b2 https://github.com/bestevez32 Additional Information Soft Skills: Project Planning, Pair Programming, Agile/Scrum, SDLC, Management