Senior Front- end Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- end Developer - Transunion Interactive Inc Castaic, CA • 7+years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of N-Tier Application Systems in Internet environment using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment. Having good experience in developing enterprise applications by writing server-side code with Node.js and Express framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front- end web pages designing with React JS.  • Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript MVC framework such as React JS.  • Expertise in core React JS concepts like Preprocessing JSX with Babel, creating Components with ES6, Creating React component as Stateless component, Virtual DOM, React Props, and Component Lifecycle.  • Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript, jQuery, and React JS.  • Good Experience on modern JS frameworks and libraries such as Angular JS 2/4 and jQuery Bootstrap.  • Good experience on ES6 new features such as Arrow functions, Blocked -scoped constructs, promises etc.  • Familiar in writing Custom Directives in Angular JS 2, create own services, two-way data binding, Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, and complex queries using Oracle 10g/11g and MySQL.  • Experience in working on designing dynamic DB schemas using MongoDB.  • Significant experience in web development tools like Eclipse, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Code, IntelliJ IDEA and NetBeans.  • Good Knowledge in integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front- end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Developed JAVA web and enterprise applications using Core Java, JDBC, JPA, JSP and Spring Frameworks. Work Experience Senior Front- end Developer Transunion Interactive Inc May 2018 to Present Project Description:  The aim of the project was to develop the entire www.tranunion.ca web application routers were used for page navigations with single page application. Walker Sands is seeking a motivated front- end web developer willing to take on challenging projects and find creative solutions, both individually and as part of our team.  Daily work will include building custom websites from design files on our custom in-house CMS, WordPress or other CMS. You will create websites, interactive infographics, landing pages and other types of interactive marketing pieces. You'll be working with a full team of content writers, SEO analysts, back- end developers and designers to create and execute digital strategies.  We work in an open-office environment, which makes it easier to collaborate as we generate new ideas and better processes. We expect employees to be actively engaged in every aspect of their teams and projects, and we encourage our people to generate ideas for their own projects.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Testing of Web Forms. Involved in managing the client meetings, documenting the functional and business requirements.  • Followed agile methodology to develop the software solution.  • Complete code base conversion to React Native with feature parity.  • Worked in Agile methodology by completing the stories/defects in each sprint.  • Developed authentications and authorization modules with Node.JS.  • HP/Autonomy CMS knowledge: Team Site; Open Deploy; Live Site / Site Publisher component development; Live  • Site Runtime Concepts / development.  • Strong in CMS (templates/layouts/contenttree/versions/workflows/publishing/media library).  • Developed responsive applications based on wireframes using HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, grid system.  • Created a build script using gulp.js and node.js for internal use.  • Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Used Gulp to concatenation and minification of JS and CSS files in Application.  • Responsible for setting up the security and bindings for WCF services.  • Created RESTful services to support mobile applications.  • Used AJAX framework to do asynchronous calls to the services wherever needed.  • Created new design and styles for the web pages using AJAX controls in the Ajax Control Toolkit to enhance the aesthetic value of the web pages.  • Used jQuery and JavaScript to implement AJAX calls and other type of client side logic.  • Transition existing React web apps to React Native  • Involved in Code review and bug fixing.  • Involved in defect investigation/verification with the help of Grafana, Splunk and Catch point.  • Writing Splunk Queries, involved in searching, monitoring, analyzing and visualizing Splunk logs.  • Managed SVN repositories for branching, merging, and tagging.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, SCSS, JavaScript (ES5/ES6), Node.JS, Express JS, Web pack, Gulp.js, CMS, Open Text, Splunk, SQL, Agile SCRUM Methodology, Docker and CMS. Senior Front- end Developer Present Software Engineer/ Full Stack Developer Plymouth Rock Assurance - Boston, MA April 2016 to April 2018 Project Description:  Here am responsible for the creation of dynamic content for Plymouth Rock Assurance websites, landing pages, microsites, and content areas. Company Profile Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services. The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments and individuals from more than 1,200 offices in 43 countries. As a market leader, the talent and passion of our people is critical to our success. Together, we share a common set of values rooted in integrity, excellence and strong team ethic. Morgan Stanley can provide a superior foundation for building a professional career - a place for people to learn, to achieve and grow. A philosophy that balances personal lifestyles, perspectives and needs is an important part of our culture. Technology Technology works as a strategic partner with Morgan Stanley business units and the world's leading technology companies to redefine how we do business in ever more global, complex, and dynamic financial markets. Morgan Stanley's sizeable investment in technology results in quantitative trading systems, cutting-edge modelling and simulation software,    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the business requirements of stories and determining the technical feasibility of implementation.  • Developed responsive applications based on wireframes using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, grid system.  • Worked with AngularJS framework for building web applications that is highly efficient using RESTful and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) web services.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage navigation and Bulk update of Attributes using React JS and jQuery.  • Created React JS components and managed States and Props while utilizing ES6 features.  • Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Flux or Redux).  • Wrote Mongo DB queries to pull some information from the Backend.  • Worked in Agile methodology by completing the stories/defects in each sprint.  • Extensively used Spring MVC and Hibernate Framework for data handling.  • Have worked on AWS to fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI.  • Developed Responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) using React JS and rendering pages on the server side for faster loading and updating by 3x.  • Create NAT instance for mongo dB notes using SSH.  • Provide security by using SSH terminal for Instances including mongo server security group.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS 2/4, React JS, JavaScript (ES5/ES6), MongoDB, Node.JS, Express JS, Spring MVC, AWS, Web pack, Redux, Agile SCRUM Methodology. Java /FULL Stack Web UI Developer Charles Schwab Corporation - Chicago, IL January 2014 to March 2016 Project Description:  The aim of the project was to develop the entire www.schwab.com web application routers were used for page navigations with single page application. When you join Daimler, you become an agent of change within our global community of people working to create a cleaner, safer, and more efficient world for today and tomorrow. Through innovation at all levels, our teams ensure our world-changing brands continue to increase the quality of life and the business success of our customers, their customers, and the world around them. The Daimler Trucks North America (DTNA) brand portfolio is second to none, and includes Freightliner Trucks, Western Star Trucks, Detroit engines and components, Thomas Built Buses and Freightliner Custom Chassis.    Responsibilities:  • Researched current industry trends and assisted with development and promotion of coding best practices within team and industry.  • Developed front end web applications by using web technologies such as React JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Ensuring that HTML/CSS used is cross-browser and standards compliant and meets accessibility/disability requirements.  • Created detailed page layouts with final artwork and style definitions with HTML5, CSS3.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML 5 and CSS 3 code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic data to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented the React JS work flow (Redux) for the unidirectional way.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the React JS to build client-side application and Node.js for building server-side API's.  • Used React JS for render the checkout page like display product with different options, add item, remove item and view cart.  • Extensively used Spring MVC and Hibernate Framework for data handling.  • Used ES6 promises for writing multiple a sync operations.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB database management system and handled database access using Node.js and Express.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS-2/4, Spring MVC, ReactJS, JavaScript, ES6, MongoDB, Node.JS, Express JS, Web pack, Redux, Agile SCRUM Methodology Node.JS/ Web UI Developer Siri Cyber tech Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to December 2013 Project Description:  In our project as a web developer, I was part of development team responsible for creating the chemical bank web application UI design and implement the products and services pages for new customers to choose from and create an account with chemical bank. At Owl Cameras, we love cars and the people that are in them. OwlCam's uses video and data to make our roads safer for everyone. OwlCam builds services and cameras that empower people, business' and insurers to deal with events like crashes and break-ins better, faster and fairer. OwlCam is committed to improving peoples lives with thoughtful respectful use of new AI technologies.  Owlcam is a series A start up, based in Palo Alto CA, sales launched in March 2018. In Owlcam's first year sales were bigger than Nest, Ring or Dropcam first year. In 2019 Owlcam will continue to grow with the addition of new features, major retailers and expansion into B2B2B enterprise fleet sales.  OwlCam is lead by Andy Hodge (founding leader on Apple iPod and iPhone, Microsoft Hololens and was VP at Dropcam). Our 50+ person team is located in Palo Alto, CA. The team has experience from previously creating successful products with over $100B in sales, at places like Apple, Dropcam, Fitbit, and Microsoft.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), analysis, redesign of architecture, analyzing the various technologies, preparing technical and support documentation.  • Extensively written JQuery and Java Script code.  • Extensively worked on View Technologies using HTML5 with CSS3.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Redesign and maintain existing internal web application utilizing HTML, CSS, JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed, developed and updated User UI Web Forms using CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Developed single page applications and used ES6 arrow functions for developing static web pages.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Used RESTful routing and for the page navigations with the help of Node.JS.  • Developed authentications and authorization modules with Node.JS.  • Written various custom directives, services and filters in AngularJS as per the functional requirements.  • Used Test-Driven Development with Agile SCRUM methodology and involved in all the business meetings and status update meetings as a part of SCRUM.  • Worked on SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, and indexes using PL/SQL developer.  • Convert design to functional  • Involved in Code review, Unit testing and bug fixing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES5/ES6, Hibernate, Spring, JQuery, Bootstrap, Express.JS, Node.JS, EJS, ES5&6, Eclipse, JSON, AJAX, MS Office, python, SQL, Agile SCRUM Methodology Web Developer Repenstech Technologies Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  Come join NCR as a Web Developer, part of a team tasked with transforming the way we do business. The team's purpose is to make the company itself more efficient by way of custom internal tools and external web sites. We work closely with other teams in the organization to understand their needs and frustrations with getting their jobs done, and then work to simplify and automate their processes so that they can focus on making our customers happy.  • Developed controllers, view/partials, and directives for application.  • Used Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Have worked with CSS3 features like animations, transitions and transforms and have knowledge of HTML5 tags, local storage, and canvas.  • Accessed JSON formatted data from the back- end for Location-based services.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript for DOM manipulations.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods.  • Used CSS3 for developing rich internet applications.  • Used Spring Framework for the Implementation of the Application.  • Used RESTful routing and for the page navigations With Express Node.JS.  • Used HTML5 tags for semantic purposes and CSS3 for UI enhancements.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, ES5, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Node.JS, Express.JS, Tomcat Apache, Eclipse, ES5, Sublime, EJS, UNIX, Windows. Education Master's in computer science and Information Systems in computer science and Information Systems University of Michigan - Flint, MI Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana