Senior Freelance Web Developer Senior Freelance Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Freelance Web Developer - Dawnwood Enterprises, LLC Manorville, NY Goal-oriented Web Developer with strong commitment to collaboration and solutions-oriented problem-solving. Committed to high standards of web design, user experience, usability and speed for multiple types of end-users. Work Experience Senior Freelance Web Developer Dawnwood Enterprises, LLC - Manorville, NY July 2017 to Present • Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  • Used programming capabilities in PHP, MySQL, ReactJS, SvelteJS and other JavaScript libraries. UX Analyst & Front End Developer Austin & Williams - Hauppauge, NY September 2014 to December 2014 • Developed landing pages, dashboards and online applications using PHP, JavaScript and WordPress.  • Pitched in to assist senior developers to meet pressing deadlines during under-staffed periods.  • Took a project from a PSD concept to a fully customized WordPress site ahead of schedule. Senior Web Developer Lounge Lizard Worldwide, Inc - Patchogue, NY May 2014 to September 2014 • Coordinated web site development upgrades and repairs on client sites.  • Completed E-Commerce website using OpenCart, PHP and MySQL. Senior Web Developer FC Online Marketing, Inc - Bethpage, NY January 2013 to September 2013 • Developed kiosk web application for placement in local area malls.  • Programmed in-house checkout system to integrate with over 100 franchise locations.  • Assisted in the planning and design of a new intranet management platform using PHP. Web Developer Active Web Group - Hauppauge, NY January 2010 to November 2012 • Positioned as a developer responsible for designing custom graphics and forms for client web sites.  • Maintained multiple portal sites for client base.  • Reorganized and redesigned several large scale sites incorporating suggested features to enhance sites usability and client interaction. Cold Fusion Developer ICVM Group, Inc - Mattituck, NY January 2007 to November 2010 Worked with a team to develop custom CMS applications for international legal firms using Cold Fusion and MySQL. Web Developer Dataccess, Inc - Bohemia, NY May 2006 to November 2006 Cold Fusion Developer Optinco, Inc - Smithtown, NY January 2003 to August 2006 Senior Web Developer Stalker Outfitters, LLC - Westhampton, NY October 1995 to January 2003 Education Associates of Science in Computer Science Suffolk County Community College - Riverhead, NY Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), REACTJS (2 years), REDUX (2 years), PHP (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Wordpress (8 years), SvelteJS (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/derekreidy Certifications/Licenses Driver's License