Creative Director & Founder Creative Director &amp; Founder Front End WordPress Website Designer Developer New York, NY ? Innovative Front- End WordPress developer with nine years of experience designing custom-built, responsive WordPress websites for businesses across the USA and Canada  ? 15+ years of experience in application development, IT business and technical consulting, web development, user experience, implementation, training and support of mission critical systems, leveraging data integration, data management, analytics and information optimization to provide business advantage.  ? Experienced with UX best practices, tools, methods, and trends.  ? Demonstrable expertise and a deep and practical understanding of interactive design.  ? Extensive knowledge of project development lifecycle, web development, and application development.  ? Knowledge of HTML5, CSS3 and WordPress 5.02 (Gutenberg)  ? Well-versed in ITIL processes and procedures, IT Service Desk management, project management, technical business analysis, quality assurance testing, and secure website design.  ? Adept at articulating complex technical concepts to users of varying technical understanding.  ? Well versed in a variety of common operating systems, applications and hardware with an intense thirst to increase knowledge and a proven ability to master new technologies and tools quickly.  ? Excellent written, verbal, and people skills, and able to work collaboratively or independently as required.  ? Extensive experience working in an international 24/7 Help Desk environment  ? Previous consultant experience, previous 100% remote experience for extensive engagements Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creative Director & Founder Westside Virtual, Inc. - New York, NY July 2014 to Present ? Create website designs for businesses to help them effectively reach their audience through effective branding and design.  ? Create, design and redesign WordPress websites using CSS, HTML5 and plugins  ? Create and/or revise email templates using Contact7, MailChimp  ? Create email marketing campaigns using MailChimp, IceGram, Yoast SEO, All in One SEO  ? Create seasonal campaigns and new product launch concepts including concept honing  ? Provide support on packaging design, stock photography, and other related tasks  ? Work with site managers/ web masters on product setup and website updates as needed  ? Maintain design files with a clear and organized structure  ? Experienced with dozens of premium WordPress themes distributed by The7, ThemeCo, Oxygena, ThemeForest, Envato, Hero, etc.  ? Experience with following plugins: Agile Store Locator, Cornerstone, Visual Composer, Soliloquoy, Envira, Icegram, Wpematico, Contact Form 7, Mailchimp, Content Dock, E&P Form Builder, Revolution Slider, Updraft, Duplicate Page, StatCounter, WP-Mail-SMTP, and more  ? Provide internet related services including domain name registration, search engine optimization, Google analytics, stock video, image, and footage research.  ? Design visual layouts including logo designs using Shutterstock, LogoGarden, TechSmith Contract Front End WordPress Developer 43rd Street Kids Preschool - New York, NY January 2019 to March 2019 • Built a beautiful, charming Preschool website with animated slides, integrated forms, school application, and parent information content.  • Created multiple page layouts, sliders, contact page, modernized navigation  • Built the Website on top of the WordPress Framework  • Completely revitalized the website with a modern look and joyful appeal  • Marked increase in revenue and audience in just three months.  • Worked 100% remote and reported to School Administrator on daily basis Contractor Front- End WordPress Developer Priority Credit Management Corp. - Alberta July 2018 to January 2019 Lead designer of WordPress Frontend website for a leading Canadian credit management company   ? Creating multiple page layouts, assets and design elements to promote PCM’s brand   ? Designing pricing tables, multiple contact forms, and assisting in integration with Groovy back end web app   ? Designing landing page slides and Launch Party slides   ? Launching https://pcmcorp.com on or around January 31, 2019  Contractor Front- End Wordpress Developer Cronus Human Capital - Bethesda, MD May 2018 to August 2018 • Built brand new Employer / Candidate website on top,of WooCommerce platform  • Created ability for Employer to post new jobs  • Created ability for Candidate to apply to jobs and upload resume  • Built in automated email workflow so that candidate is notified when resume has been uploaded, and employer is notified about a new candidate. Consultant WordPress Developer for Brandgrowth LLC Brandgrowth LLC - Norwood, NJ October 2017 to January 2018 -- Led the design of the development of a global brand building and marketing site, brandgrowth.com, which included a four-slide Revolution Slider introduction encouraging thousands of visitors to convert and click though.    -- Coordinated with CEO to develop website from conceptual mockups to finished template for WordPress.    -- Coordinated the migration of website from staging server to production server.    -- Maintain ongoing backups of site using Updraft    -- Designed workflows and documentation to facilitate client management after project completion.    -- Designed business cards to coordinate with official launch of brandgrowth.com Contract Front- End WordPress Developer Stella Air - Colorado September 2017 to January 2018 -- Redesigned production website to more modern visual design design for major Aerospace component company  -- Added Contact Form, Mail Form and Google Location Consultant WordPress Developer WPROMOTE - New York, NY June 2017 to July 2017 ? Built 20+ front- end web pages and email submission forms for confidential client in WordPress multisite network  ? Provided expertise in Agile Store Locator plugin for multiple client locations  ? Added metadata SEO content for 20+ front-facing pages using Yoast  ? Worked collaboratively in Asana and Slack with remote colleagues  ? Delivered high-value results for well-known brand CONSULTANT - WEBSITE APPLICATION SUPPORT ANALYST UNITED NATIONS - New York, NY June 2010 to December 2013 ? A designated subject matter expert and IT Help Desk focal point responsible for the resolution of incidents affecting highly confidential and business critical Lotus Notes databases  ? Resolved impairments related to user issues, satellite issues, connection issues, content mismanagement and abuse within a complex and politically sensitive environment  ? Developed, programmed, tested and debugged new Lotus Notes applications.  ? Monitored various UN website analytics and produced monthly statistical reports using Webtrends  ? Designed, created, and produced technical documentation for use by staff members in the field  ? Administered changes in accordance with change management procedures  ? Provided precise problem descriptions, test cases, customer follow-up, and potential root causes  ? Acted as technical liaison between United Nation staff members and business teams LEAD ANALYST, LOTUS NOTES APPLICATION DEVELOPER SWISS RE AMERICA - Armonk, NY 1996 to 2008 ? Reported to Vice President of Global IT as a trusted and certified Lotus Notes application developer  ? Designed and developed 150+ Lotus Notes and Domino databases built with internal business processes and email workflow inside a solid Lotus Notes Domino framework and production environment  ? Managed and gathered business requirements and wrote technical specifications documents  ? Corrected code issues, presented weekly status reports, analyzed system logs, managed ACLs, wrote test scripts for bug/defect tracking and reporting, integration, and user-acceptance  ? Substantially increased business productivity and reduced paper costs by automating Human Resource processes, Dining Room menus, Corporate Announcements, Conflict of Interest Disclosures, Legal Acquisitions, Facilities Requirements, SOX change management standards application  ? Embraced software development lifecycle processes (SDLC)  ? Administered and managed encryption keys for specific databases containing PII, financial data and content  ? Outstanding record of resolving 99.999% of incident tickets yielding 20% improvement in performance workflow Education Certificate in Information Systems Security New York University - New York, NY June 2009 to August 2012 B.A. in Liberal Arts Queens College, City University of New York - Flushing, NY Skills Wordpress (5 years), WordPress Developer (5 years), Web Design (5 years), User Experience Design (5 years), Responsive Design (5 years), Word Press, Website Links https://www.westsidevirtual.com Certifications/Licenses Security+ Network+ Additional Information Front end WordPress website designer interested in contract roles or B2B roles. 100% remote. Please see my business website to view my work:  https://westsidevirtual.com