Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Web Developer Mabank, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Frontend Developer RealPage Inc - Richardson, TX March 2017 to July 2019 • Collaborate with Product owners and other team members to build new platform solutions using .Net, PHP/MySQL to support our current client base.  • Work with various technologies including .Net, Kentico CMS, Laravel and PHP/MySQL.  • Frontend Development using SASS, JQuery, Angular8 and Javascript to providing responsive websites based on mockups designed in Invision.  • Provide maintenance and updates to current and legacy platforms to align with tech debt requirements.  • Participate and provide technical insight for sprint planning.  • Participate in Major and Minor software releases on a bi-monthly and monthly basis and support regression testing. Lead Frontend Developer VapeWild, LLC 2015 to March 2017 • Collaborate with Vice President, staff and use feedback from members to  develop new websites and manage current company websites using  Bootstrap3, PHP/MySQL, and SASS. Company websites were developed using  WordPress, and Magento, Angular2 and AWS.  • Front end development using SASS, JQuery, Angular2, Javascript.  • Testing cross-browser, cross-platform and/or cross-device compatibility for  inconsistencies.  • Directed a team of front end and backend developers on website buildout based  on strategy and milestone timelines.  • Developed project timelines and development strategy to be presented to  executive team.  • Developed website maintenance and technology upgrade timeline and  managed completion in accordance with plan. Communication Specialist/Frontend Web Developer Employees' Retirement Fund of the City of Dallas 2014 to 2015 • Collaborate with Communication Manager, staff and use feedback from  members to create ERF’s portal using Drupal 7 and responsive using  Bootstrap3, PHP/MySQL and SASS.    • Frontend development using SASS, JQuery and JavaScript.    • Testing cross-browser, cross-platform and/or cross-device compatibility for  inconsistencies.    • Design various ERF publications to include newsletters, brochures, posters, flyers and serve as a backup for any web update or maintenance issues.    • Collaborate with the Information Technology Manager and development team to maintain; user roles, process flows, wire-frames and user experience  specifications.    • Update ERF communication presentations as needed Works closely with the Communication Manager to ensure consistency of ERF’s communication plan in accordance with ERF’s strategic plan.    • Works closely with Technology Manager to ensure consistent progress with  ERF portal build out as outlined in project timeline.    • Provided vendor recommendations to the ERF Communication Manager that were used and provided the fund with significant savings. Senior Front End Developer (Contract) Imaginuity Interactive 2013 to 2014 Designed mobile responsive websites using bootstrap3 and foundation 5  frameworks. WordPress was used as the primary content management system.  • Designed stylesheets using SASS and Compass for compiled optimized  stylesheets.  • Lead Development of websites and script programming using PHP/MYSQL, JQuery, SASS and LESS, JavaScript.  • Handled all browser compatibility and responsive issues and website  maintenance.  • PHP/MySQL troubleshooting and cross browser compatibility. Lead Developer/System Admin Arvixe 2012 to 2013 • Handled phone support calls  • Team lead for all development issues to include PHP/MYSQL/JQuery.  • Designed mobile responsive websites using Bootstrap3, Foundation, and  SASS/SUSY grids, WordPress, Drupal and Magento.  • Server Backup and Maintenance on Windows 2012 /Linux Servers  • Lead development of websites and script installs.  • Handled Sales of various products and services.  • Worked with vendors to order new products and services. Director of Web Technology CSD Sports Framing and Memorabilia 2005 to 2012 • Daily Website Maintenance for e-commerce website using PHP/MYSQL/  JQuery/LESS  • Designed Promotional Piece for featured products  • Sever Backup and Maintenance on Windows 2000 Server  • Support of 25 computer network  • Worked with development and creative team to plan, develop and implement  projects company wide.  • Managed outside vendors and evaluated proposals for outside creative,  marketing and media. Web Developer Network IP 2003 to 2005 • Designed and programmed company website using HTML/CSS/PHP/JQuery,  WordPress and Drupal.  • Designed print ready pieces for clients  • Daily website maintenance.  • Designed Mock ups for marketing pitches.  • Worked with outside agencies to provide creative direction for marketing  campaigns  • Planning team member on the marketing campaign planning team to roll out a new marketing initiative for a VOIP product. Education AAS in Computer Science Navarro College Corsicana - Corsicana, TX 2009 Trinity Valley Community College Athens - Athens, TX 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills   Adobe Photoshop   PHP   Drupal  Adobe Illustrator   MySQL   Foundation  Adobe Indesign   LESS   GIT  SASS   Angular2   JavaScript  HTML5   WordPress   NPM  CSS3   Magento   Agile Methodologies  JQuery   Bootstrap   Responsive Design