Graphic Designer and Customer Service Representative Graphic Designer and Customer Service Representative Customer Service Representative San Diego, CA While working for a fairly diverse set of companies, my roles and my performance still shared a common thread: design and outstanding customer service.    With any project, I strive to deliver results beyond expectations, and build solid relationships with customers and clients.    I’m innately curious, detail-oriented, love problem-solving and possess excellent written and verbal communication skills. I’m also a quick learner, a productive self-starter with a positive attitude, a strong work ethic, and a proven ability to take on higher responsibilities.    Customer Service Representative with 6+ years of experience, which also involved light design work and technical troubleshooting. I have a strong ability to understand customer needs and effectively resolve issues with patience, empathy, and out-of-the-box thinking when faced with unique problems.    Graphic Designer / Front- End Web Developer with 5+ years experience working for startups, as well as freelancing. Proficient in HTML5 and CSS3, SEO, Photoshop, Illustrator, print design, novice in Javascript. Consistently keeping up with current trends and actively pursuing proficiency in additional languages. Work Experience Graphic Designer and Customer Service Representative Virago Fitness - San Diego, CA March 2019 to Present + Designs marketing materials for the Virago Fitness brand, such as event flyers, posters, postcards, business cards, etc.    + Assists customers with inquiries regarding order status, product information, technical issues, and order complaints via phone and email.    + Processes refunds, credits & return requests and places orders for customers over the phone as needed.    + Assists with event setup for Virago Fitness classes, e.g., helps create attractive product displays, lifts and carries items up to 50 lbs or more, checks in attendees, and performs other hands-on duties as needed. Customer Service Representative BESTPRINTBUY.COM - Norwood, MA April 2013 to November 2018 + Assisted customers with inquiries such as order status, product information, technical issues, order complaints, and pricing via inbound calls, email, and online chat.    + Processed refunds, credits & return requests, placed orders for customers over the phone as needed.    + Extensively interacted with customers via phone to help them design marketing materials using the company's online design interface.    + Effectively resolved issues with difficult customers, including occasions when calls were escalated to me by fellow CSRs.    + Provided feedback to the development team on a consistent basis to improve the front- end user  experience as well as backend functionality.    + Independently developed customer service protocol manuals that were adhered to by all CSRs, to ensure customer issues and daily tasks were handled in a consistent way in order to effectively meet customer needs and maintain an organized workflow.    + Developed canned email responses that were utilized by all CSRs when responding to most common customer questions/issues.    + Revised copy and optimized each web page with the latest SEO practices for company's upcoming new website release.    + Conducted interviews with potential new hires, and fully trained new customer service reps.    + Edited customer proofs when the design team was unavailable and provided new proofs to customers within the same day. Sales Associate / Kitchen Designer THE HOME DEPOT - Taunton, MA October 2012 to March 2013 + Conducted one-on-one design consultations with customers to effectively plan their kitchen remodel. Guided customers throughout every step of the process to set expectations.    + Created kitchen designs utilizing 20/20 software. Analyzed blueprints, floorplans, and hand-drawn sketches.    + Provided estimates on special order products and installation services.    + Prepared quotes, scheduled appointments, processed payments via telephone, and worked to resolve customer issues both over-the-phone and in-person.    + Familiarized myself with product specifications, including information pertaining to cabinetry,  countertops, and major home appliances.    + Followed-up with customers and vendor reps on a consistent basis. Graphic Designer / Front- End Web Developer SKINNY BOY MARKETING - San Diego, CA July 2009 to May 2012 + Designed and hand-coded custom websites for clients with small businesses.    + Designed marketing materials for clients, including business cards, postcards, print and web  advertisements, and e-newsletters.    + Communicated with clients via email and telephone throughout the course of their project.    + Prepared quotes and contracts for clients.    + Designed, hand-coded and maintained company website.    + Assisted with brand identity of company and designed all marketing materials.    + Utilized Photoshop CS4 and HTML/CSS.    + Exclusively worked remotely from April 2010 - May 2012 Graphic Designer / Front- End Web Developer, Managing Editor MAGAZINE PINK ONLINE - Huntington Beach, CA October 2007 to June 2009 + Designed, hand-coded and maintained an extensive online magazine which focused on early  detection in breast cancer and women's interests.    + Designed company marketing materials such as postcards, brochures, and business cards.    + Edited all copy for website, including writer-submitted articles.    + Answered phones, handled all filing, responded to email and fax inquiries.    + Utilized Photoshop CS2 and HTML/CSS. CAD Operator AC ENDERSEN DRAFTING - Mesa, AZ April 2007 to October 2007 + Created 2D shop drawing submittals, including floor plans, elevations, as well as sections and detail drawings for Cabinet and Millwork manufacturers.    + Utilized AutoCAD 2007/2008 and Microvellum. Education High school or equivalent Skills FRONT-END (10+ years), ILLUSTRATOR, SEO (5 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (6 years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years), Customer Support, CSR (5 years), Customer Care (6 years), Call Center, HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Autocad (Less than 1 year), Adobe, Typography, Graphic Design Links http://www.coroflot.com/tarapelsue Additional Information • Customer Service Skills  • Print Design  • Front- End Web Development  • Proficient in HTML5 & CSS3  • Javascript: Beginner  • Photoshop  • Illustrator  • SEO  • Microsoft Office  • Proficient in Windows & Mac  • Transcription (60 wpm, 10-key)  • Copy Editing    While working for a fairly diverse set of companies, my roles  and my performance still shared a common thread: design and  outstanding customer service.    With any project, I strive to deliver results beyond expectations,  and build solid relationships with customers and clients.  I’m innately curious, detail-oriented, love problem-solving and  possess excellent written and verbal communication skills.    I’m also a quick learner, a productive self-starter with a positive  attitude, a strong work ethic, and a proven ability to take on  higher responsibilities.     ***Willing to relocate.    WWW.TARAPELSUE.INFO