Contract Paralegal Contract Paralegal Clarkston, UT Work Experience Contract Paralegal Seegmiller | Gardner, PLLC - Naples, FL August 2018 to August 2019 • Review IT vendor contracts for Envision Healthcare Corporation including Master Service Agreements, Business Associate Agreements, and Statements of Work    • Draft legal documents including Termination of Services notices    • Create projects and upload documents into proprietary tracking software for the firm    • Other administrative tasks as needed Customer Service Representative Black Turtle Services - Sandy, UT September 2016 to August 2018 • Answer questions regarding the Affordable Care Act    • Provide assistance applying for insurance through the Affordable Care Act    • Provide solutions to issues pertaining to healthcare.gov or insurance coverage through the Affordable Care Act or escalate issues to be resolved as needed Contract Software Engineer CC Software - West Jordan, UT July 2015 to December 2017 • Contracted with CC Software to begin research and implementation of blockchain technology within inventory control software (Oct 2017 - December 2017).    • Contracted with CC Software to develop web application for baseline inventory control software and update proprietary runtime code to run on JBoss Application Server (July 2015 - Sept 2017).    • Web application was developed in Java utilizing the JSF specification and Primefaces for front end.    • Built original CRUD web application using Seam framework and RichFaces.    • Created and connected Microsoft SQL database with application.    • Migrated Seam/RichFaces/JBoss AS 7 app to JPA/PrimeFaces/Wildfly 10.    • Created one servlet to manage JMS services and a second to run an embedded H2 database.    • Modified baseline code to run on Wildfly 10 with most functionality in place. Paralegal Lexington Law - North Salt Lake, UT January 2015 to July 2015 • Work with clients to find solutions to build credit    • Handle any issue a client may have including billing, processes, etc.    • Help ensure personal, team, and company goals are met Customer Service Representative Sundance Catalog - Salt Lake City, UT August 2014 to December 2014 • Interacted with clients to answer questions about products and take orders using AS400 system Front End Web Developer Your Design Guys - Lehi, UT May 2014 to August 2014 • Managed final design and development of three plus websites a week.    • Developed using HTML, CSS, and PHP in a custom WordPress theme with a BootStrap front end.    • Interacted with clients to ensure site was accurate to design. Supervisor Xerox - Sandy, UT July 2012 to December 2013 • Headed high profile team of twenty-eight customer service representatives providing customer service for various Medicare D prescription drug plans    • Provided continued training and coaching for team to ensure rules and processes for Medicare D as well as company expectations were satisfied    • Developed a streamlined attendance tracker in Microsoft Excel for business unit Cryptologic Linguist United States Air Force - Augusta, GA February 2008 to February 2012 • Identified and relayed pertinent information to national level consumers/agencies.    • Effectively utilized complex communications/computer equipment to perform operations in near real time.    • Scanned, transcribed, and translated foreign language voice and graphic materials and produced intelligence reports based on these materials.    • Automated internal report structure utilizing Microsoft Excel to allow better focus on the mission.    • Covered four high interest enemy air exercises exposing new capabilities/tactics.    • Identified enemy air defensive reactions and alerted Naval Forces Central Command of possible threats. Education Part Time Front End Web Developer Cohort DevMountain January 2015 to May 2015 Diploma in Persian/Farsi Language Defense Language Institute April 2008 to October 2009 Skills Java, JSF2, JPA, JMS, Hibernate, Seam, DeltaSpike, JBoss AS 7, Wildfly AS 10 (JBoss EAP 7), HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, PrimeFaces, RichFaces, Javascript, AngularJS, jQuery, NodeJS, Linux, SQL, Wordpress, PHP, Bash, VIM, Maven, Git