Junior Web Developer Junior Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Omaha, NE I'm a hardworking, creative problem solver who gets the job done. I enjoy the maddening perfectionism of working with HTML and CSS and the joy of discovery that comes from working with programatic languages such as C# and Javascript. Most of all though I enjoy the feeling of victory I get upon finishing a project or solving something that has been bedeviling me. I've felt a great satisfaction as my skillset has grown and I've been able to tackle tougher and tougher and larger and larger projects, and i'm excited to continue that growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Web Developer Bozell - Omaha, NE February 2018 to Present • Utilized a ticketing system to complete work at a high rate.  • Completed a project that drew data from multiple sources via API calls and updated multiple database tables on page load, thus functioning as a near live view of a customers sales and expenses, while employing date checks that ensure that only new data was pulled from the API calls.  • Grew abilities and familiarity with C#/ASP.NET from very rudimentary to creating a large project from scratch.   • Finished a project that uses paired double points of input fed through query strings to client mandated legacy code, to provide specific and correct calculations.   • Became familiar with a couple of old large enterprise level systems, from complete confusion to familiarity and quick completion of tasks.   • Created a tracking system though a combination of PHP, Javascript, and the utilization of multiple disparate plugins that was so robust it has been reused.  • Took on more responsibilities, from working directly under a lead to operating mostly independently  • Gained enough trust to be tasked with completing a private website for one of the company owners.  • Worked closely with designers, Account Service reps, and QA personal to ensure quality and that client expectations were realized.  • Communicated directly with clients, maintaining professional correspondence and solving problems directly.   • Handled ASAP request quickly and efficiently, from small text edits to repairing functionality on flagship sites. Freelance Web Developer Self employed - Omaha, NE Present Used wordpress to create websites per client needs. Worked to meet deadlines and communicated clearly with non-technically inclined clientele.     Projects include:    Siouxland Women's Health Center  A from scratch Wordpress build focused on highlighting the individual care and expertise that are the Siouxland brand. Currently in process of deployment.     Watie White  A from scratch Wordpress build created to give Watie, a local artist, a more professional first impression, allowing him to show his work in a higher tier of galleries.    Koenig|Dunne  A WordPress site for the Koenig|Dunne law firm. A complete ground up revision, intended to provide a face lift and drive new leads. The site has been designed so that staffers at the law firm can easily maintain, update and create new content without damaging the integrity of the site. Line Cook Amsterdam Falafel and Kabob - Omaha, NE August 2016 to December 2016 Performed light accounting  Responsible for customer satisfaction Kitchen Manager Amsterdam Falafel and Kabob - Lincoln, NE May 2015 to April 2016 Worked opening day until the closing of the restaurant.   Revamped and streamlined closing procedures  Responsible for paperwork and accounting associated with night shift Front- end Supervisor Russ's Market June 2011 to April 2015 Revamped several front end processes to streamline good service.  Enforced company policy and directed employees as necessary.  Trained staff, assigned duties, and supported associates. Trainer, Lab Assistant University of Nebraska Medical Center August 2008 to June 2011 Designed and executed experiments.  Refined specimen collection procedures.  Ensured smooth lab operations during speaking tours. Lab Associate Omaha August 2002 to August 2008 Followed examples to conduct assigned experiments.  Analyzed results using statistical modeling.  Collected samples in dangerous environments.  Operated precision instruments and tools. Education Certificate of Completion in Website Development Omaha Code School - Omaha, NE January 2017 to April 2017 Bachelors of Arts in English/Creative Writing University of Nebraska Lincoln - Lincoln, NE August 2006 to August 2012 Skills Git (2 years), Ruby (Less than 1 year), PostgresSQL (2 years), React (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (2 years), PHP (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Sinatra (Less than 1 year), Project Management (2 years), Experiment Design (5 years), Unit Testing (1 year), CSS (2 years), JSON (1 year), Front End (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), Jquery (1 year), C# (1 year), Asp.Net (1 year), Ajax (1 year), FTP (3 years), Bootstrap, NET, HTML, SQL, JIRA, Agile Development, FTP, Visual Studio, Git, Team Foundation Version Control, CSS Compilers, Javascript Compilers, E-Commerce, Sketch, Photoshop Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zmvupgcpnhwjhipy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.