Freelance Consultant and Developer Freelance Consultant and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chicago, IL Work Experience Freelance Consultant and Developer June 2017 to Present Concentrating on the collection, modeling and analysis of data with emphasis on:    • Machine Learning and Predictive Analytics.    • Data Visualization and Analysis Presentation    Clients include: Nielsen Media Research (worked as a subcontractor for SPR Consulting) Senior Data Analyst Isobar March 2014 to May 2017 http://www.isobar.com/    Worked on numerous client and internal proof-of-concept projects including:    • Spark (PySpark) and Amazon Kinesis scripts to identify advertising fraud in data streams.    • Developed Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) processes to migrate a client's in-house Oracle RAC system to the Amazon cloud (AWS). Data was extracted from Oracle using Sqoop, processed with Hive and Pig, and then inserted into MongoDB.    • Developed a data profiler to analyze files located in a local file system, HDFS or Amazon S3. The profiler created and executed Pig and Hive scripts and produced a report including per-field statistical summaries and SVG graphs.    • Developed a machine learning demo to identify clients at risk of switching vendors.    • Proof-of-concept machine learning project for a U.S. government agency.    • Developed a proof-of-concept virtual reality (VR) application using Unity3D and the Oculus Rift SDK for a nonprofit rehabilitation and research organization.    • Developed tools and documentation for an internal communications training program. Contractor Isobar January 2013 to February 2014 Senior Data Analyst http://www.isobar.com/    Contributed to the design and development of the caratradar.com multi-tenant cloud application for online (display, search, video and social media) and offline (TV and radio) ad spend analysis.    • Designed and programmed ETL modules for feed ingestion, aggregation and analysis.    • Wrote Python User-Defined Functions (UDFs) for Pig scripts to scrub and transform feed data and pivot output to match intake requirements.    • Wrote automation scripts to pull data files from Box.com, Doubleclick-for-Advertisers (DFA) and SFTP servers using OAuth2 and DynamoDB for session management    • Automated content synchronization between FTP and S3 storage and between S3 and Glacier archives to ensure feed repositories were up to date and archived. Scripts would automatically discover new client data feeds and update feed specifications.    • Used Jenkins CI to manage and monitor scheduled jobs including feed ingestion, database transfers, log rotation and file source synchronization. Contractor Groupon September 2012 to December 2012 Senior Developer http://www.groupon.com/    Responsible for Hadoop development and application testing:    • Updated Hadoop cluster monitoring with custom filters.    • Wrote scripts for load testing of internal applications. Data Collection Engineer AdGooroo June 2012 to August 2012 http://www.adgooroo.com/    Responsible for Hadoop development and maintenance of C# application code:    • Reduced processing time fifteen-fold from thirty-plus hours to two hours by refactoring a job using R and Hadoop streaming.    • Converted Search Engine Results Page (SERP) parsing scripts from a regular expression to XPath based approach.    • Improved web-crawler performance four-fold by caching inline DNS lookups. Technical Producer/ Front- End and Middle-Tier Developer Classified Ventures April 2006 to May 2012 http://www.cars.com/    Multi-role staff member responsible for developing new and maintaining existing applications:    • Developed front-and-middle tiers of the "Compare" research tool and co-designed the targeting logic for the custom in-house "conquest" ad product    • Designed and programmed a publishing system that reduced Editorial workload and eliminated a dependence on legacy ATG Dynamo application servers.    • Programmed crawlable regional aggregate inventory searches and XML site maps. Contractor American Hospital Association August 2005 to March 2006 Web Developer http://www.aha.org/    • Created new and maintained existing web applications, including a subscription-based vendor listing, industry news-feed channels and secure membership applications. Consultant/Freelance Web Developer Caribou Coffee Company October 1998 to February 2005 http://www.cariboucoffee.com/    Designed, developed and managed the Caribou Coffee web site: responsible for the site's architecture, navigation, page layout, graphics, application programming and database design    • Full e-commerce and catalog management functionality including:    ? Secure, IP-restricted management portal    ? Custom promotions and inventory display control    ? Credit cards and "Caribou Cards" (see below) were accepted for purchases    • Functionality for Caribou Cards (Caribou Coffee's custom gift card, managed by Givex):    ? Balance Increment service to manage the available balance on Caribou Cards    ? Secure password recovery and user authentication    • Designed the "Holiday Gift Selection" section that implemented a custom look-and-feel consistent with Caribou Coffee's holiday theme for that year.    ? Adapted print-ready display and packaging content for use on the web site.    ? Coordinated photo shoots and edited the images for use on the web and in print.    • Performed routine system maintenance: log rotation and SSL certificate management    TEACHING EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION:  Cardinal Stritch University: Adjunct Faculty  • Taught all mathematics and statistics courses offered by the school: descriptive and inferential statistics, linear programming, and quality control (SPC/SQC).    HarperCollins College Publishers: Associate Editor/Freelance Editor and Writer    • Prepared tutorial content for software accompanying mathematics and statistics texts. Education Ph.D. in Mathematics University of Minnesota Certification Cloudera University DePaul University College of Computing and Digital Media, Institute for Professional Development M.S. in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Minnesota A.B. in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Chicago Skills Dynamodb, Hbase, Hadoop, Amazon web services, Hadoop, Hbase, Hive, Javascript, Pig, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgres Additional Information Technical Skills: Hadoop Ecosystem (Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Spark, HBase), Amazon Web Services (EC2, EMR, Redshift, DynamoDB, S3), Server-Side Scripting (bash, Ruby, Python, R), SQL (PostGres, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle), MATLAB, Javascript, Java Server Pages (JSP/JSTL), XML, XSL/XSLT, CSS, Unity3D, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Microsoft Office    COMMERCIAL EXPERIENCE: