Sr. Product UI/UX Designer Sr. Product UI/UX Designer Sr. Product UI/UX Designer - Verizon, Basking Dallas, TX ? Over 14+ years of IT experience in the field of UI/UX Product Design & Front- End Web Development  ? Strong design professional skilled in user experience design, product design, UX research, usability testing, wireframing, prototyping, mockups, interaction design and visual design, product/project management and product strategy from conception through launch across desktop, tablet & mobile apps using Sketch, Invision, Axure RP 7/8  ? Proficient in developing Responsive Design and Single Page Applications (SPA's) pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap framework, Less/Sass, AngularJS, JSON, REST APIs, page optimization technique and hands on experience in making webpage cross-browser compatible and CSS based page layouts.  ? Proven success working on large-scale websites, web mobile applications & CMS  ? Extensive experience in Bootstrap and Responsive Web design.  ? Shaped product with visual design, created style guides and defined branding of the product  ? Supervise development in the Agile Process using JIRA to create stories, add technical/design details to stories created by Product Team, and manage sprints; assign JIRA tickets to developers, monitor progress and conduct code reviews. Responsible for publishing sprints to development, QA and live environment.  ? Experience in complete SDLC Software Product Development Life Cycle.  ? Ability to clearly and effectively communicate design processes, ideas, and solutions to teams and clients.  ? Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and developing details for specific features  ? Built User interface with software package managers like NPM, Bower, Webpack, Task runner and build tools likes Gulp, grunt  ? Prioritize and manage work, adhering to critical project timelines in a fast-paced environment  ? Stay informed with design trends and techniques, and recommend new tools & technology when applicable  ? Highly self-motivated and learn new technology quickly.  ? Ability to work both independently and with a cooperative team on complex projects  ? Strong analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. Demonstrated track record of analyzing situations,  Implementing solutions in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Product UI/UX Designer Verizon, Basking - Ridge, TX January 2018 to Present Worked directly with stakeholders, product managers, business and engineering teams to concept and design core systems and platforms including wireframing, prototyping, UI design, and spec work  ? Experience in Sketch, Invision, Axure RP 7/8 to design intuitive and simple user interfaces for web and mobile solutions, producing wireframe, prototype and conceptual models.  ? Prepared wireframes, mockups, layouts, site maps, graphic elements and clickable prototypes that can be tested with end users and presented with stakeholders & product teams internally and with real users outside of Verizon  ? Created and followed design style guidelines and patterns through specs  ? Created interactive & rapid prototyping for various Verizon products includes In With Verizon, Grab & Go, VZ Protect, Apple Music  ? Work with product owners to improve existing features, develop new feature sets and improve the overall User Experience of existing Verizon products Sr. Product Designer / Developer Dow Jones - Princeton, NJ April 2016 to January 2018 Worked directly with product, business, QA and engineering teams to concept and design core systems and platforms including wireframing, prototyping, UI design, and spec work  ? Produced design Style Guide, Components, Typography, Iconography, Custom Icon and other valuable resources to help with the consistent representation of project brand visual enhancement and user experience  ? Produced detailed documents including use cases, business requirements, project specifications, flowcharts, wireframes and project and meeting notes to ensure successful project completion  ? Designed and implemented the user web interface, managing workflow of entire project from concept, design and mockup to final coding and testing  ? Wireframing, prototyping & designing using tools such as Sketch, InVision & Axure RP 7  ? Created Responsive WSJ.com newsletters using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript  ? Responsible for the information architecture, interaction, visual design, icon for WSJ newsletters  ? Publish all the WSJ newsletter files to Github repository and maintain master repository for all WSJ newsletter  ? Validated designs with online quantitative usability testing  ? Used Gulp, NPM modules to create automated process of compiling CSS and JavaScript Sr. UI/UX Designer / Developer Arteric - Morristown, NJ January 2013 to March 2016 Rebranded design for Celgene pharmaceutical products - Idhifa, Otezla.  ? Created and implemented a custom CSS grid system, with CSS media queries for mobile responsiveness  ? Created and maintained the front- end standards documents  ? Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browsers compatibility  ? Attend daily standup meetings and provide daily progress notes.  ? Responsible for front- end code to merge in development/qa environment using Github Sr. UI/UX Designer / Front End Developer Siemens Healthineers - Princeton, NJ June 2010 to December 2012 Designed and developed a responsive design site/apps from scratch for Siemens healthineers technology unit.  ? Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using Vue.js, HTML5, CSS3, Less  ? Utilized Firebug, IE tester and Chrome Element Inspector to track and fix bugs.  ? Development and integration of dynamic elements into page code. Sr. UI/UX Designer / Front- End Developer New York, NY April 2008 to May 2010 Designed and implemented the user web interface, managing workflow of entire project from concept and mockup to final coding and testing.  ? Produced design Style Guide, Components, Typography, Iconography, Custom Icon and other valuable resources to help with the consistent representation of project brand visual enhancement and user experience  ? Illustrated an initial Sketch, Wireframes, prototype using Invision, Axure for mobile and desktop platform  ? Collaborate with a cross-functional team of designers, product managers, and engineers on all phases of the product development lifecycle  ? Developed a completely responsive, multi-screen data and reporting application. Built with AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and D3JS.  ? Updated fonts, colors, and layout across all app and web platforms during rebranding  ? Created coding standard for the application using frontify design guidelines and front- end library of UI  ? Delivered simple and elegant user flows  ? Ability to communicate expected user experience elegantly through documentation, charts, graphics, wireframes  ? Produced wireframes and prototypes for product team  ? Created the Visto User Interface, a comprehensive design system which standardized visual design, interaction patterns and content guidelines  ? Work with product owners to improve existing features, develop new feature sets and improve the overall User Experience of existing products  ? Develop new approaches to complex design problems and convey these designs in the form of presentations, prototypes, and design specifications  ? Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery and AngularJs as per the requirements  ? Actively applied agile development method to help lead the team meet guidelines.  ? Responsible for overseeing the work of other front- end staff and freelancers.  ? Worked with design & product team to build a desktop and mobile editorial experience.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Sr. Web Developer/Designer VIACOM - New York, NY May 2006 to April 2008 Used Bootstrap and media queries to create Responsive Design web pages for MTV.COM, VH1.COM that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  ? Created user interface design using UX design best practices to design solutions, and a deep understanding of mobile-first and responsive design increase website traffic, reduce page loads and leads through page optimization and SEO search engine Optimization technique.  ? Produced semantic code for both desktop browsers and mobile/tablet environments, including standard websites, mobile-specific content, and fully responsive websites.  ? Utilized Firebug, IE tester and Chrome Element Inspector to track and fix bugs.  ? Handle multiple projects and solved issues using JIRA  ? Development and integration of dynamic elements into page code.  ? Assist in the technical development of more junior developers.  ? Responsible for the requirements, design, and implementation of a custom, XML-based system for the VH1.com & MTV.com Site  ? Day to day tasks related to website maintenance for critical issue and publish it to live immediately.  ? Used company's intranet CMS system to manage content on all the sites.  ? Organized group meetings to analyze the business requirements and prepared for Project Plan Document. Web Developer Johnson & Johnson - Titusville, NJ February 2004 to May 2006 Developed, Designed and maintaining all mentioned Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical product websites.  ? Provided UI architecture, UI interface, HTML Templates, usability and graphic development  direction to product managers, user interface team, and backend development team.  ? Managing and maintaining daily content using Documentum Content Management System.  ? Performed variety of PSD-to-HTML conversions to implement designs as full-fledged websites/pages  ? Search engine optimization (SEO): traffic analysis (Web trends log analyzer), keywords research/selection, and Meta tagging and search engine submission. Usability testing: preparing, conducting and analyzing tests to make a site easy to use.  ? Website Management and Daily Content publishing/releasing using Documentum CMS for Johnson & Johnson's 12 Product Websites. Education M.S in Information Technology in User Research Methods Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY