Photographer Photographer Jackson, WY • Savvy, trusted developer recognized for mastersminding Amazon's and other top-producers' mathematical equations, establishing online award winning brands utilizing SEO/SEM and Online Marketing Program intelligence.  • Engineers advanced designs and consultancy for Fortunte 500 companies, including Video2mp3.net, Saatchi.com, Wendy's, Proctor & Gamble, ITSolutions, IMarlin.com, ClutchConsulting.net, and others.  • Award-winning design of web interfaces, graphics and layouts using multiple design applications, along with fully-interfaced websites and games using multiple platforms. Adept at developing and implementing innovative solutions to enhance performance, promote branding, improve visibility, and drive profitable growth.  • Championed a more than 50% increase in sales within one-year period and with minimal budget support. Work Experience Photographer greekmountainman.com - Jackson, WY January 2019 to Present Helmed the design, branding and development of all online and marketing materials for photography operations.    • Take high-quality portrait photos of wildlife, couples, children, and pets.  • Use digital and film cameras, tripods, lenses, and flash attachments to create innovative effects.  • Successfully created, implemented and developed new look and style for notable web presence.  • Instrumental in branding, creative direction, art direction and design.  • Expertly strategized SEO/SEM campaigns across website including blogs, email newsletters, ads & promotions.  • Strategically established unique site delivery that continues to grow in traffic and revenue. Online Marketing, Lead Web Designer / Developer / Photographer opabox.com 2010 to 2018 Helmed the design, branding and development of all online and marketing materials for tooth soap operations.    • Successfully created, implemented and developed new look and style for notable web presence.  • Recognized for unique and polished style with multiple recognition awards.  • Instrumental in branding, creative direction, art direction and design.  • Expertly strategized SEO/SEM campaigns across website including blogs, email newsletters, ads & promotions.  • Strategically established unique site delivery that continues to grow in traffic and revenue. Online Marketing, Sales & Operations Manager www.normshealy.com 2014 to 2015 Helmed online marketing team in SEO/SEM, branding and development of customer marketing campaigns for two related wellness and natural product sites. Increased website presence through broad web-based campaigns, resulting in a 50% increase in sales with minimal budget support across all campaigns.    Norm Shealy  Core areas of responsibility entails developing and maintaining programs/metrics to generate maximum sales and highest reviews. Manages core business areas including fulfillment, inventory, customer relations, sales process management, infrastructure development and management, policies and contact and response rates. Provides oversight and leadership of 5+ employees.    • Monitors statistical programs to visualize/conceptualize new SEO/SEM strategies, routes and advantages.  • Implements all SEO/SEM strategies across multiple websites and Amazon, incorporating blogs, email newsletters, advertisements and promotions.  • Develops and maintains stellar customer service procedures, increasing sales and closing skills abilities; and manages online sales.  • Provides unique combination of creative design talent with programming expertise and savvy business development to analyze and develop new infrastructure opportunities and promote efficiency through consultations with key internal and external stakeholders.  • Creatively provides front- end Design & Development, including design of all online programs and marketing collateral.  • Instrumental in direct content developing, creating interfaces based on industry best design and SEO practices.  • Expertly designs, develops, implements WordPress interfaces, graphics, layouts via HTML5, JQuery, CSS & Adobe CC. CEO, Creative Director, Designer and Front End Developer www.poweroftheweb.net 2006 to 2014 Expertly creates and provides successful web presence campaigns for multiple clients across varying industries. Designed, developed and implemented extensive online/offline animations portfolio.    • Creatively designs and expertly develops and implements custom, award-winning web interfaces, graphics, and layouts using HTML5, JQuery, CSS3, PHP & Flash.  • Collaborates throughout corporate hierarchy to ensure distinguished campaigns by gathering information, obtaining approvals for all materials; creates wireframes/mockups; creates interfaces based on best practices.  • Designs Facebook, Android, IPhone and other User Interfaces; maintains and develops SEO, Facebook, Twitter and GooglePlus campaigns.  • Leads creative design team in collaborations with internal and external sources.  • Expertly and consistently demonstrates technical expertise and creative talent through campaign development.  • Organizes and manages external creative resources, photo shoots and video productions. Founder & Owner - Sr. Flash Developer & Creative Lead www.webiob.com 2006 to 2011 Credited with foresight, creativity and talent to bring one of the first online interactive books to market. Expertly initiated page-flipping component to allow in-depth interaction. Creatively replaced flat illustrations with Flash framework animations for heightened engagement.    Collaborated with Simon & Schuster and Jon Scieszka, the first children's Ambassador to Literature, to develop one of the first online books with interaction capabilities.Branded, designed, developed and implemented award-winning web interfaces, graphics & layouts. Education High school or equivalent Skills Adobe, Adobe Premiere, Lightroom, Marketing, Photography, Photoshop, Sales, Video Production Links http://www.GreekMountainMan.com