Director of Digital Design Director of Digital Design McHenry, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Digital Design The Baha'is of the United States - Evanston, IL January 2005 to Present As Director of Digital Design, I successfully established a framework for software development at the Baha'i National Center in the United States.    By creating an ideation process that incorporates stakeholder/user input combined with a healthy research effort, this framework enables the organization to make more informed strategic decisions based on data measured against primary goals and initiatives. Based on these inputs it becomes possible to abstract designs for product, designs that can be articulated into tactical plans for production.    I have mentored many individuals in all phases of Digital Design ranging from research/discovery, product planning and management, visioning product UI's, building front-ends, producing micro-services/api's, site reliability engineering using cloud technologies, and management of production lifecycles. Store Systems Integrator Whole Foods Market - Chicago, IL December 2003 to January 2005 Just after relocating to Chicago, I began working for WFM as a Store Systems Integrator at the Lincoln Park location. I was responsible for all technology for the store (point of sale system, phones, server/data, product pricing) Point of Sale Coordinator Good Earth Natural Foods - Fairfax, CA July 2001 to November 2003 Managed the POS system for this wonderful store. Founder, Chief Visionary Officer Digital Campaigns, Inc. - San Francisco, CA October 1999 to May 2001 Digital Campaigns produced web solutions for political campaigns.  DCI was funded by Draper Fisher Jurvetson in 1999. This was an incredible learning experience. Senior Developer Sapient - San Francisco, CA 1999 to 2000 Adjaceny was acquired by Sapient in 1999. Front End Developer Adjacency, Brand New Media. - San Francisco, CA 1998 to 1999 While at Adjaceny I developed websites for Specialized (Bicycles), Powerbar, Land Rover, Harman Kardon, Williams Sonoma, Virgin Megastore, Caterpillar, and more. Vocational Instructor Perry Technical Institute - Yakima, WA June 1994 to December 1996 Just before graduating the Graphic Technology program at Perry Tech, I was offered an instructor position. As an instructor for the Graphic Technology program I authored curriculum and created the Imaging Systems Workshop (a digital imaging lab) Education Graphic Technology Perry Technical Institute - Yakima, WA January 1992 to June 1993 Skills UI production using Sketch and Invision (3 years), Photoshop (10+ years), illustrator (10+ years), JIRA (10+ years), Confluence (4 years), HTML (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Aha.io (2 years), PowerBI (2 years), Amazon Web Services (8 years), Microsoft Azure (2 years), Graphic Design, Product Management, Product Development