Digital Designer/ Front- End Developer Digital Designer/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Digital Designer/ Front- End Developer - Edward Jones Fenton, MO Currently working in a UX Designer role. Am interested in a Senior Designer/Art Director position with some UX Design; thrive on a broad array of design projects rather than a narrow focus. Work Experience Digital Designer/ Front- End Developer Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO March 2018 to Present Work directly with internal clients and Edward Jones Agency partners to develop concepts, prototypes and final land- ing page designs. Have developed strong working relationships with internal associates, in both Marketing and Information Technology UX, and external digital agencies to provide specifications for front- end development of websites. Key creator of digital ads for the firm's client attraction social media presence, webinars and financial advisor promotion, successfully driving business to landing pages. Assist web authors with the public website page maintenance and firm's Brand System site, updating pages with new content, graphics and imagery as needed.    Have designed numerous firm intranet news package and special content pages, and act as the digital liaison, providing branding guidance, for Bridge Builder mutual funds and the Edward Jones Trust Company. Continue to support many of the responsibilities of previous Senior Graphic Designer role.    Technical skills include: Sketch, InVision, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Acrobat and Dreamweaver. Working knowledge of HTML5 and CSS. Senior Graphic Designer Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO October 1995 to March 2018 Understand the Edward Jones client and the firm's brand; expert at creating deliverables that speak to our audience, seamlessly integrating client insights and the brand into strong deliverables with positive results. Work with all levels of management to develop, design and produce digital and printed materials for internal and external audiences. Have deep knowledge and support for the visual brand; played a major role in developing, evolving and maintaining brand standards for the firm.    Art direct, project coordinate, schedule and delegate work within the Creative Services department to other on-staff designers, contractors and outside agencies. Excellent communication and project management skills; responsible for assigning and guiding multiple projects, procuring bids and managing costs from photographers, illustrators, printers and other design resources. Orchestrate and direct numerous large-scale photo shoots to build and maintain marketing photo asset library.    Collaborate with video team to create promotional materials for internal and external productions, as well as video animations and art direction. Use innovative thinking and team collaboration, to provide branch teams with well- designed, cutting-edge marketing materials, including newsletters, advertising collateral, print and digital ads, web-based graphics, logos, interactive PDFs, packaging, direct marketing, outdoor signage and branch-promotion collateral. Develop thoughtful visual solutions to successfully simplify complex concepts into understandable charts and info graphics, aiding in informing internal and external audiences.    Helped develop the client greeting card program with Hallmark, managed the tradeshow booth display program and guidelines for firm sports venue advertising. Have also led the design oversight of many key firm projects and initiatives, such as multiple annual internal conferences, the firm's history book, Tour de Ted charity bicycle ride and also as Facilities design liaison to direct the headquarter's history/culture exhibits.    Technical skills include: Adobe InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, After Effects, Acrobat and Microsoft PowerPoint. Art Director Commerce Publishing Company - St. Louis, MO August 1988 to October 1995 Responsible for art direction of three trade magazines, including page and cover design, photo art direction, digital illustration, typesetting and managing production artists. Directly involved in Commerce's tourism publishing division, Publishing Concepts, which developed informational materials for presentation to external clients. Worked directly with illustrators, photographers, editors, production artists and suppliers in scheduling and distributing work in and outside of the company. Projects included various publications, advertisements, promotional brochures, magazine media kits and newsletters. Graphic Designer Douglas Kelly & Associates - Springfield, MO January 1987 to August 1988 Responsibilities included the design of printed, outdoor and television advertising material; conception, presentation, photo art direction and mechanical production. Created promotional brochures for major hotels, banks and real estate developments; also sales portfolios, commercial storyboards, logos, letterheads, product packaging, point-of-purchase displays, newsletters and a variety of publication advertisements. Supervised the work of two other designers on staff. Graphic Designer Missouri State University - Springfield, MO January 1986 to January 1987 Responsibilities included the design of university publications, from conception and presentation to client through final camera-ready artwork. Created illustrations, brochures, posters, invitations, newsletters and other printed pieces for individual departments. Education Master of Arts in Advertising and Marketing Communications Webster University August 2011 Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design Missouri State University May 1987 Skills Graphic Design, Indesign, Adobe, Marketing, Photoshop, Typography, Illustrator, Web Design, After Effects, Branding Awards 1987 CASE Design Award of Merit Collegiate design award for event program 2001 and 2002 Graphic Design USA Magazine awards Newsletter and brochure design Certifications/Licenses Springboard UX Design Certificate October 2018 to July 2019 Completed online UX Design bootcamp course covering initial research, competitor analysis, developing user personas, user stories and emotion mapping, which shaped site information architecture. Also created user workflows, site wireframes, design style guide and high-fidelity prototypes. Usability testing resulted in reiterating design adjustments, leading to a better product, and final capstone project.