Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Portland General Electric • Lead architect/ developer with over 20 years of extensive experience working with .Net technologies and developing Web Applications using .Net Framework 2.0,3.5,4.0,4.5, WCF, Asp.net Web Api, LINQ, LINQ TO SQL, Entity Framework,VB.Net PHP, and ColdFusion, CFC using Ms SQL Server/Express 2005/2008, 2012, MySQL, jQuery, AJAX, WPF, Silverlight 4.0.  • Experience using the Asp.Net 4.5 (Asp.Net MVC 4.0). Asp.Net Core 1.1, 2.2, 3.0, Including KnockoutJS with jQuery.  • Has experience converting existing Access Database Application to a website design, web application, database design and implementation  • Azure Environment, Azure DevOps(New), Azure SQL, Azure Functions, Cosmos DB, Document DB,Azure Cloud experience, Azure Storage, Logic Apps, Service Fabric, Docker etc  • Used technologies is converting MS Excel application database to SQL Server. Asp.net MVC 3 with razor view engine, Ninject framework for Dependency Injection, Repository system, Entity Framework 4.0 (early version), LINQ, lambda expressions, Silverlight 4.0 with RIA and connecting it with Telerik controls, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, LESS, SASS.  • Built JQuery functions and Build a prototype phonegap mobile application for the site.  • Made two version of the server control: one for .Net framework 2.0 support with VS Studio 2005 and the second version for .Net framework 3.5 support with VS Studio 200 Work Experience Full Stack Developer Portland General Electric May 2019 to Present At PGE, I was hired as a front end developer but after joining, they have found out I am very skilled on C# and Asp.Net, .Net Core, taking the full development cycle for Next Gen Team.  Using Angular 4.x and Asp.net WebAPI for developing new features for our team. Also, I was part of CS Web and Automation team because of the skills I have.  Responsibilites:  • My main responsibility to implement new features that is required for our team. Adding new features or update their out dated patterns and practices for not only Angular 4, also for C# code.  • On Automation team, I helped them build a better and faster testing, using Selenium (they are using this framework already but older version), and biggest problem they had, their stack on Oracle, and poor design of the tables, some of the queries for testing would take 5 to 15 minutes to get the data. I gave an idea to build a local SQLLite database to pull the data a head of time. This way, we can run the tests faster.  • Also, I have helped on CS Web team for their stories. Updated some of the out dated C# coding for new patters and practices.  • They use Git on BitBucket for their codes. Also, using Jenkins for CI/CD deployments. Lead Techinal Architect for Front End Development Federal Reserve Bank August 2018 to May 2019 At Federal Reserve Bank (FRB), I architect Angular 4.0 - 7.0 project. Also, old patterns and practices applied to their back end architecture where BLL, DAL, used, provided a skeleton of Repository/Services architecture with Unit Testing. Also, I have created a seed project and implemented SSDT project to overcome day to day database problems and deployment issues.  With this implementation, the database updates and new data implementations, can be source controlled and rolled back if there is/are problems and avoid any production issues.  Responsibilites:  • My main responsibility to create Angular 6 architecture that can be used to create flexible development for any needs. Also, create custom component library that can be used for any form or page and for any project we are using or we are going to work with. These libraries (most) are self sufficient libraries so that it can be used even any other project for any other team/department can use on their projects.  • Helping with SSDT development and teaching others how to use SSDT project in Visual Studio 2017 and how the new data can be deployed automatically. Most of the errors capture on the build time. This saved a lot of time and production error prone and save a lot of time for them to divide their work from current development vs production issues.  • I have also introduced new UNIQUEIDENTIFIER data type in MS SQL Server and benefits. Easy to deploy new data and delete and create or update easily and flexible way so, development of new ideas or new routes are much easier to try.  • Also, creating new scripts with MERGE in Stored Proc, help them find new ways to look at their database and implement new ideas.  • Helping to develop Angular 6 component library in such a way, where you can reuse the code or the structure for new component library. Copy and paste existing code and change very little to create new component library made it very easy and fast. This save quite a bit time and effort. Senior Support Developer, Applications Engineer Rodan + Fields Inc June 2018 to August 2018 At Rodan and Fields, using Relic and Splunk, idetifiy the problems and than try to fix it and/or create a ticket and assign to the developers to investigate and/or fix it.  Also, I did upgrade their ASP.Net MVC project to modern Repository/Service architecture to create Unit testing with Mocking the data so that, the test could be run on the deployment without needing the database server or any connection to outsite third party providers to be tested.  I have identified the problems in database and account creation process. Finding problems and then fixing them any where from code to database. Implement caching where it is needed and fix some of the circler account checks or creations.  Also created a seed project for Angular 6 to be used more flexible architecture and easy to deploy and test.    Responsibilites:  • Making sure existing front end code is up to date and making sure they adapt the latest best practices and performance is checked and pass the certain threashold.  • Build new components and build them in Angular 6.0.  • Build new services in RxJS and use the best practices.  • Provind latest patterns and practices on development in .Net C#. Creating Unit Testing with Repository/Service based architecture and using Mock.  • Asp.Net MVC, WebApi is used on .NET 4.5 and above are being used.  • Angular 6 with Bootstrap 4 to create a seed project to inherit for other teams to get started with modern architecture.  • Helping finding bugs and SQL procedure Sr. Application Developer, Applications Engineer Tesla Inc July 2017 to May 2018 At Tesla, I am on Logistics department. In this engineering department, I make sure any logistics order, especially worldwide shipments of any Tesla products, would get to be printed with the specification of the destination of the country.I handled full cycle of the application development. The main area of the focus was front- end development. I used Angular ^2.0 to develop front end and also we have use Primefaces/PrimeNg component for a look and feel. There are many portals involved in the development. Any where from "Fabrication Portal, Testing Portal, Dynamic Performance Portal, Simulation Portal", We start building solution one or two portal at a time.  Also, there are new applications added every week. I also work on new ffeatures of related or un-related projects as well.  Responsibilites:  • Developing entire solution for given projects. Building the front end design, build in Angular, than building the backend coding with SQL Stored Procs in .Net.  • Making sure, new features to existing application are not broken. If Commercial Invoice PDF generation is not working, it could cost a lot of money to the company. So, I make sure the new changes or updates to the application is not breaking anything.  • Asp.Net MVC, WebApi is used on .NET 4.5 and above are being used.  • KendoUI, Angular JS 1.5, Angular 5.0 (I was the entire app builder for this with one person), Bootstrap 3.0, etc Principal Software Architect 12thWonder Inc July 2016 to March 2017 12thWonder is a company building solutions for Honda R&D departments entire workflow. The workflow involves from start of the car design to end of the production on next models of the car. The challenges are, dynamic form creation to notifications of forms and task that involves with testing, approval of design, testing, manufacturing of any parts related to the car design, scheduling and many more detailed operations in the entire eco-system of the solution.    I handled full cycle of the application development. Main area of the focus was front- end development. I used Angular 2.0 to develop front end and also we have use Primefaces/PrimeNg component for look and feel. There are many portals involved in the development. Any whare from "Fabrication Portal, Testing Portal, Dynamic Performance Portal, Simulation Portal", We start building solution one or two portal at a time.  Responsibilities:  • Start Architecting and building the entire front- end with Angular 2.0 and Typescript.  • Creating templates of solutions to follow a pattern so others could copy and paste for other parts of the functionality to build in parallel. This way, we have saved great deal of time building each level of solution to code. Standardizing the look, common coding saved developers time and learning curve as well.  • Building custom components for Angular 2.0, Using PrimeNG framework, updating and fixing issue with PrimeNG framework as well.  • I have also helped creating Ado.Net helper function for our Repository Pattern to use on the Base Repository.  • Adding Dapper on top of Ado.Net saved us time and gave us great flexibility to change on the fly of our Repository to consume data and gave us a different and dynamic data structure on our MVVM. Senior .Net Web Developer Travelzoo Inc July 2014 to March 2016 Travelzoo is one of the largest travel sites with local deals company in the world. They have deals anywhere from hotels to airline, cruises, vacation deals, local restaurants, spas, activities and many more choices to make your trip great. It is a worldwide company who has many offices in around the world.  Responsibilities:  • Adding new features, fixing bugs and brining new idea  • Recommended and executed the design implementation  • Built JavaScript, Knockout and jQuery functions  • Build mobile application for the site, targeting mostly for mobile devices.  • Environment: ASP.NET, Web Forms, Entity Framework 3, SQL server, C#, jQuery, JavaScript, Core JavaScript, KnockoutJS, Twitter Bootstrap 3.0, CSS3, ADO.NET, HTML5, Scrum using Jira, TFS for source control. Senior .Net Developer Intuit Inc November 2013 to April 2014 Intuit is the largest small business accounting software platform. They also help individuals and small business owners paying taxes. They have multiple products that help individuals and business owners. These are: mint.com, Intuit Health patient portal, Intuit Financial Services and Intuit India. They have 8500 employees.  Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for developing loan application matching engine with CJ (Commission Junction), web application, database design and implementation  • Recommended and executed the design and architecture of the system and the database  • Built KnockoutJS, BackboneJS, EmberJS, KnockoutJS and jQuery functions  • Build mobile application for the site, targeting mostly for mobile devices.  • Environment: ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, Entity Framework 5 and upgrade 6 with Code First Reverse Engineering, Ninject, MS Patterns & Practices, Inversion of Control (IoC), Dependency Injection Pattern, Asp.Net MVC 4 with Web API, SQL server, C#, Rhino Mock for testing, jQuery, JavaScript, BackboneJS, KnockoutJS, KnockoutJS, Twitter Bootstrap 3.0, CSS3, ADO.NET, HTML5, Microsoft Unit Testing, Scrum using Rally, Perforce for source control.  • They were looking an option to see if EmberJS is a better option than BackboneJS. I have built a sample application to test it. It looked good but at the time they thought it is not mature yet. Senior .Net Developer/ PHP Wells Fargo July 2013 to October 2013 Wells Fargo is one of the leaders in banking and financial industry. They are a national bank. They provide variety of online services to their customers.  Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for converting existing Access Database Application to a website design, web application, database design and implementation  • Recommended and executed the design and architecture of the system and the database  • Built AngularJS and jQuery functions. Also using KendoUI to handle UI of the site.  • Build a prototype PhoneGap mobile application for the site, targeting mostly for mobile devices.  • Environment: ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, Entity Framework 5 and upgrade 6 with Code First Reverse Engineering, Ninject, MS Patterns & Practices, Inversion of Control (IoC), Dependency Injection Pattern, Asp.Net MVC 4 with Web API, SQL server, C#, Rhino Mock for testing, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Twitter Bootstrap 3.0,CSS3, PhoneGap mobile development, ADO.NET, HTML5, Microsoft Unit Testing. Technical Leader / Architect / Senior .Net Developer Survcast Corporation May 2011 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for the website design, web applications, database design and implementation  • Developed in an MVC and PHP using LDAP authentication a suite for users to login and use several different web applications in one URL.  • Initiated cloud computing and helped save the company over $100,000  • Designed and developed database Recommended and executed the design and architecture of the system and the database  • Built JQuery functions  • Build a prototype PhoneGap mobile application for the site.  • Integrated external services: PageGlimpse, SebSnapr, Akismet, TypePad, Defensio, Gravatar, OpenID & Id Selector, URL shrinking services  • Environment: ASP.NET, MVC, Linq to SQL, Entity Framework, Unity Framework, MS Patterns & Practices, SQL server, MySQL, C#, JQuery, JavaScript, PhoneGap mobile development,ADO.NET, XHTML, HTML5, KnockoutJS, Kendo UI, AngularJS, WCF, xUnit.net  • Experinmenting with Xamarin to create the mobile version of the site. Senior .Net Consultant Webhun 1997 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for their estimate site for their state clients. I was using the Asp.Net 4.5 (Asp.Net MVC 4.0) in this project. Including KnockoutJS with jQuery. I have designed and implemented on the new project these technologies and Bootstrap as well. There was also Entity Framework 4.0 with SQL Server 2008 for database modeling as well.  • I have introduce the KnockoutJS to the team. They have seen the power of the KnockoutJS and start converting their core from ExtJS to KnockoutJS on some of the projects.  • I have worked with team of 10 people on this project.  • Creating Xamarin Mobile app for portable version of the actual app. Technical Leader and Senior .Net Developer Applied Strategies August 2010 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for the foundation of the applications of website design, database design and implementation  • Used technologies is converting MS Excel application database to SQL Server. Asp.net MVC 3 with razor view engine, Ninject framework for Dependency Injection, Repository system, Entity Framework 4.0 (early version), LINQ, lambda expressions, Silverlight 4.0 with RIA and connecting it with Telerik controls, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS2. This also includes teaching to one junior and senior developer. Technical Leader / Architect / Senior .Net Developer Survcast Corporation September 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Lead architect/ developer for the website design, web applications, database design and implementation  • Developing front end solutions to improve page load performance. Using KnockoutJS and AngularJS, along side with treating data a little differently at the back end, I was be able to improve the page loads from 3 to 6 seconds to 400 to 1000 ms. Huge performance gain on the site also improved the need of VM to scale.  • Initiated cloud computing and helped save the company over $100,000  • Designed and developed database  • Recommended and executed the design and architecture of the system and the database  • Built JQuery functions for custom Grid to show data  • Build a prototype PhoneGap mobile application for the site.  • Integrated external services: PageGlimpse, SebSnapr, Akismet, TypePad, Defensio, Gravatar, OpenID & Id Selector, URL shrinking services  • Environment: ASP.NET, MVC, Linq to SQL, Entity Framework, Unity Framework, MS Patterns & Practices, SQL server, MySQL, PHP, C#, JQuery, JavaScript, PhoneGap mobile development,ADO.NET, XHTML, HTML, WCF, xUnit.net Consultant GoGrid February 2009 to August 2009 Responsibilities:  • Built SDK to make Restful API calls, which enables developers to build their own windows API  • My library made it easier to build these type of solutions faster Consultant PeopleCharts December 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Consulted on New Features and Database Debug  • Integrated onto a project that was started by another developer  • Fixed problems and integrated with development and production servers  • Found out that stored procedure had a problem, diagnosed and fixed the problem  • Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, C#, MS SQL Server 2005, JavaScript Consultant WetPaint December 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Created Server Control Version for their services, for customers to easily access and use them for their projects  • Made two version of the server control: one for .Net framework 2.0 support with VS Studio 2005 and the second version for .Net framework 3.5 support with VS Studio 200  • Environment: ASP.NET 2.0/3.5, C#, JavaScript    Electronic Arts  Consultant  Responsibilities:  • Consultant on database and architectural design  • Looked at their current design and problems, then discussed with project team members to find out likes/dislikes  • Designed a new database schema and developed the new website with web services  • Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, WCF, LINQ, ADO.net Entities, MS SQL Server 2005 Senior Developer San Francisco Airport June 2007 to June 2008 Responsibilities:  • Intranet application development, backend developer  • Converted MS Access 97 to Asp.Net with MS SQL Server 2005 for employee sign in/out  • Web design using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and applying W3C standards  • Environment: ASP.Net 2.0, MS SQL Server 2005 Developer CA Golden Gate Construction June 2002 to August 2007 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained website  • Built and updated the computers in the office  • Implemented and designed databases  • Custom Windows applications to automate daily routine jobs  • Analytic problem-solving on their debugs  • Teaching the MS Office applications to employees  • Environment: Web, MS Office Developer BizPie March 1997 to February 2001 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained website  • Configuration of MS SQL server  • Solved variety of programming bugs in applications  • Maintained the network  • Custom software development with .NET using C#, VB.Net, ColdFusion  • Environment: .Net, C#, MS SQL server, Terminal Servers, Web Servers Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Coldfusion, Asp.net, Web services, .net, Api, Application development, C#, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Silverlight Additional Information Technical Skills:  • HTML, NodeJS, jQuery, AngularJS 1.5, Angular JS 2.0-7.0 (Angular), Typescript, KnockoutJS, JavaScript, EmberJS, Handlebars JS, jQuery Plug-ins, Custom Slider Widget, KendoUI, jQuery Mobile, Bootstrap 4.x, PhoneGap, AJAX, CSS2, CSS3  • Developing Web Applications using .Net Framework 2.0,3.5,4.0,4.5, Asp.Net Core 1,2.x (MVC, WebApi), .Net Standard, Xamarin, IoT Azure, Azure Functions, SQL Azure, Document DB, Core WCF, Asp.net Web Api, LINQ, LINQ TO SQL, Entity Framework Azure Cosmos DB, Dapper, Hangfire, VB.Net PHP, and ColdFusion, CFC using Ms SQL Server/Express 2005/2008, 2012, MySQL, jQuery, AJAX, WPF, Silverlight 4.0  • C# 1.1 2.0,3.0, VB.Net 1.1 2.0,9.0, ASP.NET 1.1 2.0, 3.5, 4.5, MVC 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, Web API, LINQ, SOAP, Web, also learning mobile web development like Services, WCF, ASP, XHTML, XML, XSLT, Web Services, MS SQL, SSRS, Windows XP, Windows XP Server 2003, MS Office Applications, Facebook Application Development, oAuth 1.0, 2.0, Twitter, Instagram  • Docker, Microsoft Azure Platform, Logic Apps, Azure Functions, Document DB, Git Hub, Development of SDK API library. Building API solutions to companies (GoGrid, Survcast, etc)