Freelance Front End Designer and Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Designer and <span class="hl">Developer</span> UX Designer, Graphic Designer, and Web Designer Lake Villa, IL Work Experience Freelance Front End Designer and Developer REweb Chicago - Chicago, IL July 2008 to Present Designed and created graphics utilizing Adobe Creative Suite.  ? Coded in multiple programming languages (HTML, CSS, PHP, and MySQL).  ? Collaborate face to face with clients for project requirements with detailed prototypes.  ? Lead and create client presentations to communicate user experience.  ? Designed and developed custom CMS for client and employee communications.  ? Created Vector graphics for branding and printing purposes.  ? Manage budgets and create client proposals.  ? Optimize customer websites for Search Engine Optimization (SEO) by updating keywords, meta tags and revising text on multiple web pages.  ? Use of Google Analytics for tracking data for user retention on every website. Senior UX Designer Oracle - CPQ Cloud - Deerfield, IL July 2012 to March 2019 UX Project lead on the quarterly releases of Oracle's B2B software called CPQ (Configure - Price - Quote).  ? Reported to the UX Manager, and served on SCRUM teams within an Agile environment. These teams  included a Product Manager, a Developer team, a QA team, and myself as the UX Resource.  ? Regularly communicated with Product Management team to create product roadmaps and compared  customer data to ensure the best user experience.  ? Primarily used Axure to build interactive prototypes, Balsamiq and Zoom for virtual whiteboarding, and Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver for mockups.  ? Created advanced walkthroughs and style guides for Project Managers and software Development teams.  ? Created Wireframes and communicated between PM, Development, and QA teams to ensure quality and consistency of each release.  ? Worked with QA teams to test releases and file bugs to ensure the quality is what was originally proposed.  ? Personally called key customers and conducted UX Reviews and User Testing sessions with interactive  prototypes. I would record the results and document within Oracle's Confluence site for the team to share.  ? Focused on projects aimed at making each quarterly release a better user experience for existing Legacy  customers and visually compelling for new customers.  ? Led group meetings with User Experience deliverables.  ? Created additional prototypes and concepts for UX team collaboration and consistency.  ? Analyzed current trends to identify usability patterns and documented them in Oracle's Confluence site for other teams to share.  ? Oracle acquired BigMachines, Inc. in December 2013. Web Designer SK Intertainment - Chicago, IL May 2011 to April 2012 Designed and created graphics utilizing Adobe Creative Suite.  ? Designed, created and hard coded web pages in multiple programming languages.  ? Maintained and updated front end graphics on multiple web pages.  ? Designed and created custom banners for affiliates and promotional purposes.  ? Created custom emails for promotional purposes and tested for errors in all email browsers.  ? Optimized keywords, meta tags, and revising text on multiple web pages for Search Engine Optimization.  ? Provided immediate response to client communications and helped troubleshoot any web related issues. Lead Web Designer Direct Hit Solutions - Libertyville, IL November 2008 to June 2010 Acted as the project manager for all web and design related projects.  ? Designed and created graphics utilizing Adobe Creative Suite for multiple clients.  ? Designed, created and hard coded websites in multiple programming languages (HTML, CSS, PHP, ASPX, Javascript, and Actionscript).  ? Managed Social Media Client accounts by keeping their social networking sites updated daily and distributed  weekly reports with detailed statistics and overviews of activity.  ? Animated viral videos and created storyboards for online usage.  ? Created storyboards, filmed and managed video editing for multiple client projects which often entailed  filming video on location or using a green screen.  ? Optimized websites for Search Engine Optimization by updating keywords, meta tags and revising text on multiple web pages for multiple clients.  ? Exceeded project deadlines and surpassed expectations by providing an immediate response to client  communications and helped troubleshoot any web related issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Arts and Design Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL 2008 Skills CSS, DREAMWEAVER, SEARCH ENGINE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Front End, Front-End, UI, User Interface, Java Links http://www.RobertLichter.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  UX - User Experience  Primarily use Balsamiq, Axure, and Adobe - Illustrator, Photoshop, & Dreamweaver. Also use Adobe - InDesign,  Adobe - After Effects, & Adobe - Flash, HTML/XHTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, XML, JavaScript, Final Cut Pro,  3D Studio Max, Search Engine Optimization (SEO), Social Media, Google Analytics, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Word,  Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, and Silverback.