Electronics Technician Electronics Technician Electronics Technician San Diego, CA Determined, motivated, and prepared to take on any situation no matter how difficult the task or working conditions. I have the experience, training, and knowledge to prove that I can be an asset to any organization and am always driven to succeed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Electronics Technician United States Navy - San Diego, CA December 2010 to October 2018 Scored in the high 90's on over a dozen extensive ship-wide certifications and inspections due in part to the accomplishment of 11,295 maintenance checks totaling 12,337 man-hours by myself or under my direct supervision of at least 12 personnel.  Maintained 3 radars and corrected over 25 major and minor faults as the lead air traffic control radar technician which contributed to 3,584 landings, 3,064 flight hours, over 500 radar approaches, and 52,284 lbs worth of air dropped supplies with zero mishaps.  Achieved 100% accountability in the acquisition and documentation of $2.6 million worth of repair parts, tools, and supplies for my division and making me the number one logistics support liaison onboard.  Significantly increased calibration readiness of all 455 electronic test equipment units onboard the ship from 83% to 97% for four quarters which exceeded the rest of the fleet's average of 79%.  Evaluated to be a top ten performer among my peers onboard both ships i served. Front- End Website Developer ABOUT ME - Atlanta, GA June 2005 to November 2010 GA  Earned 100% client satisfaction while creating four small business websites utilizing the latest HTML and CSS standards, and designing all the art assets in Adobe Photoshop.  Created dozens of promotional pieces and web pages ahead of schedule and consistently exceeded their expectations in terms of design quality for Kaplan's marketing department.    ABOUT ME  Determined, motivated, and prepared to take on any situation no matter how difficult the task or working conditions. I have the experience, training, and knowledge to prove that I can be an asset to any organization and am always driven to succeed. Education High school or equivalent Norcross High School - Norcross, GA May 2005 Skills Electronics troubleshooting (8 years), Excel (6 years), Inventory Management (4 years), maintenance (7 years), Microsoft powerpoint (6 years), Microsoft word (10+ years), Program management (5 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), MS Office (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: PO2 Additional Information Secret security clearance status: Active (Exp. Dec 2020)