Creator and Software Developer Creator and Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Coralville, IA Software developer open to a career change that enables me to be a positive influence and allows me to contribute to constructive outcomes via initiative, planning, follow through, and strength of character. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creator and Software Developer HoopyJibble.com - Coralville, IA December 2017 to Present Currently in development. Personal project designed to be an inclusive web application to empower people to make positive changes in how they think and interact. Conceptualized as a social site that takes a lighthearted approach to help identify and challenge our established thought patterns. Based on the premise that positive thinking results in positive outcomes. A portion of proceeds to be donated to humanitarian and environmental causes. Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, PostgreSQL, Ubuntu, Nginx., Sass. Front End Engineer Placester, Inc. - Chicago, IL February 2016 to August 2016 Various software development contributions for this web-based startup offering personalized websites to real estate agents. JavaScript, Java, HTML5, CSS3, Jira. Front End Engineer HomeFinder.com - Chicago, IL January 2013 to February 2016 Front end engineer for this real estate listings site. Maintained the company’s two web-based consumer applications containing over 30M indexed pages. Acquired by Placester, Inc., since spun off. JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Smarty, HTML5, CSS3, Ruby on Rails, React.js. Mentor The Starter League - Chicago, IL April 2012 to June 2013 Supported and advised students learning web application development. Helped alleviate fears that go with learning to code in an accelerated setting. Gave positive advice and technical help, instilling confidence in my students. Was rewarded to see the projects produced and jobs attained at the end of the eleven-week session. Paraprofessional Lyons Township High School - La Grange, IL August 2006 to May 2007 Assisted juniors and seniors in seven classes per day. Provided guidance to students during lessons. Advocated for their help with teachers. Coached students when sent out of the classroom as a disciplinary measure. Ruby on Rails. Regional Marketing Coordinator Microsoft - Chicago, IL February 2005 to June 2005 Temporary position working in a two-person team alongside the marketing director. Organized the 2005 Visual Studio educational conferences at hotel settings throughout the central US region. Software Consultant Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL December 1990 to May 2002 Software consultant working on clinical drug trials data management, under FDA 21 CFR Part 11 regulatory requirements, doing meta-programming to create and maintain databases, entry forms and file extractions for statistical analysis on 700+ clinical trials studies. Task coordination, interviewing, and documentation responsibilities in addition to coding. Received award for lead role in system migration. Software Consultant Pepsi-Cola General Bottlers - Schaumburg, IL January 1992 to January 1996 Software consultant for year- end HR and financial systems for Pepsi’s parent, Whitman Corp. Trained Pepsi developers to manage this themselves. Programmer/Analyst First Chicago Bank - Chicago, IL September 1989 to December 1990 Commercial credit risk portfolio maintenance and financial risk reporting for top bank management. Received award for outstanding performance. Now merged into JP Morgan Chase. Software Instructor MUST Software - Rosemont, IL December 1988 to September 1989 Nomad2 software instructor for end users and programmers in educational classroom settings. Nomad2 is a programming language for data manipulation, analysis, and reporting with internal or external data structures. Programmer/Analyst Whitman Corp. - Chicago, IL August 1986 to December 1988 Programmer/Analyst Rand McNally - Skokie, IL August 1983 to July 1984 Programmer/Analyst Nielsen Clearinghouse - Clinton, IA August 1982 to August 1983 Coupon marketing programming. Education Master's in Finance Loyola University Chicago - Chicago, IL 1986 to 1989 Bachelor's in Management Systems University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA August 1980 to May 1982 None in Business Administration St. Ambrose University - Davenport, IA August 1978 to May 1980 Skills CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Git, Javascript, PostgresSQL, Ruby on Rails, jQuery, Sass, Scrum, Agile, Google Maps, Google Ads, Optimizely, Google Docs, Microsoft Office