UX/UI Design Manager UX/UI Design Manager UX/UI Design Manager - First Tech Fed Credit Union San Jose, CA Seasoned senior leader to lead design strategy, define design vision, strategy of incorporating user research into product lifecycle  and contribute to the product roadmap. Deep understanding in areas of user experience methods and user centric design  principles.    More than twelve years of extensive experience as a full stack designer in building human centric interaction design, web design,  responsive design and mobile app design by simplifying and solving complex problems. Over 5 years of experience of mentoring  and managing designers.    I uncover and translate customer insights into actionable principles to design around core needs. I have experience of managing  designers as well as external partners including digital agencies, contract talent and vendors. Work Experience UX/UI Design Manager First Tech Fed Credit Union - San Jose, CA August 2018 to Present Manage a group of user experience researchers and visual designers in design team.  Collaborate with Product Management, EPMO and Developers to make sure design process are being followed through the organization.  Run design reviews, create design and research roadmap aligned with product features.  Lead interaction design and strategies on mobile app, online mobile banking and API platform. Senior UX/UI Design Architect First Tech Fed Credit Union - San Jose, CA July 2014 to August 2018 Worked as lead designer for corporate website redesign, online banking and native apps. Contributed towards concept  development, presentations, wireframes, storyboards, scenarios, user flows and developing visual interface and information architecture for final designs. 300,000 new visitors added to the website and bounce rate slashed 1% as a result of redesign of the website.  Established UCD process within an evolving startup culture, strategy and tools for capturing client insights, process improvement.  Responsible for user research in forms of conducting focus group, interviews. Responsible for user testing in forms of card sorting, remote user testing, information architecture.  Build the design pattern library and branding guide from ground up.  Collaborate with stake holders, product owners, engineers.  Provide design Leadership by managing UX designer, provide mentorship to junior designers  Test and report designs and UI for accessibility. User Experience Designer and Front End Developer Liberty Mutual Agencies Corporation - Boston, MA March 2012 to 2014 Responsible for design and development of responsive web applications on commercial agency and websites for desktop, mobile phones and tablets. Provided simple and elegant design solutions on interfaces using data visualization.  Build wireframes, high fidelity prototypes, design web interfaces. Conduct User Research and testing.  Worked on Infographics, design pattern library, style guide based on corporate color palette and code repository.  Collaborated with engineers, product managers, researchers and mentored Junior developers. Senior Designer and Front End Developer Plymouth Rock Assurance - Boston, MA June 2010 to February 2012 Responsible for design and front end development of corporate websites.  Built prototypes and designed various web applications such as online quote system, agent web, E-coverage online quote application, insurance agency dashboard, video portal.  Responsible for building marketing email newsletters. E-learning Designer and Developer Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA October 2008 to May 2010 Responsible for creating and maintaining Streetscape (a broker and advisor system) simulator website. The simulator is  used to train brokers-dealers before using the actual Streetscape platform.  Designed and built client e-learning modules for internal training purposes. Web Designer/ Developer North Point Domain - Boston, MA 2007 to 2008 Designed healthcare websites for big hospitals as well as small primary care centers. Created wireframes, site flow, primary and secondary navigation, style sheet, and performed daily maintenance of numerous client websites.  Involved in front end coding, image editing.  Designed and generated HTML e-mail newsletters for company's sales department. Web Designer Colliers International/Meredith and Grew - Boston, MA 2007 to 2007 2007  Responsible for maintaining and updating the external corporate website and generating HTML e-mail newsletters for the company.  Planned, designed and implemented micro websites for new properties using standard compliance code and search engine optimization techniques. Art Director Alpha Translations Services Inc - Melbourne, FL 2006 to 2007 Involved in design works such as user manual development for health insurance andsoftware companies.  Responsible for designing weekly marketing materials (e.g., newspaper flyers for supermarket chains), business cards, logos and icons for promotional materials. Recreated tourist maps for NASA, developed and maintained multilingual websites including design of GUIs(Graphical User Interfaces), search engine optimization.  Strategized design and development of corporate websites into 20 different languages including English, Chinese, Arabic, Polish, Spanish, Dutch, French, Korean, Japanese, Haitian-Creole and Hebrew. Freelance Multimedia and Web Designer Bengali Society of Florida - Orlando, FL 2004 to 2006 Webmaster for the community portal "Bengali Society of Florida (www.bsfnet.com). Work includes design banners, websites, infographics and build and maintain video portal.  Developed a portal to host collection of tutorials related to various software and scripting languages. Multimedia Designer/ developer GetIT Multimedia Ltd - Singapore 2000 to 2001 Designed and developed multimedia rich CD-ROMs, websites and streaming videos for Video On Demand.  Created multimedia corporate Demo CDs from design to completion by using Macromedia Director, Authorware, Adobe  Premiere, Photoshop, Flash, Sony Sound Forge.  Developed external company website and e-learning modules incorporating video, scripting, audio, Power Point files. Education Advanced Diploma in Multimedia Design Harvard Extension School - Cambridge, MA Bachelor of Education in Education Informatics School - Singapore Master of Science in Geography Calcutta University Skills Wireframes, Visual design, Heuristic evaluation, Usability testing, User stories, Illustrator, Prototyping, Competitive analysis, Html, Bootstrap, Android, Use cases, Css, Dreamweaver, Sharepoint, Ios, Jira, Usability, Flash, Mapping, User Experience, UX, Wireframe, Sketch, Adobe, Axure, Javascript, Journey mapping, UX pin Links http://webmaxdesign.net Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Experience with Mac and Windows Operating Systems. Proficient with Sketch, Invision, Uxpin, Axure, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe  Dreamweaver, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign, Adobe Flash, Adobe Premiere, Sound Forge, Adobe Acrobat, Sound Forge,  Axure, Adobe XD, Principle, Captivate, SnagIt, HTML, CSS, BootStrap, SharePoint, VisualForce, Microsoft Office Suite, Jira,  Confluence    CONCEPTION, PLANNING & RESEARCH  Brainstorming, Storyboards, Use Cases, Task Analysis, Journey Mapping, User Stories, Personas, Stakeholders Interviews  Competitive Analysis, Content Prioritization, Roadmap, Sitemap, Scenarios, User Flow, User Interviews, Focus Group,  Quantitative Survey, Usability Testing including Remote, Heuristic Evaluation, Card-sorting, A/B Test    DESIGN  Pen & Paper Prototyping, Wireframes, Low-fi and High-fi Prototyping, iOS, Android Native and Responsive Web, Visual Design,  Design Pattern Library, Style Guide    Mahuya Ghosh San Jose, CA email: netmahua@gmail.com ph: 321-806-8816 webmaxdesign.net