Ecommerce Front- End Web Developer Ecommerce <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ecommerce Front- End Web Developer King, NC Results-driven Computer Programmer and Web Developer offering a progressive, eleven-year career in information technology. Highly proficient with Java, Python and SQL code development and debugging, HTML5, .CSS and JavaScript and all Microsoft Office Applications. Repeated success directing IT projects from inception to execution, strategically allocating resources and delegating tasks to achieve on-time, on-budget delivery. Can expertly manage technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root causes and prevent recurrence. Competent in Process improvements with a history of implementing new procedures and technologies to strengthen security, enhance operational efficiency, and control costs. Work Experience Ecommerce Front- End Web Developer Hanesbrands Inc - Winston-Salem, NC 2017 to 2019 • Utilized HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript to produce website layouts/content.  • Maintained company websites by debugging and applying fixes.  • Specialized in responsive design to create consumer driven websites.  • Performed quality assurance reviews on previously written code to maintain ADA compliance. IT Consultant/Specialist Hemlock Golf Club - Walnut Cove, NC 2014 to 2016 • Designed and maintained the Point-Of-Sales Programming and Network.  • Conducted software training and provided technical support to users.  • Performed maintenance and upgrade management for company server.  • Managed backup, security and user help systems. Line Leader RockTenn - Winston-Salem, NC 2010 to 2013 • Oversaw the assembly and production output quotas for multiple corrugated display jobs.  • Performed quality checks on products and parts.  • Packaged finished products and prepared them for shipment.  • Maintained OSHA, Sarbanes-Oxley and Company standards for safety, cleanliness and quality.  • Used a work order system and the AS400 application to provide quality built displays and monitor revenue per man hour and other hourly goals. Computer Technician Clapp Brothers and Associates - King, NC 2001 to 2008 • Reviewed and managed project plans and developed organizational goals, policies, and procedures.  • Answered user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, including installation of operating systems, software, and cabling.  • Conducted specific training programs to help workers maintain or improve job skills.  • Analyzed training needs to develop new training programs or modify and improve existing programs. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Winston-Salem State University - Winston-Salem, NC August 2014 to December 2019 High School Diploma South Stokes High School - Walnut Cove, NC May 2005 Skills Java, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, Python