Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - ASCAP New York, NY • 11+ years of extensive work experience in writing web application programs covering front- end/UI using the web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Angular.js2, React.js, JSON, XML and AJAX.  • Involved in Software development methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall and SDLC.  • Experience in creating Responsive web designs (RWD).  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, table less XHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Extensive knowledge in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Backbone.js.  • Hands on experience in MVC framework using Angular JS 2/4 and React.js.  • Expert in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout, Angular.js, jQuery UI, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular.js, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and IIS.  • Experience in developing cross platform server-side applications using Node.js to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Crated custom reusable custom elements that interoperate seamlessly with the browsers built in elements using polymer  Library in java script.  • Hands on experience for HTML/CSS/JSP direct coding with focus on Cross-browser/Cross-platform compliance.  • Good knowledge in Angular.js 2/4/5 directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client-side interactivity in web applications.  • Working knowledge of integrating Angular.js and React.js with additional custom directives. Also, with Backbone.js and React.js to be used for comments sections.  • Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development.  • Experience in developing applications using CSS 3 Media Queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design making.  • Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) and DOM functions.  • Extensive experience with Java IDEs like Eclipse, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), Net Beans and Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Expertise in WebSphere Commerce development of web applications using WebSphere Commerce Developer Toolkit.  • Involved in developing UI configuration tool to adopt the user interface of CRM according to the client requirements  • Knowledge in developing cross platform mobile applications using Apache Cordova/ Phone Gap Platforms with the help of UI Frameworks like Sencha Touch.  • Deployed the programmed code using the amazon web service called lambda function.  • Experience with Web 2.0 User Interfaces; W3C standards and specifications, and user-centered design principles.  • Good experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Worked in Angular with ES6 Typescript/JavaScript.  • Implemented complex UI logic using custom made Custom tags and existing JSF/Richfaces Custom tags and Expression Language in compliance with XHTML standards.  • Led Mobile development using Ionic framework to implement application on iOS and Android platforms  • Experience in working with Core Java, J2EE Based Applications, Servlets, JSP.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Strong Experience in Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in creating HTML pages by cutting PSD files in Photoshop.  • Knowledge in using Package Managers like NPM and Bower. Experience in using Task managers like Grunt, Gulp and Brunch.  • Designed web applications and web contents utilizing various SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (SEO) techniques to develop web applications while producing high ranking for numerous key words.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and jQuery Light box.  • Deployed this application on several mobile platforms using Ionic framework.  • Experience in using JS Unit Testing for client-side applications.  • Experience in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, BDD and TDD.  • Experience in working with databases MSSQL Server, Oracle, MS Access and MySQL.  • Experience in using Content management systems like WordPress for Ecommerce related site functionality.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT and SVN to manage and control software development.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Work Experience Front End UI Developer ASCAP - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development and building Web application development for client and server side using Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Used Backgrid.js which supports Backbone.js to render the server-side data and display and worked on CSS pre-processors such as SASS.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Worked on different changed procedures of Angular 1.x to Angular 2.0 such as, @Route, Router Outlet, router-link etc.  • Created Angular 2 components implemented Interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  • Coded Angular JS controllers and directives for application functionality and filters for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 by consuming RESTful web services & used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Development of Client-Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and jQuery and Angular JavaScript.  • Utilized the Dependency Injection mechanism for simpler way of managing the controllers and scopes.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed MSHP https://mshp.mountsinai.org website for MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL.  • Skilled in using Front- end development tolls HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, and Bootstrap and MVC frame structures to develop a website.  • Experience in Responsive web design with the UI compatibility being multi-device compatible (Desktop, Tablet, Mobile - iOS, Android) and Cross Browser Compatible.  • Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries  • Experience in creating HTML pages by cutting PSD files in Photoshop.  • Working on LIFERAY tool creating Portlet, theme, web content design and development.  • Presently working on migrating existing MSHP WordPress website to LIFERAY7 DXP.  • Involved in creating a roadmap and implemented LIFERAY portal upgrade for Mount Sinai portal application from versions 6.2 to LIFERAY7 DXP.  • As a part of LIFERAY DXP upgrade from 6.2 version all the existing portlets are migrated to LIFERAY DXP OSGI modules.  • Used LIFERAY Content Manage System (CMS) for create, edit, manage, and maintain website pages and created both public and private pages at the site level.  • Used Free Marker Templates to create the template and structure for publishing the web content articles in LIFERAY DXP.  • Worked on implementing of UI in LIFERAY as per the wireframes, developed themes and layouts.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and end-to- end automation for build and deployments.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT and SVN to manage and control software development.  • Implemented XML parsing & JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Regular interaction of RESTful API design calls to populate the UI on the app using GET, PUT, POST and DELETE.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Worked on writing code for integrating merchant API to get all the details about coupons and merchant ID to database.  • Developed API back ends using Node.js to allocate access to data in MYSQL.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node JS to save the timestamp in database converting into UTC.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tools and hardcoded the API into script for getting the information about merchants using Node JS.  • Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome Developer tools.  • Performed testing using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor by following Test Driven Development (TTD) approach.  • Used GitHub, version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.    Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, AngularJS 1.x/2.0, Node JS, JSON, SQL, Jasmine, Protractor, Source tree Front End UI/UX Developer Technik Inc - Arlington, VA June 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the end users / business analysts to gather the requirements of the project and was responsible for the delivery of technical design document and implementation.  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2/4 to design UI.  • Worked in Agile Environment and attended meetings regularly to show the functionalities implemented and worked closely with business analyst and solution architect.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Worked with source code control systems like GIT and JIRA.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts and wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web.  • Involved in implementation of MVC Architecture with AngularJS 2.0.  • Have experience of designing application with framework Angular.js 2.0 based on best design approach.  • Extensive experience in Cross-browser HTML, CSS JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers and mobile devices.  • Extensive experience in UI development, frontend development, web 2.0 specifications, media compatibilities, application architecture, and project and team management.  • Expertise in AngularJS and Angular 2/4 for developing Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Experience in building modern web application in React.js and React ecosystem libraries.  • Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache SOAP, RESTful API.  • Expertise in UI designing like wireframe concepts, Mockup designs using Adobe Fireworks, Photoshop  • Create a custom hybrid mobile application using Angular 4, Ionic 2 and Typescript stack for IOS and Android platform deployment.  • Developed responsive frontend client app using Bootstrap 4 and Angular 4 framework for desktop and using Ionic 3 framework for Android and iOS devices  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Responsible for developing mobile applications for cross platform (iOS, Android, Windows, Blackberry) phones and tablets.  • Hands on experience using LIFERAY tool creating Portlet, theme, web content design and development.  • Involved in LIFERAY upgrading from to 6.1version to7.0 version. Currently working on LIFERAY 7.  • Bank Support System, Custom build Liferay portlets & Liferay core customization for support service to external customers  • Experience in using different IDE's (integrated development environment) like Eclipse, Edit plus, A GUI (graphical user interface) builder and Brackets for source code editor, build automation tools, and a debugger.  • Experience in creating HTML pages by cutting PSD files in Photoshop.  • Skilled in creating virtual designs (VD's) and resizing images using Adobe Photoshop CS5.  • Created architecture of mobile application using Ionic Framework (as of 2014) and Node.JS server Implemented Node.JS servers on embedded and cloud platforms, supporting mobile clients.  • Services completely redesigned and re-implemented using Node JS, Mongo DB, and MySQL.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and end-to- end automation for build and deployments.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT and SVN to manage and control software development.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.    Environment: HTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular2/4, React.js LIFERAY, and Tomcat web server, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Front End/UI Developer Gartner - Stamford, CT November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, prepared Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document. Created Visio charts for the workflow architecture of the system.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, JSP and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Writing and implementing CSS3 throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files and designed Responsive Webpages using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Front- end development utilizing Java Script frameworks such as Angular.js2, jQuery UI, and Require.js, as well as front end technologies HTML5, CSS3, AJAX.  • Extensive experience in developing J2EE applications in various domains like insurance, Energy Health Care, Finance, E-Commerce Organizations.  • Involved in updating the pages using HTML 5 and CSS 3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3 effects to enhance user experience as per the client requirements.  • Visual designer for responsive web and mobile.  • Experience in creating e-commerce websites.  • Designed e-commerce website and mobile applications with effective use of visual effects.  • Worked as a Technical lead for a UI intensive Web Application called Tour Operating System. Designed and prepared custom tags on and above JSF/Rich faces layer and prepared framework classes for Managed Beans interacting with the Hibernate back end layer.  • It has been a great challenge designing and maintaining the UI layer of the Application. Mentored the Team members (more than 100 member's team) on the effective usage of JSF/Rich faces, JavaScript, jQuery, XHTML.  • Developed code using ES6 and used Babel as a compiler to transform ES6 to ES5 to run properly in the browser.  • Rapid prototyping for websites and mobile apps utilizing HTML5, CSS3 (SASS), JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS.  • Wire framed, designed, coded and tested internal mobile responsive website.  • Implemented Angular.js2, Bootstrap, LESS, and many jQuery plugins wrapped in Angular.js directives.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  • Developed applications using Node.js, Java, and Neo4j platforms in the cloud environment with extensive use of messaging.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, underscore.js, MyBatis, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Developed user interface using additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, Struts Tag-libraries. Responsible for writing custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  • Developed few time sensitive and important review/comments sections with React.js and Angular.js2 using ng React directive.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components and stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, and CSS Border, LESS, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, CSS Sprites, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Developed front end screens to be cross-browser & cross-platform based application while using JSP, XML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript/JSON, DOM and AJAX.  • Designed pages using SASS for custom tags and Media tags along with Compass. Used Live Reload to check the changes in functionalities on a quicker scale.  • JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities and improve the speed of the application.  • Initialized and widely used the applicability of Live Server with sublime text to load web pages on a quicker scale during development cycle.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Created AJAX requests to REST service with only use of GET method for retrieval.  • Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS specification through which client portal application interacts with feed runner for fetching data.  • Worked on Oracle database while publishing on Amazon Web Services.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP.  • Utilized Jasmine for unit testing.  • Installed node.js and utilized the NPM with Grunt for the build.  • Responsible for researching functionality and benefits of implementing MongoDB.  • Services completely redesigned and re-implemented using Node JS, Mongo DB, and MySQL.  • Performed configuration, building deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Angular.js2, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Bootstrap, React, Responsive Design, XML, XHTML, JQuery UI, Grunt, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM, DOJO, SOAP, REST, JSP, JSF, Jasmine, Oracle, agile and Windows. Front End/UI Developer Baltimore, MD April 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using jQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, jQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Worked Closely with Designers to Understand and redesign the Package Customization and Service Locator Modules using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Worked extensively with Yahoo! User Interface Library (YUI), AJAX, JSON, XML and created components based on WRIA frame work which internally uses the YUI3 frame work.  • Developed view configuration and factsheet configuration in the CRM web client UI.  • Created task-based user interface UI to make easy for user to perform their daily tasks using CRM.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Backbone.js.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Created websites for devices using Responsive design.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  • Implemented different jQuery Conditions as per the business requirements for the Package Landing Page.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Adobe Photoshop has been used to create different banners and designs.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Adobe Flash, Photoshop, CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Created HTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards along with Section 508 compliance for CSS as well.  • Built Model Android application's UI layout using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch along with EXTJS.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Maintained, enhanced, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used REST, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Utilized Mocha for unit testing.  • Worked on developing products pages with Magento and PHP Scripting.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, YUI, Responsive Design, Backbone. js ,Angular.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Bootstrap, Mocha, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, ECLIPSE, Photoshop, Flex, Dreamweaver, SOAP and Windows. Web/UI Developer Houston, TX June 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI pages using HTML, XML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Created XHTML pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications  • Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get (url, data, callback, type) or jQuery. Ajax (options) and jQuery. Post (url, data, callback, type).  • Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depending on the user interactions (like. Ready (), hover (), bind (), click (), key press (), etc.).  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.  • Used SVN for version control and Clear Quest for defect tracking.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Developed the user interface for registration using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  • Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Integrated with the back- end code using JQuery, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQuery/AJAX.  • Fixed the defect and tracked them using Quality Center to completion by communicating and co-coordinating with the QA and business people.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat, Photoshop CS3. UI Developer Catalina Marketing - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON  • Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams as a part of Agile environment.  • Hand-coded HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and jQuery to create front- end.  • Hands on experience with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility, Responsive Web Design and hence worked on different browsers like Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Developed and Deployed the Application on Eclipse and WebLogic Web Server.  • Involved in all phases of the end-to- end implementation project- requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Worked in an approach to avoid Cross Shell Scripting using JavaScript.  • Used local Storage to achieve multiple tabs functionality.  • Developed code to fetch data from back- end and populate on UI using AJAX and JSON  • Used Java JSP for form handling, session storage and process request for the dynamically generated web pages.  • Developed the administrative UI using AngularJS and Inserted External Style Sheets to various web pages using CSS.  • Participated in product development discussions and providing UI related information.  • Maintained W3C standards.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, Bing Maps, JQ Grid, JSP, Angular.js, JSON, AJAX, Eclipse, JIRA, Java Education Bachelor's Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, jquery, Html5, Ui, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Apache, PHP, Responsive Design.  JavaScript Libraries Node.js, Angular.js2/4,5, Bootstrap, jQuery UI, React.Js.  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Edit Plus, JS Fiddle, Web storm, Sublime text  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing (spring tool suite)  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools(wire frame) Adobe Illustrator CS3 (basic idea on wire frame and visual design)  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla, Internet Explorer Developer Tools  Databases PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL.  Version controls SVN, GIT  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X