Digital Product Designer Consultant Digital Product Designer Consultant UI/UX Designer - CenturyLink Work Experience Digital Product Designer Consultant Freddie Mac - Fairfax, VA October 2018 to Present Working with the first MVP teams in Multifamily (Document Digitization & Automated Document Validation) to create the end-to- end user workflow and user interface design along a small team of 9 developers. During the agile process I worked closely with the end user, testing and validating design decisions, while iterating on a mockup prototype simultaneously - in an effort to make the Mortgage Loan Administrators cut their work time by 30%, but also increase the productivity and quality of the data being entered in to their systems upstream. This major design update, to a fundamental process within Multifamily, allowed other departments to consume that data downstream with more confidence, allowing loan packages to be approved by Underwriting faster - ultimately allowing more loans to be closed. Additional benefits derived from this effort, were faster on-boarding of new MLA’s, but also the removal of a lot of the manual processes that were prone to error from the process. UI/UX Designer CenturyLink - Reston, VA December 2016 to Present • Worked on the UX strategy for an enterprise security solution application for both desktop and iOS mobile. Additionally, worked on the web app for the desktop (responsive to tablet viewport size) version, that utilized flexbox, and CSS grid on both structural and list items.  • Mocked up new concepts and prototypes via Sketch Animate, and Figma to share and distribute with the team, and collect feedback.  • Supported iOS developer with all assets and dimensions via Zeplin. UI/UX Designer PlanetRisk - Vienna, VA January 2018 to May 2018 Acquired)    • Worked on the UX workflows, and the User interface design for a private security enterprise product, that involved an asset map interface, an iOS designed version, and a responsive 3-panel dashboard using flexbox and CSS grid.  • Designed, and re-skinned previous interface in 90 days. UI Designer Startgrid Inc - San Francisco, CA September 2015 to August 2017 • Worked with the product manager to design a modular interface for an ORM platform that focused on pipeline distribution, and measuring success based on relationships that actually created deal flow.  • Created the style guide, online and PDF for the application, work on lo-fi prototypes via InvisionApp, to flesh out the right ideas, and weed out the wrong ones.  • Worked remotely with a team out in San Francisco, with weekly meetings to go over progress. UI/UX Designer/ Developer NCQA - Washington, DC January 2016 to November 2016 • UX/UI Designer on a remote team of 10 that worked on a re-haul design for a healthcare accreditation program focusing on the pain points that customers had to enroll, sustain, or renew their accreditation.  • Wire-framing lo-fi or creating mid-fidelity prototype designs via InvisionApp to share with the remote team.  • Process consisted of working two sprints ahead of development in order to arrive at a conclusive design for the objectives of that sprint and then move on to the next sprint while coding out the front- end in Bootstrap.  • Solid communication between teams, constantly sharing visuals, screencasts, and prototypes for the team to be able to understand the user workflow. UI Developer i360 Inc - Arlington, VA 2015 to 2016 • Formed part of a small three-person UI team working directly with the product manager to translate the users feedback into modular UI components.  • Responsibilities consisted of creating design mockups, and coding the front- end markup, and styling utilizing Less a pre-processor.  • Designed new features via Sketch and would present those to the team, via InvisionApp Front- end Developer / Web App Designer SpinSys Inc - Sterling, VA 2014 to 2015 • Worked on the UX/UI Designs, and coded front- end components for a child care management SaaS platform.  • Created mobile-first responsive marketing site, help desk site, and responsive email templates  • Designed accompanying iOS app and worked with developer to ensure the design was adhered to.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Compass, Gulp, JQuery, JavaScript, and other JS libraries.  • Structured organized code that was version controlled using GIT on Beanstalk  • Compression of images, and creation of SVG graphics Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - McLean, VA 2013 to 2014 • Worked within the SIG (Strategic Innovation Group) working on web applications for the DOT, SSA, VA as well as internal projects for our team.    • Responsible for constructing user interfaces(UI) after a thorough process of information architecture (IA), user experience (UX).    • Built user-interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript frameworks (Backbone & Angular).    • Presented several times to main stakeholders the results of preliminary and design stage layouts and would participate in regular SCRUM meetings to ensure a project was progressing.    • Collaborated with team members to explore the best solutions for the client through regular small group meetings and coding sessions. Vice President of UX Webtalk, Inc - Saint Petersburg, FL 2010 to 2013 • Cofounder responsible for the user experience, interface design, advertisement, branding, marketing and video graphics.  • Worked on development of the wireframe and prototype of the site as well as coding some of the user-interface components using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, and JavaScript.  • Daily building new user interface components for entire sections of the site based on preliminary objectives, user feedback, wireframes and other UX considerations. Web Design & Front- end Developer Kuality Design LLC - Fairfax, VA 2002 to 2012 • Design and front- end development for both marketing and large-scale application sites for small, and large businesses using modern HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Less, Flexbox, CSS Grid, Vue, and modular responsive design using Bootstrap, while adhering to standard version-control processes.  • Produced several print design layouts for agencies, branding, and other advertising efforts.  • Created digital brands and products with customers to help them arrive at an MVP to attract seed funding. Senior Graphic Designer ApogeeInvent - Saint Anthony, ID 2008 to 2010 • Designed marketing websites and coded the static front- end designs.  • Skillfully produced web and print work including, website graphics, corporate flyers, social media page designs, and enhancements  • Created web banners, to drive traffic to landing pages  • Worked on email blaster campaigns and multi-tiered year-round email marketing campaigns.  • Interfaced directly with customers of both small & medium-sized businesses like NetAura, Arlington Consultants Group, Coldwell Banker, ReNew Jersey Project, and others. Graphic Designer Kuality Design LLC - Greensboro, NC 2007 to 2008 • Responsible for developing sales presentation mockup webpage designs for clients including Chevrolet, Colgate, Epiphone, Diageo and more.  • Webpage graphic designs Education Graphic Design, Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Master's in HCI Iowa State University - Graduate School Online Master Skills UX, Photoshop, Sketch, UI, User Experience, Wireframe, User Interface, Adobe, Figma (2 years) Links http://www.kuality.design http://www.behance.net/mars1979