SENIOR FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER SENIOR <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SENIOR FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER - BrettSlone.com Charlotte, NC Work Experience SENIOR FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER BrettSlone.com October 2013 to Present Extensive full stack development for multiple small clients. Primary development and architecture of advanced native JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, HTML5, and CSS3 sites. Node.js, AngularJS, Bootstrap, along with other technologies and frameworks as required. Fully responsive implementation, design, UI flow also a major component. Manage all aspects of business including client relationships, bookkeeping, and delivery of required final assets on time, every time. PRODUCT ENGINEER Nomad Health January 2019 to February 2019 Full-stack React/Python development for a healthcare placement organization. Agile software engineering. First engineer in Charlotte wing of the company. Duties included application maintenance, feature development, UI consultation, and product design for both front (React/ES6) and back (Python) end. Heavy front end. Git source control. TECHNICAL UX DEVELOPER III Ally Financial October 2016 to December 2018 Technical design and implementation of a large, modular, and customer-facing Ember-based single-page application for Ally Financial, specializing in online retail banking, automotive financing, and investments. Work with a large team of software developers to oversee Agile SDLC. Duties include core, accessibility-forward application development, documentation, and testing using the GitHub Enterprise model, Ember CLI, and NPM/Yarn. Contribute to various internally developed reusable software tools; interact with APIs exposed by both internal teams and industry standard financial services data providers.    ? Oversaw the brand-new Account Opening engine, a two-year-project which switched to Agile from Waterfall mid-stream, with excellent customer response. Project includes liberal ARIA/a11y development, translation (18n) capabilities, real-time user enrollment and account opening. This engine is about the same size as the rest of the Ally secure site, so I consider it a hefty accomplishment. LEAD CONSULTANT Capgemini Financial Services Strategic Business Unit January 2016 to September 2016 Architected large-scale web and mobile development for multiple clients in the financial industry. Partner with clients to drive success through UI/UX and development (rapid prototyping, iterative POCs, etc). Encompassed a great deal of team/one-on-one mentorship, development, and education. Included scoping, timeline creation, and proposals for major projects. SENIOR FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER Alpha Theory, LLC October 2015 to January 2016 Native JavaScript, JavaServer Page, jQuery, and Isomorphic SmartClient architecture and development of a complex and secure financial single-page application. Real-time data streaming via Lightstreamer (web socket-based). User interface work, some design, as well as critical back- end infrastructure to support real-time marketing data. Direct client support for large clients. Builds using Maven; JBoss middleware built primarily through Eclipse. Source control in Git CLI. SENIOR FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER (LEAD) The Idea People April 2014 to September 2014 Agile architecture for company's large-scale Single-Page Application. Development of a fast, lean front end framework implemented in native JS (integrated web socket layer, localStorage, offline capabilities, numerous third-party APIs. Included best of class HTML5/CSS3 features. Responsive/reactive/mobile layouts. Coordination with LAMP-ish backend (CodeIgniter/PostGres) with Redis, AWS, and S3 integration. Development of in-house API providing access to Big Data(sets) powered by close relationship with data science consultants. CRM and deep understanding of business needs played a large role in this position. LEAD FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER Belk, Inc September 2010 to October 2013 Guided Front End Developers, UX, and Design. Acted as critical advisor to Web Production, Content Strategy, and Business Owners for multiple releases throughout SDLC including ideation, UX, Design, FED, BA and IT development to ensure a novel, complete, and quality product was delivered. Worked with executives as well as all members of project teams, from PMs to individual developers, to ensure project success. Juggled as many as 6 major projects at a time without any team missing a deadline.    Major projects included work on extensive checkout user flow and front/back end redesign, launch of multiple major vendors, and total site redesign/rebranding. Winner of the first (2012) Belk Pinnacle Award for Innovation. SENIOR WEB PRESENTATION ARCHITECT Ally Financial May 2010 to September 2010 Worked as a key member of a top-notch team of developers to help launch the newly re-branded Ally.com, which includes a number of AJAX- and jQuery-based modules that I helped design and develop. Assisted in re-branding of Ally.com (formerly GMAC). Improved user flow in multiple areas. DIRECTOR OF INTERACTIVE DESIGN Market America February 2008 to May 2010 Retained duties of interactive design in addition to developing brand strategy for online components of 12+ MA sites, management of Interactive projects and campaigns, and close coordination with executive management. Worked closely with COO and SVP to scope and implement new UX and ID development divisions. Spearheaded SOA initiative to foster development of an API, allowing richer interaction and information sharing between all corporate web offerings. During my tenure, staff more than tripled from four to thirteen designers and developers while efficiency increased by more than 38%. INTERACTIVE DESIGNER & FLASH/AS3 DEVELOPER Market America April 2006 to February 2008 UX development and UI design of multiple web applications. Required extensive knowledge of technical and visual design from conception to final product. Worked with IT/BA, Business, stakeholders, and Creative throughout waterfall/agile SDLCs in a fast-paced, deadline-oriented environment. Developed multiple CDN-based streaming video players, e-learning apps, web-to-press solution (GUI layout editor and Java/Flash backend rendering system), and dozens of marketing sites (XHTML/CSS2/ColdFusion). Lead Designer Kentucky River News - River, KY May 2000 to April 2006 2000.1 - 2000.4) Education BFA in Fine Art in Computer Science University of Kentucky December 2004 Skills UI, Front End, Javascript, Front-End, React