Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience Front End Developer Impartner Software - South Jordan, UT April 2015 to April 2019 Engineering Team, October 2017 - April 2019   Most days I find myself working with HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, npm, Node, build tools and unit testing tools.    I was instrumental in leading a project to rebuild the customer portal Front End template to enable the new customer onboarding process to be much faster and more efficient by restructuring the template via a theming concept using Sass and mapping variables to functions to auto re-write styling with mix-ins.     I worked closely with other Engineering team members to provide expertise and support to implement overall styling requirements from the Design group for new product releases. I also worked with the QA team to fix bugs and ensure all testing has passed.    Customer Onboarding & Customer Success Team, April 2015 - October 2017  I built customer web portals that integrated with Impartner’s core Partner Relationship Management (PRM) platform. Initially all customer portals were custom designed and built using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript and jQuery. All web portals had a requirement to be mobile responsive.    Additionally, I implemented custom updates to the newer Bootstrap portals, as well as custom changes and improvements to legacy portals.     I worked closely with a Designer and Project Managers to build out customer portals to specifications with a goal of completing satisfactory work within an increasingly shortened time frame. Web Developer, Web Optimization & SEO Consultant North Shore Media, LLC - Sandy, UT January 2015 to March 2015 Developed several WordPress websites for businesses, integrating CSS customization and adding jQuery plugins to enhance features of the websites.    Successfully completed an SEO consulting job for PROBAR, making SEO configurations to their new website, which was suffering from a large decrease in web traffic. Made upgrades and changes to the on-page SEO of their site, https://theprobar.com/, and their NetSuite web store, which resulted in the web traffic to these sites almost doubling to over 50,000 page views per month. Mobile Responsive Web App Developer LDS Church-ICS - Riverton, UT August 2014 to December 2014 Worked on converting an enterprise web application to a Mobile Responsive, hybrid web app. Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3 and Cordova PhoneGap to convert the app into a hybrid web app. Was involved in all aspects of the app development, including creating the UI, coding the new app and being actively involved in the Agile-Scrum development process and sprint planning and review. Mobile Responsive Web Developer MRM//McCann - Salt Lake City, UT July 2014 to August 2014 Developed several Mobile Responsive landing pages as part of a project for Cisco. The pages were developed for several custom viewports, in order to provide a good user experience when viewing the pages on various mobile devices, as well as desktop computers. The web pages were built using HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap, with specifically targeted media query break points and were designed to work properly in multiple viewports such as iOS devices (iPhone and iPad), Android Mobile devices and larger displays. Web Developer, Web Optimization & SEO Consultant North Shore Media, LLC - Sandy, UT November 2013 to June 2014 Provided consulting services for Web Optimization and developing strategies to focus and optimize the rate of return for Google AdWords services for a niche industry in a highly competitive market. Additionally, produced and developed several marketing and client engagement videos and multimedia assets for use on clients’ websites for informational purposes, as well as generating views, interest and driving organic SEO rankings. Web Developer, SEO & SEM Specialist EZ HomeFind, LLC - Holladay, UT February 2011 to October 2013 Holladay, UT  Designed and developed numerous mobile responsive WordPress website solutions for advertising, marketing and lead capture for the real estate industry. Most of these websites were integrated with CRM and marketing systems. All web projects had a heavy emphasis on SEO, SEM and lead generation.    Within the WordPress framework, I gained experience using HTML5, CSS3, PHP and JavaScript for customizing and editing themes, plugins and widgets. Web Developer and Usability Testing Consultant Atom Productions - Honolulu, HI November 2007 to October 2010 Designed and coded website usability testing scenarios with testing tools and conducted usability tests for websites of several federal government clients, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).    Other projects included web and digital media development using Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, Photoshop, Premiere Pro and Final Cut Pro; integrating HTML, CSS, JavaScript, video and audio. Education Certificate of Completion, Web Development and Design University of Hawaii at Manoa - Honolulu, HI Bachelor's Degree in Russian Language and Linguistics Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ Front End Web Development Certificate of Completion in Front End Web Development DevMountain - Provo, UT Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Asp (Less than 1 year), Asp.net (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Design patterns (Less than 1 year), Html5 (4 years), Javascript (7 years), Jira (Less than 1 year), jquery (1 year), Json (Less than 1 year), Model view controller (Less than 1 year), Model-view-controller (Less than 1 year), Ms asp (Less than 1 year), Mvc (Less than 1 year), Object oriented (Less than 1 year), Object oriented design (Less than 1 year), Perforce (Less than 1 year), Sass (1 year), testing (4 years), unit testing (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rob-bailey-webdev Additional Information Technologies  ? HTML5  ? CSS3  ? Sass  ? Bootstrap  ? Git  ? npm  ? JSON  ? jQuery  ? JavaScript  ? Jasmine  ? Node.js  ? Grunt  ? Asp.Net    Platforms  ? Jira  ? Rider  ? Visual Studio 2107  ? Chrome Dev Tools  ? GitLab  ? VS Code  ? Perforce  ? MS Teams  ? Zeplin    Concepts  ? UI Theming  ? Mobile Responsive Development  ? SPAs  ? Unit Testing  ? Debugging  ? REST APIs  ? Object Oriented Design Patterns  ? MVC    I am open to exciting and new challenges where I can contribute to the success of an organization by offering my knowledge and skills and have opportunities to learn new technologies.    Feel free to contact me to discuss potential career opportunities in the greater Salt Lake City, UT area.