Web Designer Web Designer Web Designer/WordPress Site Developer Lynndyl, UT I've been working in the design industry doing both web and print since 2009. In that time I've been involved in a variety of design projects, including corporate branding, website redesigns, PPC ads, social media images, magazine ads, pop-up banners, vehicle wraps, and many more.     I work well alone or with a team and am known for my speed and quality of work. I love learning new skills, both professionally and personally, and will wear multiple hats when called upon to implement those skills for the use of my employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer 4Life - Sandy, UT March 2016 to Present In my role as a web designer for 4Life, I am responsible for updating the design of pages on the corporate website based on user feedback, analytics, and supervisor direction. Some of which include pages in the sign-up process, account management, reports, and product sales pages.  I am the principle designer of our corporate site's home page banners, as well as dashboard ads for logged-in users. Additionally, I support the social media team on occasion by designing images to post to Facebook, Instagram, and other platforms.  I acted as the primary designer of a 4Life app for our distributors. The design of the app has been praised throughout all levels of the company. I also designed a media-sharing app that received many compliments, but ultimately was not developed due to time constraints of the dev team.  4Life has encouraged me to incorporate my interest in photography into my work by allowing me the opportunity to shoot product photography for our website designs. Web/Print Designer, Front End Web Developer Five Star Franchising / ProNexis - Spanish Fork, UT March 2012 to March 2016 I currently wear several hats at Five Star. 1) Website designer: I design all of the websites, landing pages, PPC ads, etc. for all of our franchisees under multiple brands. I am also in charge of the design of multiple newsletters and consumer emails we send at least monthly, some weekly. 2) Front- end developer: I develop all of the designs I create into fully functional WordPress sites. 3) Website administrator: I purchase and manage the renewal and sometimes deletion all of the domain names for the company. 4) Print designer: I handle franchisee requests for print collateral ranging from business cards to vehicle wraps, magazine ads, mailers, door stickers, etc. HTML/CSS Coder Infogenix - Orem, UT November 2011 to March 2012 Slice and code Photoshop web designs into working HTML/CSS pages. Then, code those pages into shell and tpl files for use with our content management system. Head of Design 180Fusion - Ladera Ranch, CA July 2010 to July 2011 Interpret clients' ideas into a workable web design  Design web sites using Adobe Photoshop  Slice Photoshop files into web graphics  Create web pages in HTML and develop into WordPress templates  Train clients on using WordPress  Assign projects to and work with subcontracted designers Head Web/Graphic Designer Inteliture, Inc - American Fork, UT December 2009 to April 2010 Interpret clients' ideas into a workable web design  Design web sites using Adobe Photoshop  Slice Photoshop files into web graphics  Create web pages in HTML  Style HTML pages with CSS  Work with programmers to integrate their programming and modules into web sites  Train clients on using our in-house content management system  Assign projects to and work with subcontracted designers Lead Technician Elite Security - Orem, UT March 2009 to October 2009 Recruit new technicians  Train new technicians  Help technicians install alarm systems  Manage team of technicians  Service existing accounts  Train customers  Customer service  Remove old systems  Repair damage caused by old systems (holes in drywall, etc) Lead Technician Platinum Protection - Orem, UT October 2007 to March 2009 Recruit new technicians  Train new technicians  Help technicians install alarm systems  Manage team of technicians  Service existing accounts  Train customers  Customer service  Remove old systems  Repair damage caused by old systems (holes in drywall, etc) Assistant Platinum Protection - Orem, UT January 2008 to April 2008 Help regional managers stay up-to-date with their respective lead technicians  Update company databases  Review contracts to ensure they are filled out correctly Installation Technician APX Alarms - Provo, UT March 2006 to October 2007 Install alarm systems  Service existing accounts  Train customers Education Bachelors in Digital Media - Focus in Web Design Utah Valley University - Orem, UT January 2007 to January 2009 Associate of Arts Snow College - Ephraim, UT January 2005 to January 2007 Diploma Delta High School - Delta, UT May 2002 Skills Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), XD (2 years), Lightroom (2 years), InDesign (6 years), Dreamweaver (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Photography (2 years) Links http://www.nicksresume.com Assessments Graphic Design — Expert August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ps7pounq054-mboz Search Engine Optimization — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ezdhcd2ofhwwd25v Market Research — Proficient August 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fqqwxsupfkesmse7 Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nrhvdqcrzh2ksyn5 Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fha-an65737eu9bf Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rqrijb362onj1qio Organizational Skills — Expert August 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ztdbwjq5c62moi57 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.