Front- end developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front- end developer - ASO systems Yonkers, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end developer ASO systems - Brooklyn, NY July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in Waterfall methodology approach for UI Development.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with SQL database.  • Worked with AngularJS ui-routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters, factories, configs and http get and post requests.  • Transferred data between front- end and back- end using AngularJS http request on front end, and PHP on server side.  • Used local SVN as a collaboration and source control tool in a daily basis.  • Created complex client side forms and form validations using AngularJS.  • Interacted with Project Manager and back- end developers to resolve software, and back end related bugs and issues.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using AngularJS.  • Using advanced level of jQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3 and pure CSS3 layouts  • Implemented the responsive layout for the UI of the application and Bootstrap 3 responsive framework using 12-grid scaffolding system.  • Implemented Ajax calls to the server to embed search application results in AngularJS using the $http service.  • Interacted with Project Manager, Business analyst and back- end developers to discuss and resolve UI, and API related issues. Junior Front- end developer ASO systems - Brooklyn, NY July 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Writing the JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON and Ajax to handling the Client side validations and dynamic page updates.  • Worked with AngularJS routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and http Request.  • UI development with technologies like HTML 5, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Designed CSS3 and Bootstrap based web pages which were cross-browser compatible.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap JS.  • Interacted with Project Manager and back- end developers to resolve software, and back end related bugs and issues.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Coding, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  • Performed a lot of DOM operations for loading and manipulating dynamic content on web pages.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree. Education Bachelor's in Computer Systems Technology Empire State College - Saratoga, NY 2013 to June 2018 Skills AngularJS (2 years), Javascript (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years) Additional Information Skills  • Front End Web Development ( HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, Responsive Web Design and Development - Desktop, Tablet and Mobile.)  • Experience with GitHub workflow  • Working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Experience using SCSS/SASS/LESS preprocessors of CSS  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Hands on experience creating in creating AngularJS custom filters, directives, factories/services, ui-routes, data-binding using RESTful API service calls  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills in software development and a high-aptitude in developing software solutions for a wide range of applications.  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall, & Scrum Model  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) Java Script, JSON, and XML.  • Coding and debugging applications in JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Strong communication skills, with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  • Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010/360; Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook and Skype for business.