Competed internship Competed internship Competed internship Work Experience Competed internship Ratcliffe Gagliano Architects May 2019 to August 2019 with local residential architecture firm. Responsible for creating/maintaining company website. Skillfully used the Adobe Suite to aid in draftings and  graphic presentations. Expected to self manage and reach goals efficiently. Conducted  meetings with clients to produce a quality finished product. Executive assistant baker October 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for creating a delicious, consistent product. Required to follow and execute recipes to perfection. Able to work independently and efficiently under  pressure in a fast paced environment. Foster meaningful relationships with customers and staff. NuCamp Tacoma April 2019 to April 2019 Completed certification for HTML, CSS, and JavaScript throughout four week course. Required  to self teach, and research topics. After completion, achieved the ability to create simple yet aesthetically pleasing web pages from scratch. front end web developer University of Detroit August 2016 to October 2018 August 2016-Oct 2018  Completed three years of architectural education.  Introduced to the design process and the challenges that come with it. Maintained high grade  point average while under immense amounts of stress and responsibilities of being a division  one collegiate athlete (fencing).Able to produce quality drawings and models as well as digital  presentations. Required to work both in small studio groups and independently. Taught to problem solve creatively and efficiently.    Notes:  I feel that my drive, resilience, and determination learned through previous occupations has  prepared me for the position of front end web developer. I take pride in my mostly self taught  education, and have full confidence that I am capable of completing all tasks and duties  expected of the role.  I hope you will consider my application as I am beyond excited to turn an aspiration into a reality.    Truly,