Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer - Humana, CA • Around 3+ years of extensive experience as a Front- End UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  • Proficient comprehension of System advancement life cycle (SDLC) and additionally different stages, for example, Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Experience in designing professional UI web applications using front - end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, XML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular.js, Angular, Node.js, Experess.js and React.js.  • Well versed in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, Angular and Angular.js.  • Experience in applying the latest development approaches including MVVM, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, XML and Responsive Web Design.  • Experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular.js, React.js, Node.js, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS3.  • Good in building strong websites confirming Web standards using jQuery, HTML5, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sties.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web front- end using JavaScript framework.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web-Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Experience with Version Control tools like GITHUB, CVS, VSS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Work Experience Front End UI Developer Humana, CA January 2019 to Present • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement Gathering, Design, Coding and Testing.  • Developed Web Application front end using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.  • Used Ag-Grid for grid view, UI-Select for custom dropdowns and controls.  • Created various UI screens with in branding guidelines, Worked on transformation of design and interaction ideas into wireframes.  • Migrated the existing jQuery-based web application to Angular and integrated Spring with Hibernate for persistence with database.  • Worked with team to define UI framework for visualizations and Strategic UX Conceptualizations.  • Worked with Typescript, Written unit test cases with Jasmine and karma and have some experience with Protractor for End to End testing.  • Extensively used React.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Angular, JavaScript, Typescript and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular for effective design of Web pages.  • Wrote code to implement AJAX based applications be fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  • Used Node.js for server-side code and Express.js as the framework. Written call back functions for the Restful API.  • Used services to read data from remote server using React.JS and used Node.JS to develop the back- end components, connect the application with the other web services.  • Created XHTML pages with CSS and the Box Model and created AJAX calls using AngularJS to handle data operations including ordering & filtering.  • Created Gateway for inbound and outbound traffic such as web services (SOAP, REST) including mutual authentication.  • Used 'TestNG' for backend test cases and 'Jasmine' for Angular test cases.  Internship Projects    1. A* Pathfinder | Maze Pathfinding Oct 2018 - Dec 2018  • Developed a web application as an aid for people to visualize a step by step process on how the A* algorithm finds the most efficient route through a maze.  • Implemented a random n by n maze generator using CSS and JavaScript.  • (http://astar.kgoenadibrata.com)  2. Hobo Simulator | Web-based Simulation Game Jun 2018 - Jul 2018  • Developed a hobo-themed simulator using Javascript which allows players to make decisions and break from their hobo status.  • Implemented a python script that loads game initialization data from google sheets using Google Drive API.  • (https://kevingoenadibrata.github.io/simulator/) bit.ly April 2018 to June 2018 • Built an Android mobile application that could track user's daily food intake by taking a picture of the food's barcode.  • Utilized OCR API to convert the data grabbed from the barcode into machine-encoded text.  • Utilized Google+ Friends to be able to share food intake data with others.  • (https://bit.ly/FANTADemo) Google Maps API February 2018 to March 2018 • Developed a music player mobile app that evaluates previously generated user data to enhance user satisfaction using Android API, Firebase, Google Maps API in a team of 7 software engineers.  • Utilized testing techniques using Espresso and JUnit for software development procedures.  • Implemented Agile methodology to ensure product improvement, accuracy in product delivery, and maximize internal scheduling.  • (https://bit.ly/FBMUSIC2018) Front End UI Developer PT. Parastar Echorindo April 2016 to December 2017 • Followed agile methodology, associated with the customer, give/take criticism on the highlights, propose/execute ideal arrangements and customized application to client needs.  • Developing dynamic pages utilizing HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, D3JS, AngularJS, React.JS, Node.JS.  • Developed pages utilizing HTML5, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS, Node JS.  • Worked on Bootstrap, LESS to create User Interface with responsive plan.  • Extensive utilization of jQuery Events for control of occasions and jQuery modules for menus and gadgets.  • To create and support the rest API and UI for enterprise level migration.  • Built REST Web benefits by building Node.JS server in the back- end to deal with request from front- end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Used ES6, AngularJS, ReactJS framework for binding, DOM models linking, view model underlaying data and behaviours.  • Used JIRA apparatus for errand task, bug following and installation.  • Managed conditions utilizing Bower and utilized administration form instrument GitHub. Worked with IDEs like Sublime content, Brackets, and so on.  • Designed/Developed Ajax Driven Web-based application utilizing JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSP and Servlets.    • Created Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Dynamic Screenshots, and Sitemaps. Education B.S in Mathematics-Computer Science University of California - San Diego, CA Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Svn, Xml, Html5, Ajax, Css, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, jquery, Sdlc, Jira, Linux, Cvs, Vss, Mongodb, Frameworks Additional Information Skills  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  Frameworks: Angular, Anjular.js, Node.js, React.js  IDEs & Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, NetBeans, Firebug  Databases" MongoDB  Tools: GITHUB, CVS, VSS, SVN, JIRA  Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, Waterfall, Scrum  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux,