Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Health-e-MedRecords Las Vegas, NV Software Engineer featuring expertise in Ruby on Rails with knowledge in Cyber Security. Self-directed leader  who fosters a collaborative and supportive team environment. I am enthusiastic about writing clean,  accessible, and efficient ruby code in a rails framework. Committed to the total development lifecycle, the  maintenance of code quality and bug-free applications is of the utmost importance. Expert in leveraging the  latest software tools to optimize data storage, e-commerce functionality. A leader in identifying opportunities  for applications development. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Health-e-MedRecords 2018 to Present Responsible for designing and developing the platform for an efficient, high performance, high traffic, and scalability web application.  We practiced object oriented programming best practices to design and architech the software to provide the current    - Build API interfaces with Hl7/FHIR integrations  - Develop front- end and Back- end routines and emergency updates  - Develop using TDD/BDD with Rspec and Caybara  - Implement external database with truevault via API  - Manage and coordinate with offshore teams  -Designed and implemented database architecture for applications using various databases (Postgres)  - Managed projects with agile methodologies in JIRA via user stories and customer issues.  - Use javascript technologies such as Vue.js to render components Ruby Developer ELF Cosmetics 2018 to 2018 Responsible for designing and developing on ruby extension Solidus/Spree eCommerce that allows platform to have scalability.Designed the platform to allow this beauty/cosmetics company serve users worldwide  through a online shopping platform.    - Integrate email functionality in applications by using Sendgrid.  - Implemented Spree extension running Postgresql on backend  - Built user-interface with Javascript, html, CSS, and Bootstrap  - Use version control tool Git and code storage tool Github for added application functionality.  - Build javascript credit card processing forms payment with verified payment companies such as stripe and braintree.  - Utilized Devise to optimize application functionality  - Back- end technologies (Ruby on Rails, Git, Postgre SQL, Heroku and BitBucket) Rails Developer Ruby 2017 to 2018 Clune Construction  Hired to re-engineer existing application for employee time tracking. Applied rails framework using the MVC  model generating an attractive web application for their clients.    - PostgreSQL ActiveRecord  - Generated page controllers  - Implemented several custom mapping (Open maps, google maps, etc)  - Maintained servers and hosting for clients  - Helping re-engineer and continuously improve existing applications  - Follow best practices in software development (such as SCRUM, test-driven development, refactoring, continuous integration and coding standards)  - Worked with SQL and search based data storage. Ruby on Rails Developer Ruby 2017 to 2017 2017  Auto Care  Designed user-interface pages using Twitter Bootstrap, custom CSS, JavaScript/JQuery. Set up and maintained software authentication using Central Authentication Service (Ruby CAS).    - Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC Model View Controller  architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  - Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version  of the ruby/rails.  - Designed the front end application using Rails 4.1, CSS, AJAX and Jquery.  -Utilized Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript and DOM structure to implement various functionalities  - Added a customer review system INTERN FRONT- END DEVELOPER College of Southern Nevada 2015 to 2016 Responsibilities:  Develop cross-browser compatible JavaScript, HTML and CSS  Work closely with designers and UX specialists to develop ground breaking interactive experiences through wireframes and prototypes  Keep up-to-date with the latest web technologies  Recognize best-practice approaches to coding and promote improvements to our development processes Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science GRAND CANYON UNIVERSITY 2015 to 2019 Skills Ruby (4 years), Ruby on Rails (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Jquery (4 years), CSS (4 years), TDD (4 years), BDD (4 years), PostgresSQL (4 years), Agile (4 years), Vuejs (4 years) Links http://@DBBOOKE