Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Columbus, OH At the University of Phoenix I professionally develop, test, and integrate front- end UI components onto phoenix.edu in an Agile development environment. I also design, develop, and test marketing email campaigns and HTML5 banner advertisements at the University of Phoenix.    In my personal time I develop fully responsive websites, SPAs, and create digital artistry (such as promotional materials, Twitch overlays/assets, and branding packages).    Core focuses include: Web Development, Front End Development, Website Design, Graphic Design Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer University of Phoenix - Remote December 2018 to Present • Works on the development of the University of Phoenix website (www.phoenix.edu) using a content management system called Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) in development of components, templates and authoring content.    • Develops, codes, tests and debugs new software and implements enhancements to existing software to increase the effectiveness of the product for business use.    • Manages the projects by working closely with clients, developers, designers, QA analysts, scrum masters, and project managers during UI development.    • Aligns with client goals, requirements, and design systems for optimizing the website projects.    • Performs other duties as assigned or apparent. Front End Developer University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ May 2018 to December 2018 • Developed new user-facing features and/or modified existing features to increase functionality and provide optimal customer experience in all interactions; finalized layouts and created web ready assets for digital media including websites, mobile sites, emails, display ads, mobile applications, advertising, video and animations.    • Developed static and HTML5 digital banners; optimized final files to meet size requirements; maintained University brand standards in all production; produced consistent presentation across all browser platforms.    • Built clean, accurate HTML emails and coded to responsive design; troubleshooted and corrected HTML issues.    • Collaborated closely with cross-functional teams to ensure output ready files meet final production requirements; troubleshooted issues, including technology and coding issues as necessary.    • Partnered with Marketing Analytics and Digital Marketing managers to analyze usage data and traffic patterns to inform design decisions and page optimizations.    • Performed other duties as assigned or apparent. Digital Production Artist University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ December 2017 to May 2018 • Finalized layouts and created web ready assets for digital media including websites, mobile sites, emails, display ads, mobile applications, advertising, video and animations.    • Developed static and HTML5 digital banners; optimized final files to meet size requirements; maintained company brand standards in all production; produced consistent presentation across all browser platforms.    • Built clean, accurate HTML emails and coded to responsive design; troubleshooted and corrected HTML coding issues.    • Collaborated closely with cross-functional teams to ensure output ready files meet final production requirements; troubleshooted issues, including technology and coding issues as necessary.    • Stored and delivered files in an organized manner.    • Performed other duties as assigned or apparent. Wordpress Developer / Consultant The Segnaro Agency - Phoenix, AZ October 2017 to December 2017 • Created, built, tested and troubleshooted client web sites in a very fast-paced environment.     • Collaborated with writers and graphic designers to develop well-designed HTML email marketing campaigns and Wordpress websites.    • Created and maintained WordPress websites both for clients and for the agency.    • Managed content and development of a company app/site. Designed and implemented new features, enhancements and content of existing sites.    • Used conversion best practices to influence the design/content of deliverables.    -Created and executed B2B digital marketing campaigns. Analyzed results of campaigns to optimize future engagement.    • Hand coded emails, web pages, digital business materials, and building landing pages for content delivery.    • Worked directly with clients from concept to completion on their websites. Web Developer / Graphic Designer BG Media Design - Newark, OH May 2017 to August 2017 • Responsible for the visual design and development of the business website. Used HTML and CSS for the entirety of the design and development process.    • Managed website from initial launch, host setup, domain setup/registration up until the final product.     • Performed routine website maintenance and updates using code, graphical art, and user interface testing.     • Administered social media accounts and promoted business traffic to the website through Facebook and Instagram. Utilized Social Media Marketing (SMM) amongst the process of gaining traction directed towards the website.    • Created advertisements using Adobe CC to promote business and increase revenue. Designed ads, banners, edited photographs, and created other graphical pieces. Education Associate's of Applied Business in Web Design and Development in Applied Business Central Ohio Technical College - Newark, OH 2015 to 2017 Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, Front-End, CSS3, HTML, Bootstrap, JQuery, Wordpress, JIRA, Git, Windows, Mac OS X, Illustrator, Photoshop, Illustrator, SVN, Indesign, HTML5, CSS, SASS Links https://www.laura.ga https://www.linkedin.com/in/lauramwall/ https://github.com/lauramwall/