Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Morrisville, NC • 5 years of industry experience in providing user interface design and development using various technologies like HTML 5, CSS 3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY UI, ANGULAR JS, BOOTSTRAP.  • Having successful track record in collaborating with business team and designing and developing the user interface.  • Having good hands on wire framing the requirements of business mock-ups creation, prototyping, workflow mapping.  • Experience on Responsive web design using media queries and twitter bootstrap  • Developed Application Consuming a RESTful service by splitting the JSON data across files using Angular.JS  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the application using Agile/SCRUM Methodology.  • Knowledge with Git version control.  • Knowledge with JavaScript Unit Testing like Mocha.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime text editor, Visual Studio  • Working with browsers compatibility issues.  • Closely worked with back- end developers to optimize existing Web technology and create the best possible user experience.  • Estimated time to develop for all approved prototypes and the implementation of those prototypes.  • Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well- commented and efficient code for web development.  • Strong communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Power Info April 2012 to October 2015 • Used detailed wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Used HTML5 for audio and video playback, Appcache, Geolocation.  • Worked on CSS3 Modules - Box Model, CSS Sprites, Backgrounds and Borders, Multiple Column Layout, Text effects, Shadows, 2D/3Dtransformations.  • Used Bootstrap for front- end framework for faster and easier responsive designs and development like Pagination, Navbars, Images, Scrollspy plugin, Carousel plugin.  • Worked on Angularjs- Login Applications Hide and show password, Displaying form Validations Errors, Exception Handling and service methods like $http.  • Implemented simple Routing in the application to build Single Page Application (SPA) with Angularjs.  • Worked on creating Custom Angular directives.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues Front End Developer Quinton Mentor Systems Pvt. Ltd November 2010 to April 2012 • Developed the User Interactive web pages using web technologies based on the W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Interacted with clients to understand their existing static web application and design the dynamic site according to their system requirements.  • Transformed table based layouts into clean, modular templates using CSS, HTML and JavaScript  • Handled all the image carousel, slide show, hide and show effects, Accordion, Tabs using JQuery  • Responsible for Form validations using JavaScript.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Worked closely with back- end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Visvesvaraya Technological University - Belgaum, Karnataka Skills ANGULARJS (1 year), BOOTSTRAP (1 year), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • HTML 5  • CSS 3  • JavaScript  • JQuery UI  • Angularjs  • Bootstrap