Lead Photographer Lead Photographer Oakland, CA Dedicated and focused individual who excels at prioritizing, completing multiple tasks simultaneously in the most effective and efficient manner. Able to handle high volume of deadline oriented projects. Friendly, flexible, and hardworking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Photographer 3Dgroundworks - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to July 2019 As the lead photographer for 3Dgroundworks, I would analyze and coordinate shoots and schedules with our in house photographers to capture a property.    On certain occasions, I'd go onsite to photograph, create Matterport 3d tours, capture accuratefloor plans with the iGuide system, and 3D laser scanning of a project for point cloud. Real Estate Photographer Sparks Photography - Oakland, CA September 2018 to January 2019 As a real estate photographer for Sparks Photography, I take still photographs and 3D Matterportscans of real estate listings for prominent realtors in the SF Bay Area to be placed in their preferredsystems such as MLS listing or on their own website. Real Estate Photographer F8 Real Estate Media - Oakland, CA August 2018 to January 2019 As a real estate photographer for F8 Real Estate Media, I photograph and 3D scan homes,townhomes, commercial buildings, apartments & apartment communities throughout the Bay area.I provide aesthetically pleasing, high definition, interior and exterior photos using angles that areperfectly suited for marketing. Web Graphic Designer / Front End Developer Alphalancers - Reno, NV January 2018 to August 2018 In charge of design direction of websites and branding strategies.     Using products from Adobe’s creative suite, managed and created concepts, ideas, and designs for clients’ brands and content such as logos, stationaries, social media content, and websites.     Assisted developers in creating websites using front end languages such as HTML5, CSS3, Twitter Bootstrap, jquery, and JavaScript. Making sure to use all best practices and responsive layout to provide industry standard products to clients. Graphic Designer / Front End Developer David Lau Graphica - Oakland, CA August 2017 to January 2018 Every minute I spend working on various projects designing with Photoshop, Illustrator and writing HTML5, CSS and Javascript (and its popular frameworks like AngularJS). I create design logos, branding, prototypes, take care of performance optimization and debugging, use media queries to create cross device layouts and bring to life a mobile friendly UI. Graphic Designer / Front End Developer Coolbrouwen Coffee - Fremont, CA February 2017 to August 2017 Designed concepts for company products and online marketing according to owner's preference using adobe suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, lightroom, etc).  Developed and maintained company website to owner's taste using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript as well as the online store using Shopify and modifying it with their native language, Liquid. Student Mentor Codify Academy September 2016 to February 2017 ? Assist Codify Academy Instructor in teaching students Front End Web Development  ? Actively engage, and help students learn to build websites with HTML5,  CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Github, AngularJS, ajax, responsive design, and API's. Front End Web Developer Choy Designs - Remote March 2015 to December 2015 Maintained and updated Choy Designs' website. Worked remotely and communicated with the senior designer to code out PSD files into fully functional websites using HTML and CSS. Education Front End Developer Codify Academy 2016 Motion Graphic Design Ex'pression College of Digital Arts 2014 Skills HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Twitter Bootstrap (2 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), JQuery (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), User Experience Design (2 years), User Interface Design (2 years), Photoshop (2 years), Illustrator (2 years), Front End, Lightroom (1 year) Links http://www.github.com/thisisdavidlau https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidlaului http://www.davidlaugraphica.com