Self-Employed Self-Employed Self-Employed - Self-Employed Quincy, MA I am graduating in August from Boston University and have worked on a few short time freelance front- end roles in the past for a few different companies. Now I am seeking a front- end web developer full-time position. My strength is React. Work Experience Self-Employed Self-Employed - Quincy, MA 2017 to Present Wyzant Tutor  As an online tutor, I tutor 12+ students in Java, React, React Native, Node.js, Java and maintaining a 5-star rating on wyzant.com. Freelance Front- End React Developer MAARK LLC - Boston, MA July 2018 to September 2018 Implemented Cordova functionality with offline files for offline view for a sale enterprise React application for Marriot hotel chain.    I had to stop working for this company because I wanted to focus on my school. Front- End Web Developer Boston Innovation Growth - Waltham, MA February 2017 to May 2017 In this role, I worked as a paid consultant on numerous projects, here a few highlights:  • Coded a website including admin portal for an angel investor group with React/Node.js  • Collaborated a team of 3 to create an investment web app called Easy Investment for Chinese investor to invest start-ups in the US with Backbone.js  * Coded numerous web app components, such as a two-person video conference web app, a video recording app, webcam recorder, and photo-taking web-app with vanilla JavaScript    I was laid off from this role because 1. I didn't fully focus on this job as I was spending a lot time doing a direct marketing business at that time 2. I did too much refactoring and it resulted in too much bugs in the product. Full-stack iOS/Node Developer Zobreus Medical Corporation - Boston, MA May 2014 to July 2016 • Implemented iPhone apps and iPad apps for a 10-person health start up including POEM Record and BoosterBook with Objective-C, Swift, Node.js, AWS, and Rethinkdb database  • Presented findings and progress, and mentor team through engaging PowerPoint presentations    The product didn't make it to the market successfully, the company ran out of funding, and everyone got laid off. Education B.S in Computer Science in Computer Science Boston University - Boston, MA August 2019 Links http://medium.com/@steve.mu.dev http://github.com/stevemu http://www.linkedin.com/in/steve-mu