JavaScript Developer JavaScript <span class="hl">Developer</span> JavaScript Developer / Creative Technologist Brooklyn, NY Versatile JavaScript developer with three years of experience. I have worked with Angular 1, Angular 2+, HTML, CSS, Node, Unity, and other technologies, and I am always eager to learn new ones. I am in search of a front- end, full stack or creative technologist role with room to grow, preferably on a team with other talented developers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JavaScript Developer Saatchi & Saatchi - New York, NY December 2018 to March 2019 • Developed Node.js crawler using Google's Puppeteer API, MongoDB and Angular for QA on buyatoyota.com, the primary offer portal for Toyota North America.  • Worked on prototype replacement of www.selltoyotas.com, an asset management portal for North American Toyota dealers until project was cancelled. I used Node.js and Angular. Technology integrator and online content developer Roberto's Winds - New York, NY August 2017 to December 2018 • Oversaw daily operations for Roberto's Winds, NYC, a musical instrument dealer transitioning from a brick-and-mortar Manhattan showroom to online B2C and B2B.  • Managed web content updates and online storefront operations.  • Business development of wholesale distribution network with regional retailers in the US and beyond. Front- End Developer/Designer Metroclick - New York, NY February 2016 to May 2018 As lead developer, I designed and built the interactive 3D basketball experience using Unity, Angular, TypeScript, CSS and Node.js. Full project lifecycle including design, development and testing.  • Store locator kiosk, luxury shopping mall, San Jose, CA. As lead developer, I analyzed client requirements, researched mapping and navigation toolkit options, and delivered the full application using Angular 1.5, JavaScript, Mapbox GL JS, CSS, and Node.js. Education Bachelor's in Jazz Studies New York University - New York, NY 2014 Math for Computer Science MIT Open Courseware Skills Javascript (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Git, CSS (3 years), Angular 2+ (1 year), Typescript (1 year), Unity (1 year), C#, Node.js (1 year)