Website & Graphic Designer (Volunteer Work) Website &amp; Graphic Designer (Volunteer Work) Business Analyst - Web Developer - IT Technician Tucson, AZ I am a life-long passionate student of IT. A self-starter who likes to get things done and enjoy doing so. I am seeking employment where I can lend my knowledge of either applied computer & network technology, hardware & software support, websites, server programming & analytics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Website & Graphic Designer (Volunteer Work) Moll Family Foundation - Evansville, IN July 2019 to August 2019 • Work with client remotely from another state and deliver timely milestones of the projects at hand.  • Design the organization's logo, business cards, and letterhead.  • Engage in media and content creation as well as the design of the organization's website. Business Analyst (Internship) Heritage Petroleum LLC - Evansville, IN May 2018 to May 2019 • Interviewed stakeholders for requirements gathering and analysis of different projects.  • Parsed user process requirements into algorithms and implemented associated task using server scripting to automate processes and reduce time.  • Performed quality assurance and user acceptance testing to guarantee usability and requirements are met at the end of each project.  • Programmed T-SQL, HTML, CSS in Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio to notify designated employees upon triggers of certain business operations.  • Troubleshooted scripts and data errors during programming and explain solutions in real time to Senior Business Analyst. Front- End Developer (Volunteer Work) Heart 2 Heart with Haiti - Evansville, IN January 2019 to February 2019 • Donated time to develop an e-commerce site for a non-profit organization that helps families in Haiti.  • Ensured the technical feasibility and conceptual design benefit the performance of the website load time. IT Technician (Contract) Ivy Tech Community College - Evansville, IN May 2016 to May 2017 • Defined tools and processes to build a data center for a community college.  • Used problem-solving skills to troubleshoot technical issues.  • Repaired computers, performed upgrades and installed updates. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems University of Southern Indiana - Evansville, IN August 2017 to May 2019 Associate in Software Development Ivy Tech Community College - Evansville, IN August 2015 to May 2017 Skills Microsoft Office (7 years), Outlook, Teams, SharePoint (3 years), Microsoft SQL Server (2 years), Tableau (1 year), Photoshop, Inkscape (3 years), HTML 5, JavaScript, CSS 3 (3 years), Visual Basic, PHP (1 year), WordPress, Wix, Weebly (3 years), Computer Repair (3 years), Hardware & Software Support (3 years), Mac (1 year), Windows (9 years), Android (7 years), Excel, Word Processing (7 years)