Front End Developer/Owner <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Owner People Manager with technical and project management skills. Spring Hill, TN I strive for data driven problem solving, specializing in task and process driven solutions that provide long term stability and success. A cornerstone of my development is a continual love for learning and reading. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer/Owner Carpenter Web Builders - Spring Hill, TN February 2017 to Present • Design and build meaningful applications, reusable web components, and leverage JavaScript API's for media rich web pages.  • Maintain and update dynamic content to enhance the end user experience.  • Technology: Wordpress, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery. Immigration Specialist Populus Group October 2014 to January 2017 • Create opportunities for companies both large and small to have access to the talent of over 190 foreign national technical workers generating 2.5 million in annual revenue.  • Develop solutions to complex immigration situations to ensure proper short term and long term work authorization using H-1, O, B-1, B-2, TN, F-1, and E3 visa's.  • Navigated the highly regulated restrictions and compliance set by the Department of Labor set by the I-9 job categorization, posting requirements and prevailing wage.  • Provided oversight for the organization of the public access files required by the Department of Labor and successfully navigated an audit by Department of Labor auditors.  • Collaborated with outside immigration counsel to ensure our aggressive time frames for filings were met in time for our workers to join there projects. Owner Gospel House September 2005 to September 2014 • Organizational development and management of an industry-specialized independent bookstore with yearly sales of $500,000.  • Business operations including accounting, budget development, invoicing and taxes.  • Sales and marketing for individual and large institutional buyers. Office Manager Eastlake Athletic Club May 2004 to August 2005 • Responsible for membership sales and customer service for club members.  • Business operations including accounting, office support, receivables, invoicing, taxes, and technical support. Senior Financial Advisor JPMorgan Chase September 2003 to April 2004 • Management of sales associates, sales goals and branch investment performance.  • Sales and marketing of investment and insurance products.  • Customer service for bank clients. Financial Analyst Polaski & Jones March 2003 to August 2003 • Financial back office support including data entry and information management. Personal Financial Planner American Express Financial Advisors September 2002 to February 2003 • Obtained all related technical licensing to sell insurance, stocks and bonds.  • Provide financial advice and planning to clients.  • Sales and marketing of investment and insurance products. Education Bachelors in Recreation and Facility Management Central Michigan University 1998 to 2002 Skills HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery (1 year), Front End, UI, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Driver's License