Front- End Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Front- End Developer Chicago, IL US Army veteran with more than 3 years of experience in designing, developing and testing web and mobile applications. I am passionate about learning and integrating new technology in a way that creates seamless user experiences. I have experience in Front- End languages including HTML, CSS, and REACT.JS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer/Designer Flyhightech.LLC - Chicago, IL June 2015 to Present • Utilized programming knowledge of proprietary API's to parse JSON data into workable variables.  • Communicate with clients and collaborate with project managers, developers, and UI/UX designers.  • Developed, tested, and deployed user interface, service tier, and data tier for complex mobile applications.  • Code, debug, test, and maintain applications to meet the clients requirements.  • Programmed in various front- end languages such as HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and Bootstrap.  • Contributed to the design and implementation of new functionality expanding the functionality of existing web applications. Mail Processing Clerk United States Postal Service - Franklin Park, IL September 2013 to January 2019 • Answer customer inquiries regarding mail procedures, postage rates, and other post office materials.  • Provide assistance to the public in complying with the federal regulations of various agencies.  • Sort incoming and outgoing mail, by operating electronic mail-sorting and scanning devices.  • Check mail to ensure correct postage and that packages and letters are in proper condition for mailing.  • Verify that items are addressed correctly, marked with the proper postage, and were in suitable condition. Administrative Assistant Veterans Resource Center - Chicago, IL July 2012 to May 2013 • Provided initial assessment of veterans' needs and determined the best assistance tailored to each one  • Prepared reports, memos, and other documentation, using word processing and spreadsheet software.  • Assisted in the development of programs for veterans to use during therapy sessions.  • Maintained a computer filing system to store, retrieve, update, and delete documents.  • Provided clients with guidance in handling complex problems in resolving escalated disputes. Automated Logistics Specialist Army National Guard September 2008 to June 2012 • Maintained stock records and inventory, material control, accounting and supply reports.  • Doubled logistical chain capacity by developing an optimization system for item distribution.  • Directed team activities, established task priorities, scheduled and tracked work assignments.  • Managed 1,500 lines of essential repair parts for critical equipment with a high accuracy rate.  • Responsible for hundreds of customer support requests on a weekly basis. Education Network and Communications Management Devry University - Chicago, IL Skills Git (5 years), Swift Developer (5 years), UI DESIGN (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), jQuery (5 years), Javascript (5 years), PHP (5 years), CSS (5 years), Front End Web Development (5 years), React JS (2 years), User Interface (10+ years), Bootstrap (5 years), Angular JS (3 years), Node JS (5 years), Angular, Objective-C (3 years), GitHub (7 years), React, Front End, Node, Angularjs Links https://github.com/flyhightech https://www.flyhightech.net Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: Specialist Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Developer January 2016 to Present Able to apply knowledge in front end and back end web development and deployment of web applications. Apple Developer July 2018 to August 2020 Able to publish apps for the various apple platforms. Including MacBook, iMac, iPad, iPhone, and Apple TV.     Also Includes publishing books, music, podcasts, and movies via apple music. Wordpress Web Developer Present Build mobile ready websites using the wordpress.org CMS. Additional Information Technical Expertise    • Understanding of web design principles and interface guidelines.  • Proficient understanding of code versioning tools such as Git, GitHub and Bitbucket.  • Familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect to back- end services to web/mobile apps.  • Possesses a good sense of UI design that has a user-oriented focus.  • Adept in Swift, with a good knowledge of its ecosystems and a desire to learn more.  • Demonstrates excellent customer and team building skills.