Freelance Web Design/Development Freelance Web Design/Development GSC Snow, M&J Recycling et al - Freelance Web Design/Development - Capital Connection South Amboy, NJ Information Technology Professional with extensive experience in web applications development and technical services implementation and support. Excellent managing, planning, problem solving, and interpersonal skills with a proven record of success in implementing highly technical systems from conception to production. Comprehensive experience providing technical solutions to all levels of management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Design/Development 44 Scott Ave - Various April 2014 to Present Professional Developer  • Developed and supported various WordPress websites for Commercial and Non-Profit institutions  • Integrated mobile accessibility using HTML5, CSS3, PHP, Bootstrap  • Improved SEO ranking and local web presence using Joomla and WordPress CMS.  • Developed web applications using various JavaScript MVC Frameworks. Senior Web Front End Developer Capital Connection October 2014 to December 2014 Responsible for maintaining and developing new functionality for various Web Applications.  • Worked in the maintenance and development of Lotus Notes Web Front End Applications with the ExtJS 4 Javascript framework (w/MVC), JSP, Java, REST, Hibernate, and MySQL as a back- end. Applications Support Analyst AVON PRODUCTS January 2010 to April 2014 Hands-on manager responsible for the development, implementation and support of all outsourced Financial Applications in Latin America  • Worked in the implementation of JDE E1 and Bottomline Transform for LATAM markets  • Created hosted Citrix instances of all required finance applications for LATAM remote access  • Integrated delivery centers to Instant Messaging environment for seamless end user experience  • Implemented a workflow solution to route invoices etc. for coding and approval  • Provided imaging solution for large transaction volume markets  • Successfully integrated a centralized help desk to provide technical support  • Interacted with LATAM local IT groups to resolve programming/technical issues of Lotus Notes, MS Office, Oracle, AS400 and other platforms applications al - Freelance Website Development CMHS, Gallagher-Concrete, Monica's Creations November 2008 to December 2009 Professional Developer  • Developed websites for Commercial and Non-Profit institutions  • Converted websites to full Content Management Systems Wordpress and Joomla using PHP and MySQL  • Developed and implemented interface, including logo design, navigation and CSS.  • Developed and implemented SEO structure. Senior Developer DONOVAN DATA SYSTEMS - Open Systems 2007 to 2008 Responsible for maintaining and developing new functionality for Lotus Notes Web Applications, and Java Open Systems Applications.  • Supported Call Log, Trouble Tickets applications. Improved Learning Center application adding workflow and scheduling, developed Change Control workflow to improve reliability of Client Data.  • Implemented specific Mailing functionality to advise Clients of New Product Releases available for download.  • Developed new Java functionality for existing multi-tiered web application. Project Leader/ Developer/Software Specialist PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL-Equity Group 1999 to 2007 Responsible for the continuous implementation of new technologies to support the business model, dealing extensively with vendor, management and infrastructure representatives.  • Designed and implemented a customized CRM System, Lotus Notes Domino front- end, Oracle back- end via Java/JDBC and Websphere server-side reporting, saving the $4M cost of a CRM package.  • Successfully implemented Lotus Notes design strategies to improve user interface and response time.  • Developed Notes/Domino Departmental Website, Workflow and Reporting Compliance applications.  • Enhanced and optimized Lotus Notes blast-email and call reporting functionalities.  • Managed/ enhanced /optimized voting campaigns using Notes/ HTML/Javascript/CSS/CGI Scripts.  • Continuously supported adhoc user requests in Lotus Notes and MS-Office systems developing various complex Visual Basic macros. Lead Analyst BANK OF NEW YORK - South Amboy, NJ, 08879, US 1997 to 1999 Responsible for the Development and Maintenance of new and enhanced functionality of major Lotus Notes distributed application.  • Developed and implemented several Script agents and functions.  • Implemented a series of Notrix jobs to provide heavy database data transfer capabilities replacing existing PowerBuilder functionality. Process previously taking many hours improved to a few minutes.  • Developed a unique On-line data transfer capability using Sybase stored procedures and triggers to provide polling input to REXX processes which in turn execute Notrix jobs to update data  • Successfully tested Web access to existing applications for future implementation. Information Systems Officer CHASE MANHATTAN BANK 1990 to 1997 Responsible for Lotus Notes Applications Development, Administration and Maintenance of several Lotus Notes applications (project tracking, workflow, broadcast, client tracking, and others), varying in size as well as complexity and distribution.  • Automated Lotus Notes financial updates from SQL DBMS.  • Developed and implemented a sophisticated Lotus Notes tickler system based on many-to-many relationships  from multiple data sources.  • Developed GUI Data Entry/Reporting front ends using ViP, PowerBuilder, VisualBasic.  • Expedited Database distribution on global, divisional and departmental levels.  • Facilitated the migration of Lotus Notes R3 to R4 applications.  • Customized applications for Web access via Notes Domino Server.  • Served as Notes Administrator installing, monitoring and troubleshooting Lotus Notes Servers.  LAN Applications Developer  Responsible for the Analysis, Design and Implementation of Distributed Local Area Network Applications.  • Successfully developed Lotus Notes Applications in a Client/Server environment  • Consolidated multiple Legacy and PC Data sources.  End User Support  Responsible for the Development and Implementation of customized PC applications. Also responsible for the evaluation, acquisition, installation and maintenance of PC hardware and software, including Local Area Networks  • Trained end users in spreadsheet, word processing, database management and communication packages.  • Developed various PC applications using Basic, Dbase, Lotus Notes  Applications Development Manager  Served as Project Leader with Applications Development Group .responsible for the analysis, design, implementation, documentation, training and maintenance of several automated systems varying in size as well as complexity.  Applications Development Programmer/Analyst  Responsible for the development and implementation of several Applications Development projects. Administrative duties included project management, quality control, documentation and heavy user interface with all levels of management.  • Developed and successfully implemented a Detail General Ledger System, a Quarterly Management Reporting System with integrated forecasting and graphics output, various Real Estate Financial Models, a Points Amortization System and many others; primarily hybrids of different programming languages  • Successfully completed the conversion of IBM mainframe applications to DEC 20 environment.  • Developed and implemented Cobol applications in Wang VS 85.    Software:  Programming Languages:  HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, XML, Java, PowerBuilder, MS Visual Basic, MS-Office VBA, C#, REXX, Visual Basic, Lotus Notes Domino Releases 8.x, 7.x, 6.5, 4.6, 3, LotusScript  DBMS:    MySQL, NoSQL, Oracle, JDBC, MS SQL Server, Sybase, dB2, dBase II, III & IV, Dataease, Paradox, MS FoxPro, Microsoft Access, Lotus Approach, Lotus Notes, ODBC  Frameworks/Utilities/Tools:    Git, MVC, JQuery, Bootstrap, Razor, AJAX, MS Project Manager, Eclipse, CVS, Joomla, Mambo, Wordpress, DHTML, Team Studio, Visio, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Flash, Adobe Creative Suite, Notrix, InfoPump, R&R, Crystal Reports, XPages, Jira Education Computer Science La Guardia College Architecture Dade College - Miami, FL, US Architecture Rhode Island School of Design Skills CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, PHP, MYSQL, Javascript, Git