President & CEO President &amp; CEO President & CEO - Overboard Media Group Jasper, GA Work Experience President & CEO Overboard Media Group - Jasper, GA July 2018 to Present Created and maintain https://overbrd.com and https://overbrd.com/src web sites. Sites created using node.js, Angular 2 and Angular 6, Python, Dropwizard, Maven, Java SE Dev Kit, JDK 11.0.2, JavaScript Runtime, Bootstrap, jQuery, PHP, Vue.js, React.js, jQuery Mobile, CSS3, and HTML5. Magenta web development on LAMP stack with PayPal API integration. Operate web hosting and domain name registration company using cPanel, WHM, WHMCS, phpMyAdmin, and MySQL. Reseller of web hosting accounts and domain names. Utilize PayPal API for credit card processing. Host multiple web hosting accounts. Offer freelance web development, graphic design, web application development, computer training and computer networking. Digital Web Developer Outdoor Sportsman Group - Kennesaw, GA February 2017 to March 2019 User composer, PowerShell and a CLI Script to crawl and scan HTTPS-enabled websites for mixed content. Mobile web site and application development. PHP, JavaScript and jQuery debugging. Application testing. Web site testing. Work on Staging and Production servers with Amazon modules, jQuery overlays, popup video and banner ads, pop-overs, pop-outs and pop-ups, advanced z-index layouts in CSS3, replaced PHP code and created php application that creates blocks of text to report bugs. Used PHP scripts to do SQL queries. Worked with PHP arrays, functions, variables and isset. Fixed mobile responsive navigation issues in PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5 and CSS3. Made text change's to live WordPress, .Net and .aspx web sites. Troubleshoot plugin JavaScript code and php code not defined errors. Designed API's using raml.org. Updated databases and created database backups. Converted Ruby on Rails web site into PHP/WordPress web site. Combined and removed useless and unnecessary CSS3, JavaScript and PHP files. Utilize W3C validation tools. Computer and network management; troubleshoot network and intranet connectivity issues. Maintained 501(c) and ADA compliance. Worked with Brightcove and Akamai video on web sites and web apps. Troubleshooting of WordPress PHP plugin errors and blocked WordPress plugins. Rsync files. Replaced wp-config files. Changed IP's. Edit Hosts files. Downloaded and tested iOS and Android magazine and television web applications through iTunes and Google Play. Wrote iOS and Android regression testing instruction masters using spreadsheets in Excel. Wrote synopsis of testing Web Apps through Google Play, iTunes and Apple Store. Wrote AEMM regression testing instructions master spreadsheet in Excel. Wrote synopsis of creating and purchasing web apps through iTunes and Google Play. Worked with legal department and verified and proofreading of privacy policies, your California privacy rights, terms of service, cookie policies and sweepstakes rules. Updating of all (44) company web sites. Participated in weekly department meetings. Conducted conference calls and video meetings.    SOFTWARE USED  Trello, Adobe CS, TestFlight, MS Office 365. MS SQL Server, GitHub, Dreamweaver, Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE11, Edge, Acrobat, Dropbox, Hozz, Chrome Developer Tools, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Kendo, Chrome Plugins, Firefox plugins and Firebug, SSH, FTP, High Charts, PhpFiddle, TestFlight, Adobe Experience Manager Mobile, Skype, MS Office 2016, Adobe Creative Cloud, Node.js, Command prompt, PowerShell, Composer, OneDrive, SharePoint    CODE USED  HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, LESS, AJAX, JS, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP 4, NODE, JSON, PHP 7, API's, SQL STATEMENTS, API'S Front End Web Developer AAPM - Alexandria, VA September 2016 to February 2017 Converting asp to php web pages. Create new sites. Utilize CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and php. Database connectivity and programming using SQL and php in MySQL environment on Mac with Windows integration. Build mobile responsive web sites and web pages with accordions, tabs, animation, video and responsive navigation with highly efficient user interface and design. Work in Sandbox and Live environment. Utilize FTP, Text editors, Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft SQL Server, in a Windows and Mac environment. Utilize multiple software programs to design and develop user friendly, W3C and 508 compliant interactive and easy to use web sites.    SOFTWARE USED  Transmit. Sublime Text 2. PhotoShop. Illustrator. InDesign. OpenVPN. MS Office 365. MS SQL Server 2012. Dreamweaver CC 2017. Safari. Chrome. Firefox. IE11. Acrobat Pro DC. Dropbox. Google drive.    CODE USED  HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, PHP, SQL STATEMENTS Web Application Developer/Graphic Designer self-employed - Summerfield, FL 2005 to 2017 Contract and freelance web developer, Developed and maintained large scale web applications. Software developer, Desktop publisher, Graphic designer, Repair technician, Computer trainer, Wired/wireless network technician, Computer consultant, PHP coding, Web template files using notepad/Wordpad/Dreamweaver, Created custom PHP form handling scripts from scratch. Modified PHP pages with new methods, classes, variables, and server-side scripting using session handlers, Customized PHP login scripts, splash pages, user admin layout, and checkout process. Use WordPress Multi User (WPMU). Utilized bootstrap and jQuery. Created Magento themes and setup Magento sites including backend programming. Created themes from scratch. Utilized Adobe and Microsoft products to create end user experience design and development. Create several web sites from scratch. Used existing WordPress themes including Upfront, and created new WordPress themes on a client by client basis from scratch. Created custom HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Jquery. Worked as a graphic designer designing PSD mockups, fav icons. Implemented Font Awesome icons. Created custom logos and graphics. Installed and tested plugins. Created responsive WordPress themes. Used media queries to adjust templates. Made JQuery slideshows. Made Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook feed plugins. Setup MarketPress plugin and created custom storefront. Setup Google Maps API.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe CS, Windows 7 Professional, Windows XP, MS Office 365, Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, Joomla, Zencart, Magento, Wordpress, Slack messaging, Microsoft Visio, Virtuemart, Coppermine, Skype, YouTube, BrowserStack, Gotomeeting, Gotomypc, AIM, Outlook/Outlook Express, Google Tools, Plugins and API's, including Webmaster Tools, Firefox Web Developer Tools, Analytics, Keyword Tools, AdWords, and AdSense.    CODE USED  HTML5, CSS3, PHP, ASP, XML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, MYSQL, MYSQLI Graphic Designer (freelance) Illustrated Properties - Palm Beach Gardens, FL 2003 to 2016 Duties include creating hundreds of brochures & thousands of postcards, web master, writing and editing Real Estate advertisements, place advertisements with the Palm Beach Post, US mail and email, file and folder management, synchronize dB files, disk and file sharing, custom forms, form handlers, server-side scripting in PHP, email form results via PHP, form validation via PHP, other PHP script integration including mortgage calculators, image rotation, image randomization, PHP includes, backing up database and hard drive, scanning, copying pictures to disk, processing leads, email attachments, utilize/create clip art, ad revisions, attended meetings and training, type legal forms, fax revisions, evaluate and order new software, create visual tours, digital photography, order HOA/POA docs, web site design & promotion, link management & maintenance, telephone and in-person technical support, Blackberry and Palm Pilot synchronization, pull plat maps through local MLS, conduct MLS searches, pull Tax rolls.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, PageMaker, InDesign, Windows 7, Windows XP, MS Office 2003, MS Office 2010, Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, Netscape, Skype, YouTube, BrowserStack, Gotomeeting, Gotomypc, AIM, Outlook/Outlook Express, Google Webmaster Tools, Analytics, Keyword Tools, AdWords, AdSense, VisualTour.    CODE USED  HTML, CSS, PHP, ASP, JAVASCRIPT  Programmer  The Media Crew  Largo, Florida SEM Analyst YellowPages.com - Tucker, GA June 2015 to October 2015 Worked as Campaign Manager/Analyst in high paced team environment managing high-touch national and regional Pay-Per-Click clients. Developed, managed, and maintained web analytics infrastructure. Conducted site tracking and data collection. Work as Engineer on the Tracking team delivering high levels of performance in competitive markets utilizing Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Yahoo Gemini PPC channels. PPC campaign creation and management and reporting using a variety of different software including Google Tag Manager, AdWords editor, and Bing editor. Read and write HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Work closely with web administrators in a specialized tracking environment. Used SalesForce (SFDC) to manage marketing campaigns; to allow clients to upload marketing files and data; to allow AdOps to create, track and monitor item fulfillment; to manage client information, client support, workflows, contracts, and billing; to conduct client searches; to create custom filters and custom views based upon my organizational units needs; to change ownership; to change tasks; conduct fulfillment item searches; assign tasks; move items; change functions; mark items complete; worked with dependant items; research cycle times and aging; create reports; escalated items; add customer feedback; conduct verifications; create and view task histories; add task instructions; create, view, assign and remove queries; create, view, modify and research call logs; create and use reminders; use mail merge function; use email functions; create and use templates; create, view, assign and mark tasks complete; create, view and modify notes; view and add fulfillment item histories; create, view, edit and post chatters; escalate cases; worked with Company Customer Scorecards; add, modify, and research notes; add attachments; create, modify and research opportunities; view contract summaries; review OSCAR questions; add, modify and research contacts; add, modify and research survey feedback; monitor activity history and account history; monitor product change and product history; write case notes; used Article Management tool to add, modify and research training materials and support articles; created, viewed and researched interaction logs; and used for content collection and ad reporting.    SOFTWARE USED  Google tag manager, Zoho, Trello, Salesforce, AdWords, AdWords editor, Bing ads, Bing ads editor, Yahoo Gemini, Mongoose Metrics (Dialogtech), Formstack, Acquisio, Evernote, Winmerge, Lync (Skype), One Note, Office 2013, Skitch, Sublime Text, My Screen Recorder Pro, Wappalyzer Firefox plugin, Ghostery, Google Tag Assistant, Wasp Inspector, Edit this Cookie, Code Editor for GTM and Link Klipper Chrome plugins.    CODE USED  HTML4, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT UI/UX Designer/Web Application Developer (freelance) Romano Income Strategies - Lady Lake, FL 2010 to 2015 Created business web site from concept to completion. Developed web design architecture and story boards. Developed UI framework and wireframes for company web site. Utilized modern design languages including WordPress, HTML5, CSS3, and Photoshop to create a visual brand to user experience. Created original web site in PHP using notepad, Photoshop, Flash, HTML4 and CSS 2. Site included Flash slideshow. Web site was sent to compliance department for review and was passed on every occasion. Web master, adding newsletters and doing updates. In 2015 converted original design into a WordPress responsive web site. Created new user interface (UI) and navigation to be mobile responsive in nature & added SEO capabilities using WordPress 2013 theme and converting to custom theme. Converted theme into original design based upon original PHP web site. Current site uses jQuery for mobile responsive slide show.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe CS, Windows 7, Windows XP, MS Office 2003, Microsoft Visio, Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, WordPress, BrowserStack, Gotomeeting, Gotomypc, AIM, Outlook/Outlook Express, Google Webmaster Tools, Analytics, Keyword Tools, AdWords, AdSense.    CODE USED  HTML4, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, PHP, XML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, MYSQL, MYSQLI Tag Manager Google May 2012 to June 2014 05/12 -06/14    Graphic and web design. Video conversions and YouTube uploads. Bulk file management. Computer Networking. Database backup and restore. Online live software demos. SEO and SEM, including Google Tag Manager, Google AdWords, sitemaps, organic search engine optimization, and keyword research and development as webmaster of companies WordPress, Joomla and Smarty web sites. Worked within company's technological policies to avoid same origin and/or mixed content issues, and managed asset loading and caching. Unit testing and automated testing in TDD. Uploaded files to AWS and Google cloud accounts. Create custom logos and web page graphic design. Created print designs including full page ads, web banner ads, animated gif's, clip art, email graphics and email newsletters. Created and updated hundreds of company registration sites using PHP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Created custom WordPress themes, templates and widgets. Created email creatives and email templates. Created Facebook contests using OfferPop. Created Facebook covers. Created Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Google+ accounts and customizations including covers and backgrounds. Created hi-resolution print ads. Created online banners. Created web site splash - landing pages and thank you pages. Data list management. Email data management. Email verification. EFECTUS Affiliate Network Marketing, CPL/CPA/CPC software. Charity fund raising events. Lead management. Communications through email, Google chat, online chat, Skype, GoToMyPC and GoToMeeting. Screen sharing technical support. Office phone programming. One on one and online training. Setup webinars and webinar promotions. Supervised 1 employee. Video embedding on web site. Online chat operator. Back end web site programming in jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, PHP, HTML and CSS. Wrote text for HTML newsletters. Wrote and posted blog posts. Wrote and uploaded knowledgebase articles with screenshots. Wrote scripts, recorded voiceovers and created screenshots for online video tutorials using Camtasia.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe CS, Windows 7 Professional, MS Office 2010, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Camtasia, Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, Captivate, ListMate Pro, FreeOCR, Joomla, WordPress, ZenDesk, Skype, YouTube, Microsoft Visio, BrowserStack, GoToMeeting, GoToMyPC, AIM, Outlook/Outlook Express, WagonMailer, DOS, Handy Find and Replace, Bulk File Renamer, ZenDesk, Google Tools including Webmaster Tools, Analytics, Keyword Tools, AdWords, AdSense.    CODE USED  HTML4, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, PHP, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, MYSQL, MYSQLI, FTP, BOOTSTRAP, GOOGLE API'S Web Content Specialist F&W Media - Loveland, CO April 2013 to September 2013 Partnered with fellow designers, production and development team to create functional specifications for designs with focus on accuracy and detail. Worked within company's technological policies to avoid same origin and/or mixed content issues, and managed asset loading and caching. Accurately estimated and implemented the designs. Unit testing and automated testing in TDD. Created rich, aesthetically pleasing, and usable UI/UX experiences for customers and internal company web site users. UI/UX programmer for several company e-commerce web sites and portals. Production of websites utilizing WordPress & Drupal. Provided support, training and documentation on Digital Media. Converted .png files into WordPress themes. Troubleshoot PHP, CSS and HTML programming issues. Subversion (SVN) and Git Source Control. Created wire frames, custom web sites, web pages, and web templates in PHP5, HTML5, and CSS3. Used Google developer tools, Firefox, Firebug, User Agent Switcher, Firefox Dev Tools, and others. Worked in an Agile environment. Worked with the project management team. Helped define technical requirements for website and application enhancements, and collaborated with developers to implement them. Developed content, tools and services for use across the company's websites. Trained the editorial team to help populate Web content using CMS tools.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe CS, Axure, Windows 7 Professional, MS Office 2013, Microsoft Visio, Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera, Safari, BrowserStack, Browser Shots, ZenDesk, SharePoint, ExactTarget, QuickBase, Outlook, iPhone, iPad, Android.    CODE USED  HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX Web Application Developer Liner Source - Eustis, FL January 2011 to May 2011 Built corporate web site using PHP/MySQL/HTML/CSS from concept to completion. Worked on Mac and PC computers. Web site includes Joomla 1.5 custom template, Virtuemart shopping cart, integrated WordPress blog, custom graphic design, custom Joomla template, user login/password area, order form, and shopping cart with over 400 products for sale. Other add ons include custom search feature, jQuery slideshows, jQuery drop down menus, jQuery treeview menus, JavaScript rollover menus, JavaScript rollover buttons, iFrames, DHTML email scrambler, Ajax inline menus. Served as web server administrator on MS Exchange Server 2003. In-house computer support for Windows XP, Windows Vista/Windows 7 desktop workstations. Telephone & in-house technical support. Computer Support Analyst Eaegis, Inc - Longwood, FL August 2010 to November 2010 Worked building NAS Systems to be shipped to clients throughout the United States and elsewhere. Utilized products, disks, and firmware manufactured by Qnap, ReadyNAS, Thecus, Western Digital, Data Robotics and others. Formatted NAS storage systems including 1, 2, 4, 6, 10 and 12 bays utilizing firmware on manufacturers storage units using RAID 0, RAID 1,RAID 5, RAID 6, RAID 10 and other formats on Seagate Standard and Enterprise and Hitachi Standard and Enterprise HDD's. Formatting of disks on Windows Server 2008 network. Conducted burn testing of all HDD's. Packaged and shipped NAS units through UPS and FedEx. Accepted deliveries of hard drives and NAS units into warehouse. Kept track of Inventory using QuickBooks and Excel. Created disk arrays of 1Tb to 24Tb. Worked with NAS units of 1 HDD to 12 HDD. Created custom graphics for company web site. Added/Modified/Deleted products on company web site. Answered phone calls and emails. Web Developer / eLearning Instructional Designer UNIM, LLC - Boca Raton, FL August 2004 to June 2005 Duties involve creating original clip art and using clip art from CD's to make over 160 web templates. Created web templates for a web builder program written in Perl. Utilize Dreamweaver and Adobe Photoshop 7.0. Create original graphics, created hover buttons, nav bars, and complete layout of sites. Inserted tokens in Perl where navigation, site title, text, copyright, and image insertion would belong on each template. Experience using JavaScript, forms, marquees, banners. Experience downloading/uploading sites using Cute FTP. Utilized Macromedia Captivate (now Adobe Captivate) to created instructional videos on using web builder software. Created various web movies to instruct users on using software. Created voiceovers, animations, popup bubbles. Experience using AOL, Netscape Communicator, and MS Internet Explorer web browsers. Experience with MS Office 2000 & 2003.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe Photoshop, Macromedia Captivate (now Adobe Captivate), JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Windows Server 2000, MS Office 2000 and 2003, Internet Explorer 5    CODE USED Computer Programmer/Analyst Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL August 2000 to January 2003 Worked as desktop publisher and trainer. Worked on User Services departmental website. Analyzed and developed instructor led performance training. Design, develop, and program instruction for multiple levels of users of computer systems and consult with end users to determine programming needs to enhance productivity. Created print materials including gathering data and creating newsletters, flyers, and brochures. Experience writing original web page and print media content, technical writing, and conducting technical Internet research. Worked on Mac and PC computer platforms. Taught in a computer enhanced classroom environment Photoshop, PageMaker, PowerPoint, MS Word, Windows 98', Windows NT, FrontPage, Netscape Composer, and MS Publisher. Graphic Designer Real Estate Marketing - Boca Raton, FL September 2001 to August 2002 Worked as graphic designer and desktop publisher. Experience creating newsletters, postcards, brochures and other printed materials. Worked in a Windows NT network environment utilizing Corel Draw, Photoshop, PageMaker, digital cameras, scanners/OCR, Excel, Outlook Express, network printers & HTML coding with notepad. Created 40-50 newsletters and 80+ postcards monthly.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe Photoshop, Windows XP, MS Office 2000, Corel Draw, Quark Xpress Web Designer Fortune Management - Lake Mary, FL December 1998 to August 2000 Key member of web development team. Duties involve taking materials supplied by client and creating web site home pages compatible in all browsers. Created 4+ home pages daily. Worked on an NT network using IIS, FrontPage, MS Word, MS Access, Outlook and Outlook Express, WordPad, and Notepad. Work with JavaScript libraries, CGI, Perl scripts, forms, scanners and OCR, and shopping cart cgi scripts. Some ASP development, including VBScript. Created custom style sheets. Utilize existing JavaScript libraries. Create original graphics and font work. Create nav bars, backgrounds, buttons, and complete layout of sites. Create original banners for banner advertising. Maintain existing sites. Recreate and debug existing sites. Call client and discuss web sites and upgrades.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe Photoshop, JavaScript, FrontPage, Windows 98', MS Office 98', Internet Explorer 4    CODE USED Web Developer All America Internet - Boca Raton, FL April 1997 to December 1998 Duties involve taking materials provided by client and creating web sites in a Windows environment. Utilize MS FrontPage 2000 and Adobe Photoshop 5.0. Create original graphics and font work, scan images and text, create hover buttons, nav bars, complete layout of sites. Installing JavaScript, forms, marquees, banners, etc. Experience downloading/uploading sites using WS FTP Pro. Experience using network and database. Experience calling client and discussing site/selling upgrades. Experience using AOL, Netscape Communicator, and MS Internet Explorer web browsers. Experience with MS Word, MS Office, and Outlook Express.    SOFTWARE USED  Adobe Photoshop, JavaScript, FrontPage, Windows 98', MS Office 98', Internet Explorer 4    CODE USED Assistant Editor - Broadcast Television Post Production Crawford Communication - Atlanta, GA August 1996 to November 1997 Duties include operating video and audio tape recorders, edit controllers, waveform monitors and vectorscopes, encoders and decoders, synchronizers, and standards converters; converting computer graphics formats; font conversions; setting up and timing of edit suites; editing videotape; operating character generators and videotape machines; conducting quality control of edited masters; creating original computer graphics using Adobe PhotoShop; tape to film and film to tape transfer sessions; operating DDR's; on line editing sessions; creating 3-D computer animation, and black and coding videotape stock. Working knowledge of routing switchers and patch bays, labeling and shipping, satellite transmission procedures, and frequent interaction with clients. Video Tape Operator Broadcast Television Post Production - Los Angeles, CA January 1995 to August 1996 Duties involve operating digital video tape and audio tape machines, edit controllers, wave form monitors and vectorscopes, encoders and decoders, synchronizers and standards converters; tape format conversions; computer file format conversions; operating character generators; setting up and timing of edit suites; black and coding video tape stock; operating DDR's; audio mixing and dubbing; routing switchers and patch bays; labeling and shipping; computer graphics, and frequent interaction with clients. Computer experience conforming Avid EDL lists; Macintosh to Max/Infinit font conversions using Fontographer, Make Master, Fetch and Suitcase programs; Graphic Transfers using Adobe PhotoShop or Illustrator files to DDR , Infinit, Henry or Flame using Chyron RGBa Write and Fetch programs. Dunn camera sessions to prints or slides. Max/Infinit Transform, 3-D and RGB tools expert; timing of machines, suites, DDR's, and CG's; changing tapes and doing dubs. Education BA in Communication/Media Production Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 1995 AA Florida Keys Community College - Key West, FL 1993 Skills Javascript, Search engine, Ocr, Pivot tables, Corel draw, Front End, UI, Front-End Links https://overbrd.com/src https://github.com/overbrd