App System Engineer App System Engineer App System Engineer (Contractor) - Wells Fargo Anaheim, CA I’m a developer, and I love to create quality software. I have worked on successful projects for Wells Fargo, Coors Brewing Company, The Met Opera, and Lagunitas Brewing Company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience App System Engineer Wells Fargo - Irvine, CA September 2016 to Present ? Full stack development leveraging .NET 4.6, C#, MSSQL Sever, Entity Framework, Web API, WCF and AngularJS  ? Work with team responsible for modernizing Wells Fargo’s auto loan origination application from Progress/OpenEdge to .NET and Angular  ? Designed and implemented a web portal to centralize various utilities, maintenance, and configuration tools that were previously scattered across different applications  ? Designed and implemented an auditing library to handle high traffic and to unify auditing efforts across different project by utilizing message queues. Created an accompanying service to transform these messages to audit entries  ? Build and maintain tools to monitor the health of enterprise, including alerts for support members when queues are near capacity, queue messages have been poisoned, workflows have exceeded an acceptable number of retries, and servers are not responding  ? Maintain services including loan tracking and system log searching Lead Developer Celerant Technologies - Fountain Valley, CA April 2012 to September 2016 ? Lead developer of iStar ecommerce software used by Coors Brewing Co, Lagunitas Brewing, The Metropolitan Opera, Cincinnati Bengals, and hundreds of small businesses  ? Maintained code written in C#, Visual Basic 6.0, C++ and Coldfusion  ? Migrated legacy code from Classic ASP/Visual Basic 6 to ASP.NET MVC/C#  ? Added new features and integrations including CMS, Amazon Market Place, Paypal, Authorized.Net payment processing and XWeb payment processing, product reviews, and product kits  Migrated aging tools written with Web Forms to SPA/AngularJS  ? Maintained tools needed to integrate iStar with CAM’s POS system  ? Assisted other developers with escalated issues relating to HTML, CSS and Javascript/JQuery Front- End Developer CAM Commerce Solutions - Fountain Valley, CA April 2010 to April 2012 ? Turned Photoshop design mockups into HTML and CSS  ? Corresponded with clients to determine their website needs  ? Worked closely with project managers to meet target deadlines   ? Tested and addressed websites for compatibility with various browsers  ? Reported bugs and enhancement to development team Support Technician April 2005 to March 2010 ? Created SQL scripts to aid troubleshooting, including finding discrepancies in data and corruption in tables and indexes  ? Handled escalated calls and provided second-level support  Assisted other technicians with less common and more challenging issues  ? Worked with development by performing tests and detailing bugs  ? Reported the most bugs within the support department IT Manager Shiekh Shoes - Hayward, CA April 2003 to February 2005 ? Managed and maintained servers including SCO Unix Server and Microsoft Exchange  ? Wrote scripts to automate routine tasks such as locating issues in logs and syncing data between the warehouse and stores  ? Created custom reports for the sales team  ? Provided escalated IT support to corporate office, warehouse, and stores Education Bachelor of Computer Science (3.71 GPA) in Computer Science California State University Skills C#, .Net, Javascript, AngularJS, Entity Framework, SQL, Wcf, Web Services Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chernp Additional Information SKILLS  Web Development: HTML, SASS, CSS, Javascript, AngularJS, jQuery, ASP.NET MVC, Razor  SOA: WCF, Web API, RESTful Principles  Software Development: C#, C++, Python  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Entity Framework, SQL, LINQ