SEO Analyst, Strategist and Content Developer, Consultant SEO Analyst, Strategist and Content <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Consultant SEO Analyst, Strategist and Content Developer, Consultant - Western Union Castle Rock, CO Experienced and detailed SEO Strategist and digital content developer with excellent web search optimization and digital content writing ability. Work Experience SEO Analyst, Strategist and Content Developer, Consultant Western Union - Englewood, CO March 2018 to Present Develops and implements organic SEO improvement strategies and writes SEO optimized copy for U.S. and Canada landing pages and the blog to increase user engagement, increase natural search traffic, improve keyword rankings, overtake competitors, and improve KPI performance.  • Improved SEO performance and outranked competitors on top 5 marketing pages for large volume keywords and increased clicks to site landing pages by avg. 20%-22% in 6 months.  • Identified new opportunities to increase conversions on global corridor pages with a multi-media content approach: blog articles, social posts, guest blogging, improved keyword densities on landing pages, customized copy for local audiences, removing duplicate content, SEO technical improvements, and locating keyword gaps through competitor analysis.  • Writes copy and uses HTML5 Web Markup and CSS3 and light Javascript to make updates in AEM, including landing page copy and blog content.  • Writes and implements structured data, schema.org and rich snippets on web pages.  • Builds Dashboards and Reports to evaluate SEO performance and reports on KPI's: conversions, registrations, app downloads, transactions, CTR, Impressions, natural search traffic.  • Conducts Technical SEO audits and fixes web defects to improve SEO Performance, including site speed improvements, mobile optimizations, mitigating duplicate content, and  • Keyword and Topic Research, TD-IDF analysis, competitive analysis, and locates new opportunities for building webpages and opening money transfer corridors for global reach.  • Produces blog content to improve internal linking objectives and improve site hierarchal structure.  • Conducts A/B testing on web pages and App store content to identify higher performing web copy, site elements, imagery and above the fold content. Front- End Web Developer & UI/UX Designer, Independent OneChoice Design LLC - Greenwood Village, CO 2010 to Present • Designs marketing materials for consistent user experiences across various platforms.  • Utilizes SEO and web analytics tools to improve search engine results, generate leads, and improve customer experiences.  • Digital Marketing: Social media ads, web ads, web page optimization, Facebook pixels, retargeting ads, and content marketing  • Writes, creates, and designs content for website and social media through CMS.  • CMS setup and maintenance, DNS records, website migration, SSL, Web Hosting, and email.  • Web content creation with strict adherence to design specifications for brand consistency. Web Content Developer Western Union, Digital Division - Englewood, CO February 2012 to May 2014 • Worked closely with UI/UX, Graphic Designers, Analysts and coders to implement front- end web code.  • Created campaign-landing pages from mockups utilizing HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, XML.  • Translated content from multiple sources into W3C compliant HTML5, coded for accessibility.  • Worked closely with team members to complete projects with tight deadlines.  • Copywriting, proofreading and edited web content in multi-language CMS.  • Resolved web page defects and bugs reported in QA/UAT.  • Ensured layout/content adheres to strict corporate style specifications. Marketing Communications Specialist Dearborn National - Greenwood Village, CO 2009 to September 2012 • Demonstrated versatile graphic designing, writing and editing ability by completing projects across a broad range of formats, including brochures, video, web, brochure, posters, and direct mail pieces.  • Created PDF documents from multiple sources and platforms (printed materials, Word, Powerpoint.)  • Copy-writing and editing digital marketing content.  • Designed and created training materials for internal/external audience.  • Created content for web portal, including videos, instruction manuals, and sales materials.  • Conducted product and web portal training in classroom and webinar formats.  • Writer/Designer for Newsletter distributed to over 7000 recipients. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration University of Colorado - Denver, CO 2009 Skills Organic search, Sem, Seo, Coding, Teamsite, Google Analytics, HTML, Marketing, Digital Marketing