Front End Web Designer / Graphic Designer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web Designer / Graphic Designer Digital Content Coordinator | Social Media & Email Marketing | Web Designer | Wordpress | Graphic Design | SEO Paulsboro, NJ Hello, thank you for considering me for the position in your organization. My name is Nickolas Boker and I'm confident I would bring your company great value and charisma. I am local to the South Jersey area. I am reliable, honest, and creative in what I do and thinking outside the box to achieve goals and deadlines. I have a well rounded skill set that includes, but is not limited to -    -Understanding of coding languages HTML, CSS, Javascript, and PHP.    -Website Design and Development best practices    -Wordpress Website Development    -Deep understanding of social media, especially from a professional marketing perspective for companies. This includes all the major platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Pinterest, Linkedin, and even up and coming platforms like Snapchat and TikTok.     -Copy writing for frequent social media posting, professional and well written grammar.    -Graphic Design to make in-house graphic content for regular social media posts.    -Competent with Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Premiere Pro, and Adobe After Effects.    -Ability to create custom and professional company logos.    -Ability to film, edit, create, and publish professional video content for YouTube, Facebook video, and other video sharing platforms.    -Professional Digital Client Relations for handling user generated messages, questions, and content on social media profiles and email.    -(E-mail Marketing)Reaching customers and potential customers with professional bi-weekly or monthly E-mail newsletters.    -Ability to create beautiful and professional print graphic design content. For example, company flyers, business cards, brochures, signs, flags, and more!    -Ability to create any Digital Graphic Design content from custom Facebook banners, to optimized Facebook adverts, Instagram posts, Instagram stories, YouTube thumbnails for videos, Pinterest posts, Pinterest ads, and more.    -Manage and write for company blog, creating regular blog posts too boost company exposure and improve SEO of the website through regular content updates.    -Improving the Search Engine Optimization value of the company website through daily or regular content and proper SEO methods for local and national businesses.    -Ability to create, run, manage, and observe the effectiveness and metrics of online digital advertisements on Facebook Ads, Pinterest Ads, Instagram Ads, YouTube ads, Google Adwords, and Google Pay Per Click.     -Tracking company digital marketing budget and properly dispensing it between social media advertisements to maximize effective company exposure.    -Professional demeanor, always dressed business professional with a tie and clean cut appearance. Clean shaven.    -I can provide my own hardware and software. I have my own business laptop with all the relevant graphic design software I need too accomplish my responsibilities.     I want to thank you for taking the time to consider me for your position. I know if you give me the opportunity I can bring great value to your company. Additionally, I will include a link to my website portfolio below.    http://www.sylinic-creative.com/portfolio.html Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Designer / Graphic Designer Sylinic-Creative.com - Paulsboro, NJ 2015 to Present Sylinic Creative is a Digital Studio that builds responsive and professional websites. Primarily using the Wordpress platform. Additionally, social media marketing, E-mail marketing, Graphic Design, Logo Design, and more. Digital Marketing Director / Website Administrator Giant Fitness - Vorhees, NJ October 2017 to September 2019 This position's responsibilities include running and updating the company website(Wordpress), running all the social media profiles daily updating, writing and updating blog, E-mail marketing newsletters, designing and printing flyers, brochures, and all other print. As well all digital graphic design. Junior E-commerce Web Developer MAK Digital Design - Cherry Hill, NJ 2016 to 2017 MAK Digital Design is a Digital Web Development Studio that focuses on E-commerce websites. My responsibilities here included taking .PSD files and turning them into functional and responsive websites, Wordpress site creation, light graphic design, Product Listing, Data Entry, writing weekly Blog updates, Social Media Marketing and more. Cold Calling / Digital Marketing Associate Valerie Schlitt & Associates - Westmont, NJ 2014 to 2016 At VSA I worked as a telephone operator sending out cold calls to various organizations, then I was assigned to the Fullstory.com team, working as a digital marketing associate through an E-mail marketing campaign advertising their SaaS product Fullstory to web development departments of companies. Web Development Internship Hopeworks of Camden - Camden, NJ 2013 to 2014 Hopeworks of Camden is a non profit organization in the heart of Camden that teaches youth how to code, specifically focusing on front end web development languages like HTML, CSS, Javascript and framework Bootstrap. Wawa Customer Service Associate Wawa - Bellmawr, NJ June 2009 to July 2013 Working at Wawa as a CSA included all responsibilities of working at Wawa. I worked the register, Deli, cleaning, stocking fridge, freezer, and more. Education BS in Business Administration – Digital Marketing and Advertising Degree Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA May 2018 to December 2022 Tech Degree in Front End Web Development TeamTreehouse.com - Work at Home March 2016 to October 2018 Certificate in Entrepreneurial Development LAEDA - Camden, NJ March 2015 to October 2016 Certification in Responsive Web Design Freecodecamp.com - Work at Home June 2014 to September 2015 Highschool Diploma Triton Regional Highschool - Runnemede, NJ September 2008 to June 2012 Skills SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (4 years), MARKETING (5 years), DATA ENTRY (5 years), GRAPHIC DESIGN (5 years), SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING (5 years), Web Design (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), Blogging (5 years), Front-End, Javascript, UI, Front End, Facebook, Twitter, Digital Marketing, Social Media, Instagram, email marketing (4 years), e-mail marketing (4 years), e-commerce (5 years), pinterest (4 years), linkedin (4 years) Links http://www.sylinic-creative.com/portfolio.html