FRONT END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FRONT END DEVELOPER San Rafael, CA ? Experienced working with teams to produce impactful, leading-edge websites that engage customers and deliver business results.  ? Well-versed in design standards and user preferences.  ? Experience in planning, designing, developing and deploying testing strategies for large-scale Web applications and Client/Server systems  ? Experience in analyzing technical/business specifications, reviewing documentation and intensively monitoring the data flow in the Client/Server environment  ? Experience in modern front- end framework React, Vue, Ember  ? Profound knowledge of SDLC & STLC (waterfall model, agile & scrum)  ? Proficient in writing test plans for the functional and system testing, execution of test cases to verify actual results against expected results  ? Expertise in functional, Regression, Manual and Automated Testing on both Client/Server and Web-based applications  ? Involvement in Project Planning, coordination and implementing various QA methodologies  ? Experience in business process analysis & involvement in requirement gathering  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytic & leadership skills  ? Proven ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER MACY'S - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to August 2016 Worked on Agile based development cycle with a weekly release schedule, involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  Iterative design process upon client approval build out of all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components and etc.  ? Quickly prototyped and created applications interfaces from the PDF are given by the UX using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  ? Used AngularJS to populate the data tables on the front- end and retrieve data from the rest services.  ? Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.  ? Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript with Prototype.js library.  ? Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features like page transition, calendar, image popup and other intuitive features.  ? Worked upon the dashboard for the transaction view which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using JQUERY UI and D3.js.  ? Used Angularjs AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information and view transaction history modules.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Participating in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts.  Environment: Windows, UNIX, AIX, VBScript, HTML, CSS3, JAVA, AngularJS JAVA FRONT END DEVELOPER OPTUM INSIGHT - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2009 to August 2010 Understanding Functional Requirements.  ? Responsible for developing wireframes for web page flows, page layouts and reusable widgets for customizable interface and announcements.  ? Worked with the team in designing Use Cases using UML and involved the entire functional requirements life cycle.  ? Developed the internal portal using JSP, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  ? Handled Browser compatibility issues in XHTML, CSS and Java Script for IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers.  ? Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the users using JSP, JSTL and Struts2 tag library.  ? Used Ajax, jQuery and ExtJS to update the components of the customizable interface without refreshing the page.  ? Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for authorization process and DAO API to manage the users using JDBC.  ? Used JavaScript and JSP validation framework for Client-side validations and Struts validation for Server-side validations.  ? Prepared JUnit test cases, Used JUnit for unit testing and Log4j to capture the logs.  ? Effectively followed agile methodology and Scrum process for the implementation of the project.  Environment: Windows, UNIX, AIX, VBScript, HTML, CSS3, JAVA Education BACHELOR in COMPUTER SCIENCE BHARATHIDASAN UNIVERSITY 2009