Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer Union, NJ ? 9 years of professional experience in IT industry as a Software Developer in Web Technologies - AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5/6, API, ASP.Net 4.5/4.0/3.5SP1/3.5, MVC 5/4/3, C# 5.0/4.0/3.0, Html 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap4/3, AJAX, C++11, C, VB6.0, Infragistics, D3, KendoUI, STL, Boost, Multi-threading, MEAN Stack, SQL Server 2014/12/08R2/08/05, Visual Studio 17/14/12/10/08/05, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Unix/Linux, ADO.Net, Web Services and WCF Service,Node, NPM, Bower, Yeoman, Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, TDD, TypeScript, Jenkins, JIRA  ? Worked extensively in MVC 5/4/3, VB.NET, C# 5.0/4.0, and ASP.Net 4.5/4.0/3.5SP1/3.5 including User Controls, Customer Server Controls, Master Page.  ? Worked extensively to integrate ADO.Net, Entity Framework, LINQ, and Lambda Expressions, AutoSys, SQL Agent in database  ? Worked extensively in C, C++11, including socket, multi-threading, STL, and Boost  ? Expertise in wiring T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers in MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005  ? Strong knowledge in implementing N-Tier architecture applications  ? Worked on ASP.NET AJAX Extensions, and Toolkit Controls, to enhance user's UI/UX experience  ? Worked in the development and design of reports and dashboards for supporting the business analysis in a corporate wide reporting using Business Intelligence Studio (BI).  ? Extensive experience in BI Solutions (ETL & Reporting) using SSIS, SSAS, SSRS and T-SQL Programming.  ? Strong knowledge in Object Oriented concept and .NET framework  ? Sound knowledge in WCF 4.0 and Web Services 2.0  ? Sound knowledge in designing and developing web applications, WCF services, web services, windows applications, console based applications and windows services  ? Sound working knowledge of source controls such as TFS, VSS, and WinCvs, Git, SVN  ? Experience in all SDLC phases, document requirements of all SDLC phase and designed software applications/services with given requirements, budgets, timelines and qualities  ? Experience of using Agile, Scrum, RAD, Waterfall, and FDD methodologies Work Experience Senior Developer Pershing BNYM - Jersey City, NJ April 2017 to Present SQL, .Net,API, AngularJS, Angular 7/6/5/4/2, VP level  Description:  Workin the investmenttech team from defining roadmap, especially the front- end, to designing, developing, testing, deploying, and maintainingsecure and scalable modern web apps. Deliver workout to the company ecosystem using internal frameworks and tech skills in: Node, NPM, Bower, Yeoman, Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, TDD, Typescript, AngularJS, Angular6/5/4/2, D3, HighChart, API, Bootstrap3/4, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, Toad SQL/Oracle, BI, Web API, Web Service, IntelliJ, Git, JIRA, Jenkins, Oath2, and full Agile. Cooperate with UI/UX team to enhance user experience.  Responsibilities:  ? Develop front end plug-in using JS, AngularJS, JQuery, Angular 7/6/5/4/2, TypeScript, D3, HighChart, BootStrap4/3, API, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, and internal libraries/frameworks  ? Design and Develop MVC framework, using AngularJS, Angular6/5/4/2, Express.js, JQuery, and JavaScript  ? Design and develop responsive UI using BootStarp4/3, Angular Materials, Font Awesome and so on. Use Bower to add third party libraries.  ? Use the task runner grunt or gulp to build, execute, test, and lint front end codes. UseJasmine andPredatorfor Unit and E2E testing to pass the testing coverage thresholds.  ? Scaffold new app with exist or customized generator using Yeoman, and install packaged modules using npmwith node  ? Continuously build, fix, and deploy high-scale web app using Jenkinsto implement CI/CDprocedure  ? Create group-wise reusable customized chart directive with service and testing codes, using HighChart, D3, and company UI components  ? Work with the back- end teams to design and deploy API, test Restful API with Postman tool, and consume API to provide the data of Single Page Applications  ? Cooperate with the back- end team members to CRUD data, tuning query, and add security feature  ? Use JIRA to tacking tasks, Git to manage repositories, and JSLint to control the code quality  ? Commit wiki andconfluence documents or notes to share and learn the knowledge with team members  ? Cooperate with team members to explore and contribute the Greenfield project using new fin-tech like Machine Learning and Blockchain  Environment: AngularJS, Angular 6/5/4/2, C# 5.0/4.0, .NET 4.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JS, JQuery, Bootstrap4/3, Node, NPM, Bower, Yeoman, Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, TDD, Typescript, D3, HighChart, API, Toad SQL/Oracle, BI, Web API, Web Service, IntelliJ, Git, JIRA, Jenkins, Oath2,FDD, and Agile Consultant, Senior UI/UX Developer, .Net Developer Randstad Technology /Bank Of American Mrill Lynch - New York, NY April 2016 to March 2017 Description: This is an internal project for the Global Market Technology and Operation group (GMTO). It is a lightweight front- end application using JavaScript, KendoUI, AngualrJS, RequreJS, BOA internal library/framework, Bootstrap, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, SQL, Toad SQL/Oracle, SSIS, BI, Web API, Web Service, Eclipse SDK, Tortoise SVN, and portal skills. Cross highly secured domains, strict network traffic/lightweight requirements are considered in the designing and coding.  Responsibilities:  ? Develop a new web application using JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS,RequireJS,C# 5.0/4.0, NET 4.5, KendoUI, SQL Server 2014, AJAX, and internal libraries/frameworks  ? Develop a responsive and professional User Interface (UI) design using KendoUI, SASS, Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3, Font Awesome etc.  ? Develop internal XML models and call Web API to implement SQL Query, stored procedures and User Defined Function(UDF) to CRUD views and tables in database  ? Develop email/message sending application in SSIS, deploy to the SQL server, and use Autosys to start and monitor SQL server jobs  ? Implement the UI/UX pages using partial views, partial renders, and two way binding via AngularJS, JavaScript and internal JS libraries  ? Implement customized autocomplete using asynchronous ajax calls to insure valid inputs and better UI/UX experience  ? Implement SQL Server Agent to schedules jobs and handles other automated tasks in dB  ? Work with legacy java application to provide supports and new application migration  ? Work with WebAPImiddleware to retrieve JSON/JSONP data to be used in different tiers  ? Work as part of a team to transfer user requirements to application features, coordinating with BAs and UAT Testers on deploying Dev code repositories during periodic scheduled builds  ? Create XML/JSON modelsfor Data Management model bindings and CRUD  ? Create models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the whole application for a more clean, loosely coupled, and efficient code snippets.  ? Use Ajax and JSON / JSONP to allow users to upload an dynamic inputs that were then used to fill out a grid of partial view or KendoUI  ? Introduce JQuery/JavaScript validate and internal unobtrusive validate were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# 5.0/4.0 attributes in the Model  ? Review and document codes to ensure that all the Processes and Criteria are being achieved i.e. leveraging existing team libraries/frameworks and incorporating best practices in all deliverables  ? Participate in scheduled scrum/sprint meeting in an Agile development process, and implement the source control to a Tortoise SVN server and local repositories Senior Web Developer, Front- End Developer NYC Dept. of Education - New York, NY November 2015 to April 2016 Description: This is an project to develop customized email/message communication application using Single Page Application (SPA), JavaScript, KendoUI, AngualrJS, BootStrap, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, SQL, SSRS, BI, VB.Net, C#, Web API, Web Service, Visual Studio 2015, TFS, and DI skills. Cross highly platforms, lightweight, and separation of concerns are main requirements in the SDLC procedure. Program another MVC project as well.  Responsibilities:  ? Develop the web applications using ASP.NET 4.5 and MVC 5/4 with Razor syntax, C# 5.0/4.0, NET 4.5, SQL Server 2014/2012, AJAX, JQuery, and some AngularJS  ? Develop a lightweight Single Page Application (SPA) for a cross-platform JavaScript based UI/UX using AngularJS1.1.0, NodeJS, KendoUI,Bootstrap3, Font Awesome  ? Develop RESTful APIs to allow effective and low cost application integration with front end Single Page Application (SPA)  ? Implement portal integration for loading pages and data from Domain field.  ? Implement View models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for an efficient and readily extensible code  ? Implement LINQ functions using Lambda Expression to perform CRUD operations on different SQL servers using Linked Server and Linked Server Alias  ? Use Ajax, JQuery and JSON / JSONP to allow users to Implement customized validation using asynchronous ajax cross-domain ajax JSONP request  ? Develop MVC action filter and customized filter to insure valid inputs and best user experiences  ? Develop codes to handle dynamic inputs that were then used to fill out a grid of razor view or kendo UI  ? Install and integrate the web application in difference cloud and SharePoint servers, incorporate best practices in all deliverables for all teams, provide customized documents and technical supports  ? Create XML models with the LINQ and Lambda Expression.  ? Create View models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for a more organized, structured, and clean code.  ? Review code to ensure that all the Processes and Standards are being meet i.e. ensuring correct implementation of requirements, coding protocol, project architecture, DI writing techniques etc.  ? Port the classic ASP and VB.NET website to the ASP.NET, C# and MVC one  ? Participate routine Scrum meetings and followed Agile development methodology. And response to ad-hoc requirements from RAD methodology  ? Work as part of a team delivering high quality and efficient integration solutions    Environment: Visual Studio 2015/13/12, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5/4, C# 5.0/4.0, .NET 4.5, LINQ, SQL Server 12, VSTFS 13, VSS, Lambda Expressions, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JSONP, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS1.2.16, Bootstrap3, Telerik, Kendo UI, DI, Senior Web Developer, Application Developer Effective Media Service Inc - Montvale, NJ January 2015 to October 2015 Description: This is an online-marketing project, through the development of web application and legacy window application for the On-Air promotion optimization using ASP.net, Infragistics, Bootstrap, C#, VB.NET, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, AngualrJS, SQL, LINQ, SSRS, BI, EF6, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server(VSTFS) 2015, Git, and web services skills. Cross browser and cross platform performance are considered in the designing and implementing.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop a new web application using ASP.NET 4.5, C# 5.0/4.0, VB.NET, NET 4.5, Infragistics, SQL Server 2014, AJAX, JQuery, and some AngularJS  ? Develop a responsive and professional User Interface (UI) design using Infragistics, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 etc.  ? Develop stored procedures and User Defined Function(UDF) to create and update tables and views in SQL databases  ? Implement the UI/UX pages using partial views, and two way binding  ? Implement encryption/decryption operation in the code behind and assure the secure channel for administrative functions and database access  ? Implement ADO.NET to perform CRUD operations on different SQL servers using Linked Server and Linked Server Alias  ? Implement customized validation using asynchronous ajax calls to insure valid inputs and best user experiences  ? Work with legacy windows application software to provide continuous improvement and supports  ? Work with C#middleware to retrieve JSON/JSONP data to be used in different tiers  ? Work as part of a team delivering high quality integration solutions, coordinating with other teams  ? Design report layouts in SSRS and deployed cubes using SSAS. Write expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports.  ? Set up Jenkins Continuous Integration (CI) server to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the TFS source control repository during periodic scheduled builds  ? Create a deployment procedure utilizing Jenkins CI to run the unit tests  ? Create models using the LINQ and Lambda Expression for razor model bindings  ? Create View model to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for a more clean, structured, and efficient code.  ? Create of demo architecture solution using dependency injection with Ninject as standard architecture for the company .Net projects  ? Implement NUnit testing used Microsoft Test and Ninject mock frame work  ? Use Dependency Injection using Ninject for database handling and model components  ? Used Ajax and JSON / JSONP to allow users to upload an dynamic inputs that were then used to fill out a grid of razor view or Infragistics UI  ? Introduce JQuery/JavaScript validate and MVC 5/4 unobtrusive validate were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# 5.0/4.0 attributes in the Model  ? Review and document codes to ensure that all the Processes and Criteria are being achieved i.e. leveraging existing reference architecture and incorporating best practices in all deliverables  ? Participate in daily scrum meetings and weekly sprint meeting in the Agile development process, and implement the source control in a VSTFS server  Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5, C# 5.0/4.0, .NET 4.5, Infragistics15.1, ADO.NET, LINQ, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2014, VS Team Foundation Server 2015, GIT, Lambda Expressions, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JS, JQuery, AngularJS1.2.16, Bootstrap3,Ninject, Jenkins CI Web Developer (Contractor) Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA October 2014 to December 2014 Description: This is a Customer Channel Group(CCG) project, through the development of a web application for Microsoft internal procedure using MVC, Telerik, Kendo UI, Bootstrap, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, AngualrJS, SQL, LINQ, EF6, SharePoint2013, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server(VSTFS) 2013, and web services skills. The web developer designs and implements code according to Micorsoft standards, while cooperating with an offshore team.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop the web applications using ASP.NET 4.5 and MVC 5/4 with Razor syntax, C# 5.0/4.0, NET 4.5, SQL Server 2012, AJAX, JQuery, and some AngularJS  ? Develop a responsive and professional User Interface (UI) design using Kendo UI, Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 etc.  ? Implement the UI pages with Razor views and partial views, and two way binding  ? Implement View models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for an efficient and readily extensible code  ? Implement LINQ functions using Lambda Expression to perform CRUD operations on different SQL servers using Linked Server and Linked Server Alias  ? Implement customized validation using asynchronous ajax calls and MVC action filter to insure valid inputs and best user experiences  ? Implement the dependency injection pattern using NInject component to test the code using pluggable controllable components  ? Implement DDD&TDD using Dependency Injection(DI) to decouple the code and Unit testing (NUnit, Ninject, Moq) to rectify errors  ? Write LINQ functions to perform CRUD operations on and access data from a database.  ? Install and integrate the web application in difference cloud and SharePoint servers, incorporate best practices in all deliverables in all teams, provide customized documents and technical supports  ? Work with C#middleware to retrieve JSON/JSONP data to be used in different tiers  ? Work as part of a team delivering high quality integration solutions, and coordinating with a off shore team  ? Follow Continuous Integration workflow for internal projects using Jenkins tools  ? Create models using the LINQ and Lambda Expression for razor model bindings  ? Create View model to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for a more organized, structured, and clean code.  ? Use Ajax and JSON / JSONP to allow users to upload an dynamic inputs that were then used to fill out a grid of razor view or kendo UI  ? Use Ninject as DI container to resolve dependencies while creating classes  ? Introduce JQuery/JavaScript validate and MVC 5/4 unobtrusive validate were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# 5.0/4.0 attributes in the Model  ? Review and document codes to ensure that all the Processes and Criteria are being achieved i.e. leveraging existing reference architecture and incorporating best practices in all deliverables  ? Participate in daily scrum meetings and biweekly sprint meeting in the Agile development process, and implement the source control in a VSTFS server  Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5/4, C# 5.0/4.0, .NET 4.5, LINQ, Visual Studio 2012/13, SQL Server 12, VSTFS 13, Lambda Expressions, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JSONP, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS1.2.16, Bootstrap3, Telerik, Kendo UI, DI, Ninject, Nunit, Moq, Jenkins Sr. .NET Developer KPMG LLP - Montvale, NJ June 2014 to October 2014 Description: This is a Business Process Management (BPM) project, through the development of a web application front- end for a workflow application using ASP.NET MVC, Bootstrap, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, SQL, LINQ, EF6, SharePoint2013/10, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server(VSTFS), and web services skills, through a third party BPM software. The Sr. .Net Developer designs and implements code according to KPMG standards while ensuring alignment with ongoing strategy.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop the cloud based workflow applications using ASP.NET 4.5 and MVC 5/4 with Razor syntax, C# 5.0/4.0, NET 4.5, SQL Server 2012, AJAX, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Develop a responsive and professional User Interface (UI) design that supports desktop browser and mobile device form factors using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 etc.  ? Develop Dependency Injection(DI) using the Ninject in MVC for unit testing  ? Develop unit testing project using NUnit and MSTEstMocking Framework Moq  ? Develop stored procedures and User Defined Function(UDF) to create and update tables and views in SQL databases  ? Developed Single Page Application (SPA) application with AngularJS serving up pages with Angular's route provider.  ? Implement the UI pages with Razor views and partial views.  ? Implement View models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for an efficient, performant and readily extensible code  ? Implement LINQ functions using Lambda Expression to perform CRUD operations on different SQL servers using Linked Server and Linked Server Alias  ? Implement customized validation using asynchronous calls and MVC action filter to insure valid inputs and best user experiences  ? Install and integrate the web application in difference cloud and SharePoint servers, incorporate best practices in all deliverables in Dev, QA, UAT, Prod environments, provide customized documents and technical supports  ? Work with C# middleware to retrieve SOAP / WSDL data to be used in different applications.  ? Review and document codes to ensure that all the Processes and Criteria are being achieved i.e. leveraging existing reference architecture and incorporating best practices in all deliverables  ? Participate in daily scrum meetings in the Agile development process and VSTFS environment  ? Work as part of a team delivering high quality and efficient integration solutions  Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5/4, web API, C# 5.0/4.0, Ninject, NUnit, Moq, .NET 4.5, LINQ, Visual Studio 2013/2012/13, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server 2013/10, Lambda Expressions, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS1.2.16, Bootstrap3 ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, C#, C++ Developer Roadtex Transport Inc - Somerset, NJ August 2012 to June 2014 Description: This is a customized CRM project with master data management and customized access permissions/role management for each of the functionalities. Roadtex will keep track of all the information from the point of generation of a business lead to the point that lead becomes an actual customer. All offer details, price list, picture of cargo, competitor documents, etc. can be uploaded to the system. There is also a master data management system.  Responsibilities:  ? Code in C++ for the customer data process project, implement smart pointer, memory management system, and named pipe for system integration.  ? Develop the application using ASP.NET 4.5 and MVC 5/4 with Razor syntax, C# 5.0/4.0, VB.NET,.NET 4.5, SQL Server 2012, AJAX, Bootstrap3,JQuery 2.1, AngularJS 1.1.0, HTML 5 and CSS 3 to create a very clean and professional UI.  ? Design and code RESTful APIs to allow effective and low cost application integration  ? Participate and document RESTful APIs, including the JSON formats and versioning strategy.  ? Implement the Dependency Inject MVC through the Ninject in .NET  ? Design and develop class library for Domain entities using entity framework.  ? Develop customized Dynamical-link Library in C++11, using Boost, STL, Multi-threading technologies, to improve the overall system performance  ? Design UI pages with Razor views and partial views  ? Developed Single Page Application (SPA) apps for a cross-platform JavaScript based solution using AngularJS1.1.0, NodeJS, KendoUI and Bootstrap3  ? Create View models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for a more organized, structured, and clean code.  ? Write AJAX asynchronous calls.  ? Introduce JQuery validate and MVC 5/4 unobtrusive validate were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# 5.0/4.0 attributes in the Model.  ? Implement controllers for loading pages and data from Domain field.  ? Create models with the LINQ and Lambda Expression.  ? Code unit testing project using NUnit and MSTEstMocking Framework Moq  ? Write LINQ functions to perform CRUD operations on and access data from a database.  ? Review code to ensure that all the Processes and Standards are being adhered i.e. ensuring correct implementation of requirements, coding standard, project architecture, efficient code writing techniques etc.  ? Port the classic ASP website to the ASP.NET and MVC one  ? Participate routine Scrum meetings and followed Agile development methodology  Environment: Classic ASP, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5/4, web API, C# 5.0/4.0, VB.NET, C++11, STL, Boost, Ninject, NUnit, Moq, .NET 4.5, LINQ, Visual Studio 2012/13, SQL Server 2012, Lambda Expressions, SPA, AJAX, HTML 5, JQuery, AngularJS1.1.0, Node, Bootstrap3, CSS 3 software developer AngularJS, Angular 2012 to 2014 Eclipse, SQL Server 2014/2012, ASP.NET 4.5, C# 5.0/4.0, .NET 4.5, KendoUI, SQL Business Intelligence Development Studio 2013/2012, Tortoise SVN, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JS, JQuery, Bootstrap3, Font Awesome ASP.NET, MVC, C#, C++ Developer Kyklos Bearing International, LLC - Sandusky, OH October 2010 to July 2012 Description: The goal of the system is to achieve Over Time Equalization to allow all the employees same opportunity to work overtime. The system would provide efficient means to analyses, request and record overtime hours, enabling, supervisor to quick identify employees eligible for overtime based upon their ranking.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application using ASP.NET 4.0, C# 4.0, VB.NET, and MVC 4/3 in Visual Studio 2010  ? Designed and implemented an internal message exchanging system in C++, XML, and Socket  ? Designed UI pages in MVC 4/3 using partial views and Razor Views.  ? Using MVC 4/3 implemented clean separation of layers like View, Controller and Model.  ? Designed the tables according to database normalization rules in SQL Server 2012/2008R2  ? Developed code for operations between the application and the database using Language-Integrated Queries (LINQ) with Lambda Expressions in C# 4.0.  ? Integrated JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, HTML 5 and CSS 3.0 technologies into client user interfaces for smooth and enhanced UI experience in Razor Views.  ? Written code Client-side and Server-side validations.  ? Developed code for auto-complete function using AJAX and JQuery.  ? Unobtrusive validate and JQuery validate were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# 4.0 attributes in the Model.  ? Created documentation for developed user, user role management, and master data feature.  ? Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more organized and cleaner code.  ? Wrote code to asynchronously implement the controller and update pages through AJAX.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010, Solaries, Unix, Boost, STL, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4/3, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2012/2008R2, VB.NET, C# 4.0, Stored Procedure, Entity Framework, LINQ, Lambda Expression, AJAX and JSON, HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS 3.0 ASP.NET, C#, C++ Developer SBA Global Logistic Services - Woodbury, NY August 2009 to September 2010 Description: Service By Air (SBA) is an international company that provides freight and global logistics services. SBA utilizes a Customer Management web application to manage tracking, shipping and payment information. To improve customer experience, SBA create a personalized web portal for their customers, allowing administrators to set customer branding features such adding logos, messages, fonts and color schemes. The project involved developing these theme features.  Responsibilities:  ? Used STL and Boost Library in C++ to implement parallel & concurrent / grid computing algorithm for large scale logistic optimization tasks  ? Designed and developed a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the content management feature using ASP.NET3.5SP1 and C# 3.0/VB.NET in .Net Framework 3.5  ? Designed and developed the N-tier architecture, e.g. Presentation Interface(UI), Business Logic Layer(BLL), and Data Access Layer(DAL)  ? Developed a rich user experience using JQuery, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Provided training and created documentation for the content management feature.  ? Created login controls for user authentication using Session variables.  ? Used JQuery to create searchable/sortable queues for viewing inbound and outbound package tracking  ? Used ADO.NET to build up the SQL server connection for data layer's CRUD operations.  ? Used JQuery validate and AJAX extension controller validate to validate form fields and providing custom requirements/error messages through C# attributes in the Model.  ? Implemented Controllers for loading pages and data from the DB.  ? Created dynamic SQL Stored Procedures for complex queries which would suffer from performance issues if implemented using LINQ. Used SQL profiler to trace calls to the Enterprise DB and created stored procedures to replicate those calls to allow for seamless system integration.  Environment:.NET Framework 3.5, C# 3.0, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2008, Linux, C++, STL, Boost, AJAX, JQuery, SQL Server 2008, NUnit, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2008 ASP.Net, C#, C++, WCF, Windows Service Developer Tropical Cheese Industries - Perth Amboy, NJ July 2008 to July 2009 Description part 1. Mobile Customer Order Tracking System (MCOTS) Server. MCOTS Server was a web based application ran on a server located at the company's headquarters. This application served as a gateway to the company's NAV ERP system for Order Capturing, Returns, Surveys and Account Receivables (Invoicing). It synchronizes its data with the NAV ERP on a Nightly basis. Also, it validates tablet users through a secure reporting system as users are role based in the system.  Responsibilities:  ? Was Involved in UI design and development using ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, User Controls and Web Forms with C# 3.0 code behind.  ? Designed and Implemented Interfaces and Classes using Object Oriented Programming Structure  ? Designed and developed Class Libraries for Data Access, Exception Handling, Logging and Session Management etc. in C# and C++  ? Developed the data filtering and processing classes in C++ using Boost Library and STL  ? Developed WCF services which involved business logic and control flow.  ? Designed User Controls and Master Pages using ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5  ? Created stored procedures in SQL Server 2008/2005  ? Used ADO.NET to access data in SQL server 2008/2005  ? Designed database, created tables wrote stored procedures and triggers at the back end  ? Maintained user authentication based on user role  Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5, Visual Studio 2008/2005, Linux, C++, STL, Boost, AJAX, SQL Server 2008/2005, ADO.NET, SQL, XML, WCF 3.5, and Web Services2.0  Description part 2. MCOTS Tablet. It is a Windows application runs on each of the company's Sales Agent's and Supervisor's tablets. It is used for capturing new orders and keeping track of returns and collections for Customers. In addition, both a windows service and WCF web service are developed to compliment the tablet application. The WCF web service, called by MCOTS tablet application, includes methods for uploading/downloading generated SQL files to/from MCOTS server database.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed Dynamic Link Library using STL and Boost to process current and previous order data in C++  ? Created a WCF application for the project using C# 3.0 and ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5 in .NET Framework 3.5  ? Involved in Database Design and Development.  ? Created Data Access Layer and Business Layer.  ? Used ADO.NET for database connectivity.  ? Created required tables and procedures in SQL Server 2008/2005.  ? Implemented call to WCF Web Service.  ? Used ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5 caching technique to maintain the state information about users and keep common data in memory to enhance performance of the application  Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET 3.5SP1/3.5, Visual Studio 2008/2005, Linux, C++, STL, Boost, AJAX, SQL Server 2008/2005, ADO.NET, SQL, XML, WCF 3.5, and Web Services2.0    Certificate:  SAS Certificate Base Programmer, CompTIANetwork+, Coursera Certificate on " Front- End UI - BootStrap4"," Front- End JSAngular","Multiplatform Mobile App" Education Master degree in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering State University of New York Skills Javascript, Front End, Angular Links https://github.com/Angular-SPA-MEAN-CSharp-AspDotNet-MVC Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C#, ASP.Net, HTML 5, XML, T-SQL, JavaScript, C++, VB6.0, VB.Net Frameworks MVC 5/4/3, RESTful API, .NET 4.5/4.0/3.5, Entity Framework 6/5  Databases SQL Server 2012/14/08R2/08/05, MySQL 5.0, LINQ, Lambda Expression Technologies AngularJS 6/5/4/2, Ajax, Ado.NET, Kendo, jQuery, WS2.0, WCF4.0, JSON,  CSS3, API, BI, Multi-thread, Socket, Git, Bootstrap3, Ninject, NUnit, Moq,  STL, Node, NPM, Bower, Grunt, Gulp, Yeoman, ng generator, Karma, Jenkin  Tools Visual Studio 15/13/12/08R2/08/05, Eclipse, IntelliJ, SQL Server Mgnt Studio 14/12/08R2/08/05, BI, Infragistics15.1, Unix/Linux, TFS13, Sharepoint13/10    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, RAD, JIRA, FDD, SDLC