INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, Freelancer INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, Freelancer Social Media Marketing Expert and Web Developer Weehawken, NJ With more than 11 years of experience in IT and Digital Marketing, we've built a strong and diverse foundation for designing compelling messaging, engaging visuals and high converting sales funnels. Whether handling existing functionalities or developing new strategies in marketing automation, we acknowledge the challenges and collaboration required to accomplish the very best results for our clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, Freelancer Freelance/Self employed - Weehawken, NJ 2005 to Present Provide extensive services including but not limited to social media marketing, social media management, web development, project management, music production, photography and film.    • Experience with modern coding practices and rapid development   • Graphic Design using Photoshop and Illustrator   • Proficient in HTML, CSS, JQuery and WordPress Development   • Expert in Social Media Marketing and Automation   • Proficient Sales Funnel building   • Proficient in Ad copy and effective communication methods to bring in leads  • Expert in Audio Mixing and Mastering using AVID Protools 12  • Expert in Music Production using Propellarheads Reason 10  • Proficient in Adobe Premier Pro and After effects  • Team Player and works well under pressure and tight deadlines Founder ScaleUp Media Marketing - Weehawken, NJ Present We’re a results-driven digital marketing agency located in Weehawken, NJ and serving clients nationally. Driven by the success of our clients, we take great pride in the online strategies we implement to drive website traffic, convert visitors into leads and improve sales.    • Expert in building Facebook Lead Ads including Zapier Automation for maximized results  • Marketing Automation Expert   • Proficient in Google Ads and Analytics   • Instagram Marketing Automation and targeting  • Expert in Photoshop, Premiere Pro and After Effects  • Strive to provide detailed reporting KPI, CTR and calibrate digital marketing strategies accordingly to maximize results.   • Managed multiple ad Facebook Ad accounts with $20,000+ monthly ad budgets  • Keen eye for design and messaging to potential clients to bring in more leads. Director of Web Development ArborCrowd - New York, NY October 2017 to February 2018 Key contributor in initiatives to innovate the ArborCrowd platform. Shape the direction with forward-thinking design and front- end technology to create a unique, ownable and high-converting web presence for ArborCrowd. Create visually appealing web pages that are responsive, have excellent web performance, clear navigation, and user experience.    » Build and extend the front- end of ArborCrowd web applications  » Design, code, and tag email campaigns  » Work with product managers during design sessions, and compile thoughts and direction into functional specifications  » Consolidate feedback and deliver products that test assumptions and drives innovation  » Update and maintain all company websites as well as development of any new website  » Create site layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices  » Conduct software and market research and identify new requirements and present relevant and actionable analysis  » Provide weekly and monthly updates to management team on progress, performance, metrics and milestones Front End Web Developer CENTER FOR COURT INNOVATION - New York, NY 2010 to March 2016 Created the cloud-based National Drug Court Online eLearning web-site based off of e- Fronts LMS. Drove projects through the pipeline to achieve project deadlines by determining clear end user requirements, outlining roadmaps to resolution and closely monitoring deviations from targets. Mitigated performance vulnerabilities within the development environment by performing user experience testing using cross platform and browser solutions such as Browser Stack.    * Enhanced the user experience with development of easy to use functions, tools, features and reports while designing a custom theme using wireframe and PSD graphic work provided by designers.  * Tracked recurring issues to drive resolutions at the root-cause level with continuous improvement initiatives in collaboration with the staff team to create and add course curriculum for the online learning system.  * Delivered transparency into complex technical data by creating and maintaining documentation and processes for users with a variety of technical and non-technical backgrounds.  * Boosted efficiency by aligning multiple desktop, web and backend applications and processes with rigorous test updates to the online learning system across multiple browsers and OSs.  * Improved development results by integrating research, visual workflows, defining strategies and designing custom landscapes for individual project deliverables according to structure of the online system.  * Achieved a smooth system launch by acting as a liaison between web dev team and internal departments in addition to training staff on how to use the features of the eLearning site. Web Developer/Designer VONAGE HOLDINGS - Holmdel, NJ 2005 to 2010 Completed the full scope of deliverables, requirements design, task prioritization and performance optimization for landing page creation, front/back end implementation and agile development. Successfully migrated 3000 landing pages to new 2.0 system and designed a landing page tool using JavaScript to efficiently create batches of landing pages assigned by Marketing Team.    * Optimized data performance using SQL, resulting in boosts to efficiency for an improved user experience.  * Expanded user access by designing websites with a UI/UX focus to function on iOS/Android mobile platforms.  * Constructed pages for new products such as: Vonage Text, V-Me, AskVonage Help Client for the Vonage Redesign website, building out new features, updating sections and testing deployment.  * Tested and developed New IKB and Vonage Tools for Sr. Programmers in an employee Knowledge Base.  * Advanced QA initiatives with the development of workflow for testing new applications for QA environment. Education Bachelor's in Digital Art Designs LaSalle University - Philadelphia, PA August 2002 to August 2003 Skills HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (6 years), Audio Editing (10+ years), Video Editing (5 years), Music production (10+ years), Avid Protools (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (5 years), Google Adwords (5 years), Adobe (8 years), Premiere (5 years), Digital Marketing (5 years), Audio Editing (9 years), Wordpress (8 years) Links https://www.scaleupmedia.io Additional Information Technical Proficiency  Programming/Frameworks: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Git, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Sass, Foundation 5, XML, Woocommerce  Applications: MS Office, Sublime, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Creative Cloud, Adobe Photoshop CC, Premiere Pro, Avid Protools 12,  Platforms: MS Windows and Mac OSX