Freelance Freelance Website Developer Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Freelance Luis Sebastian.NET - Los Angeles, CA January 2012 to Present Visual Designer / Front- end Developer  - Wireframe websites, applications and software concepts  - UX concepts, best practices and design  - UI and IoT best practices and design (no development using NodeJS, ReactJS nor Java)  - Website, print and press design elements  - Branding material design  - Amazon Seller Central, Amazon Solution Services and Amazon Cloud Services (EC2, VPC, IAM, RDS, S3, Route53, ELB and CloudFront).  - Maintain marketing networks such as Yelp, Craigslist, eBay, Amazon, Bark and Thumbtack.  - Design and develop web solutions using CMS platforms including but not limited to WordPress with custom Woocommerce, Shopify, Magento, Big Commerce and Cartel.  - Customize and tweak Woocommerce, Shopify and Bigcommerce themes to improve aesthetics, loading speed and user experience  - Video - clip, cut and optimize video files  - Audio - clip, cut and optimize mp3, ogg and wav files  - Photo editing, optimization, enhancement and manipulation.  - Mockup illustrations design  - Catalog design and development  - Integrate e-commerce API solutions, including but not limited to POS (Point of Sale), payment gateway, SSL Certificate, Booking, Ticket Sales, Media Sales, Subscriptions and Memberships, Retail Sellers, ChannelAdvisor and more.  - IT/Help Desk Support (Windows + macOS + Android + iOS)  - Upgrade and repair office equipment as well as computer work stations  - Reformat and reinstall operating systems, virus removal, and upgrades  - Repair mobile screens, digitizers and other hardware upgrades  - Software beta testing and upgrade installations  - Hard drive (IDE/SATA) data recovery Visual Designer / Front- End Developer TW3 Entertainment - Santa Monica, CA December 2015 to December 2017 - Design and developed ecommerce sites using WordPress and Joomla.  - UI design iOT (internet of things), OTT (over the top), VOD (video on demand), Web Player and Streaming Applications using Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe XD along with other prototyping tools.  - Design upcoming website layouts and frameworks.  - Development assistance for web players and streaming services.  - Photo editing, optimization, enhancement and manipulation.  - Corporate branding materials such as catalogs, banners, billboards, posters and flyers.  - Occasional remote computer repair, software implementation and update migration.  - Beta testing new web applications, videos in various formats, encoders and bit rates. Web Developer | Visual Designer | Amazon Seller Central Specialist Cyantek LED Lighting - Downey, CA June 2012 to August 2015 - Custom responsive WordPress development with Woocommerce integration  - Wireframe website, app and advertising design  - Design upcoming website layouts and frameworks  - Corporate branding materials such as catalogs, banners, billboards, posters and flyers  - Maintain marketing ads (Yelp, Craigslist, YP, Thumbtack & Other Directories)  - POS (Point of Sale System) software integration  - Photography enhancements, photo manipulation, rendering and editing.  - Product SKU, PUC, EPC and code generated items for Woocommerce, Amazon as well as Alibaba market places.  - Plan, research, design and develop email campaigns  - Amazon Seller Central implementation, maintenance and overall daily overview operations  - eBay store implementation, maintenance and overall daily overview operations  - Alibaba Market Place store implementation, maintenance and overall daily overview operations  - Market Places product design and research  - Amazon and Alibaba keyword research and SEO optimization and marketing campaigns  - PPC campaign management  - Google AdWords campaign planning, design and overview  - Social Media Networking marketing campaigns review, planning and design Graphic Designer Studio CTS - Long Beach, CA July 2008 to September 2012 - Responsible for Creation, Programming, and Managing Professional and Appealing Website(s).  - Increase Web Traffic With The Help of Knowledge of Internet Marketing and Commerce Selling.  - Maintain, Promote and Develop Website's Content With New Technologies and Strategies.  - Responsible for Website's Quality and Content Control.  - Support Staff W/IT-Help Desk Troubleshooting.  - Schedule\Configure Updates, and Upgrades for Company Server & Work Stations.  - Support SEO(Search Engine Optimization) Team As Needed.  - Support Writer With Content Creation & Typography.  - Create & Program Mobile & Tablet Compatible Websites.  - Design & Code responsive Websites, html ads, and cms projects.  - Code Assistance & Support  - Design Corporate Branding Packages  - Provide Monthly Website Maintenance  - Maintain, Promote and Develop Website's Content With New Technologies and Strategies. Web Developer Motion Virtual Technologies - Hollywood, CA July 2010 to June 2012 - Responsible for the design, layout and coding of a websites.  - Involved with the technical and graphical aspects of a website, beta testing, writing and marketing dept.  - Write the programming code, either from scratch or by adapting existing website software and graphics packages to meet business requirements.  - Test websites, banners and other media and identify any technical problems.  - Purchase planning, budget control and justification for domain, hosting and other related service providers.  - Occasional remote computer repair, software implementation and update migration.  - Customer service & appreciation representative  - Customer appreciation representative  - Technical support (hosting, website failures, virus and secure certificate issues)  - Responsible for corporate branding + and press release design  - Social network design + maintenance  - RSS & site map monthly reviews Web Master Swag Magazine CA - Oakland, CA January 2008 to June 2010 - Responsible for The Magazine's Creation, Programming, and Managing Professional and Appealing Website(s).  - Increase Web Traffic With The Help of Knowledge of Internet Marketing and Commerce Selling.  - Maintain, Promote and Develop Website's Content With New Technologies and Strategies.  - Responsible for Website's Quality and Content Control.  - Design Banner and Promotional Marketing Supplies.  - Design Websites Generated from Magazine Clients.  - Support Staff W/IT-Help Desk Troubleshooting.  - Schedule\Configure Updates, and Upgrades for Company Server & Work Stations.  - Support SEO(Search Engine Optimization) Team As Needed.  - Support Writer With Content Creation & Typography.  - Create & Program Mobile & Tablet Compatible Websites. Education Diploma Carson High School - Carson, CA Computer Science / Graphic Design El Camino College - Torrance, CA Skills BRANDING (10+ years), UI (6 years), CMS (6 years), WORDPRESS (6 years), Front-End, Front End, HTML5, User Interface, Bootstrap, CSS3 Links http://luissebastian.net http://www.behance.net/studiocts Additional Information SKILLS  Adobe Acrobat Professional, Adobe Suite, Alibaba Market Place, Amazon Seller Central, Apple Mac, Application Design, Big Commerce, Booking System, Cartel CMS, CMS, Corporate Branding, Custom CMS, Custom Forms, Data Visualization, Digital Manipulation, Digital Printing, E-commerce, Ecommerce, Fashion Design, Google Analytics, Graphic Design, HTML / CSS, HTML5, Infographics, Learning Management System, Live Cycle, Magento, Microsoft Expression, Payment Gateway, PC Literate, Photography, POS System, Restaurant  Applications, Shopify, Shopify, Site Mapping, Squarespace, Ticket Sales, UI Design, User Interface, Video Editing, Visual Design, Web Design, Web Design, Web Development, Web Development, Wireframe Design, Wireframe Flow, Woocommerce, WordPress.