UI/UX Designer UI/UX Designer UI/UX Designer - Modis Eldersburg, MD Work Experience UI/UX Designer Modis December 2017 to Present Responsibilities for the UI/UX Designer position include work closely with product owners, United States Secret Service leads, and Other Federal Agency users to design a new site and site components for their PIX website and database entry website. This position requires working with the project owners, leads and end users by questioning and understanding ideas, developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly web and mobile site. In this position I worked with the USSS team along with members of other government agencies to gather site requirements, design new elements as well as developing custom mobile friendly code for the design of the PIX Site. Also in this position, I created guidelines for the back end developers as well as coded front end elements. The wireframes I created were done in Balsamiq as well as Azure code was written in CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap, J Query, JavaScript Code, and HTML 508 written in Visual Studio. Work was done in an agile environment with scrum meetings daily and design meetings with the USSS client weekly. UI/UX Designer and Developer Modis June 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities for the UI/UX Designer and UI Developer position include work closely with Product owners and customers to design new site components and updates to the new portal pages. This position requires working with the project owners, questioning and understanding ideas, developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly web and mobile site. In this position I worked with the CSRA team along with members of CMS to gather site requirements, design new elements as well as developing custom mobile friendly code for the redesign of the CMS Portal. Also in this position, I worked with CMS members to test the 508 compliance of the redesigned website. The sites were developed using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Bootstrap, JQUERY, Balsamiq, Adobe CC, Git, and Sublime Text 2 then turned the front end code over to developers for back end development. Work was done in an agile environment with scrum meetings daily and design meetings with the CMS client weekly. Front End Web Developer TerpSys November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities for the Front End Web Developer position include work closely with Product owners and Customers to design new site components and updates to current pages. This position requires working with the project owners, questioning and understanding ideas, developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly sites, and testing solutions to make sure the user experience designed is correct. In this position I successfully wireframed, prototyped, and updated Front End code to Internal Sites for the DOJ. The sites were wireframed using Balsamiq prototyped using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, and AJAX, and then turned over to developers for back end development. Work was done in an agile environment with scrum meetings daily, sprint reviews bi-weekly and development /design meetings with the client after each sprint review. UX Developer Hoya Vision Care UI August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities for the UI/UX Developer position include work closely with marketing department to update websites and create new ones. Also, create wireframes, mock-ups, prototypes and rebuild old websites from outside vendors so they are built in MVC4 and C#. This position requires working with the project managers questioning and understanding ideas developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly site. In this position I successfully wireframed, mocked up, prototyped, built, and updated company websites. The sites were wireframed using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Mocked up and prototyped using Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, and .Net. For the responsive design element I used bootstrap to help with the css3 and html5. Programs used for design, and builds were Photoshop, Flash, Visual Studio, and Dreamweaver. Web Designer Allied Electronics January 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities for the Web Designer position include design of corporate website, emails, web banners, and some print advertising from conceptualization to implementation. Work closely with project managers and programmers to update site. This position requires working with the project managers questioning and understanding ideas developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly site. In this position I successfully wireframed, prototyped and mocked up designs, built, and updated site, emails, web banners and print advertising a well as maintaining the internal internet portal for Allied Electronics. The websites were wireframed using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, Mocked up and prototyped using Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and good old CSS and html coding. I built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, and .Net. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS6 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash), emails were wireframed, prototyped and mocked up using the Adobe CS6 suite and coded for responsive design using css and html coding. Print advertisements were created in Adobe CS6 (Photoshop, Illustrator, In Design) and Quark Express 10. Sr. Web Designer MarketSmart - Beltsville, MD August 2010 to October 2010 Responsibilities for this position include design of client websites from initial concept to full design and build out. Work closely with clients to update and maintain their websites. Working with the client to understand their requirements and needs ultimately resulted in the production of the ultimate user-friendly site. This position also included developing print advertising pieces for the clients. In this position I successfully wireframed designs mocked up, prototyped, built, and updated sites, blogs and emails for JDB Hotels, Market Smart, American Diabetes Association and Long Fence. I also created print collateral for Central Union Mission and JDB Hotels. All sites wireframed to show the client the basic structure of the design, mocked up and prototyped to show styles and functionality and were built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, and PHP. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS5 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash), Blogs were created using Adobe CS5 suite, Word Press and Drupal, and emails were created using the Adobe CS5 suite, Constant Contact, and Chimp Mail. Sr. Web Designer Visual Data Systems September 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities for the Sr. Web Designer position include design of client websites from start to finish. Implementation. Work closely with project managers and programmers to update and maintain client sites. This position requires working with the client questioning and understanding ideas developing requirements about their needs and wants in order to produce the ultimate user-friendly site. This position also included developing print advertising pieces for the clients. In this position I successfully designed, built, and updated travel, property rental, mobile, blogs, and Realtor websites. A few highlights include sites for Silicon Travel, Ocean Drive Beach Rentals, and Yankee Pedlar Realtors. All sites were built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT AJAX, PERL and PHP. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS3 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash). All blogs were created using Blogger and the Adobe CS3 suite. All emails were created using the Adobe CS3 suite and an internal email client. Web Designer/ Developer Global Net Solutions - Rockville, MD July 2008 to September 2008 This was a temporary contact position Responsibilities for the Web Designer/ Developer included wireframing of new pages and sites, Mock-ups, and prototyping the approved designs. Secondarily, all work done on the sites was screened for 508 compliance and ease of usability. Worked closely with the project manager and programmers to update the FDA Internet and Intranet Sites. Daily contact via email, phone calls and meetings with the client to maintain and complete the design process on or before the deadline. All sites were built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, Cold Fusion and JSP. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS3 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash). Coding for 508 compliance was checked through the W3C website as well as Bobby.com. Sr. Web Designer Edison Worldwide - Baltimore, MD August 2006 to June 2008 Responsibilities for the Sr. Web Designer included Web and Print Concept, Web and Print Design, web integration and print layout. Along with the print and web duties I was responsible for several photo shoots that were required. I worked closely with the Marketing Manager and Creative Director to update their websites on a quarterly basis. Daily contact via email, phone calls and meetings insured the projects were completed by the deadline. A few highlights for this position-included knowledge of how to structure a B-to-B site. I used this knowledge to design/implement Approval Center, Payment Guard, and identified. Also, a few of the print advertisements for Blue Hippo helped increase sales for the months that they were run. All sites were first wireframed with Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator, mocked up and prototyped with Photoshop, Fireworks, Dreamweaver CSS and Html, built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ASP classic and ASP.net. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS2 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash). Web Designer Erickson Communities - Baltimore, MD October 2004 to August 2006 The Web Designer responsibilities for this position were web concept, design, and build. Worked with all of Community Directors to update their websites on a quarterly basis. Worked with other leaders of Erickson Management to help wireframes, mock-up, prototype new web sites and pages and update departmental Photo Shoots of our residents within the Erickson Communities and the surrounding communities. Highlights for this position included site designs for the many aspects of the retirement communities. Designs were made and implemented into websites for their construction, HMO, and newspaper departments. Photo shoots, included Community and Corporate events in which this included photographs for both of the websites and for the company's biweekly newsletter. All sites were wireframed, mocked up, prototyped, built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP classic and ASP.net. Wireframing, mock-ups and prototyping elements were implemented using Adobe CS2 (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and Flash). Graphic Designer/ Web Designer Swales Aerospace - Beltsville, MD December 2000 to October 2004 Responsibilities for the Graphic Designer/ Web designer position included web concept, design, layout, and 508 compliance. Designing of Space Shuttle blanket patches, Mission decals, and presentations. Worked with Goddard Space Flight Center customers directly and kept in daily contact via email, phone calls and meetings to complete the project before the deadline. This Position had many highlights. I designed a logo for one of Goddard's Ground Systems (A2). Successfully designed a few governmental/ scientific sites while making sure they complied by the strict standards of 508 compliance. All sites were wireframed, mocked-upped, prototyped, built and maintained using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ASP classic and Perl. Design and code elements were implemented using Adobe CS (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Flash) as well as Quark. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Visual Communication in Visual Communication Towson University - Towson, MD January 2003