Principal UI/ UX Designer Principal UI/ UX Designer Principal UI/ UX Designer - Florida Blue Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Principal UI/ UX Designer Florida Blue August 2017 to Present Model: Agile Platform: React JS  Summary: Provider Connect is a health care internal application accessed by internal doctors and employees to manage and maintain provider information from GuideWell company.  Process: Lean UX, Agile Model, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, UX Design, GUI Design  Responsibility:  • Interact with Product Owner and BU Team  • Requirement Analysis  • Heuristic Evaluation,  • Lean UX Approach, Concepting, Ideating and Defining from UX Stand Point  • Wireframes, Interactive Prototypes  • Graphic User Interface Design.  • Design Specification in Redline and Blueline Format  • Design Assets, User Guide and Style Guide  • Design Development Collaboration with Dev Team  Technology/ Tools: Atom, Photoshop, HTML5, CSS3 with W3C/ WCAG compliance  eDar Principal UXD Consultant Florida Blue - GuideWell Company - Jacksonville, FL Present http://www.floridablue.com Jacksonville, FL, USA Style Guide Interactive Prototypes August 2017 to August 2017 Aug, 2017 Responsibilities: Requirement Analysis, PO & Business Interaction, Heuristic Evaluation, UX Solutioning, Concepting/ Ideation, Wireframe, UX Design, Interactive Prototypes, UI Design, Spec Doc Generation, User Guide, Style Guide, Collaborate with Dev & QA Team. Lead UI/ UX Designer Start the Cure - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to August 2017 USA UX/ UI Design Architect Start the Cure March 2017 to August 2017 Model: Agile Platform: .NET MVC  Summary: eDar is a patient data application which is accessible by internal doctors from START the cure.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Axure and Photoshop tools.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Devexpress UI Framework, Bootstrap and JQuery  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all desktop resoluitons.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Axure, Photoshop, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Devexpress UI Framework and Bootstrap with W3C/ WCAG compliance    Clinical Synchrony  Client: START the Cure Duration: March, 2017- Aug, 2017  Role: UX/ UI Design Architect Model: Agile Platform: .NET MVC  Summary: It is a another version of eDar application which is used by internal doctors from START the cure.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Devexpress UI Framework, Bootstrap and JQuery with W3C/ WCAG  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all desktop resoluitons.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Axure, Photoshop, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Devexpress UI Framework and Bootstrap with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft Avesta - http://bazef.com/images/WebApp/Avesta/src/core.html Style Guide Interactive Prototypes March 2017 to March 2017 UI Design, Redline/ Blueline Design Spec, User Guide, Style Guide, Visual Design, Graphic Design, Front- end UI Development, Cross Browser and Cross Devices Compatibility Testing. UI/ UX Principal Consultant Harman Connected Services - Redmond, WA March 2017 to March 2017 http://www.harman.com Redmond, WA, USA. Lead Front- End UI Developer Harman Connected Services December 2016 to February 2017 Platform: HTML5 and CSS3  Summary: Avesta is the new product by Microsoft which I demonstrated as click through prototype.  Process: Product/ Requirment Analysis, Braistorming, Front- End UI Development with Responsive UI Development (RWD) and UI/ UX Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get design mockups and requirement inputs  • Understand the click through prototype workflow  • Developed the design into interactive prototype using HTML, CSS3, LESS, and JQuery/ Javascript.  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care on desktop, table and mobile devices.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and multiple devices in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Zeplin, Illustrator, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery with W3C/ WCAG  Microsoft Human Insight Team Study (HITS ) Lead UX/ UI Designer Harman Connected Services May 2015 to November 2016 Model: Agile Platform: .NET MVC  Summary: HITS is knowledge repository search engine for user research content which is accessible by Microsoft Internal FTE and External Vendors.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product  • requirement using Axure and Illustrator tools.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Illustrator.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Webcore and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all desktop resoluitons.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Axure, Illustrator, jQuery, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, LESS/ SASS, Bootstrap and Webcore with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Detection Dictionary Lead UX/ UI Designer & Developer Harman Connected Services April 2012 to October 2016 Model: Agile Platform: .NET  Summary: Maintains records of all authorized services in TV frequency bands for a specific geographic location.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Balsamiq and Photoshop tools.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Webcore and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care on Desktop, Table and Mobile Devices.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and multiple devices in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Balsamiq, Photoshop, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery with W3C/ WCAG compliance UX/ UI Design Architect Harman Connected Services January 2016 to June 2016 Model: Agile Platform: Azure .NET MVC  Summary: The app centrally manage the detection development lifecycle to measure the security  monitoring across multiple team in Microsoft. It is Single Page Application (SPA) design model.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Axure and Photoshop tools as per Single Page Application (SPA) Design model.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all Desktop resoluitons.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Axure, Photoshop, Javascript/ jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, LESS/ SASS, Bootstrap and Webcore with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft Skype Experience UX/ UI Design Architect Harman Connected Services June 2015 to December 2015 Model: Waterfall Platform: .NET  Summary: Surface Commercial Order is a ecommerce portal for Microsoft's surface devices  Process: Heuriostic Evaluation, User/ Usability Testing, Product Refinement Analysis, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD) and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Heauristic Evaluation with existing application  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Axure and Photoshop tools as per Single Page Application design model.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all Desktop resoluitons.  • UI/ UX Testing and Refinement process has taken care with all browser compatibility and in different resolutions.  Responsibility: UX Process, Prototype, GUI Design and UI Development.  Technology/ Tools: Sketch, Photoshop, HTML5, LESS, Javascript/ JQuery and CSS3 with W3C/ WCAG compliance    RADAR Lead UX/ UI Designer & Front- End UI Developer Harman Connected Services January 2013 to December 2015 Model: Agile Platform: .NET  Summary: The app offers ability to identify and access available unoccupied TV channels by location.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Balsamiq and Photoshop tools.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Webcore and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care on Desktop, Table and Mobile Devices.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and multiple devices in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Balsamiq, Photoshop, HTML5 and CSS3 with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft Spectrum Observatory - http://whitespaces-jm.cloudapp.net/ Lead UI/ UX Designer Harman Connected Services February 2015 to July 2015 Model: Agile  Summary: Skype Experience Engine is portal to maintain all the skype feedbacks and the work flow of feedbacks.  Process: Heuristic Evaluation, User Testing, Product Analysis, User Analysis, Requirment Analysis, Product Refinement, Improved UX Prototyping, GUI Design Refinment, Front- End UI Development with Responsive Web Development and UI/ UX Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Balsamiq and Photoshop.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  Technology/ Tools: Balsamiq, Photoshop, HTML5, LESS, CSS3 and JQuery/ Javascript with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft SCO - https://www.microsoft.com/surface/en-ae/support/business UX/ UI Design Architect Aditi Technologies June 2014 to March 2015 Model: Waterfall Platform: .NET  Summary: RADAR is a resource management internal portal accessed by HR & Managers.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Axure and Photoshop tools as per Single Page Application design model.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care targetted on all Desktop, Table and Mobile Devices.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and in different resolutions. Responsibility: UX Process, GUI Design, UI Development with Adaptive UI Implementation.  Technology/ Tools: Balsamiq, Illustrator, HTML5, LESS, CSS3 and JQuery with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft Whitespaces - http://whitespaces.microsoftspectrum.com UX/ UI Designer & Front- End UI Developer Harman Connected Services December 2013 to January 2015 Duration: 1 Year 1 Month (Dec, 2013 - Jan, 2015)  Role: UX/ UI Designer & Front- End UI Developer Model: Agile Platform: .NET  Summary: Asset inventory management application. Its accessed by Microsoft internal, external and vendor.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Create User Flow/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframes, Prototypes and Personas according to the product requirement using Powerpoint and Photoshop tools.  • Design Graphic User Interface using Photoshop.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Webcore and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care on Desktop, Table and Mobile Devices.  • UI/ UX Testing has taken care on all browser and multiple devices in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Powerpoint, Photoshop, HTML5, LESS and CSS3 with W3C/ WCAG compliance  Microsoft Learning Paths - https://mspartnerlp.mspartner.microsoft.com/LearningPath Lead UI/ UX Designer & Front- End UI Developer Harman Connected Services March 2012 to September 2014 Duration: 2 Years 6 Months (Mar, 2012 - Sep, 2014)  Role: Lead UI/ UX Designer & Front- End UI Developer Model: Agile Platform: .NET  Summary: Microsoft has a partner portal, for its partners to learn about the different Microsoft solutions and products - with content segregated on the lines of product, competency and other such aspects. The portal allows employees of the partner firms to select learning paths for themselves and take assessments and certifications on the different learning segments. It has two app versions that Web App and Microsoft Surface App. In Web App, I played as Front- End UI Developer and in Surface App, I played as Lead UI/ UX Designer.  Process: Product /Requirment /User Analysis, Information Architecture Design, Navigation Design, Information Design, User/ Process Flow Diagrams, Wireframe Sketches, Prototyping, Workflow Presentation, GUI Design, UI Development with Responsive Web Development (RWD), Usability Testing and Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing, Responsibility:  • Interact with customer and team to get input on requirment  • Brainstorm with team to clarify and clear about the requirement to concepting, defining the workflow.  • Colloborate with team in Agile Model procedure.  • Develop the design into functional pages using HTML, CSS3, LESS, Webcore and JQuery/ Javascript  • Responsive Web Development (RWD) has taken care on Desktop, Table and Mobile Devices.  • UI Testing has taken care on all browsers and multiple devices in different resolutions.  Technology/ Tools: Photoshop, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery with W3C/ WCAG compliance Lead Design Teams, Mentorship, Requirement Analysis, User Experience Design SPA App Design March 2011 to March 2011 Interaction Design, UI Design, Mobile Design, Product Design, Information Architecture, Agile ahead Process, SPA App Design, Wireframing, Interactive Prototypes, User Guide, Style Guide, Visual Design, Graphic Design, Email Templating, Banner Design, Front- end UI Development, Cross Browser & Cross Devices Compatibility Testing. Senior Interaction Designer SourceN Inc March 2011 to March 2011 http://sourcen.com India Interactive Prototypes August 2007 to August 2007 Responsibilities: Interaction Design, UI Design, Mobile Design, Interactive Prototypes, Visual Design, Graphic Design, Email Templating, Banner Design, Front- end UI Development, Flex UI Development, Cross Browser Compatibility Test and Cross Devices Compatibility Test. Senior Web Developer Graf Publishing Pvt Ltd August 2006 to July 2007 http://graf.co.in/html/home.html India  Responsibilities: UI Design, Visual Design, Graphic Design, Email Templating, Banner Design, Front- end UI Development, Cross Browser Compatibility Test and Cross Devices Compatibility Test. Flash Designer Dot Com Infoway May 2005 to July 2006 http://www.dotcominfoway.com India Patent Designer Ananth Technologies July 2004 to February 2005 India  Responsibilities: Corel draw vector machine outline that converted into 3D Models    Career Projects (Few)  Provider Connect Education Bachelor of Computer Application in (BCA). India NIIT Skills GUI, UI, UX, VISUAL STUDIO, FRONT-END Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/venkateshalagarsamy http://www.bazef.com