Web Designer / Developer Web Designer / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer / Developer - Advanced Flow Engineering // aFe Power Riverside, CA Work Experience Web Designer / Developer Advanced Flow Engineering // aFe Power July 2017 to Present Main duties include designing and building product based marketing landing pages, and email campaigns. Including optimizing website for SEO. Web sales grew over 200% after taking ownership of the role. Senior Front End Developer TravisMathew Apparel September 2015 to July 2017 Working with Magento & Wordpress on a daily basis. Website is ran through a GIT environment. My primary duties include Javascript (traditional & jQuery) and SCSS(SASS) development. Custom wordpress template development. Basic PHP development. SEO implementation. Google & Bing PPC campaign creation and management. Contract Front End Developer Guitar Center Corporate May 2012 to October 2015 Microsite development, PSD's are provided to me with instruction on developmental features and I build the sites according to direction. This may include desktop only, mobile only, or full responsive microsites. HTML, CSS, and Javascript are used to bring the microsites to life. Some sites require implementing my code to a ColdFusion server. Web Designer/ Developer Affliction Clothing - Seal Beach, CA May 2011 to September 2015 Front End Development + Interface Design  Working under an umbrella company I have multiple roles and my job can change on any given day. My duties include modifying & enhancing e-commerce sites, designing and building marketing pages, and building and developing email marketing campaigns for multiple brands. I manage all font end development across 4 brands. Tools used for this are Adobe Creative Suite, HTML, CSS, and Javascript. I am also experienced developing within Magento, Wordpress, and Shopify CMS platforms. Front End Developer + Interface Design Image Display Group January 2008 to May 2011 Custom Wordpress design and development. Set up and transfer Wordpress installations, and create custom themes, as well as re-brand open source themes, to create a one of a kind user experience. Open Source plugin modifications were also a daily duty of mine. I would find free plugins on the wordpress market and make them work for our needs by customizing their functionality or simply re-skinning them. Basic PHP, Html, CSS, and Javascript were used on any give day to complete these tasks. Gorilla Nation Media / Atomic Online April 2006 to January 2008 Marketing Design + Rich Application Development  Designing and developing marketing campaigns for very high scale companies. My primary duties included designing and building rich banner advertisements using Adobe Photoshop & Adobe Flash. Also would develop landing pages using HTML/CSS & Adobe Flash. Education Multimedia, Art Institute of Philadelphia 2001 to 2003 Skills Front-End, Javascript, Front End, UI