Internet Marketing Specialist Internet Marketing Specialist Web Developer, Video Production, Social Media Marketing Specialist San Diego, CA A position in a results-oriented company that seeks an ambitious and career conscious person, where acquired skills and education will be utilized toward continued growth and advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Internet Marketing Specialist Barona Resort & Casino - Lakeside, CA December 2012 to Present • Manage all web related projects.  • Analyze web analytics and Adwords data to implement solutions to increase Club Card sign-ups.  • Increase company's social media followers by 50%.  • Produce engaging social media content to increase reach and player interactions.  • Deploy SMS and email blasts.  • Manage day-to-day social engagement and activity.  • Produced video content for social media and internal communications.  • Act as a point contact between casino players and departments to resolve any issues. Freelance Contractor, G Media February 2009 to Present • Produced videos for clients.  • Created Flash banner advertisements.  • Developed websites using WordPress CMS.  • Incorporated SEO best practices to increase website traffic.  • Analyzed client’s Google Analytics data to assist with marketing. Front end Web Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA May 2012 to September 2012 • Collaborate closely with marketing managers, designers and QA to execute run-the-business  content and functionality tasks.  • Enhancing customer user experience for e-commerce products.  • Assisted in the development of Intuit Accountants website. Web Designer AJ USA - San Diego, CA May 2010 to October 2010 • Produced monthly sales promotion graphic web banners  • Designed magazine ads for MotorTrend and Truckin magazine.  • Designed and code email templates. Content Manager Competitor Group Inc. - San Diego, CA July 2009 to September 2009 • Maintained content for Rock ‘n’ Roll Marathon series WordPress websites.  • Implemented HTML newsletter email campaigns using Lyris ListManager.  • Created banner advertisement and micro-site. Marketing Web Designer Anonymizer - San Diego, CA May 2007 to January 2009 • Maintained company websites.  • Developed websites for government client.  • Implemented HTML email-campaigns. Web Designer Sitelab International - San Diego, CA June 2004 to March 2007 • Developed HTML & CSS websites for Hot Spring Spas, Nth Generation, DriveCam, NavAIr.  • Implemented Search Engine Optimization (SEO) tool kit.  • Setup email campaign templates using Blue Hornet email service. Education None in Courses: Javascript, Adobe Flash University of California San Diego - San Diego, CA May 2009 to July 2009 Bachelor's in Communication Specialization in New Media Studies San Diego State University - San Diego, CA September 1997 to December 2003 Skills Social Media, Email Marketing, HTML, Email, SEM, Digital Marketing Additional Information Core Comptencies   ? Front- End web development (HTML/CSS/Javscript)   ? Wordpress CMS  ? Email development  ? Social Media   ? Google Adwords  ? Video Production (Final Cut/Premiere)   ? Google Analytics  ? Results-oriented with the ability to adapt quickly.