Software Architect and Senior Manager Software Development Software Architect and Senior Manager Software Development Lead Software Developer - Ubicquia Orlando, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Architect and Senior Manager Software Development Advantage Rent A Car April 2016 to Present * Web Applications - Converted standard WordPress architecture to be a Angular/jQuery/AJAX driven web application that utilized RESTful API's.  * OOA & OOD - Replaced single tier CMS application to a 3 tiered web application that included an Laravel api layer and a front end AJAX enabled website.  * Front End Development - Used node.js to preprocess SASS files using gulp and to configure webserver and development environments with npm package manager.  * Application Design - Participated in design meetings with internal staff and 3rd party vendors to make 2 web applications mobile responsive and 1 mobile app on 2 platforms.  * Project Planning & Application Architecture - Architected a multitenant website infrastructure with a single mashed up API, which integrated 2 brands into 1 web application.  * Innovation & Infrastructure - Installed and configured n-tier server architecture to support multiple websites and mobile apps while integrating four 3rd party API partners.  * Process Improvement - Implemented issue management system (Jira) for Agile software development practice (Scrum).  * Mentorship & Leadership - Influenced IT managers; mentored developers and designers. Cloud Hosting Services - Owner Cloud Hosting, Medical SaaS, and Consulting June 2007 to Present June 2007 - Present  Kanopy Apps Technologies, Inc. (Cloud Hosting Services - Owner)  StatPath Solutions (Medical SaaS Startup - Owner)  Latsa Consulting, LLC (Owner)  * Website Development - Developed multiple websites for various clients including education, medical and business applications.  * Infrastructure Support - Performed Linux and Windows server administration on physical and virtualized servers including AWS.  * Innovation & Partnering - Presented a business plan to gain entrance into the invitation-only University of Central Florida Business Incubator Program. Front End Developer - Contractor Walt Disney World August 2015 to April 2016 Senior Developer and Project Lead January 1996 to April 2016 Social Networking - Senior Developer GotChosen April 2014 to August 2015 Senior Developer and Project Lead Focos Innovations December 2009 to April 2014 Mission/Humanitarian Aid Non-Profit - Senior Developer kanopysis.com January 1996 to December 2009 * Process Improvement - Created a code review process using github, team based development estimates and Agile SLDC using Jira to increase Medical SaaS delivery.  * Application Architecture - Met state Medicaid contract SLA's of 99.99% up time, created a Disaster Recovery Plan and designed a highly available / highly performing; as well as, fault-tolerant SaaS web application.  * Application Hosting and Development - Installed and configured legacy Perl and PHP application for education administration SaaS (kanopysis.com) on AWS.  * JavaScript and AJAX - Developed single page app website using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX for Medicaid SaaS.  * Application Design and OOD - Architected foundational technology stack (Symfony, AngularJS, MySQL, DynomoDB and REST) for social networking company.  * Website Development - Developed custom enterprise-wide financial help system and training website for Walt Disney World.  * JavaScript Framework - Developed front- end social networking application using Angular, node.js, grunt, glup and npm.  * Front- End Development - Developed website to be responsive and mobile friendly by using HTML5 and CSS3.  * Hybrid Environments - Researched and implemented the containization of development environments using Docker along with virtualized development environments using Vagrant and VirtualBox.  * Website Development - Developed jQuery file upload manager to store, search and retrieve multi-lingual training materials.  * Testing and JavaScript Framework - Implemented Protractor, Jasmine and WebDriver for QA automation.  * Agile Software Development LifeCycle - Implemented Scrum and XP pair programming practice to increase application delivery speed.  * Mobile Website and Mobile App Testing - Implemented web and mobile exploratory testing practices.  * Project Lead - Led project by gathering business requirements, facilitating meetings, and managing stakeholders plus regularly communicated direction and status to project managers, managers, directors and VP's at Disney World. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Certification in Project Management Professional University of Central Florida Business Incubator Program