Principal Digital Architect Principal Digital Architect Senior Software Developer / Architect / Software Development Manager Lake Oswego, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Digital Architect Inner Optics LLC - Lake Oswego, OR May 2018 to Present Managed the web & mobile software architecture surrounding Revelar's IoT medical device, which measures aldehydes in the breath as an indicator of cell oxidization and disease. The company’s digital strategy leans heavily upon cloud-based infrastructure, and provides practitioners with a tool to schedule office visits, manage patients, and to analyze and filter demographic data relative to the baseline population.   ·      ASP.NET Core / C# web API back- end development   ·      Angular 5-7 / Bootstrap front- end development on patient and practitioner portal websites   ·      Xamarin iOS and Android mobile application architecture & development. Was the sole developer on the clinic tablet app, and led a team of 12 in developing the patient app.   ·      Azure Cloud Server Administration (App Services, SQL Server, Cosmos DB, Storage, Functions, Logic Apps, IoT Hub, DNS, Active Directory)   ·      Managing continuous integration pipelines with Azure DevOps (formerly Visual Studio Team Services)  Director of Ecommerce Guitar Center / Musician's Friend - Westlake Village, CA March 2016 to August 2017 Managed software development, designed system architecture, and acted as web application product manager / technical manager / scrum master on numerous critical projects for GCI brands (GuitarCenter.com, Musiciansfriend.com, Music123.com, and WWBW.com). Directly managed the 3 User Experience and 9 Platform operations team members. Planned, coordinated, and supervised all activities related to the design, development and rollout of new site features, enhancements and functionality. Collaborated with the marketing team, merchandising, analytics and SEO teams to gather requirements, to build out a product roadmap, and to resolve website issues.   ·      Led development on the C# / .Net based Xamarin iOS / Android mobile and tablet app, which resulted in a 44% higher conversion rate over the mobile website, and a 20% jump in revenue per order.   ·      Achieved 4.8 star rating on app store and was featured on Microsoft Xamarin blog.  ·      Delivered a massive digital rebranding of Guitar Center and Musician’s Friend, overseeing the UX team’s creation of wireframes and visuals, then subsequent approvals, development and QA.   ·      Oversaw creation of special promotional pages for sales events and grand openings by managing 9 Platform Operations team members.  ·      Guided hundreds of feature requests through the design and development funnel.   ·      Managed the UX design and integration of the Java Hippo CMS for a news / blog section of the websites.  ·      Introduced automated cloud-based mobile testing in an effort to move the IT department towards continuous integration / TTD.  Web Development Manager Guitar Center / Musician's Friend - Westlake Village, CA March 2012 to March 2016 Hired and trained a new team of 6 in-house front- end developers and managed 4-8 additional offshore back- end developers after the headquarters relocated to California. Represented the IT team in cross-department meetings, identifying technical solutions, trade-offs, dependencies, and potential risks. Established processes for ticket triage, new feature prioritization and approval, code reviews, QA, User Acceptance Testing, and release management.   ·      Completed a JQuery Mobile version of MusiciansFriend.com, resulting in 50% faster page-loads and a 40% lift in revenue.   ·      Managed the migration of the GuitarCenter.com desktop and mobile websites to a Java / Oracle / ATG / Endeca platform and a new OMS system, which increased conversion 34% year-over-year.   ·      Led an effort to improve website performance optimization, including better compression and caching, bundling of image / Javascript / CSS static assets.   ·      Introduced an Agile / Scrum methodology to the web development team, leading the sprint sizing meetings, end of sprint reviews and daily stand-ups.  Front- End Developer Musician's Friend - Westlake Village, CA August 2010 to December 2011 Constructed numerous complex interfaces using Javascript, JQuery, JQuery UI, HTML, CSS, JSON, AJAX, XML, Java, JSTL, and ATG. Acted as lead front- end developer on many large projects, including product page, shopping cart and checkout process redesigns.   ·      Helped upgrade MusiciansFriend.com (then the 44th largest e-retailer) and Music123.com to their next generation Oracle ATG / Java platform.  ·      Implemented a currency conversion and international shipping system, which significantly increased international sales.   ·      Implemented Adobe Analytics, Adobe Tag manager, Test & Target, and various marketing tracking pixels on the websites (Criteo, Channel Advisor, Mercent, Doubleclick, etc).  ·      Worked closely with the SEO team on various techniques to improve search engine rankings, including schema markup, semantic HTML, link masking, and load process optimization.  Senior Full Stack Developer Tickets Oregon - Portland, OR January 2009 to August 2010 Revamped the entire Tickets Oregon website (now Ticket Tomato), acting as both a system administrator and senior full-stack developer. Converted the PHP / MySQL website to a new OOP / MVC architecture with a CRUD persistence layer.   ·      Developed a seating selector interface for customer, which could be customized for each venue.    ·      Created an in-house ticket sales tool for venues, and PDA-based ticket barcode scanners.   ·      Collaborated with the local marketing firm Quango to rebrand the website.   ·      Helped transition TicketsOregon.com from a struggling startup to a profitable company.  Core Team Developer Concrete5 CMS - Portland, OR August 2007 to May 2010 Worked with a small core team of developers for Concrete CMS (ranked by Entrepreneur Magazine as Portland’s top design firm) in developing the PHP / MySQL / Jquery based Concrete5 content management system, the first content management system to allow for edit-in-place updates through the front- end of websites. Helped to design and develop about a dozen other web 2.0, e-commerce, and social networking websites. Today Concrete5 is used by hundreds of thousands of websites and tens of thousands of developers around the world.  ·      Built the Concrete5.org marketplace’s plug-in submission form, and sales analytics dashboard for concrete5 developers.   ·      Developed the CMS editor’s Layout tool for segmenting webpages into editable sections, and the design tool for styling editable regions with CSS.  ·      Helped promote the software with our own booth at OSCON 2008 when we released the CMS as open-source, and then later at SXSW 2009.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ August 2001 to June 2005 Skills C#, ASP.NET Core, Xamarin, Azure, React, Javascript, AWS, Cosmos DB, MongoDB, SQL Server, Oracle, Java, Spring, Xamarin, Git, Dev Ops, Angular, UWP, IoT Certifications/Licenses Driver's License