Asst. Director of Web and Software Development Asst. Director of Web and Software Development Full Stack Developer, Webmaster and Data Scientist South Florida, FL I write code. My best and hardest project is always the last. I can manage myself or I can manage teams. Work Experience Asst. Director of Web and Software Development Quad Realty Investments, Inc. - Boca Raton, FL March 2018 to Present Full Stack Developer / SEO Analyst / Digital Marketing Consulting EX Media Inc - Miami, FL May 2017 to Present A firm I formed with my spouse to act as a platform for accepting payments and management projects for my freelance development work and my spouse's copywriting and SEO works. Through this platform I've developed custom CMS/productivity dashboards, React App, React Native Mobile applications, Wordpress sites and other custom solutions. Volunteer Work Refresh Bahamas Incorporated - Miami, FL September 2015 to Present Senior Web/Mobile Operation Developer and Speaker Front- end Developer / Project Manager iAnalyst Inc - Miami, FL October 2013 to August 2017 I was the lead front- end developer for this premier development agency. With projects for clients including: Royal Caribbean, University of Miami, Pollo Tropical and major real estate development firms like Miami World Center.    My focus area was building solutions that utilized the Wordpress, Drupal and Magneto CMS platforms, however I worked on many custom solutions as well. This was a fast-passed environment as I had at least 6 on-going projects that I was tracking, managing/supporting and personally working, on a weekly basis. Interim Director of Management Information Systems Global United Limited - Nassau, Bahamas February 2009 to June 2011 During this time I took over management for the Management Informations systems department. Global United was the partner for MSC Bahamas container shipping operations, as well as the primary ship agency for all cruise lines operating in The Bahamas and a few other ports throughout the Caribbean as well as the largest customs broker and UPS and IBS operator.    My work was to manage and maintain in-house server/networking solutions for email, inmotion services, virtual machine environments and SQL debugging for the accounting software suite as well as integrations for a software suite for the broker agents that connected direct to the customs tariff database. MIS Technician Mediterranean Shipping Company June 2003 to July 2005 I worked as part of the MSC Management Information Systems team in Montreal, Canada / Freeport, Bahamas / Nassau, Bahamas. Starting with in MIS internship in MSC USA HQ in New York City. My family's company had partnered with MSC in the Bahamas as the Bahamian Container Port is crucial to marine logistics for the Eastern United States as well as other countries. Through this partnership I was able to foster a relationship with the at the time President of MSC USA which lead to me securing my initial internship Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration University of Miami - Miami, FL August 2005 to May 2009 Skills Google Analytics, Marketing, SEO, Digital Marketing, Javascript, Wordpress, PHP, Front End, HTML5, Angular, Jquery, React, Laravel, Javascript, Magento, Database Management Links http://justinritchie.me