Product Owner Product Owner IT Product Owner/Agile Senior Business analyst Austin, TX, TX Results-driven professional with 9+ years of Agile experience in Financial and Telecom domains, collaborating with clients and internal teams to deliver solutions that meet financial objectives and exceed customer expectations.     Has the business experience, leadership, and technical savvy to solve complex problems, reconcile conflicts, manage multiple solutions, and distinguish customer requests from fundamental market need. Rapidly builds positive relationships with prospects, clients, and crossfunctional teams. Work Experience Product Owner Visa - Austing, TX March 2019 to Present • Participate in developing strategies to improve API development life cycle and   governance processes.   • Support Java development of virtualized APIs by creating sample API   request/response messages managers, developers, testers, and customers to   • Support an Agile Software Development process, working in conjunction with   end users / stakeholders and technical delivery team    • Demonstrates the ability to contribute to building a unique user experience   (UI/UX) for VISA customers    • Acting as stakeholder of specific product backlog items, work closely with   development teams to ensure the output to be aligned with expectations  IT product woner Citigroup - Dallas, TX March 2018 to March 2019 • Lead specific work efforts and projects to improve the Bank Marketplace/Automation Services through rationalization of product offerings, improved organization of requests, and technical modernization.  • Work with stakeholders in CATE and other cross-functional groups in bank Technology Infrastructure (CTI) to define functional requirements for tooling changes.  • Work on projects focused on request workflow improvements through automation and elimination of unnecessary approvals.  • Perform system and data analysis to support Request Management mission  • Work closely with management to carry out the organizational objectives to create an efficient the bank Market Place (CMP)  • Create monthly request performance dashboards against SLAs, working with Product Management leads.  • Work with the Citi Technology Infrastructure (CTI) Product Management team to enhancement to the bank Market Place (CMP) governance model including gate-keeping upcoming approval model reviews Digital Product Owner JPMorgan Chase - Cincinnati, OH August 2016 to March 2018 • Provide support of Wealth Managements BSA/AML Know Your Client and   Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) processes for the First Line Wealth Management   Risk team.   • Participate in mobile device technology development to ensure device   management standards are met.   • partnering with Product Manager to provide business evaluation, revenue   optimization, feature recommendations and on-going support for mobile apps.   • Work closely with engineering, design, operations, finance, and marketing   leaders to bring mobile app products to market.    • Actively identify, measure, control, and remediate AML Risk issues with   partners in WM AML Compliance and the Business Unit.    • Ensure customers are compliant with the laws and regulations to satisfy Circle's   obligations to the appropriate regulatory authorities.    • Gather and analyze business requirements for internal and external customers,   evaluate solutions options, and develop recommendations.    • Develop test procedure specifications and test cases to verify the functionality   of software enhancements, customizations, and defect fixes.    • Verifies all aspects of Client Identification Program (CIP) and Customer (KYC),   as well as (AML & OFAC).   Agile Business Analyst Verizon Wireless - Ashburn, VA October 2014 to August 2016 • Use CRM workflow technology to automate business processes.  • Follow the development with the development teams and external companies to answer functional questions and review functional impacts of technical decisions.  • Design end-to- end solution for the client and plan for integration.  • Can act as a Project Manager on certain work packages or rollouts for which a similar project has been done before.  • Work with developers in the resolution of production incidents as well as handling service requests Provide estimates to project managers as part of planning activities.  Conducted and Facilitated various JAD sessions to define the scope for the application.  • Analyzed User Requirements to update the scope of the product.  • Worked with Solution Architect to find out probable solutions.  • Conducted Functional Requirements and User Requirements Specification reviews.  • Performed Gap Analysis, categorized them as per criticality.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum methodology (user story, product backlog, risk prioritization, sprint  planning, poker sessions, product backlog grooming, daily stand ups, sprint retrospective, sprint  demo)  • Worked consistently with developers and designers to make sure the plan is carried out efficiently.  • Creating the Use-Cases for the new system for the Development Team to provide rough. Agile Business Analyst CIB BANK - Cairo, EG September 2010 to February 2014 • Worked for gathering, analyzing and verifying business requirements and analyzed business  & technical processes.  • Worked throughout the SDLC for detailed understanding of requirements, data interfaces,  Processes & deployment.  • Followed a hybrid of Waterfall, RUP and Agile approach of development throughout the  Project.  • Identified and documented Functional/Non-Functional and other related business decisions for implementing Actimize-SAM to comply with AML Regulations.  • Facilitated stakeholders strategic planning of budget forecasting and proposed  Enhancements to the project through analysis, decision process facilitation, report preparation  And tracked defects.  • Facilitated and conducted (JAD) Joint Application Development Sessions to determine  Business requirements by bringing the stakeholders and IT team on a common platform and  Created target questionnaires for both of them.  • Conducted technical/non-technical presentations to the management and training workshops for the clients.  • Brain stormed the business users and worked as a web site developer to develop, design and code the front- end GUI of the application.  • Made decisions based on the limitations and capabilities of the latest technology SR Front End Developer International IT Cairo, EG September 2003 to January 2007 • Writing advanced JavaScript, CSS and PHP, lending towards responsiveness and interactivity.  • Keeping up with the latest trends in front- end.  • Opportunities to expand through mentorship and collaboration with designers, analysts, engineers and writers.  • Code reviews and peer support.  • Uphold internal Coding Standards, and help to further those standards.  • Integrating with other teams throughout the company to help develop front end solutions.  • Write well designed, testable, efficient code by using best software development practices.  • Create website layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices.  • Integrate data from various back- end services and databases.  • Gather and refine specifications and requirements based on technical needs.  • Cooperate with web designers to match visual design intent. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Cairo Higher institute 2003 Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), PHP (3 years), DOCUMENTATION (1 year), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), Scrum Master, CSM, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum, Business Intelligence, SQL, Certified Scrum Master Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments CRM Skills with Salesforce — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate a knowledge of Salesforce objects, fields, and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/im5le1gpybzilqpi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Agile Methodology / Waterfall OS: MS Windows, MAC OS  • Strong analytics skills Languages: HTML, CSS, PHP, JAVA, SQL  • Explant problem solving skills Documentation: Jira, Confluence, Blue print, Excel, Visio,