Owner Owner McMinnville, OR Accomplished Design and Developer with over 10+ years of professional experience in the marketing and designing fields. Development experiences included Wordpress, WooCommerce, Magento, SASS and SQL databases. Designing experience include logos, corporate identity, web design, package design, book covers, vehicle graphics, advertisements, indoor, and outdoor signage.    Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development  and designing business identity make overs. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter  comfortable managing mulitple projects and managing personel.    • Wordpress   • eCommerce Platforms; WooCommerce, Magenta  • Marketing   • Employee Management  • Productivity Improvement   • Graphic Design and Layout  • Sass   • Corporate Identity  • Git   • Project Management Work Experience Owner Parlor Web April 2012 to Present Managing clients and employees to provide web design and development solutions. Catering to small businesses that enjoy working with a wide range of industries and personalities. Lead Front- end Developer Dealer Spike - Wilsonville, OR February 2010 to April 2012 Complete transformation from Adobe Photoshop to 100% error free hand coding and full  integration to .ASP framework for content management system. Create and execute projects and revises as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements. Junior Web Designer PAZ Design Group - Salem, OR June 2009 to December 2009 Assists in the design, complete coding, and testing of technical solutions. Exhibits proficiency in XHTML, CSS and scripting languages. Web Developer Omac Advertising Agency - Salem, OR October 2008 to June 2009 Create design prototypes, including graphic design, site navigation, layout of content and complete  coding in XHTML/CSS. Vinyl Sign Designer/Applicator Super Vinyl Sign Co - Salem, OR September 2007 to June 2008 Practical experience of sign fitting and vinyl graphic application. Night Supervisor in charge of flight gear US Navy January 2003 to February 2007 final inspections. Updating data base. Taking daily reports for oncoming shifts to increase work  production for a three shift 24/7 operation. Education Associate in Visual Communication Chemeketa Community College - Salem, OR January 2007 to January 2009 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: e4