application support specialist application support specialist Software developer and application specialist Sparks, NV Graduated in the Fall of 2016 from the University of Nevada, Reno with a bachelor's in computer science and Engineering. I bring leadership experience, professionalism and a can-do attitude. I keep my eyes on the bottom-line and work diligently to improve myself and everyone around me. I'm a great team player; can inspire when needed. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience application support specialist Panasonic Energy of North America - Sparks, NV June 2019 to Present proprietary application support and hardware repair for Tesla’s gigafactory.   Utilizing my knowledge of confluence, jira, vb.net and python to move the company forward in the right direction. Supporting the engineers, technical writers and software engineers in transfer of knowledge from Panasonic in Japan to the new American company. Associate Developer Capital Insurance Group December 2017 to February 2019 Worked in an agile environment to build programming changes to specification by business owners while working with a diverse team. I led deployments as well as assisted with the diagnostics of key issues. I worked remotely and on site with people from around the country to build, solve and document the necessary changes. Desktop Support Apex Systems and CompuCom systems Inc June 2015 to August 2015 Contract ended  I drove my personal car to remote sites (US Banks) and replaced and setup printers on their network. This included setup and technical on-site assistance for CompuCom. Computer Technician Reno, NV June 2014 to December 2014 Workforce reduction  I was assigned to assemble, solder, Program, Test, Diagnose, and ship computer backup systems throughout the world, to order. Shift Leader Del Taco - Sparks, NV October 2010 to December 2012 Went back to school  Managed and lead a team of 2 to 5 employees at a time, making sure that the window time, food integrity, and all breaks were up to or better than standard. Front End Supervisor Kohl's Department Store - Sparks, NV February 2007 to August 2010 Went to another job  Managed and trained cashiers handled complaints from customers and was responsible for counting in and out all the cash drawers in the store. Public Service Intern Nevada Department of Transportation - Reno, NV June 2006 to September 2006 Contract Ended  Responsible for temping and recording asphalt deliveries from the hot plant to the construction sites on the highway.  Drove and maintained a state vehicle. Public Service Intern Nevada Department of Transportation - Reno, NV June 2005 to September 2005 Contract Ended  I was responsible for driving the Department of Transportation garbage truck, where I maintained the cleanliness of the highways in Reno as well as cleared debris from flood drains and off-ramps. Sierra Pacific Power Company - Reno, NV January 2003 to October 2004 Went back to school  I read residential and commercial meters accurately, in several different locations in Reno, Tahoe, Carson, and the Minden area. Responsible for maintaining a company vehicle. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering University of Nevada - Reno, NV December 2016 Skills Microsoft office (10+ years), unity 3d (3 years), wireshark (3 years), python (1 year), C++ (2 years), Customer Service (10+ years), c# (3 years), HTML 5 (2 years), Vb.Net (1 year), django (1 year), machine learning (Less than 1 year), Robotics (1 year), Computer Repair (2 years), Assembly (Less than 1 year), Google Analytics (Less than 1 year), Excel (2 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uj21uqtgaoycb-d3 Reliability — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be dependable and come to work. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ksdm0glle80jv1ew Problem Solving — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/izg97ukjway6lo8k Conscientiousness — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be rule-abiding, well-organized, hard-working, confident, and think before acting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tfvoyblzkwlqy0qf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.