IT Help Desk Support IT Help Desk Support IT Help Desk Support - HCL America Holly Springs, NC Work Experience IT Help Desk Support HCL America April 2019 to Present • Provide first-level phone contact and problem resolution for Caterpillar users.  • Create an incident ticket for variety problems and escalates the issue to high level as appropriate.  University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill Associate Public Policy Department July 2015 to 2018 • Heavily use InfoPorte, and Remedy  • Handle the department software/hardware request  • Use SAS application for reporting (to chair)  • Access Database, share File, Share Drive and download/move files and more    Entrepreneur, Software Developer  Entrepreneur, Freelancer Front and back End web Developer July 2015 to 2018 07/ 2015 - 2018  • Interactive web development for small business in Raleigh  • Online business -Web design  • Database design (Oracle)  • Front and back End web Developer Owner Alpha-IT-Solutions - Raleigh, NC July 2012 to July 2015 • Offered support for over 1000 users. Helped with migration from PC to Mac  • environment.  • Virus removal, Internet security setup and build custom computers  • Web site updating and editing using several languages such as XML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and React. Help Desk Technician Grace Tech Computer - Cary, NC July 2011 to July 2012 • Assured software and hardware were installed and operated at peak efficiency.  • Hardware and software repair installation upgrade and troubleshooting (A+)  • Wired and wireless network support and security cameras installation and configuration. Help/Support desk and Travel agent American Airlines February 2008 to July 2011 • Assist passengers on online reservation  • Assign seat, process payment, reserve and cancel flight reservation  • Phone support Web Developer Shell Company - Addis Ababa, ET February 2006 to February 2008 • Redesigning Shell's Company's web site that resulted in increased online sales by 15%  • and improved navigation.  • Responsible for implementation of programs and build databases  • Help in implementation creation and management of multiple applications for back end and web  site. Education Certification Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC 2019 Bachelor of Art in Art University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Technology in Computer and Information Technology Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills MAC, Active Directory, Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6begk8hpkl4mbzzh Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hkrtylmvtqyjzavv Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qdqj9a7pgscd3foh Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1mpifvh0kumrxpx3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.