Front End Developer/Consultant <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Consultant System Architect, Virtual CTO, Project Management, Insurtech Glendale, AZ I am an experienced CTO, IT, and Management professional based in the USA. I have spent the last 10 years helping businesses with their IT needs, from consulting, application architecture, Virtual CTO, project management, and software development. I've helped fix projects that went of the rails, and have worked independently, remote, and onsite. Prior to technology consulting, I co-founded a business serving the insurance claims industry that grew from zero to over $100,000,000 in annual revenue in 10 years. I served both as the CEO and CTO during my tenure. Work Experience Front End Developer/Consultant Thermo Fisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA 2017 to Present Brought in as consultant on temporary assignment to develop a platform for web-based product selection  guides. Built prototypes with Node and Rails for analysis and to identify the optimum solution. TFS was using  excel based data as the backend which didn't scale. Created normalized, relational data structures in Postgres, created a web api application (Rails 5) using REST to serve JSON to web clients. Created 4  Angular 2 (v5) SPAs (single page application) to consume the JSON using HttpClient and Promises, and implemented advanced searching and filtering using Typescript, JSON, Angular Directives and Custom Pipes.  In addition, provisioned the web api apps on AWS Elastic Beanstalk. Bootstrap for styling. First selection  guide went from concept to live in seven weeks. Co-Founder, CTO, System Architect, Director Cyber Indemnity Solutions, Melbourne, Victoria Australia 2015 to Present At CIS, an Insurtech startup, designed and managed all technical implementations of the propriety Insured  Data Platform (IDP), the first fully underwritten data storage platform for the insurance of data. Designed a portal management system that manages Insured Data around the world using Node. Managed multiple  vendors on a global basis on budget and on time. Made personal presentations to underwriters and their  board. Extensive PAAS experience with Azure Portal and EA accounts. Founder, Developer, System Architect, CEO Breeasy.com - Glendale, CA 2012 to 2018 As a self-funded project, created, designed ( front and back end), and maintain the small business productivity, and time management web apps: Breeasy, InstaInvoice, and Breeasy Money. These apps address the  needs of freelancers to manage customers, prospects, projects, time, expenses, invoicing, and contact  interactions. Breeasy runs on Ruby on Rails, backed by a PostgreSQL database, and is hosted by Heroku.  Breeasy Money is built on RoR and used Angular with Bootstrap 4 to create a decoupled front end that  accesses JSON data via a REST API. Implemented a front- end with ReactJS. Consultant, System Architect Auto-Reg.com - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2016 Designed and developed a SAAS based web and mobile application for online and instant automobile  registration renewals. Technologies included consumption and creation of REST APIs, Javascript, AngularJS, Ruby on Rails. App was the first one approved by the CA DMV via in person presentation. Software Engineer Universal Laser Systems - Scottsdale, AZ 2014 to 2015 Brought in as a consultant/contractor to help finish a front- end UI for a new, high end LASER based  engraver. Used JQuery, AJAX, Javascript, and popular frameworks such as JQuery Mobile, Semantic UI, and Twitter Bootstrap to complete functionality and improve user experience. Removed unnecessary code to  improve performance. Updated jQuery Ajax calls to use new techniques. Created test prototypes and made  recommendations to senior management on improvements and modernization with new frameworks such as AngularJS and Single Page Application (SPA). Under Robert Half Technology Agency. Co-founder, Implementation Project Manager, COO Data Insurance Licensing, Ltd - Auckland City, Auckland 2005 to 2015 As a primary client, provided consulting services, technology review, data center standards, vendor  negations, software design, and development services to an Insurance/technology startup. Responsible for supporting insurance brokers with training and system design and integration. Designed and created a  prototype insurance policy sales portal with Ruby on Rails. Inventor of a technology patent application that  protects the online sale and distribution of Data Insurance policies. Negotiated a world-wide cloud data  protection contract as part of the insurance program. Managed Java developers to integrate first generation  sales portal with regulators in the UK. Front- End Java Developer/Consultant Network Fleet/Verizon - San Diego, CA 2013 to 2014 As a contractor (The Select Group) provided mobile development for flagship application using Primefaces, Jquery Mobile, Javascript, Java Server Faces(JSF), and HTML5. Worked with management to investigate  portal technologies and frameworks for next generation deployment. Technologies included Apache, Tomcat, JSF, Servlets, Javascript. Frameworks tested and analyzed include Twitter Bootstrap, AngularJS, and  sitemesh. Built and tested mobile native applications using Cordova/Phonegap. Managing Director, Project Manager Temporary Accommodations, Inc - London 2009 to 2010 Responsible for managing the introduction of CRS temporary housing to the UK. Managed a remote and onsite team of Salesforce developers to create and implement a custom instance of Salesforce for the UK  business. Founder, Developer and CEO CRS Temporary Housing - Phoenix, AZ 1993 to 2010 CRS was one of the first providers of temporary housing services to the insurance claims industry. Throughout out my tenure I focused 80% of my time on software system development and implementation at multiple  locations and with multiple technologies. Desktop application development with C#, Web application  development with .net, Salesforce implementation and integration with private automated billing systems built  (by CRS) on Ruby on Rails. Extensive Salesforce customization using APEX and force.com, a Java based  framework for Salesforce. Hired and managed in-house and contract .net, Ruby on Rails, Salesforce  developers, QA analysts, and DBAs. Managed a multi-million dollar implementation with a Ruby on Rails  development shop a hotel booking web application using geocoding, GDS, REST and a user friendly front  end. Founder and Developer Virtual Backup, Inc - Pasadena, CA 2004 to 2006 Designed and wrote one of the first online backup desktop software applications for small business and individuals. Education MBA Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA 1986 Skills FIREBASE, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on Rails, HTML5, jQuery, SQL, CSS, Angular