Sr. Front End Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Web Developer - OmBm Studios LLC San Jacinto, CA Work Experience Sr. Front End Web Developer OmBm Studios LLC January 2003 to Present • Specializes in common web standards and practices that insure site responsiveness, fast page load times, and cross-browser compatibility which consistently rank high in search engines.  • Expert hand coder proficient in the development of sites, templates, Flash Intros and user-interfaces for small businesses, e-commerce sites, online magazines, and non-profit entities.  • Knowledgeable of UI/UX design, SOA, web services, SDLC, and video encoding.  • Assists Product Managers with branding and marketing concepts. Photo manipulation and retouching with Photoshop, as well as digital portraiture and restoration.  • Strong background with web design  • Performance Optimization for SPAs  • Strives to stay at the forefront of front end technologies by evaluating emerging JavaScript libraries and technologies  Recent Clients:  • Rocfilet: (in progress): Developing a site for personal chef to many high end clientele, Ms. Roxanne Goodrich. Will also be assisting with designing logos, and making other collateral.  • Bay Area Boxing Academy: Developing not only the website, but the branding materials, and logos, as well as the web strategy.  • Kujo Films:Developing a website for Emmy Award Winning Editor Kurt T. Jones and his film production for his new movie to be showcased in the upcoming 2014 Cannes Film Festival.  • Sonos Inc: Helped to develop an AngularJS web application to be featured inside of store kiosks in order to showcase the features of Sonos' Wireless High Fidelity Surround Sounds Speaker Systems.  • Inertiart:Constructed and intranet portal for Toyota to display a catalog of Flash banners to be used in an upcoming national marketing campaign. (KnockoutJS, HTML5, jQuery, CSS3). Recently updated the same portal utilizing AngularJS.  • Startheria (Online Kids Game):Assisted with converting the site from ActionScript 2.0 to 3.0 and currently to HTML5.  • The Scovillage: Development of branding, marketing, social media strategy, and web development for an eCommerce site specializing in gourmet hot sauces.(Using M.E.A.N. Stack - MongoDB, Express, AngularJS and NodeJS)  • Eshe Armah: Created the branding, marketing and website for a multi-talented, multifaceted, writer, speaker and herbalist.  • ThinkBox20: Created Photoshop Mockups for the re-design of the Golden Wok Website.  • StudentLoans.US: Created a boilerplate template using Bootstrap for reuse on multiple sites the client owns, operates and maintains. Sr. Software Engineer (Frontend Specialist) Jack Henry & Associates - San Jacinto, CA March 2018 to November 2018 • Utilized the Agile SDLC to make updates and changes to the UI of the Symitar App.  • Symitar is a MEAN stack app (AngularJS 1.5.7, Bootstrap 3.3.7- on the frontend) that more than 4000 credit unions use to manager their customers.  • Tasked with updating the frontend tooling pipeline from a combination Grunt/Gulp based solution to Webpack 4.  • Sole developer responsible for development of a greenfield in-house management/configuration tool.  ? Interpreted Balsamiq mockups from the Product Owners -  ? used Angular 6 & Bootstrap 4, along with Charting.js to create the administrative dashboard.  ? created proof of concepts for this tool by evaluating multiple JS frameworks (Angular(6), Vue, React and Aurelia).  ? Evaluated React, React Router, Redux(Sagas/Thunks) in the Node-backed application, as a possible candidate for the frontend architecture. (Used create-react-app for scaffolding) Sr. UI Developer Smart Drive Sytems - Mesa, CA June 2017 to November 2017 • Worked directly with the UX/UI Designer to apply the redesign of the Service Console Application, using Bootstrap 3.36(Sass), and AngularJS 1.5.8  • Deployed various HTML5 VideoPlayers, utilizing multiple video frameworks(Videogular, VideoJS, MediaElement.js, etc) to determine which would work best for the conversion from the current used silverlight player.  • Produced a Remark.js presentation examining the differences between MPEG-DASH and HLS video formats - describing the benefits and drawbacks to product owners. Sr. Front End Developer NIKE, Inc - Beaverton, OR October 2016 to December 2016 • Develops proprietary content management system using AngularJS 1.5  • Setup the Karma/Jasmine/Protractor ecosystem to enable unit, integration and e2e testing of the front end.  • Implements New Relic RUM instrumentation in order to facilitate real-time monitoring of users.  • Produced a true client-side cache-busting solution Front End Technical Architect Infosys Inc - Charlotte, NC May 2016 to September 2016 • Developed a plan to upgrade an outdated proprietary content management system  • Ported an individually paged-based application to an Angular-based SPA  • Implemented the Git VCS replace Tortoise SVN  • responsible for interviewing and evaluating potential Infoscions Sr. Front End Engineer Tillster Inc - San Diego, CA June 2015 to January 2016 • Created the Pizza Hut Mexico single page Angular JS application which serves over 8 million people representing 200+ stores.  • Used Google and it's "pindrop" technology to GeoLocate potential customers. Front End Developer Intuit Inc - Poway, CA October 2014 to March 2015 • One of a two person team of developers working to make "The Federal Deductions, Income, and Wages Guide" responsive.  • Ensured all code adheres to best practices coding standards by going through and making sure that all new additional JavaScript code passes JSHINT standards.  • Specializing in solving AngularJS errors/problems. Sr. Front End Web Developer Nokia - Carlsbad, CA June 2014 to September 2014 • Responsible for the integration of the trapster.com website, as well as implementing the HTML5 version of Trapster's new feature "ETAs", utilizing Here.com maps.  • Used BackboneJS, NodeJS, Amazon Web Services, Elastic Beanstalk. Sr. Front End Developer Source Interlink Media - Irvine, CA April 2014 to May 2014 One of 2 Front End Developers to work on the roll out of the new Super Chevy Super Site a conglomerate site of all of Source InterLink Media's Chevy Branded websites. Front End Web Developer Alternative Tech Solutions October 2013 to January 2014 Implemented User Interface and front- end solutions for a Leading Salesforce App using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, and the Bootstrap Framework. Sr. Front End Web Engineer Blue Health Intelligence - Aliso Viejo, CA July 2013 to October 2013 • Implemented Client-Side binding/templating for an ASP.NET Business Intelligence application utilizing the Knockout JavaScriptlibrary  • Reviewed various HTML5 Charting packages (Wijmo, Kendo UI, D3, InfoVis, jQPlot, ChartJS and FusionCharts)  • Evaluated 3rd party self-service Business Intelligence Dashboard frameworks (Tableau, Datazen, Domo, Pentaho).  • Constructed an intranet portal to display the strengths and weaknesses of each dashboard framework as they pertain to the BHI platform.  • Implemented User Interface and front- end solutions using jQuery, jQuery Mobile, HTML5, CSS3, and the Bootstrap Framework. Web Engineer, Integrator Walt Disney - Glendale, CA September 2012 to December 2012 • Site Integration and Content Management.  • Received deliverables from vendors and integrated them into the client's (Disney) system. Worked in an Agile Environment that utilized Jira for ticket management.  • Daily Interaction with both INTERWOVEN Teamsite CMS as well as Perforce. Collaborated with dedicated producers and Quality Assurance teams. UI/UX Designer Walt Disney September 2012 to November 2012 • Designed user interface for a web-based marketing solution, from conceptualization and detailed user interface and functionality design through implementation.  • Collaborated with marketing, product management throughout all design phases.  • Worked with the production team to implement UI enhancements and ultimately optimize user experience. Front End Programmer Electronic Arts - Marina del Rey, CA August 2012 to September 2012 Spliced up a mockup of the Command & Conquer: Generals 2 website, to create the active landing page for the blockbuster video game. ActionScript Developer Fox Interactive Media - Culver City, CA September 2010 to January 2011 • Re-factored their video player from AS2 to AS3 and incorporated functionality equivalent to that of the Hulu and YouTube players which was not present beforehand.  • Re factored their MP3 player from AS2 to AS3.  • Collaborated with both client-side and server-side engineers in order to keep the core structure of the application intact. Front End Web / ActionScript Programmer Walt Disney Interactive - North Hollywood, CA September 2008 to May 2010 • JavaScript, jQuery & Other JS Frameworks (Dojo, MooTools).  • Hard Coding with XHTML 1.0 Strict & CSS 2.0.SEO Implementation (For plain HTML pages and full flash sites).  • Flash ActionScript Troubleshooting & Debugging.  • Daily Interaction with INTERWOVEN Teamsite CMS System.  • Site Integration and Content Management.  • Omniture & Hitbox Web Analytics, Google Analytics. ActionScript Developer Stickam.com - Los Angeles, CA September 2006 to August 2007 • One of three employees hired to specialize in the development of ActionScript components and frameworks for Stickam's video-chat-centric Social Networking site.  • Client-side development of instant messaging and file browsing widgets.  • Worked closely with Information Architects and design teams to deliver compelling online and desktop content.  • Flash Media Server coding and maintenance, to insure proper delivery of image, audio and video content.  Portfolio Sites:  http://www.pizzahut.com.mx  http://ww.turboaxonline.com/(certain parts)  http://www.superchevy.com/  http://disney.go.com/disneycareers/imaginations/  http://disney.go.com/disneypictures/el_capitan/  http://www.commandandconquer.com/  http://www.cpdsportsacademy.com  http://www.smashsolutions.com/ Education BA in Economics Stanford University - Stanford, CA Skills Angularjs (10+ years), Bootstrap (10+ years), Html5 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Mongodb (10+ years), Angular, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, User Interface, CSS3, Jquery, Node Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  HTML5: Audio, Video, GeoLocation, FileSystem, Service Workers, Web Workers, Web Sockets, Canvas, WebStorage, Charting, Shadow DOM,  CSS3: Less, Sass, Stylus, PostCSS, BEM, OOCSS, Atomic CSS, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap 3 & 4, Foundation 5, Material Design  Javascript: NodeJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, RxJS, Angular  - Databases: MongoDB, CouchDB, FireBase  - Other JS: TypeScript, JS DesignPatterns & Best Practices, MEAN Stack, Functional Programming, Observables.  Tooling: Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, Yeoman, Bower, Yarn, NPM  Templating: Mustache, Handlebars, Pug/Jade,  Other: Facebook Messenger Joke Chatbot, Dapps with Truffle, and Solidity Contracts  Testing: Jasmine, Karma, and Protractor, Jest