Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - BASF Durham, NC I am professional individual seeking to be an asset to your organization with my many years of technical experience. I am a creative problem solver who is self-motivated with a stubborn eye for detail. I'm proactive and a high-energy team player with a diverse background and a range of abilities that include strong verbal and written communication skills, significant abilities and experience in organizing, prioritizing, confidentiality of documents, detailed preparation of reports and projects. Highly motivated, a commitment to professionalism, the ability to make necessary adjustments to meet deadlines, and effectively coordinate in fast-paced environments. Work Experience Data Analyst BASF May 2017 to Present • Interpreting data, analyzing results using statistical techniques and providing ongoing reports.  • Developing and implementing databases, data collection systems, data analytics and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and quality.  • Acquiring data from primary or secondary data sources and maintaining databases/data analysis systems.  • Solving customer duplication  • Customer validation, hierarchy setups, and demographic validation Web Designer (Freelancer) Blue Arc Designs August 2010 to Present • Handled all redesign efforts for existing web applications and the design of new mobile and tablet based applications, provided expertise to executives and product management team to incorporate best practices.  • Developed HTML prototypes, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Designed user interface for desktop and Web-based products, from conceptualization and detailed user interface and functionality design through implementation.  • Collaborated with marketing, product management, and product development during design stages.  • Helped create interactive prototypes, including screen layouts, color palettes, typography, and user-interface elements.  • Identified user needs and business requirements, and communicated design deliverables, such as specifications, templates, storyboards, wireframes, and mock-ups.  • Liaised with product development team to help develop user research and usability tests.  • Designed the website's overall visual appearance.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Designed templates for future pages.  • Performed debugging and testing of code.  • Added basic interactivity (JQuery Mobile). Data Entry Specialist Strawbridge Studios October 2016 to May 2017 • Prepared source data for computer entry by compiling and sorting information; established entry priorities.  • Processed customer and account source documents by reviewing data for deficiencies; resolved discrepancies by using standard procedures or returning incomplete documents to the team leader for resolution.  • Entered customer and account data by inputting alphabetic and numeric information on keyboard or optical scanner according to screen format.  • Maintained data entry requirements by following data program techniques and procedures.  • Verified entered customer and account data by reviewing, correcting, deleting, or reentering data; combined data from both systems when account information was incomplete; purged files to eliminate duplication of data.  • Tested customer and account system changes and upgrades by inputting new data; reviewed output.  • Secured information by completing data base backups.  • Maintained operations by following policies and procedures; reported needed changes.  • Maintained customer confidence and protects operations by keeping information confidential.  • Contributed to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed. Front End Developer North Carolina Central University January 2016 to May 2016 • Actively participated as a contributing member of a collaborative team that successfully completed web projects.  • Used a variety of programming and scripting languages to develop a functional production level web application. Lab Monitor Durham Technical Community College Library January 2016 to May 2016 • Assisted students with computer hardware and software issues.  • Monitored sign-in sheet and checked identifications for currently enrolled students only.  • Released print jobs and scanned documents.  • Maintained an academic environment in the computer lab. Video Editor/ Camera Operator Daher Broadcasting Service October 2000 to August 2010 • Gained in-depth knowledge of video production, including editing techniques, video equipment, and tools.  • Edited and compiled video footage.  • Became proficient in using linear and computerized video editing systems.  • Used production software, including Adobe Creative Suite.  • Conducted interviews via digital video camera.  • Maintained an orderly kept video library. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Education in Information Technology North Carolina Agricultural & Technical State University 2018 to Present Associate of Applied Science in Web Technologies in Web Design Durham Technical Community College 2014 to 2016 Skills Html, jquery, Usability, Dreamweaver, Android Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/carlton-henry-29791551 Additional Information KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES    COMPUTER SKILLS    • Web Application Design  • User-centered Design  • Interaction Design  • iOS, iPhone, iPad  • Android  • Rapid Iterative Testing and Design  • Responsive Design  • Functional Specifications  • User Experience  • Wireframing  • Prototyping  • HTML, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery,  • User Flow Design  • Interaction Modeling  • Polished Visual Design  • User Scenarios  • Usability Design & Testing  • A/B testing  • Style Guides  • Web Layout  • Color Palette  • Team Management  • Project Management  • Product Strategy    TOOLS / SOFTWARE  • Adobe Photoshop  • Adobe Dreamweaver  • Adobe Premiere  • Adobe Illustrator  • Adobe InDesign  • Sketch  • TextMate  • Chrome Inspector  • Evernote  • Google Docs  • Skype  • Dropbox  • Silverback  • MS Word and MS PowerPoint  • Paper, pen, marker, and whiteboard  • Image Match  • Remark  • File Maker