Cinematic Designer Cinematic Designer Cinematic Designer Mesquite, TX Cinematic Designer in the video game industry Work Experience Cinematic Designer FastSkillTeam - Dallas, TX April 2019 to Present ·     Create in-engine cutscenes using Unity Cinemachine, Timeline and custom camera animations  ·     Create storyboards and outlines for the artists’ use in order to provide needed assets  ·     Animate assets through various iterations to find the right fit for the directors’ notes and convey the story properly  ·     Work closely with programmers to develop scripts to aide in efficient use of resources during cinematics Application Engineer DDB North America November 2016 to Present * Administer Windows Active Directory integrated applications for world-wide offices.  * Develop and deploy custom, large-scale, automated, PowerShell scripts to gather various reports based on agency needs.  * Administer DDB North America's Office 365 Azure Active Directory and Exchange Online tenants using administrative PowerShell sessions.  * Spear-head tenant-to-tenant migrations with the aid of MigrationWiz and various PowerShell scripts.  * Administer DDB North America's Active Directory infrastructure at the highest level of escalation.  * Carry out and maintain large-scale migration efforts of Active Directory systems.  * Coordinate and follow through on global I.T. initiatives involving hundreds of I.T. admins, executives and support staff.  * Develop and maintain web code and standards. Full-Stack Web Developer Frank Web Design March 2016 to Present * Design rich HTML5 structured, mobile-friendly, websites based on W3C Standards.  * Apply dynamic CSS3 using Sassy Pre-processor to allow for responsive web development and enriched user interface layouts.  * Integrate Angular JS with the help of JQuery Java Script language to tie in immersive and interactive websites and web applications.  * Deploy and maintain various web servers using LAMP stack, SSH management, and FTP and SQL tools and techniques.  * Constantly updating and enhancing code for faster and more responsive web apps and websites. Front End Web Developer iuzeit Inc April 2016 to November 2016 * Develop and test dynamic web pages utilizing HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JQuery and PHP. Create, maintain and test various development related tasks according to Business Requirements.  * Manage SQL databases utilizing SSH connections (via Valentina Studio) into Linux-hosted PostgreSQL DB servers.  * Quality test development additions made to website base code and apply changes via GitHub to HTML site directory.  * Configure and maintain Ubuntu 14.0+ LTS Servers for production, development and testing environments via SSH terminal execution. Office 365 Onboarding Engineer Microsoft Inc July 2015 to March 2016 * Assisted with environment readiness and configuration of Office 365 workloads such as Exchange Online, Office Professional Plus, SharePoint Online, One Drive/ One Drive for Business and the Enterprise Mobility Suite.  * Communicated directly with IT leaders to ensure proper understanding of workloads and preparation of local environment for adoption of new technologies.  * Created documentation over the process of remediating environment variables for delivery and review during status meetings.  * Assisted with the migration of local Exchange 2007-2016 environments to Exchange Online provided by Office 365. Also configured staged, cut-over and hybrid deployments between on-premises and O365 hosted Exchange servers. Systems Engineer Network Logic February 2015 to July 2015 * Troubleshooting and maintaining windows server and desktop operating systems.  * Establishing and cutting over services such as ISP, email and Microsoft server operating systems migrations to VM Ware infrastructure.  * Configuring and cutting over Microsoft Exchange 2007-2016 servers from local deployments to Office365 or other hosted methods using staged, cut-over or hybrid deployments, considering the client's need.  * Management of queue flow and individual time worked on projects and support cases. Account Manager and Senior Technician PC ASAP June 2014 to February 2015 * Troubleshooting and working on computer related issues in-store and on-site.  * Administration of client's cloud-hosted Exchange 2003-2012 and Windows Servers 2003-2012 systems.  * Managing inventory and sales in-store to help maintain daily sales goals and deadlines.  * Creating and delivering Information Technology proposals for prospective clients, as well as following through with purchasing, configuring and deploying approved proposals. Level 2 Support Engineer External IT February 2012 to June 2014 * Remote support engineer for a Citrix based, Windows Server environment. Supporting hundreds of virtual machines for a variety of clients and third party software.  * Queue management of trouble tickets, opening and closing over one hundred tickets a week.  * Administration of technologies like Windows Server 2008-2012 and configuration and administration of Exchange server 2007 and up in a managed service environment.  * Working one on one with Account Managers to help satisfy client requests, work on support projects, and deliver on timely expectations. Remote PC Technician In-House January 2009 to January 2012 * Responsible for all in-house support, including software and hardware troubleshooting and repair.  * Remote administration of Windows Server/ Exchange and IIS systems. Responsible for the timely repair of interrupted mail services on hosted Exchange 2007/2010 platforms.  * Management of scheduling on-site technicians to client locations, and completing escalated on-site tickets as needed.  * Support for server and client operating systems and proprietary software. Support Supervisor Bet Buy February 2006 to January 2009 * Supervision of a team of 10- 15 technicians.  * Queue management for up to 30 Desktops / Laptops at a time.  * Complete escalated and expedited support requests.  * Creation of schedules, training of new associates, updating team with daily company and store service and sales goals.    Work Skills * HTML5, CSS3, SASSY SCSS, Bootstrap.  * AngularJS, jQuery, JavaScript, Ruby on Rails, PHP, Python, mySQL, C# * Experienced with Unity3D * Git and GitHub * Advanced Power Shell scripting * Server 2003 to 2012, MS SBS, Exchange Server 2003 to 2016, Windows XP through 10, Ubuntu 14.0+, LTS * Active Directory administration on large scales to accommodate companies of over 1,000 users.  * Microsoft Office 365 workloads and offerings installation and configuration of Office Pro Plus, One Drive/ One Drive for Business, SharePoint and Exchange Online. Education R L Turner High School - Carrollton, TX January 2016 to March 2016 Skills C# (1 year), Unity3D (1 year), Programming (4 years), Project Planning (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Teamwork (10+ years), Python (4 years), Powershell (4 years), Photoshop