Web Designer/ Front- end Developer II Web Designer/<span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Web designer/ Front- end developer, Master of Arts in Media Arts (USC) Charlotte, NC Detail-oriented, resourceful front- end developer, specializing in full stack web applications, bridging technology and design gaps. Creative professional, utilizing an array of design methods to ensure the end product is a success with the users. Passionate about technology and all things creative, taking pride in completing innovative sites to requested specifications.     ? HTML / CSS / JavaScript  ? Bootstrap, JQuery  ? Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, InDesign, Sketch  ? MS Visual Studio, Edge Animation  ? Content Management Systems (WordPress, MS SharePoint)  ? Video editing software (Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premiere, After Effects) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Front- end Developer II Fiserv. - Charlotte, NC September 2013 to Present Designed and developed responsive websites (desktop / tablet / phone versions), custom-designed marketing sites, and online banking sites using Illustrator, HTML / CSS / JavaScript, Bootstrap. Provided creative design solutions such as wireframes, mock-ups, icons, site mapping, and graphic treatment concepts, utilizing Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, and Illustrator.  • Created compelling designs for web, iOS and Android mobile apps, performing front- end development for mobile online banking and other digital user interfaces.   • Developed customized site enhancements, uploading pages to Content Management Systems (CMS), troubleshooting and repairing display or functionality issues, and ensuring sites compatibility with various browser environments.  • Designed websites’ overall look and feel, developing front- end interfaces utilizing CSS / HTML, Jquery, and JavaScript. Web/Graphic Designer Billy Graham Evangelistic Association - Charlotte, NC July 2013 to September 2013 Designed and developed Chinese website, using Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and CSS / HTML. Created and built email templates and landing page templates using CSS / HTML and Adobe Photoshop. Web Designer and Front- end Developer Burke Communications, Inc - Charlotte, NC April 2013 to August 2013 Designed overall look and feel of web interfaces, using Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, and Illustrator. Performed content administration and site management for MS SharePoint 2013 sites. Developed front- end interfaces, utilizing CSS / HTML, Flash, Jquery, and JavaScript.  • Generated custom designed e-newsletters and e-mail marketing materials, using vector content via HTML / CSS, Adobe InDesign, and Illustrator.  • Designed and built interactive elements, such as banners, kiosks, and demo CDs / DVDs, utilizing video editing applications Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premiere, and After Effects.  • Maintained and tested web interfaces for multi-browser compatibility, implementing and customizing content management systems, creating and managing customized WordPress themes.  • Conducted detailed consulting sessions with clients and developers, analyzing ideas and approaches for improving user experience. Web Designer / Developer Chinese Community Network LLC - Charlotte, NC August 2012 to March 2013 Designed graphics for various internal websites and website mock-ups for divisions and subsidiary groups. Developed customized e-mail messages (in HTML / CSS) and web applications, using CSS. Performed database-driven web development, using ASP .NET, Visual Studio .NET, and SQL Server. Graphic Designer at Charlotte Hornets (formerly Charlotte Bobcats) Charlotte Hornets (formerly Charlotte Bobcats) - Charlotte, NC September 2012 to December 2012 Worked as intern for college credit with USC. Designed look and feel of promotional print materials, such as tickets, posters, guides, calendars, invitations, postcards, brochures, flyers, and advertisements, using Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign. Graduate Assistant University of South Carolina August 2010 to August 2012 Served as teaching assistant for “Moving Image” course at College of Arts and Sciences, Dept. of Visual Arts and Design.   • Assisted Professor, guiding and training students, writing training materials and user documentation for Final Cut Pro, and designing videos and demos for training purposes.  Acted as web designer for Barnes Symposium at School of Law.   • Designed and maintained Yearly Conference website (HTML / CSS), designing promotional print materials (posters and invitations), processing video, and creating video DVDs for educational and training purposes.  Performed web designer duties for The Law & Finance Institutional Partnership (LFIP) Program, School of Law.   • Maintained and updated main program website, creating and preserving online course materials.  • Performed instructional video processing and DVD creation for students and instructors. Web/Graphic Designer TECO City 2005 to 2007 • Web Designer  • Graphic Designer Education Master of Art in Media Arts University of south Carolina - Columbia, SC 2010 to 2013 Bachelor Degree in Graphic Design Beifang University of Nationalities, China 2001 to 2005 Skills Experienced Web Developer and Designer, with broad expertise in HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL, as well as MS Visual Studio, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, InDesign, and Edge Animation. Proficient in Content Management Systems (WordPress, MS SharePoint). Advanced video editor, using Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premiere, and After Effects., React, Front End, Front-End, UI, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/jingwen-guo http://www.applefishspace.com Awards Join UFVA Conference to show my game design 2012-08 Additional Information Technical Proficiency:  Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Edge animation, Illustrator   Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premiere, AfterEffects, InDesign  HTML, CSS, PhP, jQuery, WordPress, PSD to HTML/CSS, Email design/development    Portfolio  www.applefishspace.com