Studio Senior Studio Senior Studio Senior - Deloitte Consulting Aurora, IL Work Experience Studio Senior Deloitte Consulting - Chicago, IL February 2017 to Present USA, Client: State of ohio, Exelon, UsCellular  Responsibility:  • Lead team in development, testing, debugging, and maintenance of dynamic and secure websites and web-based applications, including widgets, templates, and microsites.    • Use NodeJS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Express, React and other front- end and middle-tier technologies and standards, as well as content management system.  • Developed web components using Angular 4/5 and used across the applications.  • Created different types of dashboard using Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, express, handlebars, CSS & SASS and built the REST API's using NodeJS & Express to get Data for Dashboard from database.  • Created different types of charts, gauge meter and grids to represents the data in visual format in dashboard for quick view.  • Created microservices using NodeJS, Express, mongo DB & Oracle.  • Written code for enabling oracle DB polling using Node, Express to monitor income triggers.  • Automated the unit testing using jasmine, chai frameworks.  • Involved in conception, design, architecture, implementation, testing and deployment on multiple projects at various stages of their life-cycle.  • Implemented out of box features during Salesforce Lightening/Classic development based on product requirement and responsible for driving and guide team members in terms of technical solution. Senior Software programmer Switchlane Inc - Chicago, IL January 2016 to February 2017 Responsibility:  • Designed portal-style UI framework, modular and it's API interfaces and technical architecture of UI portal framework along with pluggable modules.  • Developed reusable components and implemented framework out of box features.  • Developed responsive designs supports in different devices such as IOS/Android Mobile, Tablet and Desktop.  • Interacted with customers, product management, graphic designers plus usability experts to present compelling user experience.  • Design to wide organization using strategic relationships, presentations and influence.  • Head development inclusive to agile team to execute key User Interface aspects.  • Recommend processes, services, software and other tools to support business objectives pertinent to user interfaces as well as infrastructure technologies.  • Ensure to understand needs as well as disparate technologies existing in use through engage platform plus drive towards convergence. Front End Developer Tringapps Inc June 2015 to January 2016 USA, Client: Fannie Mae  Responsibility:  • Involved in front- end development including creation of Terms and agreement related functionalites using AngularJS, HTML5, Bootstrap  • Developed responsive HTML pages from functional specifications & wire frames also validated designs in different browsers ( IE 9 +, Chrome & FF).  • Developed re-useable components using Angular Such as directives, factories & services.  • Used Angular UI grids for list out term & agreement related data from database also used other useful functionality such as sorting, filtering, pagination & export etc.  • Used RESTful Web Service JAVA API for transferring data in JSON format between front- end and back- end.  • Performed Unit testing at each level of development with karma - jasmine framwork. Senior Analyst Accenture - IN March 2014 to June 2015 India  Responsibility:  • Involved in front- end development including Booking Management & different Profile creation by using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AJAX.  • Developed HTML pages from functional specifications & wire frames also validated forms as per FDD using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to achieve front- end MVC and to achieve Responsive Design.  • Developed mutliple REST API's to interact / manipulate the data based on requirement.  • Created Common Custom Directives & services using Angular JS and Performed Unit testing at each level of development, also Used HPQC for project and issue tracking. Lead Engineer HCL Technologies - IN May 2012 to March 2014 India  Responsibility:  • Participated in a small team with Agile Software Development.  • Front- end development Analysis, Design, Validations and Delivery estimation.  • Developing HTML pages from wire frames also implemented table, Data grid, form widgets using dojo framework.  • Implemented Internationalization concept using dojo framework.  • Worked with D3 chart for view network related big data.  • Performance tuning for the existing web components. Web Developer Kliotech Pvt Ltd - IN July 2011 to May 2012 India  Responsibility:  • Designed and developed web applications and user interface for various departments. Projects ranged from Flash-interactive microsites to advertisements.  • Mentored interns and managed scheduling on semester-by-semester basis.  • Applied MVC pattern and designed relational database schema.  • Gathered requirements and specifications for enhancements to websites. Web Developer Troy Software - IN November 2007 to June 2011 India  Responsibility:  • Built, tested, and implemented user interface applications and Assisted with product development projects.  • Integrated UI with large backend applications and designed database schema.  • Aided in writing technical documents for website enhancements and updates  • Helped develop and maintain plans and schedules for site redesign and relaunch. Education Master of computer application in computer application Bharathiyar University Tamil Nadu Additional Information AREA OF EXPERTISE  Front End development with React  Full Stack Development with NodeJS Express Mongo DB oracle DB  Responsive Design & Mobile Development with React Native    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Language JavaScript, jQuery, Python, NodeJS, PHP, Core Java  Web technologies HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Handlebars, JSON, XML  Frameworks AngularJS, React, Knockout, Express, ES5/6, TypeScript  Testing Framework Mocha & Chai, Jasmine & Karma  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB  Version Control Git, SVN, TFS  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  CRM Tools Salesforce Classic and lightening, SharePoint  IDC Visual Studio Code, Atom, Eclipse  Web Servers NodeJS, Apache  Tools Jira, Jenkins CI/CD