Leader, Global Web Marketing Manager Leader, Global Web Marketing Manager Leader, Global Web Marketing Manager San Francisco Bay Area, CA Forward-thinking Web Marketing Leader and Business/Technical Consultant with 20+ years success propelling complex enterprise-level initiatives & developing effective long-term strategies to sustain growth/profitability. Strategic & transformational specialist, bringing expert analysis, planning & focus to underperforming/change environments.  • Leverage broad business experience, technical knowledge and analytical skills to help organizations achieve their strategic objectives and articulate a future vision.  • Collaborative consensus builder skilled at developing productive relationships with business leaders & propelling multidisciplinary teams to performance excellence.  • Passionate about always delivering results that exceed expectations. Bring a high degree of energy, foresight and mission to any enterprise. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Leader, Global Web Marketing Manager Cisco-Meraki - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to May 2019 As Leader of the Global Web Marketing Organization at Cisco-Meraki, I am leading the digital transformation of the Corporate Website from a static web framework to the Adobe Experience Manager CMS. Leveraging AEM and analytics to engage our audiences and deliver personalized content in our brand experiences.  Key Accomplishments:  • Defined the AEM CMS project scope and requirements enabling a streamlined, scalable and efficient global website marketing platform. leading site architecture reviews for the Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) product suite include Marketo integration. Work closely with UX/UI teams and spearheaded the planning, execution, Business Requirements development. On target for launch of new Corporate Website (Meraki.com) mid-summer 2109.  • Help identify key b2b user journeys while implementing dynamic personalization directly leading to improved lead generation and increase revenue.  • Leveraging Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) and Analytics to engage our audiences while delivering personalized targeted content.  • Worked with vendor to implement Marketo integration accelerator with an AEM powered experience. With custom component integration enabling a seamless and responsive customer experience when filling out/submitting forms, and capturuing form data to be sent to our marketing automation and CRM (Salesforce) systems  • Successfully managed the launch of four AEM microsites during FY-2018/2019 including ecommerce shopping cart platform (targeted for our partner and SMB audiences) and localized Japan (JP) site. Additionally, managed day-to-day web request for the current corporate site while planning and executing the revamp/refresh of the corporate website.  • Conducted Analytics site audit and revamp of Google Analytics platform and site integration. Migrated site analytics from standard Google Analytics to GA 360, successfully integrated Optimizely and Google Tag Manager(GTM) event tracking systems. Worked with Cisco IT and WEM teams to implement Adobe Analytics via Tealium Tag Manager, as well as implementing asynchronous loading of Javascript event tags and resolving code conflict between Optimizely, Marketo and GA 360 systems.  • Implementing global localization strategy for both automated-machine and human translation methods based on Cisco's Globalization and Translation Services (GTS) and integration with the Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) site rollout process. Senior Web Marketing Manager OSISOFT - San Leandro, CA June 2014 to September 2017 Led the Global Corporate Marketing Website functional redesign and development effort. Driving force in optimizing Web, SEO/SEM and CMS platform strategy. Presided over all aspects of Website daily operations, including expansion, data-driven analytics, and site iteration/improvement cycles.  Key Accomplishments:  • Website Planning & Launch: As Product Owner of new Global Corporate Website, defined the platform, wrote the Business Requirements (BRD), led site architecture reviews, managed Web development project team and spearheaded planning/execution. Effectively recruited senior talent and assembled Web Dev team. Realigned IT/Marketing development focus to guarantee project delivery goals for the new Website were met. Functioned as SME on all SEO/SEM topics and dynamic CMS platform implementation issues, while introducing new processes & best practices. Successfully launched global rollout of new Corporate Website on schedule in May 2016.  • Sales Growth: Realized immediate Website activity that met demand generation success criteria, converting to Sales opportunities. To date post-launch, have generated $1.1M+ in Sales (Q2/Q3).  • SEO/SEM Oversight: Mastermind and manage the Corporate Website's SEO/SEM strategic and tactical initiatives. Implemented Google AdWords campaign strategy. Conduct data analysis to provide insight into Corporate Website metrics. Trained global campaign teams to explain natural search traffic patterns and PPC strategy.  • Global Localization Initiatives: Direct Regional Teams in gathering requirements and establishing best practices, then work with vendor to plan/execute regional site migration/technical environment efforts (DNS mapping, SEO/keyword migration etc). Completed 1st phase launch of Japanese & German sites.  • Operations Management: Preside over all aspects of Website operations, including expansion, results and site iteration/improvement cycles. Coordinate cross-functional teams, including Marketing staff in demand gen, content development and operations as well as external contributors.  • Web Production Projects: Lead cross-vertical teams of Designers, Developers, Editors and Campaign Marketers on diverse Web production initiatives. Assess risk, assign resources & monitor/facilitate progress. Analytics Manager/Omniture Consultant Delivery Agent - San Francisco, CA May 2013 to June 2014 02/2014 - 06/2014)  • Led Omniture Site Audit and Analysis, working closely with Engineering, Marketing & Business Units. Produced a thorough Audit and Analysis Report, outlining eStore data capture & loss issues, resolving revenue tracking & reporting metrics issues. Led Omniture migration from JS platform to Adobe DTM. SEO Consultant ZERO G GAMES CORP - Huntington Beach, CA May 2013 to December 2013 • Completed site audit including SEO analysis & best practices, keyword analysis and Paid Search strategy. Proposed Website redesign & optimization changes and delivered pre-launch marketing plan for Website.  • Successful pre-launch of PPC campaign prototype improved site traffic performance 41%. Manager, Web Development, SMB Symantec, Inc. - Mountain View, CA March 2012 to February 2013 Key Accomplishments:  • SMB/B2B eStore Platform Development: Undertook leadership and oversight of Web development teams in this critical venture to design/develop the SMB/B2B eStore platforms. Drove development by maintaining project communication with cross-functional team leads, stakeholders & management.  ? Managed HTML5/CSS3 & JS coding and Site/SEO optimization; worked closely with Engineering/Content teams to find ways to dynamically access content through Teamsite CMS.  • SMB eStore 4.3.3 Platform Launch: Directed Web Dev team in all aspects of this launch. Produced technical software requirements for new JSON/Velocity APIs and created an API feature set that enhanced the eStore, allowing front- end dynamic elements to access content/merchandising data. Ensured successful release that boosted SMB page load speed 87%, improved the connection to pricing data tables and reduced eBiz engineering development dependencies. Manager, Web Development Symantec, Inc. - Mountain View, CA March 2007 to February 2013 Influential business and technical leadership resource during 6-year tenure, promoted multiple times to key Management roles. Directed business-critical Web development/production initiatives, launch of Small & Medium Business (SMB), B2B and Consumer eCommerce eStores. Implemented Website standards, quality processes & SEO best practices. Manager, Front- End Web Development Symantec, Inc - Mountain View, CA 2010 to 2012 Key Accomplishments:  • Team Creation: Built a cohesive & focused Consumer eStore Web Development Team during time of tremendous organizational change as Company launched the Consumer eCommerce Store and transitioned from project development mode to day-to-day eStore operations.  ? Recruited senior talent to create impressive team of 18 Web Dev members (9 remote/off-shore). Met all Divisional hiring goals for Front- end Web Development. Also developed/directed cross-functional project teams for major initiatives such as SCRUM (Agile A/B) & Product Launch.  ? Recognized consistently for exceptional team leadership and direction, effectively mentoring & developing team members and communicating company/divisional/team goals.  • Hybridizing Custom Landing Pages: Managed site migration of static HTML pages to dynamic Custom Landing Pages (CLPs) model, based on the successful implementation of the new Hybrid Framework. Minimized the number of pages to manage by 2/3s and reduced time-to-market of CLPs from 5 days to 3. Senior Principle Web Developer Symantec, Inc. - Mountain View, CA 2008 to 2010 Key Accomplishments:  • Consumer eStore: Played critical role in the successful launch of Symantec's first eCommerce Platform, the Consumer eStore. Introduced engineering change to the front- end architecture that was key to ensuring longterm scalability of the platform.  • Hybrid Framework Model: Solely innovated this Model that leveraged much of the back- end infrastructure while enabling a one-to-multiple dynamic page build capability, marrying the use of componentized code modules (wicket tags), page templates and traditional front- end web tools. New framework dramatically reduced development time from 30 days to 5 day dev cycle, a 500% operational efficiency gain. Principle Web Developer - Global Online Sales (GOS) Symantec, Inc. - Cupertino, CA 2007 to 2008 Ebay-Production Lead, Wells Fargo-Web Developer (Consultant), Kaiser Permanente-Technical Team Lead  Electronic Arts- Front- End Web Development Manager, Xerox-Software Enginee, Sybase-Sales Engineer Education B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of California - Davis, CA Skills SEO, Marketing Strategy, Google Analytics Links http://Meraki.com