Web Developer / Designer / Trainer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Designer / Trainer Web Developer / Designer / Trainer Piscataway, NJ To grow with the rapid development technologies and to achieve excellence in my career to provide  Services with utmost commitment and dedicated in a professional and career oriented organization, Which  will offer me a challenging and motivated Environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Designer / Trainer Lahore School of Economics (LSE) August 2014 to July 2019 Develop and Design online Campus Management System independently. Also gave trainings to staff and faculty in different IT technologies. Front End Developer/Designer Trans Atlantic Business Solutions(TGI) March 2014 to August 2014 Here I manage our software's Graphic User Interface (GUI) . Also I design Websites and manage interfaces. Project Manager of Graphics and Web Development Peak Solutions Computer College June 2005 to July 2013 Web Application Developer / Project Manager Print MIS (UK) June 2009 to May 2013 Gives support to our client regarding our developed software which is in Visual Basic and SQL.. Also I  design GUI of our software and Develop web Portal of organization. Senior Software Developer Asiansoft Technologies May 2001 to May 2009 Have worked on Web Based Leasing Management system and Inventory Control System. Experience in different phases of development in the areas of Oracle, PHP, MySQL, Flash, Crystal Reports, Adobe  Photoshop and Corel Draw.  Teaching & Trainings Computer Teacher Cambridge Standard Collage January 2003 to January 2005 Graphics Teacher International Girls Collage December 2002 to December 2004 Computer Graphics / Web Development Teacher National Collage of Emerging Sciences (NCES) February 2002 to November 2002 Computer Teacher Idara-e-Alqalam January 2000 to May 2001 Trainings & Seminar's Attended & Held  Team Faculty Development Workshop (Held)  Three days training workshop arranged by HR Department at Lahore School of Economics.    Understanding & Designing Dynamic Websites (Held)  22 Sessions trainings arranged by ALUMNI Department at Lahore School of Economics.    Graphics Designing (Print Media) (Held)  15 Sessions trainings arranged by ALUMNI Department at Lahore School of Economics.    Team Work (Attended)  One day training workshop arranged by Rizwana Ikram at TTC.    Decision Making (Attended)  One day training workshop by Mr. Arshad Nasir, (Chief Executive of Caltex)    Teaching Methodologies (Attended)  One day training workshop arranged by British Council trainers from England at British Council. Education Masters in Computer Sciences in Computer Sciences Global College Computer Sciences 2004 Bachelor Of Computer Sciences in BCS The National College 2001 E-Commerce National College Of Computer Sciences 2001 Intermediate College 1998 Lahore Public School 1996 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Visual basic