Founder / Chief Product Officer / CEO Founder / Chief Product Officer / CEO Founder / Chief Product Officer / CEO Work Experience Founder / Chief Product Officer / CEO Qzzr 2013 to 2019 As the founder of Qzzr, I was able to experience a broad range of roles and responsibilities. Being the technical co-founder I owned every aspect of the product side of the the business. In the early days  I was very hands-on. I designed and implemented our product, branding, marketing, and technical  infrastructure. Over time I built out the engineering, product, design, and support teams, peaking at 25  people. We were named the Best New Startup in Utah Launched in 2014 by StartSLC. At Qzzr, I was  successful in taking a product to market, raising money, building a leading a large organization, scaling  a SaaS infrastructure to over 1000 paying customers generating over 350 million sessions per year. We  helped top brands and publishers like NBC, ABC, BBC, ESPN, LinkedIn, HubSpot, Red Bull, and Marri- ott to create intelligent interactive content. Our offerings delivered increased exposure, engagement,  conversions, and insights. Co-Creator Little Bit 2013 to 2013 I designed and launched an iOS app. Although I had experience designing for iOS, it was a great new  experience to do an iOS project of my own. Little Bit is a habit training application in which the user  was limited to creating 1 habit at a time and celebrated by taking a picture each day. Users completed  the habit by performing it 21 days in a row. Missing a day would cause you to lose some progress but not start at zero. I designed the product, the gamification mechanism based on the tiny habit research  of BJ Fogg, created interface assets, managed the project, hired an iOS contractor, launched and mar- keted the app. Director Bloomfire 2012 to 2013 I helped people to share knowledge and learn from their coworkers using Bloomfire, the standard for knowledge sharing in the modern workplace. I designed and coded the product UI and the marketing  site, developed a CSS framework and UI pattern library, performed many usability tests, user inter- views, split tests, built and tested prototypes, contributed to product strategy, road map, plans and  pricing. Director Candeo Behavior Change 2011 to 2012 I oversaw the design and development of a large behavior change platform which included multimedia  content delivery, user assessments and exercises, behavior tracking, coaching and messaging fea- tures. I implemented a freemium model that improved overall conversion rate and revenue. I designed,  implemented, and tested a new conversion funnel for paid search traffic which included a Free Self- Test which increased conversion rate as well. I also implemented an iPhone Application. I tested vari-  ous pricing strategies and improved Lifetime Customer Value significantly. I performed many A/B tests to optimize landing pages. UX, Front- end Development and Design Manager Overstock.com 2009 to 2011 Overstock.com is one of the world's largest online retailers with well over 1 million visitors per day and  1 billion dollars per year in revenue. I started as an individual contributor, designing and coding pages  and interface elements. Later, I became the manager the design team, 3 production teams and the front end development team. I was responsible for all HTML, CSS, Javascript, Flash, and creative con-  tent. I oversaw all visual design on the website, email, and print. I worked very closely with our Cre- ative Director to produce a style guide and implement it throughout the company. I worked to create a  library of reusable components, a responsive css framework, and CMS for publishing pages. With the front end development team I worked to improve performance of the websites, bringing load times to an all time low, while still creating a media rich user experience. I created the first UX team and led that  team in creating and running A/B tests, conducting user research and usability tests, and designing the  first mobile website and the first iPhone and iPad Apps. Founder / CEO The Academy at the Electric Theater 2007 to 2009 I opened the Electric Theater in 2002. The Electric Theater is a live music venue hosting national  touring bands, as well as regional and local acts. As the venue owner, I booked events, negotiated tal- ent fees, oversaw all promotions, designed all promotional materials including website. I acted as the  venue manager during the shows, and ran a staff consisting of 6-8 security guards, 2 sound engineers,  ticket taker, lighting director, and 2 snack bar employees. Since 2003, I have promoted and successful- ly run hundreds of concerts. Manager/ Owner The Academy at the Electric Theater 2002 to 2009 I opened the Electric Theater in 2002. The Electric Theater is a live music venue hosting national  touring bands, as well as regional and local acts. As the venue owner, I booked events, negotiated tal- ent fees, oversaw all promotions, designed all promotional materials including website. I acted as the  venue manager during the shows, and ran a staff consisting of 6-8 security guards, 2 sound engineers,  ticket taker, lighting director, and 2 snack bar employees. Since 2003, I have promoted and successful- ly run hundreds of concerts. Webmaster / Graphic Designer The Identity Group 2005 to 2007 I designed, developed, and administered the Psychology Department website. Used PHP, MYSQL,  CSS, HTML Senior Front- End Developer/ Designer / Owner The Identity Group 2004 to 2007 The Identity Group was a small agency that I started and ran for several years. I designed, developed,  maintained, and hosted websites. I also designed business cards, letterhead, logos, etc. I administered  dedicated virtual servers running linux. Skills involved in my projects included: PHP, MYSQL, HTML,  CSS, JAVASCRIPT, Flash/Actionscript, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Ruby, Ruby on Rails. Senior Web Developer The Identity Group 2004 to 2007 Wilkinson's House of Lighting decided to sell products online. I installed, skinned, and administered the online store. Responsibilities included: Adding product listings to store, creating product descriptions,  filling orders, and marketing through Google Adwords and email. Web Developer/ Designer vLender 2003 to 2006 vLender is an web application utility used by mortgage professionals to gain and track leads, accept  online loan applications and provides a number of other mortgage resources. As part of the web de- velopment team, I was responsible for designing and developing templates for the vLender system.  vLender created and implemented a template engine. For design I used Photoshop, and Illustrator. For  development I used HTML, CSS, JAVSCRIPT, PHP, FLASH/Actionscript. Cross browser compatibility, and web standards were very highly emphasized in all of my projects. Education BA degree in Psychology Southern Utah University AA degree Dixie State College Diploma Snow Canyon High School Additional Information Professionally I have found my passion where human behavior and technology meet. More specifically,  in rich internet applications and on the web. I have over 15 years experience designing, coding, host-  ing, and optimizing websites and applications. I am a long-time student of the social sciences: majoring  in psychology at SUU, extensive experience in research design and statistics, measuring and ana-  lyzing user behavior, psychometric modeling and testing, and hands-on experience with counseling,  mentoring and managing people. I have a love for creating and capturing value in business and have  performed roles in all levels of an organization including pursuing several entrepreneurial ventures.  I've worked in several business models from publishing and ad tech, to e-commerce, and SaaS. I am a  critical thinker with great problem-solving and solution-finding skills. I love to work with people and col-  laborate with others on projects. I pride myself on working quickly and efficiently maintaining attention  to detail. I love learning and consider myself a quick learner.