UX/UI Front End Developer UX/UI <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Antonio, TX Work Experience UX/UI Front End Developer Mindfull Works November 2016 to Present Current client Texas Children's Hospital / June 2018 - Present  Drupal and Wordpress projects. UX/UI research and UI development.    https://texaschildrensnews.org/ Web Developer 3 years, Team Lead 3 years Gray Digital Group December 2010 to October 2016 Web Developer Duties  ? Ideation for websites and digital projects (emails, one pagers, campaigns, digital  ads)  ? Wireframing, UX and UI creation and evaluation for websites and emails  ? Design Evaluation of provided website and email designs, to identify any  changes needed to comply with responsive development needs  ? Website and Email Builds using html5, css/sass, jquery, php, asp.net  ? Content Integration of text, image, video, audio provided by client  ? Testing, Troubleshooting of digital projects prior to launch, as problems arose, or from client request  ? Content Updates for sites/emails on an extensive list of platforms including:  wordpress, sitefinity, joomla, drupal, dotnetnuke, cakephp, kohana, and many  custom build php driven sites with no specific framework  ? Usage and development of responsive technology for web applications & emails  ? Performed crossbrowser testing for web apps and custom email templates, using  industry standard guides as well as third party services (browserstack, litmus)  ? Traveled to other cities for client training, trained clients in the office, or handled  training through screensharing with GoToMeeting  Team Lead Duties  ? Reviewing tasks daily and assigning based on task type (design, development,  troubleshooting, content integration, website technology type). Tasks were  assigned based on skill set of developer, an opportunity for team member to grow, and availability based on workload.  ? Identifying and communicating with Account Executives any issues foreseen or that may need clarification  ? Assisting team members ( developers and account execs) to find creative    1  solutions to issues that arise during any phase of a project  ? Reviewing completed tasks based on the level of difficulty of the task, to determine if the task was completed in full as requested  ? Organizing teams based on projects (required skill sets), creating budgets for projects, creating and managing timelines, allocating resources (people/time),  assessing projects in order to keep things on time with cognizance of budget  ? Researching incoming client projects based on market, analytics, client needs  ? Creating Scopes of Work and RFPs based on research, available assets,  budgets, timelines, skill sets  ? Creating a sense of team, through communication, listening, and trust building.  This is the most difficult part of any Lead position and does not happen overnight.  It often gets overlooked in favor of a process such as Agile or implementing  Scrum measures. No system will work without the cooperation and buy-in of the team. Production Artist, Web Developer Colour Solutions July 2010 to December 2010 Large scale print graphics production for conventions  ? Web site interface redesign, on-going maintenance, and content creation in a custom php environment Web Master, Production Artist, Web site interface redesign, on-going Air Force 2008 to 2010 maintenance, and content creation in a custom php environment Freelance Web Developer University of Incarnate Word 2006 to 2010 During this time I was attending the University of Incarnate Word and worked on a number of small sites. I ended my connection with these clients when I became  employed full-time at Gray Digital    Examples of sites I've worked on:    http://www.umchealthsystem.com/    The deployment of Sitefinity CMS to the server was done by our backend tech. All  structure, styling, and content integration were done by myself with collaboration among a partner at Gray and the Technical Director at Gray. Wireframes and initial design was by me, with design eventually being finished by another designer. This is a sitefinity cms  platform with a foundation framework integrated    http://www.louisebatz.org/    Initial construction of the site was started by me until about 40% worth. Design was done by a different developer. The product was finished by another developer. At the time I    2  was diagnosed with pneumonia and anemia, and consequently had to stop working on the project. This is a wordpress custom platform, with foundation used as the framework.    http://www.kingstheatre.com/    Design was done by one another developer. Structure and styling were done by myself, as well as content integration. This is a sitefinity cms (aspx) run platform.    http://www.ekitta.com/    Design was given to me, and I worked on the site structure and styling as well as content  integration. This was a first run I did with Concrete5 cms.    Examples of sites I've directed design/development for:    http://www.oktours.com/    A team collaborative effort that I ran as project lead. I managed initial budget estimates,  wireframes, design and had a team member finish design and another focus on code.  We ended up at a much greater profit given the size of the project, in regards to prior  projects. This was due to a well constructed budget estimate with feedback from all team  members.    http://www.1in5minds.org/    I directed a team member through her first full site development, as well as handled any  issues that came up with code.    http://hillhorticulture.com/    I directed a team member and oversaw the project. The team member handled the design and development.    http://www.heavymetl.com/    I directed team members and oversaw the project scope, design, construction, timeline,  budget, and did a little bit of developing/content integration.    http://www.manhattanschool.edu/    I directed a team member during the design and construction of this site, managed the timeline, created the quote for the project, handled all communication between  developer and account manager, and was responsible for any issues that might arise.  This was a significant project in that it had a small budget, short timeline, and was an opportunity for me to allow a developer to take on a role that was outside of their  standard work.    3 Education B.F.A in Web & Graphic Design University of Incarnate Word Skills css (5 years), html5 (5 years), Integration (9 years), INTEGRATOR (9 years), php (8 years), UI, Front End, Front-End Additional Information Technology & Skills    markup languages / style sheets: HTML5, css, xml    server-side languages and frameworks: php, sitefinity, wordpress, drupal, joomla,  kohana, cakephp, dotnetnuke, feather, foundation, bootstrap    css pre-processors: Sass    client-side: jQuery / plugins (metafizzy isotope/packery/masonry), GreenSock (flash  animation replacement)    code editors: notepad ++, sublimetext, brackets, atom, dreamweaver    git repository/version control: source tree, bit bucket    responsive design / development / troubleshooting: wrote responsive styling rules for  websites and emails from scratch    web application testing, reporting, troubleshooting, and fixing    node.js used for responsive email templates    email marketing: mailchimp, constant contact, salesforce    social media: facebook pages / management / app creation, twitter feed integration,  instagram feed integration    3rd party services used: GatherContent, Litmus, InVision, GoToMeeting, TeamGanntt,  ProWorkFlow    mac / windows systems