President President Owner - Creative Media Enterprises, LLC Ithaca, NY • Offering 20 years experience in the design industry involving designing for the fields of architecture, graphic and website design. Other experience includes fundraising, project management, front- end web development, marketing, and strategic planning.  • 9 Years Project Management  • Certified TESOL instructor Work Experience President Creative Media Enterprises, LLC - Ithaca, NY 2010 to Present • Description: At Creative Media Enterprises I assemble talented teams of independent contractors to develop unique design and marketing solutions to client needs, while mostly handling strategy, business development and project management. Other roles include branding, 2D and 3D design as well as front- end development. Owner Göhner Gestaltung - Ithaca, NY June 1999 to Present Graphic, Web and Architectural Design. Community Outreach Manager DrupalAnswers - Ithaca, NY 2017 to 2017 • Created and maintained relationships with persons in lead marketing and communications positions at major Universities around the Nation. This included Cornell University and other Ivy League Universities. Engagement was initiated, and contact was made via email and telephone communication.   • Created a unique marketing plan for DrupalAnswers, while managing other team members to execute this plan. Assisted the President of DrupalAnswers with daily operational tasks. Marketing & Events Serendipity Catering - Ithaca, NY 2016 to 2016 • Used Adobe Creative suite to design and format various marketing materials for events and promotional material, including event signage, business cards and flyers.   • Trained various staff members to repeat easy to use designs and layouts to produce a consistent look and feel for Serendipity's on-the-go-cafe as well as the events division of the company.   • Assisted with a new design for the Serendipity website. Independent Contractor B&B Flooring - Ithaca, NY 2016 to 2016 • Operated as an independent contractor for B&B Flooring. While working in this capacity a unique set of marketing collateral was created that included custom photography, a new logo, flyers and a comprehensive social media posting regimen.   • Subcontracted and managed another individual whose primary role was to follow the posting schedule I had crafted.   • Conducted a major brand overhaul which transformed B&B Flooring's existing logo into a fresh and modern variation of the primary design idea.   • Took the lead with the website and worked within the framework of what was already established to add new written content. I also initiated a reformatting and rebranding of the website to better meet the needs of B&B Flooring's customer base. Sales & Marketing Sanmita, Inc - Ithaca, NY 2016 to 2016 • Created and maintained relationships with persons in lead marketing and communications positions at major Universities around the nation. This included Cornell University and other Ivy League Universities. Engagement was initiated, and contact was made, via email and telephone communication.   • Managed other team members and assisted the President of Sanmita, Inc. with daily operational tasks such as project tracking and timeline management, client coordination, client communications, and client meetings. Independent Contractor Matrix Architects - Ithaca, NY 2015 to 2015 • Contracted to work on CAD drafting and design of a small residential project in southern California. Created and co-designed floor plans, sections and elevations of the residence. Associate John Snyder Architects - Ithaca, NY 2015 to 2015 • Managed the initial planning and design-phase of a multi-story building project in Ithaca New York. This included various coordination efforts with clients such as arranging meetings, giving presentations, written communication (emails, letters etc.) and placing phone calls.   • Other administrative tasks included time management, billing, and data entry. Architectural Designer Schickel Architecture - Ithaca, NY 2013 to 2015 • Designed multiple residential projects, some of which have been fully constructed. Completed various administrative tasks including filing, submittals, emails, phone calling, billing, and general client correspondence.   • Presented to several municipal boards, including the Ithaca Landmarks Preservation Committee (ILPC) to obtain necessary permits and permissions to complete construction.   • Designed website, business cards and other marketing material. Independent Contractor Horse Racing Simulations - Las Vegas, NV 2011 to 2012 • Was hired to manage a team of offshore web developers in Pune, India. Helped coordinate and direct their efforts.   • Designed various websites for the horse racing industry including the Adena Retirement Facility (Canada) for retired race horses, owned by Frank Stronach and family (founders of Magna International.) Marketing & Sales Assistant Xradio Media Corporation - Las Vegas, NV 2011 to 2012 • Assisted marketing team in telephone sales, as well as advertising sales. Conducted client meetings and presentations to obtain new contracts for company. Brand Manager Surfdash, Inc - Las Vegas, NV 2011 to 2011 • Conceived of, created and implemented a unique social media strategy for the company centered around YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter media content.  • Designed various user interfaces for the website. Managed and trained a team of IT specialists in India. Coordinated the search and hiring of Surfdash staff members. Marketing Assistant Ardyss International - Las Vegas, NV 2010 to 2010 • Designed and conceived of various products for a unique brand: the Armida Signature Collection as well as the GreenClean brand.   • Designed and developed web based marketing campaign in both English and Spanish languages. Front End Web Developer Ancient Wisdom Productions - Ithaca, NY 2009 to 2010 • Developed multiple web based user interfaces for a varied client base using HTML, CSS, PHP and "Webtree" content management system (CMS).   • Conducted various administrative tasks such as phone calling, emailing, time keeping and data entry.   • Developed various internal marketing material for company. Architectural Designer Felecia Davis Studio - Ithaca, NY 2007 to 2007 • Worked as part of a team that proposed an Urban Renewal Plan for what is known as the Pittsburgh Art Triangle. The project proposed a series of urban gardens, cafes, bike paths, solar energy collection strategies, as well as several lighting interventions which were to help illuminate darker regions of the area by night. Together these were to work to revitalize the area. Architectural Designer Klingmann Brand Architects - Ithaca, NY 2003 to 2003 • Assisted a diverse team of 6 international persons in an architectural competition for the Europan, in Germany.   • Conceived of various building prototypes including a spiral-museum for children.  • Created various graphic iconography and presentation material for the competition submission. Education Bachelor's in Architecture Cornell University - Ithaca, NY 2010 Skills Marketing (10+ years), Fundraising (2 years), Graphic design (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Prospecting (4 years), Architecture (10+ years) Links http://www.sophiagoeher.com http://www.creativemediaenterprises.com http://www.goehnergestaltung.com Certifications/Licenses TESOL Teaching Degree 2015 to Present Additional Information SKILLS    Sales  Marketing  Web Development  Architectural Design  Computer Aided Drafting  Social Media Management  Drawing / Painting / Photography  Graphic Design / Adobe Creative Suite  Digital Music Composition / Audio Production  Youtube / Facebook / Pinterest / Instagram / Twitter / Flickr / Google +  Web Hosting / GitHub / HTML5 / CSS3 / Content Management Systems / Wordpress /  Drupal / Business Administration / Hubspot / Microsoft Office / Pages / Google Docs / Drop Box / Various CRM platforms / Various Online Project Management Software / Non Profit Fundraising / GiveGab / Prospecting / (some) Kirby CMS / eCommerce    Architectural Software: Autocad / Rhino / Form-Z / Revit (Learning)