Insurance Coordinator / Manager Assistant Insurance Coordinator / Manager Assistant Insurance Coordinator / Manager Assistant - Imagix Dental Cumming, GA • Practical, perceptive, and ambitious with outstanding skills in data analysis, report preparation, risk management, financial reconciliations, budgeting, tracking expenditures, customer service, and steering corporate and regulatory compliance.  • Excellent skills in creating and maintaining spreadsheets to extract, maintain, and organize vital financial information.  • Able to assess company operations to optimize risk mitigation, competitive positioning, and process improvement opportunities.  • Able to leverage analytical, logical reasoning, and strategic planning skills to protect an organization's financial health and stability.  • Highly respected for attention to detail and deadlines, integrity, and a team player work approach.  • Unwavering commitment to ensuring confidentiality of sensitive files and documents.  • Outstanding blend of problem solving, root cause analysis, troubleshooting, organizational, and critical thinking skills.  • Able to plan, coordinate, and support forward-moving efforts across multiple initiatives concurrently. Work Experience Insurance Coordinator / Manager Assistant Imagix Dental 2017 to Present • Spearhead administrative functions including billing, insurance verification and processing, patient ledgers, daily deposits, and alignment of lab statements with received lab items.  • Maintain up-to-date patient account information, schedule patient appointments, and verify accuracy of insurance policy information. Fraud Analyst Bank of America 2012 to 2017 • Methodically investigated customer transactions to flag or identify suspicious activity and prevent financial losses including fraud.  • Steered risk management by identifying, assessing, and evaluating customer spending patterns.  • Critically analyzed trends to determine risk and minimize losses for financial institution.  • Responded to inquiries, requests, and problems related to potential credit card fraud. Computer Operations Technician Bank of America 2011 to 2012 • Supported and maintained seamless data center operations by closely monitoring applications, event consoles, physical systems, tape backups, batch jobs, and controls.  • Managed over 100 customer accounts and simplified daily checklist to boost efficiency by 20%.  • Proficiently troubleshot and maintained infrastructure consisting of 40+ servers, 80+ workstations and 20+ laser printers. Lead Custom Protection Officer G4S Secure Solutions 2009 to 2011 • Promoted after one year to supervise security team and safeguard property, employees, and visitors from crimes, emergencies, and accidents.  • Prepared detailed reports on accidents, incidents, suspicious activities, safety/fire hazards, and other security-related concerns or situations.    Custom Protection Officer  • Patrolled designated areas, permitted authorized persons to enter property, and closely monitored entrances and exits to prevent theft and other crimes.  • Investigated accidents, incidents, and/or suspicious activities, prepared associated reports, and warned violators of infractions such as loitering, smoking, or carrying forbidden articles. Front End Web Developer / Production Manager Anderson-Taylor 2004 to 2009 • Performed website development and design via XHTML, HTML and CSS, updated existing web pages, and communicated frequently with clients to ensure constant satisfaction.  • Directed, supervised, and motivated team of two web designers and two web developers.  • Streamlined client billing by creating spreadsheet to accurately track client data and projects. Infantryman / Unit Armorer United States Army 2000 to 2004 • Assumed accountability for 800 soldiers and equipment valued at $5M+.  • Resourcefully assembled Master Authorization List to achieve continuous accountability and transparency of assigned weapon system. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Programming Chattahoochee Technical College Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4