FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER AND FREELANCE WRITER <span class="hl">FRONT</span>-<span class="hl">END</span> WEB <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> AND FREELANCE WRITER Front- end web developer, HR, Project Manager, Marketing guru, Yoga instructor, Antique sales, Thai massage practitioner, Freelance writer Waldorf, MD All of my past employers have been highly impressed with my performance. I have always gone above and beyond my official duties and responsibilities. I would love the opportunity to simply blow you away with what we would accomplish together. You will also be pleasantly surprised with the level of creativity I will bring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FRONT- END WEB DEVELOPER AND FREELANCE WRITER Creative logic web services - Waldorf, MD February 2014 to Present Increased exposure 100% and added online functionality for various businesses by creating their websites from inception & design, through SEO/SEM with Blog Management, using CSS3, HTML5, PHP, SQL, JavaScript, & JQuery skills    ? Computer System and Coding Development  ? Staying at the forefront of new programs and systems as they develop, Google Search Console expert  ? Working knowledge of: PC, Mac, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, WordPress, SQL, Type at 95 wpm, Coding, Testing & Debugging, JQuery, Responsive design, MS Excel guru, Windows 2010 and all previous Windows OS, MS Outlook, MS Word, Access, PowerPoint, SVG, Photo Shop, Coding for Cross-browsers/platforms, Java, Web APIs using XML, REST and JSON, Drupal  ? Self-Marketing Management  ? Adept in Business development analysis, Forecasting, Interesting and Effective Content Writing, Creative Promotions, Content Layout, Social Media, SEO/SEM, and Marketing Research Administrative Operations Self-Employed September 2008 to Present Via Various Selling Sites i.e. EBay etc. September 2008 - Present    Obtained over $140k in online revenue from a small home business w/ minimal costs, selling antiques and various items  ? Administrative Operations  ? Orchestrated a well-organized shipping and tracking system in Excel for item categories, storage location, prices, sales status etc. for thousands of items  ? Sales Strategies  ? Developing and Implementing a bottom line pricing strategy  ? Superior Customer Service SALES ASSOCIATE MCC, Inc - Waldorf, MD March 2007 to December 2016 Provided 100% customer retention  ? Communications and Customer Service  ? Customer direction and management of damage control. Eminent at resolving customer issues  ? Procurement  ? Inventory processing, Expenditure analysis and pricing negotiation, Preventing recurring service delays  ? Human Resources  ? HR Assistance duties, Payroll, Employee Relations/Retention - Spanish Speaking Staff, Writing Policy WEB MARKETING AND OPERATIONS SPECIALIST UNICOM Government (GTSI) Via Spectrum Technologies - Chantilly, VA February 2005 to January 2007 Independently earned the E-Business and Marketing Department over $600k in online and catalog ad revenue. Counseled product brand managers to implement strategic marketing plans with their set budgets. Organized pricing and promoted web/email ad placement availability, and coordinated the submission and flow of priors for payment for ongoing partner site renewal fees. Tracked reserved payments for ads on the web site & fulfilled ad placement duties.  ? Supervision/Leadership  ? Increased Order Fulfillment Turn Around by 70%. Determining trends and detecting errors in work status  ? Evaluated goals to spearhead enhancement resolutions after researching, critiquing and presenting the order fulfillment department with past due orders to alleviate causes of production delays and advised upon open order issues  ? Project and Product Management  ? As E-Marketing Project Coordinator, managed the production of E-Marketing materials and updated the production status worksheet (real time), as well as SharePoint  ? Created shows/event emails for mass launching. Managed the approval process for product and show emails to assure tight deadlines were met. Proofread Product E-mails and web products on the web site.  ? Managed featured and categorized products and pricing on the GTSI website, inserted hyperlinks, redirects, logos, images, and audio & video. Ensured inclusion of accurate pricing & general editing.  ? Financial Management (E-Marketing)  ? Modified and maintained Soft Dollars spreadsheet to include payment of inventories, discounts, proof of performance, and advertised product information  ? Regularly reconciled account information in conjunction with finance  ? Internal Software Trainer  ? Lead the Web Tools Training Program and instructed Product Management and Shows/Events teams  ? Educated, monitored and coordinated training of email creation to Operations team, and trained the Sales team on providing e-carts  ? Assumed customer online assistance, resolved operational issues and delegated related tasks  ? Stats and Metrics Reporter  ? Provided KPI and other key metric reports. Created graphs based on order fulfillment information to conclude at new recommended processes and managed project status  ? Compiled and presented ongoing ad results for e-mail campaigns, partner sites and online banners, such as click though, web site and email promotion unique views/visits, redirects, and soft dollars  ? Defined Webinar registrants, attendees etc. Converted data to presentable graphs  ? Compiled and posted daily stats for overall, and directly tracked web revenue on GTSI.Com and subcategorized online revenue, such as for various product brands  ? Customer Feedback Management  ? Acquired quotes from e-mail campaigns and monitored with sales team  ? Supervised survey and registration feedback - allocated and assigned requests accordingly  ? Managed email database unsubscribes and new subscriber information  ? Assessed survey responses to recommend site enhancements  ? E-Marketing Management  ? Placed and Tracked keywords (Google Analytics, AdWords), SEO, Consumer Behavior & Data analysis  ? Program Management  ? Diversified use of infinite business specific software applications and programs including but not limited to: CRM, SharePoint, CBSI software, Web trends, Web tools, WebEx, Live Meeting, PeopleSoft, Email Labs, Blue Streak, CBSI, Data.com: Salesforce, Constant Contact, Site Executive ASSISTANT MARKETING DIRECTOR Injury Centers of America, LLC - La Plata, MD January 2003 to November 2004 Eliminated new employee costs by assisting in various unrelated supportive roles such as typing echocardiogram dictation and other duties as required  ? Marketing Management  ? Solely executed an 200% increase in business for the agency DC medical facility  ? Increased sales by gaining 13% new business from a cold query of attorneys in my first 6 months TEMP Express Personnel - Columbia, MD March 2002 to December 2002 v  Fundraiser / Data Entry/ Tourism Liaison  o  American Diabetes Association / BGE Home & Appliance / MCRB Fulfillment and Computer Services TELESALES MBNA America - Hunt Valley, MD August 2000 to February 2001 Competitive Sales with Top 80% of calls and sales ratios  ? Increased sales revenues by selling new credit cards DATA PROCESSOR T. Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD September 1999 to May 2000 Team Motivator with Individual Top 98% of Indexing  ? Typist for stock fund, account & check numbers Education Masters in Business Administration/Global Management Westwood College - Westminster, CO July 2010 BA in Business Administration/International Marketing Towson University - Towson, MD May 2001 AA College of Southern Maryland - La Plata, MD May 1999 Skills Front End, Jquery, UI, Javascript, CSS3, Front-End, HTML5, Java Awards Towson University Deans List Westwood College President’s List Award 2009 & 2010 Towson University Deans List, State of Maryland Distinguished Scholar Honorable Mention, Cum Laude Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED September 2018 to Present Certified Yoga Instructor October 2016 to Present Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gy8dzsoc4972vao9 Graphic Design — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fsl-j2rlptuogan5 Problem Solving — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dpcn7d6my94lhnfd Search Engine Optimization — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kb5qy6cbpniez8yt Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Yoga Alliance Additional Information Self-motivated, efficient and versatile professional adept at managing multiple projects, providing exceptional customer support, and streamlining office operations for major productivity gains. Excellent ability to strengthen interdepartmental collaboration and aid Executives in meeting deadlines, coordinating projects, and resolving pressing issues.    Front- end Web Development • Multi-Project Management • Financial Management • Reporting • Customer Service  Process Improvement • SEO • Coding • Key Metrics Reporting • Operational Streamlining • E-publications Design  Team Leader and Motivator • Marketing Management • Trainer • Yoga Instructor • E-Business • Bi-lingual • Content Management • Web Marketing • Strategic Marketing & Writing Expertise