Assistant Manager/Server Assistant Manager/Server Sales Associate/Office Administrator Charlotte, NC A polite, friendly and sociable person who can coordinate the flow of paperwork around an office, and provide administrative support of the highest calibre. Sara can keep a cool head in busy, complex circumstances and is the kind of person who inspires others to work to their optimum. She has the kind of solid office administration experience under her belt that will allow her to make an impact from day one in any company that she joins. Her key skills include; monitoring office operations, enforcing office protocols and implementing new administrative systems. Right now she is looking for a unique role that she can make her own and would like to join a company that encourages cooperation and communication between its staff and senior managers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Manager/Server First Watch- Good Morning Carolinas, LLC - Fort Mill, SC May 2019 to Present • Food service at high paced breakfast/brunch restaurant. Duties include memorizing menu items to guide guests through the dining experience accurately and safely.   • Direct customers to meal add-ons and specialty freshly squeezed juices to enhance the overall meal for customers and increase sales.  • Quickly learn seasonal menu items and ingredients by launch date  • Handle guest complaints during high stress moments.  • Train new employees to successfully navigate the workflow process  • Manage front of the house to handle customer complaints without sacrificing daily profits  • Creating a daily schedule for all servers, enforcing company rules and regulations.  • Calculating and configuring server and bussers tips daily.   • Checking the restaurant for cleanliness   • Maintaining a rapport with regular customers to ensure a pleasant dining experience. Office Administrator Sane Solutions LLC November 2015 to Present Responsibilities  • Leading an administrative team.  • Answering the telephone and dealing with incoming phone calls.  • Processing purchase orders and delivery notes.  • Answering the front door intercom and pressing a button to open the doors.  • Website creation and maintenance  • Digital content creation  • Ordering office stationary when stocks are low.  • Producing creditor payment lists.  • Controlling the office petty cash float.  • Dealing with incoming and outgoing post.  • Exchanging information with other company departments.  • Explaining office procedures to new or junior members of staff.  • Proofreading important documents.  • Using an electronic calendar to manage the appointments of office managers.  • Handling administrative requests from members of the office team.  • Making travel and accommodation arrangements for company directors. Front End WordPress Developer (short-term contract) Borcz + Dixon - Crofton, MD June 2017 to July 2017 Customizing interactive themes and websites with php, bootstrap 4, Html5 and CSS Interim Director of Communications Howard University Middle School of Mathematics and Science - Washington, DC June 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Oversee the development of the Howard MS2 brand  • Manage Howard MS2 Social Media  • Create, Schedule and Manage Social Media Campaigns to build following  • Interact with and involve students in necessary capacity to aid Social Media posts and campaigns  • Oversee and publish all communications intended for public consumption  • Oversee and publish all communications intended for parents and students  • Manage relationships with communications related vendors and consultants.  • Write copy for school brochures and other paper collateral  • Copywriter for blog entries, digital marketing materials and press releases. Office Manager and Technical Support Procope Consulting LLC September 2010 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Organization and Maintenance of client database  • Answering phones and handling any consumer questions or complaints  • Maintained all organizational files related to company and client information  • Interface with clients to understand their needs and communicate those needs to the design and creation team  • Maintained a working knowledge of proprietary software to ensure smooth client communication  • Notified clients of any and all changes and processed change requests. Real Estate Assistant Keller Williams Realty - Fort Mill, SC August 2006 to January 2009 -Compiling house files ( contracts, offers, inspection sheets, mortgage apps, etc.)  -Client database maintenance  -Appointment coordination and management  -File organization  -Vendor vetting for marketing and distribution  -Event planning for client engagement  -Answering phone calls and assisting with all questions and concerns Education Some college Skills Communications (5 years), SEO (3 years), Administrative Assistant (6 years), Office Management (9 years), Front Office, Quickbooks, Office Admin, Office 365, Front Desk, Copywriting (4 years) Links http://hu-ms2.org http://mdintltabernacle.org http://interpretingslavelife.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner January 2018 to January 2021 • Able to describe basic AWS architectural constructs  • Define billing, account management and pricing models   • Identify sources of documentation or support  • Able to describe the deployment and operation of AWS architecture  • Define and describe AWS and its cloud services Assessments Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cuc4f4v-3y-i5yr Scheduling — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to cross-reference agendas and itineraries to avoid conflicts when creating schedules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sai3zonr1ma40ql3 Customer Focus & Orientation — Familiar April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ruxzx5r63wzimaxp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  • AWS Cloud Services  • Linux  • General Experience with PowerSchool  • General experience with PHP  • Extensive knowledge and experience with Windows  • Extensive knowledge and experience with MAC OS X  • Extensive knowledge of Microsoft Office  • Extensive knowledge of WordPress