Digital Marketing Manager Digital Marketing Manager Digital Marketing Manager - Jelly Belly Candy Co Vacaville, CA Work Experience Digital Marketing Manager Jelly Belly Candy Co - Fairfield, CA March 2017 to Present Responsible for setting the strategy for on-site and off-site digital marketing in support of direct-to-consumer e-commerce, business-to-business  e-commerce initiatives, and the brand as a whole. Manage, analyze and  implement digital marketing programs and third-party service providers.    Responsible for planning, scheduling, coordinating and growing the company's digital marketing efforts including email, SEO, SEM, affiliate and  social. Create and manage targeted campaign strategies to drive revenue  and brand awareness while continually testing, tracking, and optimizing for both revenue and ROI.    Responsible for managing all aspects of the consumer loyalty program.  Establish rules for the allocation of loyalty points and rewards. Configure  email templates and workflows for triggered loyalty emails and develop  customer segmentation strategies. Develop marketing campaigns to drive  existing customer retention and new customer acquisition.    Responsible for initial integration and management of all email  marketing initiatives within Bronto. Configure, test and maintain all  triggered, transactional and marketing emails for JellyBelly.com. Monitor  KPIs in the email channel to determine if messages and templates are  meeting performance expectations.    Duties:  ? Develop monthly campaigns in support of B2C and B2B e-commerce  websites.  ? Strategize with vendors on various digital marketing initiatives.  ? Establish segmentation rules for triggered, drip and marketing  emails.  ? Manage consumer loyalty program.  ? Coordinate with Brand Marketing, PR and Social on new product  releases.  ? Configure vendor reports to ensure KPIs are being met.  ? Coordinate with creative services on the creation of digital assets.  ? Oversee inventory and fulfillment for all e-commerce websites. Content Developer / Junior Front- End Developer Jelly Belly Candy Co - Fairfield, CA September 2014 to February 2017 Responsible for using web development skills (HTML, CSS & JavaScript) and knowledge of SEO fundamentals to help develop and maintain numerous  e-commerce and content website assets, including promotional emails, site  landing pages and promotional/marketing/branding copy.    Duties:  ? Support Digital Marketing Manager by performing time-sensitive  tasks in accordance with the Digital Marketing Calendar.  ? Develop, test and deploy HTML-based responsive-designed emails  for all commerce websites (Consumer & Retail).  ? Schedule promotions and the supporting digital assets.  ? Work with Creative Services to ensure timely creation and publication of digital assets.  ? Collaborate with Marketing and PR to construct seasonal and product landing pages.  ? Coordinate with overseas development team with testing and publishing timely code changes to all commerce websites.  ? Perform regular website reviews to ensure SEO value, accuracy and relevance of on-site copy.  ? Manage metadata (product keywords, sites tags, etc.) to optimize  for SEO value.  ? Monitor competitors' SEO value and use data to find opportunity to increase our own ranking. Manager / Lead Trainer CrossFit - Vacaville, CA December 2012 to September 2014 Responsible for all aspects of operations for a 100+ member gym.    Details:  ? Maintain and develop all aspects of media; which includes website  design and upkeep, daily social media updates and design prints and logos.  ? Create print ads for local advertiser.  ? Identify the most efficient marketing avenues that generated  quality customer responses that helped expand memberships.  ? Program and coordinate daily workouts for various fitness levels.  ? Design specific programs for new gym members.  ? Lead and instruct daily group classes of up to 20 individuals.  ? Organize and teach specialized training sessions.  ? Keep a monthly schedule of trainers and adjust for fluctuations  ? Continue with specialized personal education to ensure members  have access to latest and best information available.  ? Deal with a constant changing workout environment; which includes responding to new client inquiries and solving issues that  may arise with current members.  ? Select vendors that supply products to fit the needs of gym  members. Glazier / Business Partner Tom's Glass Co - Vacaville, CA June 2006 to September 2014 Responsible for the day-to-day operations of family-owned residential and automotive glass repair and replacement business.  Duties:  ? Maintain and develop all aspects of media; which includes website  design and upkeep, daily social media updates and design prints and logos.  ? Create print ads for local advertiser.  ? Invoicing completed jobs and managing accounts payables and receivables.  ? Coordinate the timely delivery of products and subsequent  installations.  ? Solving unexpected problems and finding solutions to unique jobs  and unexpected circumstances.  ? Adapt to product and manufacturing changes.  ? Staying on top of new technologies in automotive and residential  glass replacement.  ? Scheduling and coordinating jobs with various subcontractors. Education Associates of Arts Degree Solano Community College - Cordelia, CA August 2001 to June 2003 Skills SEO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SVN, CSS, JIRA, ILLUSTRATOR, EXCEL, POWERPOINT, PHOTOSHOP, Digital Marketing, Google Analytics Certifications/Licenses BrightEdge Certified Present