Machine Operator/Assembler Machine Operator/Assembler Assembly and Test Technician-3 Lewisville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Machine Operator/Assembler Mary Kay Inc - Lewisville, TX April 2019 to Present Assemble and disassemble components, Assemble, label and packages a variety of assemblies, sub-assemblies following established procedures and complete all necessary paperwork. Mechanical Assembler II/Test Technician Creation Technologies - Plano, TX March 2018 to February 2019 Utilize electrical and mechanical components to perform a variety of operations, such as generating power controlling systems, read blueprints, kaizen, 5’s with everyday operations. Electro Mechanical Assembly Casio - Frisco, TX January 2018 to March 2018 Read blueprints, schematics, and diagrams to determine the method and sequence of assembly parts. Verify dimensions of parts using precision measuring instruments to ensure that specifications are met. Assembly and Test Technician-3 Caterpillar Inc - Montgomery, IL March 2017 to October 2017 Assembled components and sub-assemblies  Set up and operate production equipment in accordance with current good  manufacturing practices and standard operating procedures.  Calibrate or adjust equipment to ensure quality production, using tools such as calipers, micrometers, height gauges, protractors, or ring gauges.  Troubleshoot problems with equipment, devices, or products.  Monitor and adjust production processes or equipment for quality and productivity.  Adhere to all applicable regulations, policies, and procedures for health, safety, and environmental compliance. Production Technician Power Solutions International Inc - Wood Dale, IL January 2016 to June 2016 Inspect, test, and adjust completed units to ensure that units meet specifications,  tolerances, and customer order requirements.  Assemble parts or units, and position, align, and fasten units to assemblies,  subassemblies, or frames, using hand tools and power tools.  Position, align, and adjust parts for proper fit and assembly.  Connect cables, tubes, and wiring, according to specifications.  Attach name plates and mark identifying information on parts.  Read blueprints and specifications to determine component parts and assembly  sequences of electromechanical units.  Disassemble units to replace parts or to crate them for shipping.  Clean and lubricate parts and subassemblies, using grease paddles or oilcans. Production Technician Nissan North America - Canton, MS August 2012 to August 2015 Set up and operate production equipment in accordance with current good  manufacturing practices and standard operating procedures.  Inspect finished products for quality and adherence to customer specifications.  Adhere to all applicable regulations, policies, and procedures for health, safety, and environmental compliance.  Calibrate or adjust equipment to ensure quality production, using tools such as  calipers, micrometers, height gauges, protractors, or ring gauges.  Set up and verify the functionality of safety equipment.  Monitor and adjust production processes or equipment for quality and productivity.  Start up and shut down processing equipment.  Plan and lay out work to meet production and schedule requirements.  Prepare and assemble materials.  Provide advice or training to other technicians.  Prepare production documents, such as standard operating procedures,  manufacturing batch records, inventory reports, or productivity reports.  Keep production logs. Certified Nurse Assistant Willow Creek Nursing & Rehabilitation Center - Byram, MS March 2011 to April 2012 Monitor patients' physical and emotional well-being and report unusual behavior or physical ailments to medical staff.  Provide nursing, psychiatric, or personal care to mentally ill, emotionally disturbed, or mentally retarded patients.  Observe and influence patients' behavior, communicating and interacting with  them and teaching, counseling, or befriending them.  Take and record measures of patients' physical condition, using devices such as thermometers or blood pressure gauges.  Aid patients in performing tasks, such as bathing or keeping beds, clothing, or living  areas clean. Front End Cashier The Home Depot - Madison, MS April 2009 to January 2010 Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic debits.  Keep accurate records.  Issue receipts, refunds, credits, or change due to customers.  Count money and audit money drawers.  Obtain customers' signatures on receipts. Material Handler-2 Advance Auto Parts Distribution July 2007 to January 2008 Galman, Ms  Inspect product load for accuracy and safely move it around the warehouse or facility to ensure timely and complete delivery.  Position lifting devices under, over, or around loaded pallets, skids, or boxes and secure material or products for transport to designated areas.  Move levers or controls that operate lifting devices, such as forklifts, lift beams with swivel-hooks, hoists, or elevating platforms, to load, unload, transport, or stack  material.  Manually or mechanically load or unload materials from pallets, skids, platforms,  cars, lifting devices, or other transport vehicles.  Weigh materials or products and record weight or other production data on tags or labels. Production Associate Belk Distribution Center - Byram, MS February 2004 to January 2007 Record product, packaging, and order information on specified forms and records.  Examine and inspect containers, materials, and products to ensure that packing  specifications are met.  Measure, weigh, and count products and materials.  Mark and label containers, container tags, or products, using marking tools.  Clean containers, materials, supplies, or work areas, using cleaning solutions and hand tools.  Remove completed or defective products or materials, placing them on moving  equipment such as conveyors or in specified areas such as loading docks. Sales Associate Krispy Kreme Doughnuts - Ridgeland, MS February 2004 to January 2007 Compute charges for merchandise or services and receive payments.  Recommend and provide advice on a wide variety of products and services.  Store food in designated containers and storage areas to prevent spoilage.  Keep records of the quantities of food used.  Place food trays over food warmers for immediate service, or store them in refrigerated storage cabinets.  Weigh or measure ingredients.  Operate cash register, handle money, and give correct change.  Package take-out foods or serve food to customers. Certified Nurse Assistant Mississippi State Hospital - Pearl, MS June 2000 to February 2004 Monitor patients' physical and emotional well-being and report unusual behavior or physical ailments to medical staff.  Observe and influence patients' behavior, communicating and interacting with them and teaching, counseling, or befriending them.  Encourage patients to develop work skills and to participate in social, recreational, or other therapeutic activities that enhance interpersonal skills or develop social  relationships.  Take and record measures of patients' physical condition, using devices such as thermometers or blood pressure gauges.  Aid patients in performing tasks, such as bathing or keeping beds, clothing, or living  areas clean. Kodak Developer Walgreens - Clinton, MS June 2001 to January 2004 Clean or maintain photoprocessing or darkroom equipment, using ultrasonic  equipment or cleaning and rinsing solutions.  Create prints according to customer specifications and laboratory protocols.  Dry prints or negatives using sponges, squeegees, mechanical air dryers, or drying  cabinets.  Fill tanks of processing machines with solutions such as developer, dyes, stop-baths,  fixers, bleaches, or washes.  Ink borders or lettering on illustrations using pens, brushes, or drafting instruments.  Insert processed negatives and prints into envelopes for delivery to customers. Education High School Diploma Bailey APAC Middle School - Jackson, MS May 2000 Skills Rivet, Wiring, Assembly Worker Additional Information Skills  Mechanical Operation Monitoring  Production and Processing