Independent Web Consultant Independent Web Consultant Front- End Web Developer (HTML/CSS/jQuery/WordPress) Downey, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent Web Consultant www.creativecornerlb.com - Downey, CA 2005 to Present • Developed websites for various clients using HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 3 and Wordpress.  • Designed mock-ups and wire framing of websites using Photoshop.  • Utilized search engine marketing (SEO/SEM) tools to optimize website visibility and performance by the use of keywords, meta descriptions, landing pages, and Google Analytics.  • Integrated electronic shopping carts, product pages and payment gateways using WooCommerce for Wordpress and Shopify.   • Created any promotional material such as flyers, banners, and graphics as needed using Photoshop and Illustrator.   • Organized website project meetings to discuss website project and time lines.   • Online portfolio: www.creativecornerlb.com Crossfit Coach and Web Master www.crossfitbeachfitness.com - Los Alamitos, CA August 2015 to January 2017 • Created two websites for both locations of Beach Fitness.   o Website created and managed: www.beachfitness.com, www.crossfitbeachfitness.com  o Website technology: html5, css3, bootstrap 3.0, jQuery, PHP and WordPress.  • Utilized search engine marketing (SEO/SEM) tools to optimize website visibility and performance by the use of keywords, meta descriptions, landing pages, and Google Analytics.   • Managed Facebook and Instagram social media accounts to help drive traffic to social media pages and to website.  • Launched various Facebook Ads and Instagram Ads to increase clientele for Beach Fitness Los Alamitos location and to drive web traffic to website. Website and Social Media Coordinator HSI-STEM - Long Beach, CA February 2013 to September 2016 • Developed and maintained websites for HSI-STEM, Center For Latino Community and Latino Health Equity Conference.   o Website technology: html5, css3, bootstrap 3, jQuery, PHP and WordPress.  • Utilized search engine marketing (SEO/SEM) tools to optimize website visibility and performance by the use of keywords, meta descriptions, landing pages, and Google Analytics.  • Managed all social media outlets to engage students at CSULB and around the Long Beach community.   • Supervised college students committee that handled social media postings.  • Created any promotional material such as flyers, banners, and graphics as needed using Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Websites created and managed: www.csulb.edu/hsi-stem, www.csulb.edu/centers/latinohealth, www.latinohealthequity.com Lead Front- End Web Developer RG Pacific - Los Angeles, CA November 2011 to February 2013 • Developed websites for various clients using front- end technologies such as HTML, CSS, WordPress.  • Converted static HTML to Wordpress files.  • Designed mock-ups and wire framing of websites using Photoshop.  • Optimized keywords, meta descriptions and content for better SEO performance (Search Engine Optimization) Jr. Web Designer Original Retro Brand - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to September 2011 Optimized web images for Original Retro Brand's webstore,  • Updated product linesheet of all created shirt graphics. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems CAL STATE LONG BEACH - Long Beach, CA December 2012 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (3 years), HTML 5 (5 years), JQuery (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), PHP (5 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (3 years), Wordpress (6 years), Angular.js (Less than 1 year), SASS (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.creativecornerlb.com Additional Information Skills    Systems: Windows 9X/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7, Mac OS X  Databases: MySQL  Languages: HTML5, CSS3, PHP, jQuery, BootStrap 3+, Angular, SASS, GIT  Software: Adobe Dreamweaver CS5+, Adobe Photoshop CS5+, Adobe Illustrator CS5+, Microsoft Office, Wordpress    Additional Skills:  Bilingual in English and Spanish. Ability to work independently and in within a team setting. Specialty in mobile responsive website design, search engine optimization, and social media integration.