Sr. Front- End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End Developer - MyLife.com Inc Reseda, CA Work Experience Sr. Front- End Developer MyLife.com Inc - Westwood, CA November 2017 to Present Migrating existing pages from AngularJS to ReactJS  ? Creating new pages using ReactJS with Bootstrap 4  ? Converting Jquery methods to ReactJS services  ? Optimizing new pages for SEO best practices  ? Migrated SEO profile page to Preact Sr. Software Engineer Trimble - Marina del Rey, CA June 2015 to November 2017 Migrated Trimble Connect Web from DOJO to AngularJS  ? Improved the loading speed of the web page using RequireJS  ? Developed single page applications (SPAs) using AngularJS UI-Router as the state management  ? Developed reusable AngularJS directives to be used across different views  ? Developed new responsive templates using Bootstrap 3 with LESS  ? Developed API document pages using an api blueprint renderer called "Aglio" Sr. Front- End Developer MyLife.com Inc - Westwood, CA April 2011 to June 2015 Developed accessible, standards-based, web pages with HTML 4 transitional, HTML5 using CSS 2/3  ? Created dynamic content using JSON, JQuery, Mootools and native Javascript  ? Optimized web pages  ? Cross browsers/devices testing  ? JavaScript DOM Manipulation  ? Converted PSD mockups into a solid HTML 4 and HTML 5 templates  ? Integrated social APIs (Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn)  ? Developed responsive email using Velocity templates/JSP and CSS media queries  ? Developed WAP/Mobile pages using Foundation (ZURB)  ? Developed new responsive pages using Bootstrap 3 with AngularJS  ? Maintained WordPress pages Software Engineer Luxury Link - Los Angeles, CA February 2010 to April 2011 Created accessible, standards-based web pages with HTML5, XHTML 2.0 and CSS  ? Added effects to web pages using JQuery and JavaScript  ? Enhanced web pages with images, image maps and image sprites  ? Developed web pages using HyperText Markup Language (HTML5) with SMARTY  ? Optimized page styles and layout with Cascading Style Sheets  ? Created dynamic web pages using server-side PHP scripts with ZEND and CakePHP frameworks  ? Validated web pages  ? Optimized web pages for search engines  ? Converted PSD mockups into a solid HTML5 and XHTML 2.0 templates Training Assistant / Programmer Protection One - Van Nuys, CA October 2007 to February 2010 Developed and maintained database using SQL Server  ? Developed Intranet Web-based Applications using ASP.NET/ASP/AJAX/HTML/DHTML/CSS/PHP/JQUERY  ? Debugged and modified PHP scripts and stored procedures  ? Generated .pdf, .xml, .csv and .xls files using ASP and VB scripts  ? Migrated data records from MS Access and MySQL to MS SQL database  ? Converted Intranet application from PHP to ASP.NET and Classic ASP  ? Designed and converted PSD mockups into a solid HTML templates Web Production Specialist Learning Tree International - El Segundo, CA July 2005 to August 2007 Created accessible, standards-based web pages with XHTML 1.0 and CSS  ? Added effects to web pages using Adobe Flash and JavaScript  ? Enhanced web pages with images, image maps and image sprites  ? Optimized page styles and layout with Cascading Style Sheets  ? Validated web pages  ? Created banner ads using Photoshop CS2 and Flash 8  ? Optimized web pages for search engines  ? Maintained web pages using Dreamweaver 8 and Microsoft Visual Studio .NET  ? Exported InDesign files using AppleScript  ? Converted PSD mockups into a solid XHTML 1.0 templates Web Production Specialist Learning Tree International - El Segundo, CA September 2004 to July 2005 Created accessible, standards-based web pages with XHTML 1.0 and CSS  ? Developed web pages using Dreamweaver MX  ? Created product manuals and magazines ads using MS Publisher, Adobe Photoshop 7.0 and Adobe Illustrator 7.0  ? Validated web pages  ? Optimized web pages for search engines  ? Integrated Windows 2003 server into the network  ? Trained users and administered e-mail for the entire company  ? Performed daily administrative tasks including adding and deleting users  ? Creating dynamic web pages using server-side PHP scripts Education Bachelor's Degree of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - West Hills, CA June 2004 Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Php