Front End Developer / Graphic Design <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Graphic Design Front End Developer / Graphic Design - ALPINESTARS INC Bellflower, CA Work Experience Front End Developer / Graphic Design ALPINESTARS INC October 2016 to Present • Maintain company website using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, and management tools.  • Creating features and experiences from initial concept to released product  • Work with existing style guidelines and expand upon them  • Building user-friendly landing pages to increase traffic and conversion rates  • Evaluating code to ensure validity, proper structure, and compatibility with browsers, devices, and operating system Freelance July 2015 to October 2016 Front End Developer / Graphic Design  • Design full-stack design across all platforms by creating wireframes, mockups, prototypes, and pixel-perfect visuals  • Work cross-functionally with other designers, developers, and product managers  • Create banner ad and animations Senior Interactive Web Designer ConsumerTrack Inc May 2014 to July 2015 • Function as the key designer for our Internet Marketing campaigns producing landing pages, banners, wireframes, mockups and email graphics  • Create and define compelling user experiences (both interaction and visual) with a focus on user-centered design for existing web applications  • Convert concepts into intuitive and engaging user interfaces  • Assist in the development of a new brand and how to convey it cohesively across multiple Web properties  • Provide thought-leadership on Web design best practices and next-generation digital trends while maintaining a user-centered design focus  • Managing creative licenses and royalties UI Designer/Web Designer/Graphic Designer 20 Century Fox Television/Login Consulting Services April 2013 to May 2014 • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  • Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline-oriented environments.  • Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies.  • Responsive front- end development with Experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, IDE &Tool Eclipse, Notepad++, Primefaces.  • UI/UX, clickable app prototypes for mobile devices, UI diagrams and wireframe user flows, motion graphics, print design.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Toolbar for IE. Web Designer/Graphic Designer/UI Designer GreekBill Inc October 2011 to April 2013 • Function as the key designer for our Internet Marketing campaigns producing landing pages, banners, wireframes, mockups, planned show booth layouts, and email graphics  • Designed promotional advertisements for web and magazine publication  • Convert concepts into intuitive and engaging user interfaces  • Designed stationary, catalogs, brochures, flyers, photographed products for marketing materials  • Filmed and edited promotional and instructional videos Web Designer/Graphic Designer/Motion Graphics Sony Pictures Entertainment Marketing February 2010 to October 2011 • Contribute to enhancing skills / design ideas / quality control.  • High proficiency with Adobe Creative Suite 4.0 or higher (MAC and/or PC); HTML, CSS, Flash, and email marketing software.  • Working with printers, programmers, developers or other technicians, to complete the final product.  • Improved workflow by organizing weekly department meetings and training other team members  to use Adobe Creative Suite.  • Created annual ad plans for 2 product lines narrowing focus and maximizing ad budget. Front End Web Developer Konami July 2010 to October 2010 • Update existing consumer and e-commerce websites and abide by style guidelines and style guide documents.  • Brought PSDs and Sketch designs to life, working closely with designers to ensure pages were completed to their vision.  • Performed bi-weekly website updates, including new articles, slideshows, HTML email templates.  • Experience with desktop publishing/imaging applications for use in creating graphics optimized for the web.  • Knowledge of current web markup or scripting languages; HTML/CSS, JavaScript, and cross-browser issues.  • Translating website from English to Spanish. Graphic Artist TVG Television Network July 2009 to January 2010 • Conceptualizes and designs high- end promotional graphics for video/film projects, promos, presentation, commercials, EPKs and other video/audio materials.  • Conceptualization of project from script to final website edit.  • Completing task and making sure to meet all deadlines.  • Design and animate motion graphics for daily races, involving original illustrations, photograph, and other media. Graphics Coordinator Paramount Pictures September 2008 to July 2009 • Established communication with Directors of Graphics Production to ensure proper scheduling.  • Compiled and maintained all compilation reels for assigned production along with season-long updates.  • Coordinated assignments for graphics task designers, artists and/or operators in the creation of requested graphic by supplying all necessary information for a project. Motion Graphics Artist Paramount Pictures August 2008 to September 2008 • Production of on-air graphics elements (lower thirds, end pages, logos, etc.) for use in daily on-air promotions.  • Responsible for contributing to the conception and implementation of quality broadcast sports promos and TV spots in a small team environment.  • Creating linear flows and storyboards, as well as interactive and functional animations.  • Designing materials used in marketing campaigns. Motion Graphics/2D Concept Artist/ Rotoscope Artist Image Metrics November 2007 to August 2008 • Responsible for the majority of the motion tracking on new movies "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button", and "The Mummy 3" by means of the new proprietary.  • After Effects plug-in (developed in-house), as well as tracking on Sony's new games "Grand Theft Auto 4" and "Midnight Club 4." Education Bachelor of Science in Arts & Animation The Art Institute - Los Angeles, CA December 2006 Skills Illustrator, Wordpress, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, CSS, PHP, MYSQL