Maintenance Technician Maintenance Technician Web Developer/ Live Audio Engineer/VO artist/ Maintenance/ Janitorial Lakewood, CA Skilled in various positions with experience in Management, Sound Engineering, Front- End Development and Maintenance. Seeking a position that I can contribute my excellent experience, work-ethic, and professionalism.    Here's a link to a sample reel for VO   https://www.dropbox.com/s/xuq9lbbrw6zev1j/Demo%20Reel%20Sample%20Marcus%20Young.wav?dl=0 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Maintenance Technician CubeSmart - Long Beach, CA November 2018 to Present General maintenance and repair of property. Minor electrical, roof patch, painting and any other issues and repairs that require my attention. Front- end Developer (Part-time) Self Own Business - Lakewood, CA 2018 to Present I currently help in creating front- end solutions for Shyft Creative as a part-time employee. Using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and jQuery. Youngdevspace.wordpress.com Maintenance Worker Calvary Chapel Downey - Downey, CA February 2017 to October 2018 I was responsible for making repairs to minor electrical, plumbing, drywall, carpet, and other repairs required throughout the entire complex. Audio Engineer - Live Sound Reinforcment/ Voice Over Work Calvary Chapel Downey - Downey, CA October 2013 to February 2017 I was responsible for setting up the stage and all equipment (mics, monitors, in ear systems etc.) for full bands and orchestras mixing the live sets during performances. I am extremely proficient in using the Yamaha M7 mixing console as well as most Yamaha and Midas mixing consoles. I can use almost any mixing console. I also was responsible for editing and enhancing audio files using Sound Forge and Adobe Audition. I was also the voice over artist for many ads and commercials they produced and was the radio host for their broadcast on 107.9fm. Janitor/Maintenance Calvary Chapel Downey - Downey, CA December 2007 to October 2013 Responsibilities included cleaning, and making minor repairs to electrical, plumbing, carpeting, and drywall. Buyer/Planner RMI International - Paramount, CA June 2005 to August 2006 Responsibilities included negotiating with vendors, ordering and shipping supplies and uniforms to our accounts across the United States. And dealing directly with General managers for all US accounts. Also working directly with accounts payable to ensure accurate reports at the end of each quarter. Shift Supervisor - Deli Bristol Farms - Long Beach, CA September 2003 to November 2005 Write schedules, delegate work responsibilities. Help and assist customers. Education High school or equivalent Skills HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery (Less than 1 year), Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere, Adobe Sound Forge, Adobe After Effects (5 years), Hand Tools, Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Project Management Additional Information • Fluent in various front end web development languages such as, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery.   • Efficient in the assembly of computer Hardware, for example, building computers  • Proficient in MS Office Software   • Strong decision maker  • Self motivated, confident, and dedicated to quality work  • Multi-task oriented and flexible