Job Seeker Frontend React Developer San Francisco, CA Hi! I like to code. I'm a creative with an engineering mindset. In my previous career, as a fashion designer- constructionist-pattern maker, I engaged with clients who had unique physical differences. Empathizing with their  concerns forced me to create and form practical solutions that fulfilled their emotional needs via tailored design and development of garments/ products formatted for them.    Now, I want to share my skill set to create websites for clients and give them the exact emotional response to shine on the world wide web. I would like to bridge that emotional gap between the electrical pulses of computational  hardware to the soft-warm hearts of people.    https://abrahamhall.netlify.com/  https://github.com/abrahamhall84  https://www.linkedin.com/in/abrahamhall84 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Abraham Hall Designs May 2007 to Present Built landing page, including company contact and email sign up forms  ? Helped contribute and stylized the application with React.js and SCSS  ? Create custom fashions and home decor for private clients  ? Conceptualized product for small companies  ? Consult and develop small business and personal websites  ? Men's & Women's Fashion Design & Textile Science  ? Fashion design/ pattern maker/ tailor/ dressmaker with knowledge of textiles Abraham Hall Designs June 2016 to December 2016 CSS, JavaScript, Ruby/Rails  Able to use coding skills and comprehend other languages React Front- End Developer Abraham Hall Designs January 2015 to April 2015 Sales & Stock Abraham Hall Designs March 2008 to November 2013 In-House Marketing Manger Sears September 2006 to March 2008 People Skills  Programming  Skills  Hi! I like to code. I'm a creative with an engineering mindset. In my previous career, as a fashion designer- constructionist-pattern maker, I engaged with clients who had unique physical differences. Empathizing with their  concerns forced me to create and form practical solutions that fulfilled their emotional needs via tailored design and development of garments/ products formatted for them.  Now, I want to share my skill set to create websites for clients and give them the exact emotional response to shine on the world wide web. I would like to bridge that emotional gap between the electrical pulses of computational  hardware to the soft-warm hearts of people.  Adobe XD  Vector Designs/ Illustrator  AJAX/Node.js/APIs  ? SQL/Postgres  ? Assisted customers select proper fabric for desired needs  ? Help maintained overstock to further ease the customer experience  Printed and maintained signage for entire store  Managed a team to help assist with signage in departments  Open and closed store, ran cashier and weekly management meetings  Yes Education Full-Stack Web Development General Assembly - San Francisco, CA January 2015 to May 2015 Skills HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), React.js (2 years)