Senior Product Manager Senior Product Manager Clearwater, FL Dynamic, goal driven leader with comprehensive operational, technical, analytical, supervisory, and interpersonal acumen. Skilled in leading and collaborating with teams of cross functional professionals to drive progress while balancing a high volume of competing demands and deadlines. Expertise in product development and management, project management, business analysis, and building consensus through proactive stakeholder engagement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Product Manager FIS Global - Saint Petersburg, FL June 2017 to Present Gathered requirements from internal and external clients for consolidation/enhancement efforts to payments platforms across eight lines of business in a Scalable Agile Framework environment.  Vetted completed development work against personas, user stories, and acceptance criteria to ensure it satisfied business needs.  Led design workshops, and presented prototypes, for feedback in front of external client advisory councils.  Guided design vendor through iterative UX/UI design effort from concept to development hand-off. UX Manager– EIM/Intranet Design Department Gartner - Stamford, CT January 2015 to March 2017 Responsible for all content and user experience for the corporate intranet. Main point of contact between Global Corporate Communications and the intranet development team. Lead team of 2 developers and two graphic designers managing priorities, resources, and deadlines. Lead team through redesign from Teamsite content management platform to HIPPO. Business Systems Analyst - STG Products Department Gartner - Stamford, CT May 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities  Responsible for UI/UX design, wireframing, prototyping, requirements gathering, and all project documentation for Gartner research products, as well as marketing/prospect materials on the public facing site. Principal liaison between business partners across all segments of Gartner and development team of programmers and graphics designers within STG (Strategic Technology Group). Lead agile teams from concept and design stages through to QA, UAT and deployment. Product Manager The Little Blue Book (A Sharecare Subsidiary) - Darien, CT August 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities  Responsible for the conceptualizing and deployment of all digital products utilizing the Little Blue Book brand, including the award-winning TLBB Mobile app for iPhone and Android OS, as well as enhancements to the ecommerce site. Duties included gathering requirements, creating documentation for internal teams and outside vendors, coordinating production schedules, QA testing of products, and successful deployment to corporate and partner websites. Producer Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia - New York, NY July 2007 to July 2010 Responsibilities  Responsible for coding all editorial content and providing assistance to editorial, design and marketing departments to ensure proper deployment of completed projects across all sections of the Martha Stewart website. Helped contribute to a 30% increase in traffic year over year for 2008. Web Developer I Teachscape - New York, NY October 2004 to May 2006 Responsibilities  Teamed with art department and instructional design department to create online course materials for educators. Extracted and optimized images for web pages from Photoshop designs created by art directors. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility. Created self-contained demo versions of course materials and the Teachscape platform. Webmaster for all online course materials and video media. Front End Consultant Swandivedigital - Brooklyn, NY January 2001 to January 2005 Responsibilities  First sitebuilder to join the Swandivedigital team. Coded Swandivedigital's flagship site for Referral Networks. Helped set overall development process and instituted coding standards for all Swandivedigital sites. Extracted and optimized images for Web pages from PhotoShop diagrams created by art director. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility.   • Lead sitebuilder for the following SWANDIVEDIGITAL web sites:  Cepacol www.cepacol.com  Shubert Foundation www.shubertfoundation.org  Markle CFH www.connectingforhealth.org  Swandive www.swandive.com Design Developer (Contract) New York Times Digital - New York, NY February 2004 to September 2004 Responsibilities  Worked closely with design department to create scalable templates for site-wide use. Extracted and optimized images for web pages from Photoshop designs created by art director. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility. Sitebuilder (Contract) Lego Direct - New York, NY July 2001 to December 2003 Responsibilities  One of four sitebuilders dedicated to creating sites for new product lines and maintaining existing product sites for LEGO. Worked with off-site marketing team on designing and building e-mail promotional campaigns to drive traffic to the LEGO website. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP, and XML/XSL. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility. Producer Fry Multimedia - New York, NY February 2000 to January 2001 Responsibilities  Extracted and optimized images for web pages from Photoshop designs created by art director. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and ASP. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility. (Laid off due to cost cutting measures.)  • Lead sitebuilder for the following FRY MULTIMEDIA web sites:  Ragu www.eat.com  Carolee www.carolee.com  Waterworks www.waterworks.com Sitebuilder Grey Interactive Worldwide - New York, NY June 1999 to January 2000 Responsibilities  Lead team of 5 sitebuilders to complete first phase of walmart.com website. Extracted and optimized images for web pages from Photoshop designs created by art director. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and ASP. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility.   • Lead sitebuilder for the following GREY INTERACTIVE WORLDWIDE web sites:  Wal-Mart www.walmart.com Pantene www.provessentials.com Sitebuilder USWeb/CKS Cornerstone - New York, NY September 1997 to May 1999 Responsibilities  Started as administrative assistant, learned HTML during project for WNYC Radio intranet, and then became dedicated sitebuilder for 3 art directors. Extracted and optimized images for web pages from Photoshop designs created by art director. Designed and implemented page layouts using HTML and Javascript. Tested code to ensure cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility.   •Contributing sitebuilder for the following USWEB/CKS CORNERSTONE web sites:  Sandler Capital Management www.sandlercap.com  Skandia AFS www.skandia-afs.com Education BA in English/Journalism Bernard M. Baruch College, City University of New York - New York, NY 1994 to 1997 Skills Adobe (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows and Mac OS (10+ years), Atlassian (Jira/Confluence) (4 years), Axure RP (4 years), HP Autonomy Teamsite (10+ years), Vignette CMS (10+ years), Hippo CMS (2 years), Alfresco (2 years), Visix (2 years), Product Management (9 years), Agile (7 years), JIRA (7 years), Product Development, Business Analysis, HTML, Scrum Certifications/Licenses Pragmatic Marketing Level III Product Management Certification