Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer • 5+ Years of professional experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirements analysis, Applications Design, Development, Integration, Installation, Implementation, Maintenance, Testing, Debugging of various client/server web applications.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, ANGULARJS, NODE.JS  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using Angular js-4.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Bootstrap, jQuery, Node JS.  • Extensive knowledge in developing Responsive Web Pages (RWD) using Bootstrap  • Experience working with CSS pre-compilers like Less and Sass.  • Good Knowledge of on ES6 features and application.  • Hands on experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google chrome and checking cross browser compatibility.  • Good Experience on working Cross Browser issues handling.  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, CSS Box Model and CSS3 Media queries.  • Good understanding of MVC and MVVM Pattern.  • Worked with MEAN Stack where I have used Mongo DB as a Data Base, Express JS as a Frontend Framework, Angular JS as a Web Framework and Node JS as an Application server.  • Good Experience in working in both TDD and BDD Environment and Good Exposure to different JavaScript testing Frameworks like Jasmine, Mocha, Karma.  • Testing application using Jasmine Test Framework and running test cases using Grunt  • Knowledgeable about Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions along with experience in Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Developed Restful Web Services for various features of application like registration, un-registration, form submission and Order Management.  • Built both table-based and table less, websites for clients.  • Extensive experience working in Agile and Waterfall (SDLC Methodologies) environments. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Developer Travelport - Denver, CO June 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and Angular  • Created static responsive prototypes in HTML, CSS, Media Queries and JavaScript for different UI pages such as login, registration, application, and dashboard  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Received business logic specifications and design documents, and translated them into HTML5, CSS3preprocessor styling SASS, JSON files, JavaScript code and Angular  • Responsible for designing Front-side of the website like embedded graphics, and interactive documents using JavaScript, XML, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Angular pages, Web services calls, and AJAX calls for the application  • Used Angular in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Designed and developed the UI using Angular Framework and implemented MVC hybrid design pattern.  • Worked in using Angular components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using Angular.  • Worked on managing the user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Node JS Gulp (Task Runner) and jQuery.  • Worked on JIRA to maintain and update the task.  • Used KARMA as Front- end test tool  • Created custom Directives and linking functions to control the application logic.  • Used UI Bootstrap and CSS/CSS3 to provide perform and visual effects.  • Created HTML pages from the PDF's given by the UX and used Angular to retrieve data from the rest services.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Used SVN repository for version control  • Used Oracle as database and Involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation and using SQL  • Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Used Gulp for task automation and GIT for version control.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Checked cross browser compatibility on different browsers such as Internet explorer, Safari, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Jasmine as testing tool  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, Ajax, My SQL, Node JS, XML, XSL, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, Mongo DB, Jasmine, protractor, and Web Strom. Front End Developer Wipro - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular JS and using CSS preprocessors (SASS, LESS)  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML and AJAX.  • Created CSS3 templates for use in all pages on the website.  • Used jQuery, a cross browser JavaScript library to dynamically update the page content on the client side & Used Angular JS JavaScript framework to bind data to HTML using expressions.  • Ensuring 80% Unit Test Code Coverage for JS code.  • Writing custom Angular components/directives.  • Wrote code for consuming a Restful Web service with Angular JS  • Used jQuery to create dynamic popups to notify the user.  • Worked on Draggable, Droppable and Resizable jQuery interactions  • Ensuring web pages are accessible, easy keyboard navigation, optimize it for screen readers.  • Ensured web app is fully responsive and works well on all screen sizes and form factor used Bootstrap.  • Used multiple in-built directives and APIs in AngularJS such as filters, root scope, child scope, modal, template, state & Used RESTful APIs which support JSON and XML to access back- end data payload.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Hands on experience of package management tools NPM and Bower, and automation tools Grunt and Gulp.  Environment: HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular, CSS3, jQuery JSON, Jasmine, Web Storm, Grunt, Bower, NPM, Node, Karma, JIRA. Intern MITS - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed Login/Registration/Edit of user profile integration with community sites using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developing First Report of Injury, a wizard-based process guides claim entry.  • Developed the class structure, event handling and interaction between various JS components in the page  • Managed all phases of graphic user interface design for a wide range of client requirements/standards.  • Designed and developed the web pages using HTML5.  • Developed JavaScript and optimized existing scripts for efficiency.  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS, HTML and AJAX & Created CSS3 templates for use in all pages on the website.  • Used jQuery, a cross browser JavaScript library to dynamically update the page content on the client side.  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Tag library, Created DHTML navigation  menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML and XSL.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS. Education B. Tech in J.N.T.U Texas A&M university - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present Skills AJAX (4 years), ANGULARJS (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4,  Jasmine, Node.js, Protractor, Karma, jQuery, XML, JSON, AJAX.  CSS: LESS, Sass, Bootstrap, Responsive web design.  JS Tools: Gulp Grunt, Bower, NPM, Node, Karma, and Selenium.  Package Management: NPM.  Agile Tools: JIRA.  IDE Tools: Web Storm, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++.  Source control tools: SVN, Git, Git Hub.