Lead UI Developer, Application Architect Lead UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Application Architect UI Developer San Francisco, CA Work Experience Lead UI Developer, Application Architect Levi Strauss & Co - San Francisco, CA August 2018 to June 2019 Eureka Labs is a Project X-type innovation company inside of Levi Strauss & Co.. I joined as a Lead UI Developer and Application Architect for the technology team. We researched and developed emerging technologies for potential utilization within Eureka & Levi Strauss & Co.. Technologies with promising applications were further developed into minimum viable products, and presented to stakeholders to determine product viability.    ? Designed, prototyped, presented, and lead team to create online photo-realistic 3D customization of Levi's Jeans & Shorts (Levi's Future Finish - announced and launching July, 2019)    ? Collaborated with team members to create numerous working prototypes, minimum viable products, and products from concept to launch    ? Presented technologies, potential applications, prototypes, minimum viable products, and products  to leadership    ? Collaborated with Levi Strauss & Co. E-Commerce team to design & create advanced applications    Technologies: Javascript, React, Redux, Vue.js, Vuex, Angular 1, Angular 2, Angular X, Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Firebase Realtime Database, Firebase Hosting, Development Operations, Neo4j, D3, RESTful API Design, Development & Integration, JSON, SCSS, SASS, Webpack, Node.js, npm, 3D Concepts, 3D Asset Creation, 3D Engineering, WebGL, Three.js, User Interface Design, E-Commerce Team Relations & Integration, Product Design, Project Management UI Developer TriNet Group, Inc - Pleasanton, CA December 2017 to March 2018 TiNet is a enterprise-level HR company with offices across the country. I joined as a contractor for a three month project. Our team rewrote an existing application as well as added five additional applications.    ? Designed and created Front- End applications to scale with large volumes of data    ? Created rapid prototype applications for cost-benefit evaluation    ? Mentored junior developers on best UI practices    ? Demonstrated the functionality and features of our applications to business development audiences    Technologies: Angular 2 (Version 5), RxJS, Java, Tomcat, HTML5, SCSS, Redux Full-Stack Engineer Doxel - Redwood City, CA March 2017 to May 2017 Doxel is an early stage start-up that combines 3D computer vision and machine learning to improve installation error detection, on-site scheduling, and progress quantification for construction companies. I was tasked with designing, developing, and deploying their online analytics platform.    ? Worked with 3D computer vision engineers to design a technology stack that would scale with millions of data points    ? Designed and utilized database schema for data point storage and online analytics platform    ? Developed data processing, storage, result quantification, and RESTful API in Ruby on Rails    ? Developed front- end analytics platform utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, and Chart.js    Technologies: Ruby on Rails, AngularJS, jQuery, JavaScript, SCSS, Bootstrap, PostgreSQL, node, Grunt, VirtualBox, Amazon EC2, Chart.js, RESTful API development and integration Front- End Engineer Touch of Modern - San Francisco, CA September 2016 to October 2016 Touch of Modern is an online fashion and technology boutique where merchandise is hand-selected by a team who works with manufacturers to provide below MSRP prices for clientele. I was brought on to help lead the software engineering team. I worked with the Technology Founder and Director of UX to enhance existing portions of the website, as well as create new innovative features.    ? Revised, optimized, and enhanced existing Ruby on Rails codebase    ? Created website interface modules utilizing comprehensive A/B testing    ? Created custom scalable modular Javascript libraries based on UX design specifications    ? Assisted in leading software engineering team    Technologies: Ruby on Rails, Javascript, ERB, SCSS, RESTful API integration, Split A/B testing Front- End Web Developer iOffer - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to August 2016 iOffer is a worldwide online marketplace where buyers and sellers are encouraged to negotiate on prices. I was brought on to enhance existing pages with responsive mobile-friendly designs. I then moved on to converting static JavaScript libraries to JavaScript modules utilizing dependency injection.    ? Designed and developed responsive modular web components from existing pages using the Mobify framework    ? Assisted front- end team transition from static linked JavaScript libraries to ES6 web components    Technologies: Mobify, JavaScript, LESS, HTML5, node, VirtualBox Web Development Consultant The Bead Shop - Redwood City, CA April 2014 to January 2015 The Bead Shop is an online store that began as a brick and mortar in Palo Alto. I was brought on to help with scalability issues related to ecommerce platform limitations and locally hosted servers. The project involved selecting a cloud based solution, writing software to migrate data, and developing new features for their new online store.    ? Migrated store, fulfillment, and database from ModX to Shopify through custom written software    ? Designed and developed web components for the Shopify platform    Technologies: PHP, MySQL, Liquid, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 Lead Front- End Developer Telmate - San Francisco, CA May 2013 to March 2014 Telmate is a company that allows inmates to video call their friends and family from a correctional facility. Located in over 40 states, they utilize WebRTC and PBX systems, as well as an ever-evolving technology stack. I was initially on the product design team creating rapid prototypes for evaluation and development. I then joined another team where we rewrote the company's primary payment gateway resulting in substantial growth. We then implemented a new design and framework for touch screen kiosks.    ? Rebuilt payment gateway in AngularJS and Ruby on Rails    ? Prototyped various web applications for demonstration, evaluation, and deployment through rapid application development    ? Developed software for physical touch screen kiosks located in over 40 states    ? Participated in two week agile development cycles    ? Integrated and leveraged Google Analytics following formal training from Google team members    ? Helped increase company's payment processing by over 300% through improvements to UI, mobile support, technology stacks, and analytics    Technologies: AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, Ruby on Rails, Balsamiq, Chef Lead Front- End Engineer iOffer - San Francisco, CA March 2007 to May 2012 iOffer is a worldwide online marketplace where buyers and sellers are encouraged to negotiate on prices. I joined to assist in their full-stack move from Java to Ruby on Rails. I was then promoted to Lead Front- end Engineer where I advocated and implemented features such as internationalization, JavaScript performance and error reporting, client side image processing, and providing a public API.    ? Designed, developed, and launched new features for over 20 million monthly unique visitors    ? Internationalized website in 14 languages and over 200 currencies    ? Developed real-time client JavaScript error and performance reporting    ? Integrated and leveraged Adobe Analytics    ? Addressed growth scalability issues by replacing server-side image processing with custom client-side image processing    ? Developed front- end components from design to production-ready deliverables    ? Helped the company grow from a small startup to a successful business reaching a worldwide site rank of 419    Technologies: jQuery, MooTools, JavaScript, HTML, HAML, SASS, Ruby on Rails, Premailer, ImageMagick, Balsamiq, Photoshop, VirtualBox Lead Systems Engineer Riptopia - San Francisco, CA April 2006 to February 2007 Riptopia was a service that converted CDs into digital music on a large automated scale. They provided a wide range of lossy and lossless audio formats, as well as the option to preload your music collection on a digital audio system. I was brought on to help deploy their west coast datacenter. After being promoted to Lead Systems Engineer I assisted in design and development of their digital conversion and delivery  software.    ? Developed client and server applications in C# for automated digital music conversion    ? Assisted deployment of new west coast data center (servers and networking)    ? Improved DevOps firmware update procedure by creating automated bootable USB drives that would beep a specific pattern after a successful software flash    Technologies: C#, JavaScript, HTML, iTunes API Web Developer Stella & Dot - Palo Alto, CA February 2005 to July 2005 At the time, Stella & Dot was an early stage startup providing jewelry kits for crafting parties. I was brought on as a web developer to help launch their new website as well as work with the fulfillment team to streamline order processes.    ? Developed custom web components for online store and fulfillment    ? Collaborated with remote web development team to launch website    Technologies: JavaScript, Java, HTML, CSS Web Assistant The Bead Shop - Palo Alto, CA February 2004 to January 2005 The Bead Shop is an online store that began as a brick and mortar in Palo Alto. I joined the web team to assist their migration to a new ecommerce platform.    ? Migrated store, fulfillment, and database from Yahoo! Store to StoreFront    ? Designed, developed, and launched features for online store    ? Assisted in ongoing feature development that would see the online store surpass the physical storefront in sales    Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, ASP.NET Education Computer Science Foothill College 2001 to 2005 Skills HTML, Linux, Javascript, Vue.js, Angular, Redux, Ruby on Rails, React, MongoDB, WebGL, Three.js, RESTful API Development, Front End, UI, Front-End, Node, CSS3 Links https://github.com/tstangel https://www.levi.com/US/en_US/apparel/clothing/bottoms/custom-721-high-rise-skinny-jeans/p/188820333