Business Analyst, AVP - Futures & Options Technology Business Analyst, AVP - Futures &amp; Options Technology Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Business Analyst, AVP - Futures & Options Technology Banc of America Securities - New York, NY November 2015 to Present • Develop requirements for new software based on business and operational asks.     - Oversee development to ensure software is meeting requirements.     - Perform testing to ensure the quality of software and identify ways to improve the product.     - Liaise with members of Solutions, Client Services, Operations, and internal management teams.  • Manage the onboarding of clients into allocation automation software to support global Futures & Options operations teams.    - Analyze new business to determine the necessary processing based on the client file, i.e. average pricing, trade tagging/enrichment, special regional considerations.    - Based on analysis, configure software by writing rules and inserting into Oracle database.    - Responsible for tracking and reporting on progress vs yearly program goals.   • Manage the gathering and reporting of statistics for senior management.   • Provide L3 support and user training on core software, as well as ad hoc education on specific data flows when needed.  • SME/Lead for allocation modules as part of a proprietary middle-office application. Front End Web Developer, Associate JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY January 2015 to November 2015 • Code front end designs for event websites using a Metron Back end.  • Design and deploy new mobile-friendly responsive templates as a member of template development group.  • Design and manage email communications, i.e. invitations, confirmations, and additional communications.  • Provide reporting of invitee responses for event planners.  • Liaise with event planning team to devise creative solutions to their needs while working within the constraints of various regulations and the software.  • Offer technical support and assistance to the event planning team and other stakeholders.  • Perform extensive QA testing on every website and communication, as well as on new releases of the Metron software.  • Ensure that all personal information collected was in compliance with regulations and treated with proper discretion. Web Designer and Developer ProAudioStar.com - Brooklyn, NY January 2012 to January 2015 • Completely redesigned & redeveloped the website to be responsive to mobile devices and offer an  improved user experience, resulting in a 37% reduction in bounce rate, 59% increase in transactions  and 122% increase in revenue year over year.  • Streamlined workflow for listing and maintaining product listings across multiple platforms.  • Design and code all marketing emails sent both directly and via partner publications’ lists.  • Manage content on website, blog, social media, and digital advertising channels.  • Managed 3rd party integration of Magento mySQL database with MS Dynamics GP, eBay, and Amazon.   • Direct and produce co-op/promotional videos for vendors. Graphic Designer / Web Designer Paragon Sports - New York, NY May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities  • Responsible for the design, content and deployment of weekly marketing emails.  • Update website and digital advertising with fresh graphics and content.  • Designed and produced printed materials such as sales flyers, coupons, and newspaper advertising. Graphic Designer & DJ Tick Tick - Burlington, VT October 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities  • Organized and executed live music performances and art shows.  • Interfaced with booking agents, artists and venues to ensure a seamless event.   • Designed and screen printed posters, t-shirts, and other promotional items. Web Designer and Developer Shark Communications - Burlington, VT April 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities  • Collaborated on design and development of websites and printed material.  • Maintained computers, servers and other in-house technology resources.  • Successfully implemented new web technologies which improved efficiency and flexibility while significantly reducing cost. Intern Lisaius Marketing - Burlington, VT September 2006 to December 2006 Responsibilities  • Completed creative projects that included logo, collateral, and package design.   • Maintained a large photo database, and managed the local file servers.  • Responsible for the back up and physical archiving of digital and physical assets. Education AA in Graphic Design Community College of Vermont - Burlington, VT 2005 to 2007 Skills MYSQL, CSS, Jquery, testing, Excel, SQL Additional Information • Strong background in graphic design, web development, client relations, research, data compilation, analytics, and technology. Organized, driven, dedicated and goal oriented with excellent attention to detail.  • Communicates well with both management and public and between the technical and creative teams.  • Highly adaptable with a constant desire to acquire new skills and make use of new and emerging technologies.  • Well-versed in Windows, Macintosh, and Linux operating systems in desktop and server environments.  • Proficient in MS Office, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Quark Xpress, Dreamweaver, hand-coded HTML  and CSS. Working knowledge of XML, PHP, MySQL and JavaScript.  • Expert knowledge of Magento, WebSphere, Wordpress, ModX, and other ecommerce and content  management systems, including developing and deploying customizations.  • Music producer with work featured in Spin, Pitchfork, XXL, and more. Editor of both music and video using  Ableton Live, Final Cut Pro, and other software.