Team Lead | Senior Solution Designer Team Lead | Senior Solution Designer Team Lead | Sr Solution Designer (Product Design) Overland Park, KS I have over a decade of combined experience in the industry of user-based design, development and marketing. I am well versed in enterprise product design, project delivery and enterprise business services and operating models. My background is in web-based application and marketing web development and design specifically with the WordPress platform. I have conceptualized and built countless products that have been brought to market, I have overseen the entire project and development process for a number of medium sized business solutions to global enterprise applications. My ideal position Would allow me to bridge the gap between my passions for WordPress development and Product Ownership. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Team Lead | Senior Solution Designer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO November 2016 to Present • Technical Product Owner of Cerner’s enterprise Project and Portfolio (PPM) platform.   • Lead Product Designer for the Project Delivery department for both on-prem and Sass solutions, includes licensing and ROI Planning.  • Oversees architecture and design for several Global Enterprise Applications, including quarterly road-mapping with BRM’s.  • Leads enterprise data architecture and product design within the project delivery space at Cerner.  • Improving BI reporting and financial forecasting accuracy by 85% and reduced project write offs by 45% within the first year.  • Reduced operating costs by 10 FTE’s within the first implementation of PPM.   • Manages an agile team of 25 developers and designers with a focus on CI/CD and DevOps operating model.  • Helps develop agile and traditional program/project maturity following PMBOK compliance.  • Creates User-Centered Designs for both large-scale planning and story driven requirements.   • Prioritize work based on organizational financial benefit cases and value statements.   • Provides organizational communication and release management for our development life-cycle.  • Leads cross-platform integration design and data architecture or enterprise business services.   • Nominated for the RISE leadership program within Cerner. Owner Pixelurbia LLC - Kansas City, MO April 2008 to Present • Pixelurbia is the freelance business name I operate under outside of my day job.   • Founded in 2008, it has since aided the small business and e-sports communities with business tactics and superior company branding.   • We help companies and individuals understand the importance, of a clean and professional image for the online world.   • This encompass marketing strategies and a strong presence in the social networking universe with sharp design - and easy to use functionality.  • pixelurbia.com Creative Technical Director BIGSHOT Inbound - Kansas City, MO November 2015 to November 2016 • Led a team of Designers and developers in a fast-paced environment  • Oversaw all creative design (web, digital, print) and development (marketing site/web applications)  • Focus on user-experience and ROI based inbound marketing.  • Worked in various frameworks such as open source PHP CMS's, SASS/LESS, jQuery/React.   • Primary LAMP stack - Full stack developer – WordPress Development   • Introduced enterprise agile development standards and iterative schedules.  • Implemented both google and custom analytic solutions to track specific conversion targets.  • Creating user personas and BPMN’s/workflows to identify when, where and how users would convert.  • Oversaw server infrastructure and maintenance   Lead Developer and System Admin Brockton Creative Group - Kansas City, MO December 2013 to November 2015 • Lead full-stack developer ( front/back/database/UI/UX) for all projects.   • WordPress (LAMP) full stack development (jQuery, PHP, SASS, Linux)   • Built WordPress themes and plugins from scratch.  • Conceptualized designed and built PHP based web application from the ground up.  • Architected company’s technology and data strategy.   • Primary system administrator for over 50 clients, on LAMP adjusted servers   • Ensured all servers met PCI Compliance as well as server-side security policies.  • Facilitate bi-weekly code workshops, helping team members develop their skills.  Lead Front End Devleoper VinSolutions November 2012 to December 2013 - Worked with tier one accounts such as Lexus OEM pre-owned sites.   - Design creative and innovative Ideas for automotive dealers Nationwide.  - Lead the department code repository to standardize our process. Chief Designer MARCY DESIGN April 2010 to November 2012 - Responsible for a wide array of projects, from web layout to brochure design to ad campaign creation.  - Collaborated with many different industries, from associations, non-profits and small business.  - Won over 5 international (Platinum and Gold) Awards Including Marcom and Hermes. Education None Skills Wordpress (LAMP) Full Stack Web Development, Product Management, Enterprise Architecture, Agile Project Management, User Experience Design, Business Intelligence Data Analysis Certifications/Licenses Inbound Marketing Certification Present Microsoft Office Specialist Present Additional Information WordPress Custom Development, Custom Themes and Plugins, Enterprise Data Architecture, Enterprise Business Application Ownership, User Centered Design, Product Design, UX Design, Interaction Design, User and Market Research, Web Design and development, Adobe Creative Cloud, Sketch, Axure, Lucid Chart, BPMN, A/B Testing, Branding and product strategy, Agile Methodologies, Project Management, Persona Creation, LAMP, MEAN, Nginx, Apache, Linux, PHP 5-7, jQuery, ES6,  SASS, CSS, HTML,  JSON, Git, SVN, AWS, SQL, GEL, Oracle, Leadership, Management, Entrepreneurship, Jira, ZOHO, Version One, Clarity PPM, SharePoint, Peoplesoft, CPQ, CIS certified Microsoft Office, Inbound Certified VIA HubSpot