Sr. Developer / Project Manager Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Project Manager Sr. Developer / Project Manager - Miller Designworks West Chester, PA Work Experience Sr. Developer / Project Manager Miller Designworks - Phoenixville, PA February 2019 to Present Development of client web sites and applications.  ? Functional requirement documentation  ? Proposal and estimate development  ? Organization of client projects Front End Developer AYC Media - Conshohocken, PA January 2018 to September 2018 Developed front end code for a proprietary CMS  ? Coding included HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery and light PHP  ? Heavy focus on ADA-compliance / Accessibility  ? Created project estimates to communicate timelines to internal stakeholders and clients  ? Coordination of project work between design and back end development teams  ? Created and manipulated image assets  ? Lead client meetings to determine scope and key business requirements  ? Conducted peer reviews to ensure code quality and adherence to best practices Contract Developer / Business Analyst Perficient / Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA March 2017 to December 2017 Meeting with various teams and stakeholders for requirements gathering  ? Development of front end code for inclusion in enterprise-level CMS (AEM)  ? Built front end components using HTML, CSS, Sass, Grunt, Assemble / Handlebars  ? Integration of front- end code into AEM components  ? System / functional documentat writing Sr. Front End Developer Perficient Digital - St. Louis, MO June 2015 to February 2017 Worked as a development consultant with clients nationwide  ? Developed and presented internal department training  ? Developed front end web, CMS and e-commerce solutions with an emphasis on progressive enhancement  ? Worked remotely on Agile development projects  ? Fostered relationships with client partners to secure additional contracts for the company  ? Adobe Creative Suite UI Developer Brilliant Graphics - Exton, PA February 2014 to June 2015 Led development for company and client websites  ? Design and develop e-commerce solutions for print clients  ? Worked with customers to determine project scope, estimates & timelines  ? Wrote and delivered client proposals  ? Designed and delivered email marketing campaigns  ? Overhauled and streamlined Brilliant's development processes Technical Trainer / Developer eBay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA May 2012 to February 2014 Developed e-commerce sites for clients such as PetSmart and Sony  ? Requirement gathering  ? Functional specification writing  ? Code reviews  ? Wrote and maintained technical training material; courses and tests for developers, reference, etc. UI Engineer Primepay - West Chester, PA July 2007 to July 2011 Requirements gathering  ? Technical documentation writing  ? QA testing  ? Built custom-CMS with development team  ? Designed and developed company and client sites and application  ? Created graphics and logos for internal and client projects Sr. Usability Analyst Perficient / Kaiser Permanente - West Chester, PA July 2006 to July 2007 Performed usability reviews  ? Wrote and conducted usability testing  ? Competitive analysis research and documentation  ? HTML / CSS / JS development Consultant Accenture - Philadelphia, PA February 2004 to July 2006 Front end design and development for client sites  ? Conducted usability analysis  ? Technical document writing  ? Requirement gathering / business analysis  ? Quality assurance / website testing Education AAS in Interactive Multimedia Delaware County Community College - Media, PA May 2003 Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT, CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, WEB DESIGN, INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE, REQUIREMENT GATHERING, SQL, testing, Excel