Associate Instructor, Software Engineering Associate Instructor, Software Engineering Software Engineer San Francisco, CA Full Stack Software Engineer with experience in utilizing Javascript, React, Redux to develop rich web apps with seamless transitions between dynamic views. Comfortable with implementing Cassandra, Mongo/Mongoose, MySQL, PostgreSQL, NGINX, Node.js/Express, AWS deployment, and RESTful APIs to achieve high usability, durability and security in backend system management.  Server-side: Node.js/Express, MongoDB/Mongoose, MySQL, Postgresql, Sequelize, Swagger, GraphQL, NGINX   Client-side: Javascript (ES5 and ES6), React.js, Redux, Backbone, jQuery HTML,CSS, REST   Deployment/Testing: AWS: RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, EC2 / Heroku / Mocha, Chai, Jest, Jasmine  Developer Tools: Git, npm, Webpack, Babel, Agile Methodology, TDD  Authentication: PassportJS, express-JWT (Auth0) Work Experience Associate Instructor, Software Engineering Galvanize - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to Present • Mentoring engineers through an advanced software engineering program   • Conducting code reviews and live debugging sessions to ensure technical readiness   • Instructing engineers in computer science fundamentals and full-stack engineering concepts with JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Node, SQL/NoSQL, Jest/Mocha/Chai, Redis/Nginx/Docker/AWS Vibes (Owner/Fullstack software engineer) Vibes 2017 to Present Created campaigns to organically and exponentially grow various social media influencers and brands followings by an average of 5,000/month, with exceptions up to 25,000/month ? Launched numerous profitable product funnels supported by SEO and PPC campaigns for in-house projects and clients alike. StellumCoin? ?(Fullstack ?Blockchain Developer, Project Lead) ? Applications - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to July 2019 A custom Blockchain-powered cryptocurrency  • ? Wallet and persisted transaction data stored on a ledger through a network of multiple deployed Heroku nodes on Node JS backends  • ? Implemented proof-of-work system to demand computational power by needing to use cryptography and data hashing to protect system against  • abuse  • ? Created a validation system for the transactional data of the blockchain itself.  • ? Implemented extensive Jest test suites. 9Trails (Fullstack Developer, Backend, SCRUM Master) Applications - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to March 2019 • ? Improved legacy code-base’s MySQL database to to hold 40 million records with the back 10% queried in less than a millisecond  • ? Deployed service and proxy to raw EC2 (t2.micro instances)  • ? Horizontally scaled application with NGINX to load balance 4 additional EC2 instances thus achieving a 50 millisecond response  • time at 5000 MySQL queries per second. 9Trails (Fullstack Developer, Front End, SCRUM Master) Applications - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to January 2019 • ? Designed interactive pagination with ReactJS for fast and seamless transitions between sorted categories in the reviews-module  • ? Created in-depth tests with Jest, Mocha, and Chai  • ? Structured database queries for persisting review data with MySQL.  • ? Ensured team operated by Agile values and principles and followed the processes and practices that were agreed upon.  • ? Deployed project using AWS and Elastic Beanstalk to delivery our proxy server to the web Market Development Manager Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated - San Francisco, CA 2011 to 2015 translating to volume growth average of 11,000 cases/gallons per year.  ? Best of the Best Award 10 times, most recently Q4 of 2015.  ? Developed tactics to target competitor accounts in territory, achieving a conversion rate of 25% a year, 4 years straight.  ? Aggressively drive sales of a portfolio containing 200+ accounts through developing strong, sustainable client and vendor relationships. Territory Sales Manager ModSpace 2006 to 2011 Met and/or exceeded personal goal of 4 activates per month, achieving 125% of gross profit quota in 2007, 115% in 2008, and 112% in 2009, and 105% in 2010 ? Consistently ranked top 3 out of 20 Territory Sales managers in the East Region.  ? Completed bidding and planning for projects that call for modular construction and storage solutions Education B.A. in Economics Villanova University January 2000 to June 2005 Skills MySQL, PHP, Javascript, HTML 5, Git, jQuery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ryansbrennan/ https://github.com/ryanbrennan12 https://vast-oasis-19068.herokuapp.com