UX CONSULTANT UX CONSULTANT UX CONSULTANT - AdvenHealth Lake Mary, FL For the past 15 years, I have transformed the user experience of digital products through strategic design, research, information architecture, and interaction design, with the highest standard of technical excellence.    Here is a quick summary of my qualifications:  ? Ability to bridge business goals, human needs, and technical feasibility  ? Led multiple client and innovation digital projects for an International IT consulting company  ? Speak modern web technologies including HTML5, CSS3, Angular 5+, Git, CMS, RWD  ? Mobile design experience, native IOS and Android patterns, including the Ionic SDK to prototype hybrid mobile applications  ? Design thinking, Agile/Lean UX Practitioner  ? Bachelor's degree in Arts with a major in Graphic Design Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX CONSULTANT AdventHealth - Maitland, FL June 2019 to Present Prototype complex data products and data visualization using Adobe XD and Axure for the BI Analytics team.  ? Ensure dashboards, reports and other visualizations adhere to newly developed brand guidelines.  ? Create design standards in a style guide for data visualization to ensure consistency across the various products.  ? Collaborate with product managers, executives, SMEs and other stakeholders to gather product requirements, determine business and product goals. SR CONSULTANT, UX ARCHITECT & DESIGNER Ciber Global - Lake Mary, FL July 2017 to April 2019 Led the UX and UI for a custom case management web application that replaced Microsoft Dynamics CRM to manage a quarter of a million drug for spinal muscular atrophy patients.  ? Conducted stakeholder interviews and user shadowing sessions to validate requirements, discover needs, and possible usability issues with the applications.  ? Designed and maintain style guides for all internal applications using Bootstrap 4, SASS with YARN as the package manager and Angular ?. UX CONSULTANT, DESIGNER TravelClick, Inc - Orlando, FL November 2016 to July 2017 Designed and developed UX patterns and dynamic UI Style Guides using Axure and then HTML5/Sass Bootstrap 3, Angular to ensure the consistency of their eCommerce products.  ? Responsible for high-fidelity prototyping on new products and feature enhancements to validate solutions, stakeholder feedback, and improve overall collaboration between product and development. LEAD UX DESIGNER Mindtree Ltd - Gainesville, FL November 2015 to November 2016 Responsible for multiple projects for Fortune 500 clients from concept to completion using wireframing tools and delivering high-fidelity prototypes in HTML5, CSS, Angular, and Hybrid Mobile Frameworks.  ? Led many innovation projects in collaboration with the pre-sales SME team, from mobile to web applications using a lean UX approach at Mindtree's agile center of excellence.  ? Earned an A-Team award due to the contributions to the team, the client and the company along with numerous accolades from team members and management. DIRECTOR, CREATIVE SERVICES, SR UX DESIGNER DME Holdings/DME Sports - Daytona Beach, FL August 2013 to June 2015 Led a major transformation of their digital products, including multiple retail e-commerce websites and their corporate website, after identifying major opportunities for improvement on conversions, traffic, engagement, and revenue.  ? Oversee and mentored a young team of designers; on how to design with a purpose and use design as a tool to provide strategic business solutions.  ? Partnered with the executive team and other internal stakeholders, and introduced them to design best practices including, responsive web design, mobile first approach, and user-centered design.  ? Produced award-winning design, at the 2014 and 2015 Daytona Beach, ADDY's award. GRAPHIC DESIGNER & WEB DESIGNER Westgate Resorts - Ocoee, FL December 2012 to August 2013 Led a complete re-alignment of WestgateEvents.com, including name, logo, brand guidelines, and CMS that resulted in the resurgence of a revenue stream while lowering considerably the maintenance time required to update and publish new events.  ? Designed and built custom responsive email templates for campaign monitor that allowed marketers and copywriters to send out marketing campaigns without having to go through a designer or developer to publish email campaigns, newsletters, and announcements. FRONT- END DEVELOPER & WEB DESIGNER Travel Holdings - Altamonte Springs, FL July 2010 to October 2011 Redesigned custom email templates for two B2C brands employing email design best practices, which resulted in the growth of email revenue and transactions by more than 300%, despite limited experience designing custom email templates.  ? Experimented early with HTML5 and educated designers and developers on how we can all start taking advantage HTML5 features now.  ? Established front- end development standards, multi-language considerations, framework guides, and web design/development checklists.  ? Designed and developed multiple hotel and special offers microsites and landing pages for one B2B and three B2C travel booking websites. UI DESIGNER SABIAMED Corp - Caguas, PR January 2004 to August 2009 Established the user's interface design of their multi-platform clinical software earning immediate recognition among peers and CIO for a fresh, contemporary look and feel.  ? Participated in design sprints with business analysts, project managers, developers and software engineers on project requirements, user personas, and user scenarios to develop relevant processes, user flows, and rapid prototyping sessions.  ? Designed touch-screen kiosks for self-registry modules placed in emergency rooms.  ? Illustrated custom healthcare icon sets, for their 21 modules that are still in use today. Education BA ATLANTIC UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Guaynabo, PR November 2001 to May 2004 Skills BOOTSTRAP, HTML5, MOBILE UI DESIGN, VISUAL STUDIO, Git, IONIC, UI DESIGN, INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE, USER INTERFACE, UI, SEARCH ENGINE, USABILITY, USABILITY TESTING, jQuery, OPTIMIZATION, PROTOTYPING, WORDPRESS, WIREFRAME, INTERACTION DESIGN, ARCHITECTURE Links http://tommypagan.com Certifications/Licenses HCI for the User Experience May 2019 to Present Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) for the User Experience (UX) from MIT Computer Sciences and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL) Additional Information SKILLS    User Experience  Information Architecture  Interaction Design  User Interface (UI) Design  UI Development  Wireframe  Prototyping  Usability Testing  Mobile UI Design  Responsive Website Design  Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  Brand Identity Design  Typography  Digital Photography    TECHNOLOGY    HTML5 & CSS3  JQuery, Angular 5, 6  Git as Source Control  Ionic Framework SDK  Bootstrap 3, 4  Custom WordPress Themes    TOOLS    Adobe CC  Visual Studio Code  Sublime Text  Axure 8,9  Adobe XD  Balsamiq Mockups  iRise  Sketch  Zeplin  Google Analytics  Microsoft Office