creating impactful user experiences for Senior Front End Engineer - PlayHearthstone.com the web creating impactful user experiences for Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer - PlayHearthstone.com the web creating impactful user experiences for Senior Front End Engineer - PlayHearthstone.com the web - BIO Austin, TX Work Experience creating impactful user experiences for Senior Front End Engineer - PlayHearthstone.com the web BIO - Austin, TX November 2016 to Present I'm a front end engineer and UX  designer who's passionate about Blizzard Entertainment, Austin, TX  creating impactful user experiences for Senior Front End Engineer - PlayHearthstone.com the web. Over the last 10 years, I've    made it my specialty to work  November 2016 - Present intimately with managers and  - Primary front end developer for E-sports and content. designers to create unforgettable work  - Worked closely with back end engineers to create that's reached millions. Seeking to join  applications and static content pages that reach millions a team looking to improve their front  of users in 12 different languages. end presence with fluid responsive  - Built E-sports bracket tournament application with design and animation.  React using data pulled from an API.  - Built component based expansion pages for last 3 years.  - Built the Global Games application that includes player SKILLS / EXPERIENCE  profiles and voting selection.  Front End  - Performed full audit of performance related issues on front end implementations resulting in up to 40% HTML, CSS, SCSS/SASS, LESS, Jade,  reduction in page size. Implemented lazy loading, image Nunjucks, Handlebars    optimization pipeline tasks and responsive CSS  Javascript (ES6), Angular 1, React,  strategies. Redux, Greensock, Storybook  - Helped develop card gallery application for the web.  - Worked on Fireside Gatherings tavern selection Gulp, Grunt, Yarn, Babel, Webpack    application.  Test Suites Digital Developer Sullivan Higdon & Sink - Kansas City, MO May 2013 to October 2016 Back End  - Lead front end development efforts for digital projects.  - Designed & developed responsive websites, emails, apps, Express / Node, PHP, Ruby on Rails  and online banners using modern day best practices.  - Developed custom CMS websites using Wordpress. Software / Toolkits  - Worked with brand managers, digital producers and project managers to develop scope of work for each Adobe Creative Suite / Flash (AS3)  project. Git, Jira  - Collaborated with art directors and designers throughout production of projects. After Effects / Final Cut  - Delivered lectures on responsive web design best  practices. Creative Technologist / Developer Bernstein-Rein - Kansas City, MO August 2008 to May 2013 Designed & developed microsites, emails and Flash  banners.  - Developed Facebook sweepstakes pages.  - Integrated A/B split testing into email campaigns.  - Implemented analytics into new and existing campaigns. Interactive Media Specialist Meredith Corporation - Des Moines, IA January 2007 to January 2008 - Developed online articles for Better Homes & Garden.  - Optimized online photo & video assets. Education B.A. in Creative Advertising & Graphic Design Drake University - Des Moines, IA Links http://github.com/tazcarper