Freelance Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hello There Jacksonville, FL I'm a strong minded, hard working individual. I've always strived to to my best in anything I do. I posses 13 years in the hospitality industry(last 5 in Mgmt). I'm charismatic and professional with a passion for....****CODE****. Checkout my github acc. https://github.com/newbsaibot. I left my hospitality management career a year ago to focus on my love and passion for programming and web development. I’ve been teaching myself programming for the last 4 years. I started with Python (still work with Python) and have currently moved onto working with C# and Unity for game development, Kali Linux, learning basic commands on the terminal preparing for ethical hacking and Arduino which I’ve got to say I’ve had a blast with! Im comfortable with Python, C#, and JavaScript. I’m currently and usually always taking multiple tutorials which has given me tons of exposure to several different tools and languages from online resources including team tree house, udemy, codeacademy, freecodecamp, youtube, google, stack overflow and countless tutorials across the net. I’m looking to be a junior/intermediate developer with a team that posses the love and passion that I have for code. It’s all I think about, it’s all I want to do. I’d love to do what I love with a team that loves it too. :) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Developer Freelance/Self employed - Jacksonville, FL September 2017 to Present Honing my skills using self taught methods an On-line resources. Working with real-world projects and excersices to better my skill-set. creating web pages for friends and small businesses and continuously enhancing my skills using On-line patforms such as Udemy, FreeCodeCamp, SoloLearn, TeamTreeHouse, EdX, Coursera, CodeCademy, DataQuest (my current path) etc. All while gaining certifications for my accomplishments and gaining more and more experience. Front end developer (temp) Qooqee - Jacksonville, FL June 2018 to August 2018 Worked with webFlow and duplicated current projects used with muse as a transfer method. Worked with html and css slightly to accommodate webFlows short comings. Projects were all templates with several pages including home, extras, contact form which I replicated using webflow as required. Great learning experience unfortunately it was a short term contract. General Manager (GM) SURFER [THE BAR] - Jacksonville Beach, FL November 2016 to February 2018 While opening Surfer [The Bar] My responsibilities through out the opening were to interview all  potential employees for both FOH and BOH. I created the training agenda for all FOH staff as well as  their specialty cocktail menu test. The ongoing development of all staff members as well as scheduling  for all departments. The training of first time and experienced managers to create a larger management  team as there was only Three managers, I was always relied on the most as I am the most experienced  among the Management team. I was contracted as acting GM. Overseeing daily operations, and assuring  that all team members we trained to spec in order to assure the smoothest opening for the Bar. Weekly  labor reports adjusted accordingly and sent out for payroll purposes and working with a Labor pro where I  projected and kept track of our budgeting using a declining budget. Manage 100+ employees in a high  volume record breaking sales compared to our sister bars with over $100,00 in sales weekly. Assistant General Manager Hawkers Asian Street Fare - Jacksonville, FL November 2011 to October 2016 Controlled and managed restaurants daily operations. Understanding and complete comprehension of scheduling, budgeting and forecasting using Hot Schedules restaurant application. Managed, coached and motivated a team of 75+ employees. Ability to read and understand P&L's. Coached team members about proper food safety and sanitation. Trained and coached team members to understand and master POS skill and trained in proper food handling and safety procedures. Created a friendly, safe and fun working environment while following proper protocol and procedures in a 3.5 million dollar store. Helped trained and developed managers from entry level to experienced. Maintained a 4 star yelp review in both stores and both restaurants were the highest reviewed in their cities. Server/Bar back The Globe Cafe and Bar - Coral Gables, FL April 2007 to October 2011 Greeted guest with an up beat and positive energy. Followed proper steps of service. Worked in a team environment where we all helped each other in order to create a greater guest experience Received and delivered food and beverage orders in a timely, efficient and courteous manner. Execute daily and weekly side  work and projects needed to keep restaurant up to par. Stocked ice and alcohol for service. Responsible for accurately handling cash and cc transactions. Education Associate Degree in Network Engineering Miami dade college - Miami, FL November 2005 to December 2007 High School Diploma Coral Gables Sr High School - Coral Gables, FL 2004 Skills Fluent in both English and Spanish both written and verbal. Intermediate in Excel, Python, Java, JavaScript, C#, BootStrap, Unity, Arduino programming languages, as well as HTML and CSS. Inventory control and record keeping. Strong work ethic, Results-oriented, Knowledge of POS systems including Restaurant Manager, Aloha, 2Touch, Micros and restaurant manager. Knowledge of assigning job codes, pay rates, and start dates on back end POS systems. Comprehension of P&L reports as well as E.B.I.T and E.B.I.T.A. reports. Experience using Hot Schedules scheduling software (4 years), javascript, html, Python (2 years), mysql, Front End, Java, Linux, SQL Links https://github.com/newbsaibot http://www.linkedin.com/in/leo-cruz-805a89107