User Experience Manager User Experience Manager User Experience Manager - Fiserv Work Experience User Experience Manager Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA November 2011 to Present Currently leading the mobile UX team responsible for building Payments applications for responsive mobile web as well as iOS and Android application platforms. The process incorporates user data, best practices and improvements over existing desktop applications to deliver a top notch mobile product consumed by our customers and financial institutions. Also responsible for projects in the innovation space that incorporate forward thinking and cutting edge technologies as well as updating existing application evolution in the electronic payments industry. Designs presented as wireframe and clickable prototypes adhering to industry design standards and including specific attention to layout, flow, typography, spacing, color pallet, toolkits and alignment. Additional documentation includes personas, journey maps, infographics, sitemaps and research scripts. Customers include Bank of America, SunTrust, Bank of the West and more. Environments include Sketch, Invision, Indesign, Axure, Omnigraffle and Visio. Senior User Experience Designer/Team Lead Sapient Nitro - Atlanta, GA April 2011 to November 2011 Lead designer for FIAT US website, FIAT Abarth website and FIAT Abarth LA Autoshow launch microsite. In addition, responsible for portions of Chrysler.com as well as various modules on Dodge.com including the vehicle detail pages and global nav. Deliverables include full site concepts, wireframes, color/typography standards and workflow. Also responsible for Coca Cola, Vitamin Water, Canada CPPIB and Sapient corporate website. Environments consist of Omnigraffle, Photoshop, Indesign, Agile, Mobile, Responsive, etc. Senior User Experience Design/Team Lead Pega Systems - Boston, MA May 2010 to April 2011 Assigned to various accounts company-wide in healthcare, insurance and financial industries. Part of a high profile design and delivery team responsible for delivering enterprise level healthcare systems including benefits management, customer care and fulfillment for companies such as CMO, Medco and Triwest. Also responsible for PRPC customer care applications in the finance industry for American Express, For Financial and JPMorgan Chase. Environments consist of Visio, PRPC, Agile, Mobile, Responsive, etc. Senior User Experience Designer Cox Communications - Alpharetta, GA February 2010 to May 2010 Responsible for wireframes and workflow documentation for Cox Business and Residential websites. Part of the Web Strategy team, workflow documents utilize in house design standards and documentation to create deliverables to the business based on requirements set forth. Projects range from Interactive Bill, Ethernet Performance, E-Com and others. Environments consist of Visio, iRise, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Flash, Visual Studio, Agile, Mobile, Responsive, etc. Director ARI Network Services - Atlanta, GA May 2008 to January 2010 Responsible for UX design across all of ARI products, UX research, creation and design for ARI products as well as Pro Services offerings for additional customers such as Harley Davidson, Yamaha, Suzuki, MTD, Home Depot and more. Deliverables consist of wireframes, requirements documents, style guides, workflow diagrams, typography, color pallet, mockups, and html. Environments consist of Visio, iRise, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Flash, Visual Studio, Agile, Mobile, Responsive, etc. Senior User Experience Designer AT&T - Alpharetta, GA March 2008 to May 2008 Responsible for all web workflow design in the AT&T wireless group. This includes products, e-commerce, data management and promotions. Daily responsibilities include project timeline, usability lab projects, workflow, style guides, design and mockups. Skills used: usability testing, workflow, project management, information architecture, front end development and upgrade. Environments consist of Visio, iRise, MS Project, HTML, Flash, Visual Studio etc. Senior User Experience Designer/Team Lead Verizon Business - Alpharetta, GA September 2007 to March 2008 Responsible for managing and implementing global internal corporate sales website ("Insite"). Implementation includes upgrade to .Net 2.0 and SQL 2005 as well as an entirely ground up visual front end. Responsible for project timeline, wireframes, mockups, usability studies, user workflow and implementation. Held series of usability tests both in U.S. and U.K. as well as Net Meeting based usability focus group tests for new site structure, workflow and front end. Project spans from beginning phase to development handoff. Skills used: usability testing, workflow, typography, project management, information architecture, front end development and upgrade. Environments consist of Visio, MS Project, HTML, .Net 2.0, legacy ASP, CSS, CGI, JavaScript, Flash, Visual Studio etc. Senior User Experience Designer / Front End Developer NetBank Inc - Alpharetta, GA August 2005 to July 2007 Responsible for design, usability, workflow and integration of corporate websites. Solely responsible for implementation between IT and marketing. Established a corporate design and UI standard which requires all new product and application design to meet the highest standards of corporate branding. In charge of all NetBank websites from design to wireframes and implementation phase as well as maintenance and rollout of future updates. Environments consist of HTML, ASP, CSS, CGI, JavaScript, VBScript, Flash, DreamWeaver, Visual SourceSafe, Visual Studio etc. Senior Web Designer / User Experience Designer GBHoldings, Inc - Atlanta, GA November 2002 to May 2007 Managed front end design for GunBroker.com including upgrade versions to .Net 2.0 from legacy ASP. Responsibilities included managing workflow, design, user interaction and usability among processes within the website and its supporting components. Responsible for all marketing materials including but not limited to promotional materials, corporate identity package, commercial advertising, graphic design, website design and corporate documentation. Skills used .Net 2.0, Photoshop, Illustrator, Visual Source Safe, ASP, CSS and JavaScript. Senior Designer The-Rev - Atlanta, GA May 2002 to November 2002 Responsible for front- end web design and marketing collateral for customer base. Responsibilities include managing wireframes, design comps, front end code and development, customer interaction and implementation. Current projects include but are not limited to; Porsche Cars North America, CIBA Vision, World Golf and Resorts. Design environments consist of Macintosh, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, HTML, CSS, ASP, JavaScript, Flash, etc. User Experience Designer / Front End Developer Probusiness Services - Atlanta, GA February 2000 to May 2002 Responsible for enterprise HR and Payroll employee self-service application servicing 24,000+ employees. Including design, information architecture, development and creation of company standards. Rolled out the system to corporate customers and continued to evolve and design the application to the ever changing landscape of HR and Payroll application needs for each corporate customer. Design environments consist of HTML, ASP, XML, XSL, CSS, JavaScript, VBScript, MS Interdev, MS Project, MS Access, MS SQL Server, DreamWeaver, Cold Fusion etc. Graphic Artist / Project Manager MSInternational - Atlanta, GA August 1996 to February 2000 Managed a team of 32 people (including offshore resources) to complete projects for a variety of related software applications, in order to meet the customers' deadline. Customer service and application support. Responsible for and managed $4.2 Million total contracts, designed & managed Electronic Parts and Service Systems for Euclid-Hitachi Heavy Equipment, Yamaha, Crown Equipment Inc., and O&K Industrial Equipment Corporation. Design environments consist of HTML, ASP, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, MS Project, MS Access etc. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Commercial Design & Marketing Jacksonville State University - Jacksonville, AL 1996 Verizon Business University of Southern California Skills Information architecture, User experience, Html, Javascript, Visio Links http://www.donovanlara.com Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE/EXPERIENCE    Management and Director level leadership. Strong skills in Information Architecture/User Experience Design, usabillity, mobile design, responsive design, Agile, graphic design, typography, prototyping, research, infographics as well as a working understanding of software tools including Axure, Sketch, Invision, Zeplin, Adobe XD, Indesign, Visio, iRise Studio, Omnigraffle, Balsomiq, Morae, Photoshop, Adobe Creative Suite and other relevant applications. In addition, experience with front end development including HTML, CSS and Javascript.