Graphic Designer and Front- End Developer Graphic Designer and <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Collaborative graphic designer & strategic communication specialist Greensboro, NC Creative and multi-talented graphic designer & strategic communication specialist with experience in applied print & web design, front- end development, design consulting, and strategy development who:   - Promotes collaboration & innovation. Demonstrates creativity in working with colleagues and clients to develop solutions.  - Creates clarity. Creates and develops visual responses to communication problems, including understanding of hierarchy, typography, aesthetics, composition and construction of meaningful images.  - Exhibits expertise. Understands and utilizes appropriate tools and technology.  - Manages resources. Thrives in deadline-driven environments and accustomed to working within budget requirements.    Specialties:   - Art Direction  - Graphic Design (web and print)  - Web Front- End Development  - Project Management  - Strategy Development  - Client Relationships  - Client Presentations Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Designer and Front- End Developer ETG Design - Greensboro, NC January 2001 to Present Self employed / Contract web and print design work for various clients: professional actors, UNC Greensboro, Triad Stage, NC Stage Company, Mountain Xpress publication, film industry professionals, etc. Collaborate with clients to create vision, conceive designs, and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Utilize HTML, CSS and JavaScript to implement website designs and content. Web Designer/ Developer and Consultant Site Ducky (formerly RKR Graphics and Associates) - Asheville, NC January 2009 to August 2011 Collaborate with clients to create vision, conceive designs, and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Utilize HTML, CSS and JavaScript to implement website designs and content. Assist and advise on strategic Site Ducky business and marketing decisions.    Key Achievements:  • Redesign of golf resort website increased traffic by 133% and sales inquiries by 18%. Communication Consultant Aon Consulting - Winston-Salem, NC January 2008 to December 2008 Promoted after three years to a consulting position within full-service Human Capital Practice with over $8,000,000 in annual revenue.    Consulting  Developed and managed trusted relationships with clients and colleagues; clients ranged in size from 3,000 - 50,000+ employees. Served as national best practice consultant for website implementations and strategy. Defined effective communication strategies based on client’s culture and needs.    Implementation & Design  Collaborated with clients and teams to conceptualize, design and implement websites and corporate extranets with intuitive interfaces to guarantee successful end-user experiences. Interpreted and translated complex benefits information into effective employee communication campaigns and collateral. Served as liaison between multiple internal departments and unified three lines of business around specific client-focused strategies and implementations.    Sales & Marketing  Researched technology and trends; analyzed business landscape and developed new web services and strategies. Generated pricing models for communication products and services. Managed, coordinated, and implemented design of marketing materials and user interface prototype website (sales demo).    Team Management  Managed team workload; allocated resources; set and communicated team objectives, timelines, and ownership. Provided coaching and guidance to team members; solicited input and feedback on work processes and deliverables; encouraged sharing knowledge, information, and expertise to build consensus of ideas. Performed periodic quality governance reviews of team’s work; monitored team successes and opportunities for improvement.    Key Achievements:  • Managed and partnered on more than 35 web-based benefits administration implementations and employee communication campaigns involving budgets up to $250,000. (2004 - 2008)  • Created and conducted persuasive sales and marketing presentations resulting in ten new web clients and generating 22% organic growth. (2006 - 2008)  • APEX Awards For Publication Excellence, Writing That Works — 2008: Awarded to Aon Consulting WS Communication team for HR & Benefits Communication, Web Pages & Sections.  • Aon Consulting Client Service Award, Southeast Region — 2008: Awarded for “development of innovative services/solutions based on unique client/customer needs, demonstration of outstanding dedication to client/customer service, dedication to client retention, and excellence in building and maintaining client relationships.” Communication (Electronic Media) Specialist Aon Consulting - Winston-Salem, NC July 2004 to January 2008 Implementation & Design  Collaborated with clients and teams to conceptualize, design and implement websites and corporate extranets with intuitive interfaces to guarantee successful end-user experiences. Served as national best practice resource for website implementations and strategy. Interpreted and translated complex benefits information into effective employee communication campaigns and collateral. Served as liaison between multiple internal departments and unified three lines of business around specific client-focused strategies and implementations. Conceived original art and graphic/layout design for corporate identity packages, advertising, newsletters, brochures, and collateral materials.    Sales & Marketing  Researched technology and trends; analyzed business landscape and advised on new web services and strategies. Recommended pricing models for communication products and services. Implemented design of marketing materials and user interface prototype website (sales demo).    Team Management  Managed team workload; allocated resources; set and communicated team objectives, timelines, and ownership. Provided coaching and guidance to team members; solicited input and feedback on work processes and deliverables; encouraged sharing knowledge, information, and expertise to build consensus of ideas. Performed periodic quality governance reviews of team’s work; monitored team successes and opportunities for improvement.    Key Achievements:  • Led development of dynamic communication content web application (WCMS); sales revenue of $300,000 in six months of release recouped development cost.  • Managed and partnered on more than 35 web-based benefits administration implementations and employee communication campaigns involving budgets up to $250,000. (2004 - 2008)  • Created and conducted persuasive sales and marketing presentations resulting in ten new web clients and generating 22% organic growth. (2006 - 2008)  • APEX Awards For Publication Excellence, Writing That Works — 2005, 2006, 2007: Awarded to Aon Consulting WS Communication team for HR & Benefits Communication, Web Pages & Sections. Print / Web Designer and Consultant RKR Graphics and Associates - Asheville, NC January 2001 to April 2005 Collaborated with clients to create vision, conceive designs and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Created original art and graphic design for corporate identity packages, advertising, newsletters, brochures and collateral materials. Served as liaison with print service providers and assisted clients in making economically suitable choices. Utilized HTML, CSS and Flash to implement website designs and content. Responded to RFPs and generated pricing models for design services. Developed and managed relationships with clients and colleagues; clients ranged in size from 5 - 5,000 employees. Production Artist (temporary) Mountain Xpress - Asheville, NC July 2002 to September 2002 Created graphic/layout advertisement design for a variety of advertising customers. Designed online banner advertising. Technology & Web Assistant (temporary) Mountain Xpress - Asheville, NC May 2001 to December 2001 Member of Internet development/design team. Prepared images and text for web. Cleaned up HTML and posted weekly site content until new structure completed in December 2001. Communication Specialist Community CarePartners - Asheville, NC October 1998 to April 2001 Conceptualized and designed corporate Internet site. Edited and designed corporate newsletter; created original art and graphic/layout design for corporate identity packages, advertising, newsletters, brochures and collateral materials. Managed all pre-press and service provider material, working closely with regional print providers and advertising venues. Assisted in the development of advertising campaigns. Supervised summer interns.    Key Achievements:  • Reduced yearly print and materials budget over 50% by streamlining printing costs and consolidating procedures.  • Silver Tusk and Wallie Awards, Carolinas Healthcare PR and Marketing Society — 1999, 2000: Awarded to Community CarePartners marketing team for community relations and internal communication campaigns. HR Assistant Community CarePartners - Asheville, NC January 1997 to October 1998 Edited and designed agency newsletter and human resources materials. Designed and maintained employment and orientation databases. Maintained orientation materials; coordinated and facilitated bi-weekly orientation.    Key Achievements:  • COMPASS Trainer — 1998: One of 80 employees selected to lead COMPASS training (customer service program) for all 1400 Community CarePartners employees.  • Community CarePartners Customer Service Award — 1998: Awarded for outstanding customer service. Education Bachelor's in BFA-Theatre UNCG - Greensboro, NC Skills Javascript (4 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Lotus Notes (5 years), Indesign (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Editing (5 years), Budgeting (10+ years), Quark (5 years), Usability Testing (1 year), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Problem Solving (10+ years), Active Listening (10+ years), Social Media, Public Relation (3 years) Links http://www.etgilbertdesign.com Assessments Graphic Design — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9tb8qigywcflpssr Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uwzqy62noiwytxrs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.