Laborer/Operator/Driver Laborer/Operator/Driver Actively looking for any open position in Springfield, KY Springfield, KY Reliable, driven college graduate with a diverse skillset seeking immediate employment in Springfield. I'm strongly considering all opportunities regardless of industry or responsibilities. I have experience working in automotive manufacturing, restaurants ( front and back of house), IT/tech support, web design and development, marketing and advertising (primarily small-medium sized local businesses), and as a journalist for both print and online publications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Laborer/Operator/Driver Red Gate Enterprise LLC - Brooks, KY February 2019 to Present Worked in a generalist, flexible role to help wherever I was needed and complete jobs in a timely manner or to meet a customer's deadline. Both my job title and responsibilities were dependent on what needed to get done on a given day or week.     I occasionally did general labor tasks, but more often I was operating equipment (such as tractors and mowers, not heavy equipment) or transporting various things with a truck and trailer. I was often expected to take a supervisor's role when with teammates to complete a job and took responsibility for completing it successfully.    The job required adaptability, a willingness to learn, leadership, and critical thinking skills. When working as a team communication and respect were key. Press Operator/Production Associate NESCO Resource - Springfield, KY August 2018 to February 2019 I was hired through Nesco Resource for a Production Associate position at INOAC and worked as a Press Operator in the injection molding department. My job required learning how to operate the press correctly and safely so it would produce quality parts at a speed quick enough to meet or surpass production goals. At the end of each cycle, I would remove parts from the press, assemble and inspect them for defects, then pack them for shipping. It was my responsibility to keep my press running smoothly and report problems that I couldn't fix.    I worked on the most important line in INOAC's injection department and operated one of the fastest presses. I was moved there because I was a hard worker and management knew I learned quickly and had seen me work well as part of a team. It was difficult work but I took pride in my work and the team's. Press Operator TransNav Technologies - Danville, KY March 2018 to July 2018 Operated an injection molding press that manufactured various automotive parts. In addition to my responsibilities as an operator, my duties included assembling the parts as they came out of the press, inspecting them for defects, and packing good parts to be shipped. My job required speed to meet the company's production numbers but also attentiveness and accuracy to catch defective parts before they hit a shipping container.    I learned to operate every individual press and how to assemble the parts during my time working for TransNav. I was often put on priority parts or asked to operate the harder presses. I ultimately left the company because the commute from Springfield to Danville was too long and I was offered a better position locally. Cook, server, driver Mellow Mushroom - Louisville, KY March 2017 to August 2017 Senior Software Engineer Humana - Louisville, KY March 2015 to February 2017 Freelance Writer Vice Media - Brooklyn, NY 2014 to 2016 Software Engineer TMP Worldwide - Louisville, KY October 2014 to February 2015 Front- End Developer Madwire - Fort Collins, CO June 2012 to July 2014 UI Designer Imagewest - Bowling Green, KY January 2012 to June 2012 Desktop Support Technician Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY June 2009 to January 2012 While attending WKU I worked for the IT department as a Desktop Support Technician while pursuing my undergraduate degrees as a full-time student. I worked directly with faculty and staff members to setup, install, repair, replace, troubleshoot, diagnose and fix computers, printers, and any other WKU-owned devices. Reporter/Photographer College Heights Herald - Bowling Green, KY August 2008 to May 2011 Started as a General Assignment reporter being bounced between the different section editors and typically getting the assignments no one else wanted. Gradually worked my way up to a regular beat on the news desk.    Towards the end of my tenure at the Herald, I landed a staff reporter gig and transitioned from news to features. Intern The Courier-Journal - Louisville, KY August 2007 to May 2008 I competed against many very talented peers for an internship at The Courier-Journal during the summer before my freshmen year of college. I was one of five aspiring young writers selected as an intern. I officially became a published writer during my internship. Several of my articles made the cut and appeared in the Sunday print edition of the newspaper. Seeing my byline for the first time was a proud moment. Education Bachelor's in Advertising Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY August 2007 to May 2012 Bachelor's in Journalism Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY August 2007 to May 2012 Skills Marketing (5 years), Marketing Strategy (5 years), Digital Marketing (5 years), Search Engine Optimization (5 years), Social Media Marketing (5 years), Machine Operator (1 year), Assembly (1 year), Quality Assurance (1 year), Manufacturing (1 year), Desktop Support (3 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Advertising (5 years), Project Management (2 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Web Design (5 years), Wordpress (2 years), Windows (10+ years), Research (10+ years), Teamwork (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Illustrator (7 years), Indesign (7 years), Web Development (6 years), Branding (6 years), Linux (2 years), Market Research (2 years), Testing (6 years), Usability Testing (3 years), User Experience Design (2 years), User Interface Design (2 years), Opera (1 year), Public Speaking (2 years), Android (8 years), Analytics (5 years), Application Development (2 years), AP Style (5 years), Audio Editing (1 year), Audition (1 year), Acrobat (5 years), SEO (5 years), SAAS (2 years), Security (1 year), Shipping (2 years), Dropbox (5 years), Dreamweaver, Final Cut Pro (1 year), Graphic Design (5 years), Google Analytics (5 years), Google Adwords (5 years), Google Docs (8 years), Google Webmaster Tools (4 years), HTML 5 (7 years), Hootsuite (2 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Kaizen (2 years), Logo Design (4 years), Landscaping (1 year), Lightroom (3 years), CSS3 (7 years), Customer Service Experience (10+ years), Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Copywriting (8 years), Copy Editing (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Computer Repair (10+ years), Content Management (5 years), Content Management Systems (5 years), Content Creation (5 years), Content Marketing (5 years), Conflict Resolution (2 years), Collaboration (5 years), Cooking (2 years), Cashier (1 year), Cash Handling (4 years), Cash Register (1 year), Call Center (1 year), Video Editing (1 year), Video Production (Less than 1 year), Visual Design (3 years), Venipuncture (4 years), Quality Control, Inspection, Microsoft Excel