Associate manager Associate manager Management Baraboo, WI I am a natural born leader that had a career in the IT field for many years that rose to the rank of director of IT. I’ve managed 16 managers in over 256 employees at one point in my life. I believe in having fun at work but at the same time getting the job done creating motivation with an employee’s that defines respect with him everybody as a team. I am the kind of manager that leads but at the same time shows by doing. I learned this in the military Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate manager Cracker Barrel - Madison, WI May 2018 to Present I am currently an associate manager that perform his duties including running the restaurant on single coverage, performing end of day duties although trained an opening duties. Watching and controlling labor doing inventory of supplies work in front of house back of house. Hiring and firing, leader ship and motivation skills within staff in a fast paced very high stress job PIc/general manager IHOP - Madison, WI January 2013 to January 2018 Started as a server and work my way up through the ranks to PIC/general manager job duties performed were labor food costs motivation leader ship in both front and back of house I was also in charge of hiring and firing employees. Senior FRONT END DEVELOPER CODAworx April 2014 to October 2014 Development of CODAworx website including repositories for staging using GIT version control. Also used ZEND framework 2 for backend development. education in PHP and MYSQL to update and development of new pages including the CODAworx video awards and future development with responsive web practices using twitter bootstrap. WEBSITE DESIGNER Ad Lit Inc October 2011 to July 2012 Creating E-mail campaigns from information that the client forwarded to Ad-Lit Inc, including Constant Contact and native HTML files. Text versions with links also produced using Aweber and OEM Pro. Also worked on existing websites upgrading them to HTML5 using CSS3 for creativity. Independent Contractor SELF EMPLOYED June 2006 to October 2011 Started to accept clients for self employment doing website design and programming per clients guidance within meetings. Was able to do sales, marketing, design, upgrades and redesign of clients websites or from scratch with my unique blend of SEO for high rankings.. DIRECTOR OF I.T SELF EMPLOYED February 2008 to June 2009 Work on day to day website needs including search engine optimization, css-p, coldfusion and any and all graphic design needs for the company as a front man. I also started learning Microsoft Server 2003 needs working with active directory and maintaining the VPN and terminal services. DIRECTOR OF I.T Wagner Realty January 2006 to January 2008 Am responsible for Wagnerrealty.com and wagnerrentals.com, this consisted of redesigning the websites for Search Engine Optimization. Currently wagner Realty holds the rank of #6 for their market environment on Google and other various search engines. Also am responsible for all 12 Offices computers, and networks maintaining them and making sure they are error free. Developed SEO and Coldfusion logic to optimize on the Internet. Also personal website is #4 for "Coldfusion Website Design" on Yahoo. This rank beats Allaire's website which created Coldfusion. I also hold the rank of #1 for "World's best website designer" on Yahoo SENIOR WEB ENGINEER CSS and Xhtml February 2005 to January 2006 Developed my own style of web coding with CSS and Xhtml with placement and strategy for search engine optimization on Google, Yahoo, AOL, and MSN. redesigned current web sites with modern technology. Best achieved ranking was #1 out of 4,000,000 websites. Public relations and customer service was a prime within the job description. Mentored junior web designers and brought them up to tasks threw project management. CONTRACTOR FOR PEPSICO / TROPICANA 1st Line Staffing September 2004 to December 2004 Tropicana, a sub company of PepsiCo. Roles are upgrading the complete Bradenton and Ft. Pierce plants in Florida for Windows XP Professional; Interview the client's computer, schedule the upgrade then follow-up the next day with troubleshooting skills, and client satisfaction. In down time preformed actual upgrading and replacement. PepsiCo's goal was to upgrade all 1000 computers in the Florida state area. WEBSITE ENGINEER Webtivity Designs March 2004 to July 2004 Developed web presence for clients based on business and personal preference, creating color schemes, site architecture, and counseling. Designs are set to W3C standards using XHTML, CSS, and java scripting base utilizing Dreamweaver MX 2004, and making the design "search engine friendly'. Other duties as an engineer consisted of SEO - (Search Engine Optimization Specialist) using disciplines on Google, MSN, Yahoo and other major search engines. Personal best site ranking is number 1 out of 1,000,000 sites on Google. COMPUTER SERVICEMAN / SHIPPING & RECEIVING Computer Buyers Warehouse September 2003 to January 2004 Repaired computers of all kinds including Compaq, HP, Dell, Gateway and  Clones. Assembly of computers including upgrades of outdated CPU's  Creating custom builds from beginning to end. Further development of  BIOS, and setting POST within before installing of Windows XP. Developed personal relationships with companies such as Maxtor, Western Digital, Intel, Synnex, and MSI. Developed RMA System of standard protocol within the department. Cataloged inventory and serialized product for company database. Tested parts for performance or faulty. PROJECT LIMITED WORK / PRODUCTION ARTIST Manpower November 2002 to July 2003 Sanford Business To Business  Worked as a production Artist doing typography for clients involving pen placement and film development with Adobe Illustrator, Streamline, and Dimensions. Day to day routines included adding clients to database in file maker and tagging for future repeats of logos and taglines. Projects included Redrawing of corporate identities and using creative talents for internal and external use. Minor Macintosh troubleshooting included. PROJECT LIMITED WORK / HELP DESK Teksystems January 2002 to November 2002 Land's End the maintenance of dummy terminals with mainframes including TSO, VM, RACF and CICS all threw the application called Rumba. Operated and replaced trouble tickets with Tivoli ticket software. Also fixed common and complex problems using SMS, Virtual PC, and Timbuktu within the Windows 2000 Professional edition. Preformed level 1 for office 2000 including Word, Access, Excel, Outlook, and FrontPage issues.    *CUNA Mutual Credit Union  Performed password changes and resets to resolve security issues using both RACF and Active Directory while keeping track of trouble tickets using Support Magic software. Did large database retrieving and some updates of personal using Windows NT Workstations running Novell client software. Also guided employees and credit unions across the nation helping them with the web based applications that were being implemented within the credit unions. CHARTER SUB-CONTRACTOR / MACINTOSH DEPARTMENT MANAGER / COMPUTER SALES ENGINEER Aurora Computer Services Inc July 2000 to December 2001 Had done high-speed cable modem installs using a DHCP server and troubleshooting issues for Charter Communications. When at the office was the Macintosh Department Manager in charge of any and all Macintosh issues. Including software and hardware issues. Expanded my knowledge with Windows operations as well including the new Windows 2000 Professional. Became A+ certified and is able to construct and load a new Windows Box. Troubleshoot hardware and internal issues, including BIOS. Became sales engineer and marketing TECHNICAL SUPPORT MANAGER Global Dialog Internet January 1999 to July 2000 Have been progressively promoted during my tenure with this Internet Service Provider. My day to day technical responsibilities include supporting TCP/IP protocols for Win 95/98, monitoring and troubleshooting dial up and e-mail services for customers, configuration of customer's systems for ISP Connection and configuration of E-Mail protocols, setup of domains and aliases, and setup/maintenance of passwords/security. Additionally, evaluating and managing personnel training needs, improving the quality of technical support services and overseeing internal projects. COMPUTER LAB TECHNICIAN/STUDENT TUTOR Madison Area Technical College 1996 to 1998 Was responsible for computer maintenance (Macintosh's and IBM PC's/Compatibles) including repair, memory swap outs and routine troubleshooting. Additionally, was responsible for helping students with assignments and providing support for Adobe PhotoShop, Adobe Illustrator and QuarkXpress. INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER U.S.ARMY 1987 to 1991 Was instructed on mechanical design, Architecture, and Civil engineering. Can read blueprints and create as well, with dimensioning both traditional and threw the aid of Computer. Became 2nd in my graduating class of around 50 solders.    Brain Bench Certificates -www.brainbench.com  Managing People (U.S.)  Counseling Techniques  First Aid Core Knowledge  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Illustrator  Macintosh OS  MS Outlook Express Fundamentals  Netscape Fundamentals  Computer Fundamentals (WINDOWS)  Computer Fundamentals (Mac OS)    References and Portfolio provided upon request.    image1.jpeg    Image Format: JPEG  Image Height: 85  Image Width: 85 Education Graphic Design Madison Area Technical College Skills Coaching, Organizational Skills, Inventory Management, training, Marketing Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS: ANCILLARY SKILLS:  95/98se/2000/NT/XP/VISTA/WINDOWS 7 - 8 HTML 5.0  MAC OS CSS3 / JAVASCRIPT  MS DOS TCP/IP  RUMBA/MAINFRAMES ORGANIZATION  PHP MEMORIZATION  GIT SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION  AGILE SOCIAL MEDIA OPTIMIZATION