Product Owner Product Owner Product Management / Product Owner Leader Orlando, FL Accomplished product professional with a strong background in leadership, communication, and team-building skills. Experienced PM and PO leader with a track record of envisioning, building and launching products and services by taking full the responsibility of the process while working with cross-functional teams.    I am experienced in defining and executing product strategies efforts while collaborating with stakeholders and customers to determine market needs and identifying internal/external pain-points. I take this information to assist our team in developing and executing roadmaps, requirements and managing feature priorities while in a scrum/agile environment.     My strengths rely on my endless curiosity to improve processes and find solutions while leveraging my interests in building relationships and collaboration.     Selected Accomplishments   - Managed suite of digital products to transition business group from a printed products organization to include digital products for the hotel industry.     - Developed product roadmaps from market research and feedback obtained from internal and external channels as well as management of feature priorities that transformed into growth opportunities.    - Coordinated feature development for The Walt Disney Park & Resorts Online, globally recognized brands such as DisneyWeddings, ESPNWWOS, and DisneyInstitute among others.    - Reduced barriers between business units and departments by developing processes, dashboards and documentation platforms to enable product awareness, metrics, communication, and multi-department collaboration.     - Contributed to sales departments success and product confidence by developing programs that equipped teams with certified product knowledge, and by participating in business and partners development activities.    - Increased consumer confidence in engineering services as well as project delivery by 30% over previous years by creating a platform to provide metrics, lead generation, and automated procedures.    - Managed day-to-day operation of eCommerce websites that contributed to generating over $40M in vacation ownership sales by coordinating campaigns, metrics, production, and development of internal processes and applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Product Owner Veristream - Orlando, FL April 2016 to Present Define and outline product development efforts such as strategy, roadmaps, requirements and priorities while collaborating with stakeholders and customers to determine market direction and feature roadmaps. Work closely with design and development teams to communicate use cases, functions and business analysis following agile / scrum methodologies. Identify and manage, business needs, processes and partnerships development with external applications and organizations.   Director of Product Management Market Traders Institute - Lake Mary, FL November 2014 to April 2016 Responsible for managing portfolio of financial trading products, applications, and services with revenues of over $24M annually. Participated and / or coordinated strategic planning activities, competitive analysis, product development, product launch, post-production support, micro-marketing strategy and product communication within cross-functional teams. Product Manager Walt Disney World Park & Resorts Online January 2014 to July 2014 Successfully managed multiple online property products (DisneyWeddings.com, ESPNWWOS.com, DisneyInstitute.com, and DisneyYouth.com) through planning, requirements gathering, process flowcharts, communication roadmaps, and backlog management while clearing impediments and roadblock challenges. Product Manager Travel Media Group September 2010 to January 2014 Managed hospitality enterprise products and organized a team of developers, designers and support personnel to develop and maintain SaaS and various web applications. In addition, oversaw various areas of the development cycle while engaging with customers, partners and sales teams to streamline feedback and training and support procedures. Digital Marketing Senior Manager - Project Management Westgate Resorts October 2007 to September 2010 Effectively managed day-to-day operations of the digital marketing team including development and management of web-applications, products and systems (50+ Websites, WebApps, CMS platforms, email SaaS system) to provide lead generation and product marketing support of a $40M / year strategy. Also, successfully developed and implemented internal applications and processes to support leadGen initiatives, sales support, and infrastructure processes Lead Designer - Web Strategies Manager Lindemann Bentzon Bojack Architects & Engineers March 2005 to October 2007 Lead Designer / Front- End Developer Central Florida Investments February 2004 to March 2005 Web Designer / Front- End Developer Travel Holdings Inc. (LastMinuteTravel.com, Tourico Holidays) July 2002 to February 2004 Education Associates of Science in Digital Design Academy of Design 2003 to 2005 Associates of Science in Architecture Design and Project Management Valencia College 1995 to 1997 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Metropolitan University 1986 to 1989 Skills Jira, AHA, Keynote, PowerPoint (9 years), Agile / Scrum Methodologies (7 years), Strategic Plan and Execution (7 years), Product Roadmaps / Requirement Development (7 years), UI/UX – Front End Development (10+ years), Strategic Partnership Management (7 years), Product Management (7 years), Product Owner (3 years), Strategic Planning (7 years), Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum, Product Communication (Internal / External) (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Professional Certified Product Manager - AIPMM Present Professional Certified Product Owner Present Agile / Product Owner Certification in Product Development Present