Reactjs developer Reactjs <span class="hl">developer</span> Reactjs developer - eBay Inc Philadelphia, PA • Over 9+ years' experience in implementing UI components using ReactJS along with Redux Framework and JS ES 7 with Strong experience in developing Redux forms with react life cycle.  • Extensive Full-Stack/ Front- End development experience building, deploying, and maintaining web apps with CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, HTML5, Bootstrap, NodeJS, AJAX and JSON  • Deep experience with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 (Bootstrap, Media Queries), jQuery UI pluginSkilled in creating Single Page Applications (SPA) using ReactJS and implementing React routers,  • I've used react as the main library in several apps including my latest enterprise e-commerce project for the 3rd largest comic book publisher in the nationI understand the component lifecycle and how to truly make them re-useable.  • Experienced in webpack, ES6, React API, Redux-promises, Ajax; ES6 makes JS so much more powerful, I use it in any and all my projects.  • I've switched off of grunt over a year or so ago to strictly using webpack for all my preprocessing and compiling, it's lightweight nature is a joy to use.  • Well versed in CSS Pre-Processors as SASS, LESS to add nested rules, variables, selector inheritance to CSS3Skillful in developing Responsive/Adaptive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap framework.  • Strong experience with NodeJS; I've built several apps in Node, from an mobile API platform for a social media/interaction appTo the foundation for a next-gen e-commerce platform.  • In-depth understanding of RDBMS and Database Design in Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server.  • Comfortable working with JSON data format to consume RESTful web services. Work Experience Reactjs developer eBay Inc - Bellevue, WA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in Agile methodology for application development and involved in analysis, design, coding, and unit testing of business applications.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications.  • Developed SPA using ReactJS to utilize the HTML5 DOM features and update elements that are modified in the webpage.  • Configured routes between ReactJS and Flask to render the templates from the server-side.  • Used JQuery in directly manipulating the DOM yet separating the ReactJS Components.  • Used ReactJS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux stores to handle the states and update the UI.  • Performed Unit testing on ReactJS applications using tools like Karma, Jasmine and worked with Gulp tool for build automation.  • Experience in MERN stack development MongoDB, Express, React and Node.  • Designed, Debugged and Developed applications using Microsoft Visual Studio Code.  • Massive redesign of client site from HTML/PHP form handling to cleaner Redux-Form.  • Developed inbuilt mobile app with React-Native, Integrated with third party apps.  • Designed and Developed Styled components for mobile application, with React-Native.  • Used ES6 for the less boilerplate code to handle parameter.  • Used various plugins on babel to compile JSX to create elements.  • Used Node.js on the Ionic framework for creating a quick and responsive web design.  • Customized the build process to suit enterprise needs by developing custom Maven plugins, lifecycles and archetypes and Used Git as a version control to save the code.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB(NoSQL) database.  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. Models connect to MySQL and MongoDB using Node.js MySQL and Mongoose modules.  • Developed Microservices using RESTful services to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Used JIRA to track the progress of the project and wrote test cases and Used JUnit as a testing framework in a Test-Driven Development environment.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the Git Repositories, views, and the access control strategies.  • Designed and implemented Git metadata including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks.  • Administrated all aspects in Git and troubleshoot with merge conflicts.  • Installed and administered Docker.  • Worked with Docker for convenient environment setup for development and testing.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Hands-on experience on developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Apache Camel 2.14, JUnit 4.11, GitLab 7.8.1, Maven3.3, Log4j, JAXB, Git, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, ES6, React JS, React Native, React Redux, Node JS, JPA 2.1, Webpack, Tomcat 9.x, Karma, Jasmine, Gulp, Elastic Cloud Compute(EC2), Microservices, Docker. Angular front- end Developer Parking Nexus - San Francisco, CA July 2016 to March 2017 Description: This application contains three different portalsUsers can choose to use employer portal, employee portal or broker portal base on their rolesThe system provides functionalities such as "check eligibility", "find brokers", "choose health care providers" and "online payment"Before employees can enroll their health care plan, their employer has to register them on the employee rosterIf employers or employees do not know how to go through the process, they can get help from an authorized brokerThe broker's portal provides full functionalities to broker so that they can help both employer and employee.    Responsibilities  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)including gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens usingHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  • Developed web page quickly and effectively using Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS MVC Architecture to split the UI logic into Views, Models and Collections.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive using Bootstrap CSS framework.  • Worked on creating login authentication modules using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Created Angular components like Controllers, Services, Directives and Forms to collect different user data.  • Worked on Angular forms validation to do client side validations.  • Worked on Unit testing with Karma and Jasmine.  • Designed the application to allow all users to utilize core functionality, as well as business specific functionality based on login ID  • Used Angular JS controllers to update entity models and Tasks database.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js    Environment:MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.js, RESTFUL web service, Bootstrap 3. Web Developer SouthWest Airlines - Dallas, TX September 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code  • Utilized React to build reusable components with JSX including (landing, forms, and buttons), resulting in optimized rendering and performance  • Develop prototypes to determine the best solution for the user and the core purpose of the website.  • Incorporate algorithms and existing database information through the use of API's  • Developing the back- end server with Node.js, Express, NPM, Titan and Redis Full Stack Web Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO January 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Develop and design functionality on both aesthetic front- end and logical back- end  • Developed the main database project through agile design and the breakdown of responsibilities to smaller teams  • Partnered with 4 developers to review progress in the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and identify data storage capabilities  • Developed client-side portals for sales reps and medical doctors using Angular.js MVC pattern  • Created style sheets for web pages through CSS LESS approach.  • Facilitated transition of data from Oracle to Salesforce platform every two weeks and secured a new budget of $12M in order to accommodate increasing volume of data storage on the Oracle platform  • Managed expectations and facilitated the transition of a large team into smaller working groups to allow for more efficient means of communication and implementation Software Engineer Covance - San Diego, CA March 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • I designed, developed and implemented the Oracle database from an in house database for Bic Graphic  • Used Ajax, OO JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the front end client side application  • Created HTML markup, style sheets for new applications and provided support during integration  • Partnered with a team of four developers to build a customized Oracle database from an original stock Oracle system through consistent communication, clear road maps and distribution of work for code creation  • Identified end product functionality expectations and managed error tickets  • Assisted graphic artists and manufacturing team with issues and system performance in real-time  • Utilized feedback from key partners to increase production and optimize system performance through efficient connections of the RM and Oracle database  • Facilitated team development to accomplish implementation of a database design project for two major companies  • Increased production from art to manufacturing by 18% and reduced costs through system efficiencies Software Engineer Bic Graphic - Clearwater, FL September 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • I designed, developed and implemented the Oracle database from an in house database for Bic Graphic  • Used Ajax, OO JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS to develop the front end client side application  • Created HTML markup, style sheets for new applications and provided support during integration  • Partnered with a team of four developers to build a customized Oracle database from an original stock Oracle system through consistent communication, clear road maps and distribution of work for code creation  • Identified end product functionality expectations and managed error tickets  • Assisted graphic artists and manufacturing team with issues and system performance in real-time  • Utilized feedback from key partners to increase production and optimize system performance through efficient connections of the RM and Oracle database  • Facilitated team development to accomplish implementation of a database design project for two major companies  • Increased production from art to manufacturing by 18% and reduced costs through system efficiencies Education Computer Programming Saint Petersburg College - Clearwater, FL Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (9 years), CSS (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (5 years), AJAX (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Web Development: HTML5, SASS, LESS,Atomic CSS, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, PHP, JSON, JDBC, AJAX, XML,XHTML, MVC, DOM.  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, React.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap.  Database: MySQL, MSSQL, Teradata, PLSQL, MongoDB.  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  IDEs worked on: Notepad++, Eclipse,Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text2  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, Web Sphere.