Front- End ATG Developer / QA / Web Producer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> ATG <span class="hl">Developer</span> / QA / Web Producer Front- End ATG Developer / QA / Web Producer - Teleflora (The Wonderful Company) Los Angeles, CA Sr. Web Developer / A/B Tester / Graphic Designer with over 15 years of experience in Web development,  graphic design and multimedia. Expertise spans a diversity of print and digital products. Dynamic team player  able to interface effectively across all levels of management, and with cross-functional departments and clients  in gathering and implementing design requirements. Diverse talents span areas such as network / computer  troubleshooting and database development / maintenance. Strong background in computer programming,  debugging, and A/B testing. Excellent communication skills in explaining technical aspects to outside teams.  Seeking a position in fast-paced and innovative environment. Work Experience Front- End ATG Developer / QA / Web Producer Teleflora (The Wonderful Company) - Los Angeles, CA 2017 to Present Teleflora LLC is a $2 billion subsidiary of The Wonderful Company LLC. Through its online store, Teleflora  serves customers through its member florists in the United States and Canada. In 2011, Teleflora acquired  Petals Network which delivers flowers throughout Australia, New Zealand, and the UK. In total, they  represent 38,000 florists worldwide.  • Tech lead in migrating SiteCatalyst from the Ensighten tag management system to Google Tag Manager  • In charge of creating dimensions, metrics, and events for Google Analytics  • Create and monitor all A/B and multivariate tests, as well as delivery immediate website fixes.  • Manage tracking pixels in Ensighten and Google Tag Manager  • In charge of the Wonderful Company's War on Waste project to streamline A/B test creation  • Create dynamic e-mails for Teleflora, Partner Marketing, and eFlorists  • Archivist for Javascript code used in A/B tests and custom tracking pixels  • Code website updates using ATG - BCC, and Endeca  • Technologies used: Oracle ATG Web Commerce - BCC, Endeca, Google Tag Manager, Google  Analytics, Adobe Analytics, Ensighten, Foglight, ReturnPath, Scene7, Cloudinary, Silverpop THE PROACTIVE COMPANY - El Segundo, CA 2016 to 2016 Senior Web Developer GUTHY-RENKER - Santa Monica, CA 2011 to 2016 The Proactiv Company was created when Guthy-Renker sold their popular acne solution brands Proactiv and X-Out to Nestle Skin Health and created The Proactiv Company. Principal Secret, IT Cosmetics GUTHY-RENKER 2012 to 2012 Renker is a $1.8 billion (2012) direct marketing company for brands such as Wen Hair Care, Cindy  Crawford's Meaningful Beauty, Sheer Cover, Crepe Erase, Principal Secret, IT Cosmetics, Perricone MD as well as former brands Proactiv and X-Out.  • Create and monitor all A/B and multivariate tests, restoring natural search referrers and eliminating offer  code bleed (<.1%).  • Create campaigns, landing pages, and single page carts on Demandware (SaaS).  • Incorporate third party features such as Touch Commerce, Bazaarvoice, SeeWhy and Twilio.  • Created mobile sites with PHP on a LAMP stack, including third-party tracking pixels and SEO tagging.  • Created HTML emails, ensuring email client/browser compatibility.  • Supervised the Legacy team (LAMP) on all website development.  • As liaison to Keynote, improved code optimization.  • Assisted developers at another company (Imagemme) with Javascript coding to ensure proper order  tracking.  • Conducted interviews of candidates for developer positions.  • Technologies used: Demandware, LAMP, Maxymiser, Adobe Test & Target, Jira, Confluence, Redmine, Sharepoint, Eclipse, GULP, Foundation, Bootstrap, PHP, XHTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery,  XML, Ajax, ActionScript, SOAP, Subversion, Git, Gulp, Scene7, Zend, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, MS Office Suite Web Developer DISNEY INTERNET MEDIA GROUP - North Hollywood, CA 2007 to 2011 Disney Internet Media Group (DIMG) is the main Disney presence on the Internet. This Fortune 500 company  is responsible for Disney.com, Disney Xtreme Digital (DxD), the Disney Channel, Disney movies, and Club  Penguin.  • Created and updated interactive web pages featuring both videos and Flash through Eclipse and TeamSite content using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and ActionScript, producing fun activities for the  guest.  • Creative troubleshooting in Jira and Sharepoint, both general and browser-specific, fixing live site issues  involving HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and Tea.  • Wrote programming code in Tea for web analytics allowing independent tracking of web pages.  • Created HTML-based e-mail newsletters from PhotoShop comps, ensuring that they would display  consistently across several popular e-mail clients, delivering attention-getting content.  • Provided on-going support of multimedia content for producers' movie pages within GoPublish and TeamSite including managing all CMS deeplinks resulting in up-to-date content and easy transitions  between pages.  • Streamlined all page redirects for the Disney.com domain by writing Apache, JavaScript, and Tea code  for mobile redirect detection that is still used today.  • Modified global code base pages by changing content from static to CMS-driven, leading to sites useable  by Disney's teams in other countries.  • Designed AJAX programs with Tea to pull multimedia data from the CMS and format it as XML to work with a stand-alone Flash video player thus eliminating manual coding by the technical teams. This  involved using Perforce version control software.  • Designed web page entries with Flash video players for the Webby Awards with an understanding of web browsers and video formats, ultimately winning in their categories.  • Improved skills by taking additional classes in Flash, ActionScript, jQuery, sprites, sIFR, and Photoshop.  • Technologies used: Go Publish/Content Editor, TeamSite, Perforce, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash, XHTML, CSS, Tea, Apache, MS Office Suite JavaScript Programmer KAWASAKI MOTORS FINANCE CORP - Irvine, CA 2006 to 2007 Kawasaki Motors Finance Corp. is the finance division of Kawasaki Corporation. They assist dealerships as well as process customer loans.  • Created new forms in Acrobat and LiveCycle by scanning and tracing old paper versions, adding  interactive features to aid employees and streamlining paperwork processes.  • Trusted to create and code all forms in JavaScript and FormCalc with minimal to no supervision, which included time spent working from home, managing own schedule and personally estimating all deadlines  allowing supervisors to concentrate on other tasks.  • Educated resident database programmer in version of JavaScript used in coding Acrobat forms.  • As first individual to hold position, played key role in establishing new method for delivery of financial  forms to dealers.  • Researched new method requested by company, purchasing software needed and adding those features  resulting in better interactivity.  • Identified several bugs in Acrobat 8, resolving through updates and patches or developing personal  workarounds.  • Technologies used: Acrobat, LiveCycle, FormCalc, MS Office Suite Web Developer / Graphic Designer (Held Security Clearance) ACTA, INC - Torrance, CA 1990 to 2005 ACTA is a company that performs risk analysis across many fields including aerospace and the oil industry.  Their primary client is the United States Air Force. ACTA maintains offices at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California and Patrick Air Force Base in Florida.  • Spearheaded deployment of current US Air Force standard for creating ISO 9660 reports viewable across multiple platforms through Adobe Acrobat on autoload CDs.  • Designed, developed and maintained corporate web site with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, including  Flash animation and videos depicting products and services for commercial and government clients.  • Charged with full accountability for evaluating and purchasing all software for graphic design, network  security and operating systems.  • Conceptualized and developed spreadsheet event tree program to determine shuttle launch accident- failure rates based on component failure probabilities.  • Generated brochures and media kits used in bidding for government contracts with Acrobat, QuickTime  Pro, and CorelDraw.  • Performed GIS programming including development of layered base maps and digitized earthquake fault  data with Atlas GIS.  • Designed blueprints in AutoCAD and sketched flowcharts and Gant charts using CorelDraw and PhotoPaint for technical reports and PowerPoint presentations.  • Performed accounts payable/receivable and payroll functions.  • Maintained company network and troubleshot hardware, software, and network-connectivity issues.  • Technologies used: Atlas GIS; Un-Scan-It; Didger, OmniPage Pro, AutoCAD R12, MS Office Suite, XHTML, CSS, Flash, ActionScript, Camtasia Studio Skills PAGEMAKER, PREMIERE Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/terryfox1