UI/UX Designer UI/UX Designer UI/UX Designer Fallbrook, CA Work Experience UI/UX Designer Ignidus - Carlsbad, CA April 2018 to Present • Identify problems and propose solutions to improve the user experience of web based and mobile applications  • Work closely with product owners/managers to define the user experience for new feature sets  • Deliver wireframes, mockups and prototypes  • Conceptualize, design and mock-up high-fidelity interfaces across all viewports  • Collaborate with development team to integrate designs Front- End Developer Fluent - Encinitas, CA 2017 to 2018 • Website and landing page development using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Docker, Git, CodeKit, Sublime, Imgix Creative Director Lead Genesis - Las Vegas, NV 2016 to 2017 Creative Director  • Landing page design/development, A/B testing, split testing, conversion rate optimization.  • B2B/B2C email campaigns - design, develop, deploy.  • Responsive design, development, and maintenance of company's websites using WordPress, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery.  • UI/UX design for company's custom CRM software. Senior Web Designer Elements Behavioral Health - Long Beach, CA 2013 to 2016 • Responsive design, development, and maintenance of company's network of websites using WordPress, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Responsive design and development of landing pages for Google, Yahoo, and Bing pay-per-click ad campaigns. Web Designer CRC Health - Cupertino, CA 2009 to 2013 • Design, development, and maintenance of company's numerous web properties using WordPress, Bootstrap, Joomla, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • SEO for new and existing websites leveraging best practice optimization techniques and monitoring performance with Google analytics.  • Design and development of landing pages for Google, Yahoo, and Bing pay-per-click ad campaigns. A/B split testing using Google Experiments.  • Design of quarterly newsletters and email blasts using MailChimp and Constant Contact. Web Designer Aspen Education Group - Cerritos, CA 2005 to 2009 • Design, development, and maintenance of company websites using HTML, CSS, PHP, and JavaScript.  • Onsite SEO for new and existing websites leveraging best practice optimization techniques and monitoring performance with Google analytics.  • Design and development of landing pages for Google, Yahoo, and Bing pay-per-click ad campaigns. Web Designer/Graphic Designer Solvere - San Clemente, CA 2002 to 2005 • Design, development, and maintenance of company website using HTML, Flash, and JavaScript.  • Design magazine ads and online banner ads using Photoshop, InDesign, and Flash.  • Design printed corporate marketing materials, logos, and direct mail pieces using Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.  • Design of large tradeshow booth using Photoshop and Illustrator. Graphic Designer Interactive Solutions Corporation - Irvine, CA 2000 to 2001 • Design gaming interfaces using Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Design and development of promotional CD-ROM using Director and Flash.  • Design company's printed marketing materials, logos, and packaging using Photoshop, Illustrator, and PageMaker. Education AA in Graphic Design Platt College Skills UI, UX, Photoshop, Sketch, User Experience, User Interface, Adobe