Front- end tech <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> tech Front- end tech - General Electric Alameda, CA Work Experience Front- end tech General Electric May 2013 to Present lead responsible of Predix Asset through many releases over three years,  using wide variety of web technologies. JavaScript, Node, ES6, Angular, jQuery, Knockout,  React, HTML, CSS, SVG, D3, Polymer, Mocha, Protractor.  ? At same time worked in Node on Predix Asset backend, a NoSQL RDF graph database built upon Cassandra. Microservice oriented cloud pattern, Node, Cloud Foundry, OAuth, REST,  microservices.  ? Productive developer - completed 22% of all stories of the 15 person group one year. "You  are an army!" said colleague.  ? Received corporate Silver award for which my boss said " ability to think outside the box,  solve hard problems through imagination and courage, and deliver truly impactful, well  thought out solutions Your ideas and your delivery set you apart."  ? First rewrote existing Predix Asset web front end using modern techniques. Radically  improved UX based on actual use-cases. Reduced load time from 18 to 0.9 seconds. When  reference customer said "Awesome!" it became main codeline. Backend peer called me  "GE's coolest new hire ever!".  ? Designed and developed Predix JavaScript SDK, taking initial DX from days to minutes by handling tricky microservice wiring transparently and declaratively. SDK included packages for individual services, Predix Formation analogous to AWS Cloud Formation, and an auto-wiring runtime named Wired.  ? One of 20 receiving Predix Builder for general contributions to Predix. received at our big  Las Vegas conference on stage front of thousands of GE employees.  ? Side project Ruler patented by GE and incorporated into Predix Asset. Modular decorator  system for Predix Asset REST backend to support customer-specific business logic.  Reusable building blocks for business logic, e.g. state system, coupled with flexible trigger  logic, facilitates enforcing constraints and adding functionality and take actions, a bit like  SQL database triggers but modular and reusable and for REST. GE Above & Beyond award for this work.  ? Developed extended asset demo-ware as side project named Spotlight. D3 based graph  database front- end to show extended asset model. Spotlight received a lot of attention, e.g. from head of engineering, and was used as demo at our big conference. First extended  asset diagram at GE and a forerunner of the digital twin effort.  JavaScript, React, Angular, D3, Node, ES6, Knockout, Polymer, jQuery, CSS, HTML, RDF, Cassandra, SQL, Mocha, OAuth,  Cloud Foundry, AWS, Microservices Front End Lead Red Aril / Hearst February 2011 to December 2012 Led small web development group at an advertising analytics startup. Javascript, ExtJS, jQuery,  HTML, CSS and Java, Spring, SQL, Hibernate and REST. Exited after Red Aril was acquired by  Hearst.  Javascript, ExtJS, jQuery, Java, REST, SQL, Spring, Hibernate Lead Developer Primera Capital June 2009 to June 2010 Developed full stack for SAT test preparation product for VC. JavaScript, CSS, HTML, SVG and  Raphael, SQL including schema design, Hibernate, Java and Groovy.  ? Web-based WYSIWYG content editor and pipeline.  ? SVG visualization to display user knowledge state and gaps and allow content area selection.  ? Machine learning used to determine most beneficial content for user.  Javascript, jQuery, CSS, AWS, Raphael, SVG, D3, SQL, Hibernate, Groovy, Grails, Fuzzy logic, Bayesian logic. Software Engineer SalesEdge September 2007 to April 2008 Developed backend of SaaS sales process automation product in java/SQL using POJO  approach in rush job after contractor disappointed.  ? Code won competitive technical review judged by third party Cynergy.  ? Founder singled out this contribution as key to winning $3 million funding.  Javascript, Java, SQL, Hibernate, Spring, REST, Schema Design Director Software Products & Services Kurt / Hitatchi March 2006 to March 2007 Launched software effort at Kurt / Hitatchi, a major medical modality vendor.  ? Recruited and managed software development and sales teams.  ? Led successful reference implementation effort at key hospital in Baku, including the first PACS  system in Central Asia. CTO BusinessBots 1998 to 2002 Took founders vision of two-sided market engine for non-fungibles to working product,  leading to promotion to CTO.  ? Built entire technical organization, with local and offshore teams totaling 27 technical staff.  ? Conceived and architected early fault-tolerant and scalable storage and transaction array.  ? Led successful due diligence project on-site at Wells, leading to $12 million investment from  Wells Fargo, Cargill, and Accenture. WF report identified me as the critical technical person.  ? Led technical work for deployment as agricultural futures market for Cargill, meeting  acceptance criteria. Developer JB Development 1997 to 1997 Helped develop the first 100% java SQL database.  ? Developed rapid application development system and also worked on DB internals.  ? Recruited by Scopus chief architect Cimarron Taylor.  SQL, Java, UI Macintosh Lead, Group Manager Scopus 1993 to 1996 Led team developing Scopus Works, the development platform for Scopus.  ? Developed Macintosh client as tech lead. Review said "Rich is a key member of technical  team hardly a piece of code he hasn't touched."  ? Played key role winning reference customers for Mac.  ? Employee #30 at at startup that went to IPO. Later rehired by Chief Architect, VP R&D and  CEO on separate projects above.  C++, SQL, TCL Researcher, Group Manager Becton Dickinson 1986 to 1990 Led group of five responsible for flagship visualization and analysis product Lysis.  ? Data visualization of cell populations in n-dimensions for immunocytometry. Patent.  ? Machine learning for flow cytometry. Bayesian logic, clustering, rule based reasoning, fuzzy  logic, visualizations.  C++, Pascal, Prolog, Artificial Intelligence, Fuzzy Logic, Bayesian Logic, Clustering Education M.S. in Computer Science / Artificial Intelligence UC Berkeley 2018 M.S. in computer science Cal State University Chico M.S. and B.S. M.S. in artificial intelligence UC Berkeley