Lead Software Engineer Lead Software Engineer Lead Software Engineer - Colorado State University Murrieta, CA Experienced full stack software engineer with broad interest in building world-class solutions with modern web technologies and best practices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software Engineer Colorado State University August 2012 to Present Led engineering team, mentored junior and mid-level engineers, and conducted code reviews. Established engineering best practices for team through continuous learning, research, and collaboration. Responsible for estimating and scoping projects.  • Course Management System - Web application to manage and drive course lifecycle, including legal contracts, instructors, and asset management. Implemented using ASP.NET Core MVC with C#, EF Core, Razor, JavaScript, and domain driven design (DDD) best practices.  • Registration events pipeline - Real-time integration from third-party registration platforms to push course, student, and enrollment events to campus services. Built with Azure Durable Functions in C#.  • Learning Analytics survey delivery - Student surveys engine, with front-facing surveys and administration web application. Built with ASP.NET Core MVC with C#, Razor, JavaScript, and Sass.  • Learning Analytics events pipeline - Aggregation of student interaction event feed from Amazon SQS message queue to learning datastore. Built using .NET Core, EF Core, Task Parallel Library, SQL Server. Includes proof-of-concept Kappa architecture to demonstrate high-volume processing and aggregation of "learning events" to drive learning analytics dashboards. Built with Apache Kafka, Kafka Streams, JVM.  • API scraper - Standalone console application to efficiently collect millions of data points from the CSU Learning Management System (LMS) for BI analysis. Built with .NET Framework 4.6 with C#, Apache Solr, Lux, and DDD best practices.  • API scraper library - custom "LINQ-to-REST" library for declarative API scraping. Includes efficient syntax for pagination, request rate-limiting, and traversal of child RESTful resources. Built with .NET Framework 4.6, Newtonsoft Json.NET.  • Intranet and Employee Management System - Division-wide intranet application, including employee management, leave requests, announcements, and markdown Wiki, and Single Sign-On. Built with ASP.NET MVC with C#, SQL Server, custom JavaScript UI framework, and Sass.  • Student course discovery experience proof-of-concept - Rapid prototype of course discovery experience for students, including search and faceted filtering. Built with Node.js and custom JavaScript framework.  Independent Contractor Full Stack Web Developer Independent Contactor February 2010 to Present • Oh Sure! - Osher Lifelong Learning course management and registration system. ASP.NET MVC, React 16.8 with hooks.  • Yet Another Project List - An open-source project management tool for small teams who think in lists. Build with ASP.NET Core MVC, backed by Neo4j graph database.  • Ground Truth Molecular Inc. - Provide UX, visual design, and development of startup's launch site, brand, and product pages. Built with PHP, JavaScript, and Sass.  • In-Situ Inc. - Provided consulting services for marketing automation, professional development and training, web analytics configuration and tag management. Professional services, including designing and developing high-converting landing pages and product page layouts.  • Bibles for America, Inc. - Redesigned Operations Management System architecture UI/UX. Promoted use of modern web application technologies. Worked remotely for duration. Full Stack Software Engineer IHS Markit April 2011 to August 2012 • RBC investment platform - Project lead for new Royal Bank of Canada investment platform for inexperienced investors. Included first-to-market gamification feature set and badges. Built with ASP.NET MVC, Razor, jQuery plugins, and Sass.  • RBC Portfolio Rebalancer - maintained and enhanced white-label RBC portfolio rebalancer product. ASP.NET MVC, custom view-engine called "Element", jQuery, and CSS.  • JPMorgan Chase investment platform - Team member to maintain and enhance JPMorgan Chase investments and derivatives white-label product. ASP.NET MVC, custom view-engine, jQuery, CSS.  • Prototype manager - internal tool for the Design team to manage wireframe and mockup versioning and design variants. Built with ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript. Front End Web Developer, UX Designer Bibles for America, Inc November 2006 to February 2010 • Google Maps overlay generator - GIS reporting prototype, plotting millions of data points using custom generated map overlays. Built with .NET Framework console application with C#, GDI+, SQL Server.  • Corporate website UX redesign - increased orders 10-15%.  • Operations Management System - contemporary JavaScript front- end with jQuery backed by ASP.NET WebForms. Team member of four-person Scrum team. Product released to 200+ representatives nationwide.  • Contracted to affiliates to establish brand identity and solid foundation for customer experience, infrastructure, and information systems.  Independent Contractor Front End Web Developer, UX Designer Independent Contractor October 2003 to November 2006 • PointB - SharePoint redesign; coordinating closely with Point B management. Delivered high-fidelity mockups and style guides.  • Boxes and Arrows - Redesigned and implemented boxesandarrows.com, a leading online UX magazine. Worked closely with industry leading Information Architects and Web Developers. HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Education Bachelor of Science in Physics King's College - London June 2000 to July 2003 Skills CSS, Git, Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5, ASP, PHP, MYSQL, Jquery, C# (10+ years), .NET Core (1 year), React (Less than 1 year), Asp.Net (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information • Winner of Boxes and Arrows redesign  • Winner of Tor GUI design competition