Sr UI Dveloper Sr UI Dveloper Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr UI Dveloper MAX DIGITAL/FIRST LOOK AND MAX SYSTEMS - Austin, TX January 2018 to June 2018 Developed Path to Purchase Manager Dashboard for Max Digital. This is a real-time tool for car dealership managers to have a birds-eye view of sales lead and purchasing progress as customers search for, test drive, finance, and complete a purchase. Worked closely with UX designer, back- end API developers and product manager to deliver a complete product on a tight schedule. This project was based on Angular 6. Sr UI Developer Publicis Groupe - Austin, TX September 2017 to January 2018 Provided consultation and development on the Citi Commonwealth product. Developed UI based on collaboration with UX team and in coordination with a small team of UI developers using Angular 6 with Reactive Forms and Redux state management. Developed unit test coverage cases using Karma. Sr Full Stack Developer Macmillan Learning - Austin, TX August 2017 to January 2018 Worked with MacMillan Learning to develop Writer’s Help Now reference and learning add-on for Microsoft Office products leveraging MacMillan’s extensive writing references. This product was based on CSSNext, React.JS, Redux, and a Redis based API built on Koa for exchanging API keys. UI Architect Presidio - Austin, TX October 2016 to April 2017 Managed scrum sessions, backlog grooming, user story definitions, and task delegation for UI team. Developed full MEAN stack scaffolding and recreated existing UI to improve and replace existing UI codebase. Created a more modular path to migration of legacy functionality. Assisted with legacy feature and bug solutions on the existing Backbone.JS based product. UI Architect Schneider Electric - Austin, TX October 2014 to August 2015 Worked with Schneider Electric’s tolling subsidiary Telvent to develop a web-based replacement for the existing Windows desktop application. Assembled application stack based on Angular and Express.js. Backend features included socket.io based data exchanges and SOAP request proxying/caching as well as ZoneMinder DVR still-image and video retrieval based on a REST API. This application featured a mobile-friendly responsive design, real-time reporting on toll transactions and equipment health and allowed for image and video review of specific transactions. Mentored team of UI developers on migration from a more jQuery-driven model of development into Angular/SPA territory. Wrote project outline, user stories and tasks for JIRA and development planning Sr UI Developer Dun & Bradstreet - Austin, TX June 2013 to March 2014 As part of a medium-sized UI and Java bac- end team, contributed toward development of D&B 360, the flagship data exchange between sales managers, their associates, and D&B’s massive business intelligence repository. Represented multiple data points from a broad range of sources, using purchased credits for data transactions and delegation of contacts from sales managers to sales associates. This project leveraged Angular 1 and Bootstrap. Sr Full Stack Developer Nestle GLOBE IS/IT - Austin, TX July 2012 to February 2013 Contributed to a pilot development of a real-time metrics sharing project. Designed UX prototypes and developed REST API and MySQL storage solution for Nestlé Global using SlimPHP, RedbeanPHP, and EmberJS. Sr Full Stack Developer HS2 Solutions - Austin, TX November 2011 to June 2012 Developed extensively customized event registration and management Drupal modules for Health Management Associates. This facilitated event scheduling, registration, notification and payment as well as data syncs with Salesforce for multiple hospitals. Developed wizards for content too complicated to fit within the basic Drupal CMS model. Full Stack Developer Apple - Austin, TX April 2011 to September 2011 Worked with Apple Computer on initiatives for its Education Seminars site, an event registration tool for the K-12/Higher Education sales team. Established recurring event support, automated registrant notification for upcoming events, and internationalization support. Flash Developer/Designer Advanced Macro-Devices (AMD) - Austin, TX September 2010 to February 2011 Contributed banner treatments, and site takeovers for multilingual AMD Radeon and AMD Phenom II brands. Consulted with and defended positions for AMD at BAPCO consortium on real world benchmarking for the development of Futuremark. Lead Developer New Era Publishing Inc - Austin, TX July 2009 to September 2010 Contributed many technology infrastructure and user-facing improvements for a fast growing custom wall art company. Developed automated process for making print-ready files based on customer specifications for size and framing, enabling one-off orders of custom sizes without creating a pre-press bottleneck. Built multiple content scraping and automation tools to integrate third-party image banks, including scripts for purchasing and downloading rights managed content once an item is purchased by a customer. Developed an automated image rendering tool to represent selected images, frames, and mats to-scale for customer image previews and catalog production. Simplified and solidified UX for a very complex product customization process. Migrated existing osCommerce solution to Drupal while still facilitating the existing product customization experience and custom pricing tools. Created affiliate sites based on existing codebase to support partners such as Target and Home Decorators Collection. Client Developer WebWars Inc - Austin, TX November 2008 to April 2009 Built preliminary Flash and HTML client for an online casual game project. Contributed to core game design features, UX design, and technology decisions to enable rich and responsive interactions with a team more familiar with traditional game development and delivery than web development. Sr Full Stack Developer Giganews/Data Foundry - Austin, TX December 2006 to September 2008 Provided one-stop solutions for many projects covering a broad range of expertise including design, illustration, coding, content migration, and deployment. Developed campaign landers and promotional Flash games. Implemented analytics targets and SEO standards across multiple sites. Designed and developed affiliate sites. Designed and strengthened identities for both Giganews, it's Giganews Accelerator product, and other affiliates and partners. Provided internationalization of marketing materials in English, Spanish, Dutch, German, French, Chinese, Korean, and Japanese markets. Developed independent websites based on Drupal and Joomla to promote Usenet and educate users. Front- end Developer XO GROUP - Austin, TX February 2006 to November 2006 Developed email promotions, landing pages, and “sitelets” for top tier brands such as American Express, JCPenney, Dodge, Liberty Travel, Swiffer, Men’s Wearhouse, Aquafresh, and Rose’s Cocktail Infusions. Enforced style guide standards on several highly visible and mission critical sites with a premium placed on cross-browser compatibility and accessibility. Developed Javascript solutions for data validation and interactive behavior. Developed content management tools with Ruby on Rails. Product Specialist Blackbaud - Austin, TX October 2004 to August 2005 Worked with several large nonprofit clients such as SPCA, Easter Seals, Susan G Komen, and American Red Cross on a variety of projects ranging from design, e-newsletters, and custom data mining PHP scripts for site and CRM migration. Managed small teams of in house resources on a per project basis. Improved and expanded process for content porting between existing sites and a CMS managed solution. Provided consulting for project time estimates and HTML/Javascript expertise. Designer/UI Developer/Flash Developer Century Fitness - Austin, TX May 2004 to October 2004 Designed and developed site and newsletter templates for multiple marketing presence and industry news sites for a martial arts training equipment industry leader. Designed and developed Century FIGHT landing site for promotional content presented as part of UFC based promotions, featuring a complete Flash game for increasing user retention and link sharing potential. Interactive Developer Tocquigny Advertising - Austin, TX September 2002 to March 2004 Worked as an integral part of a small team of developers on high-profile Fortune 500 clients such as Dell, AMD, Hewlett-Packard, Hoovers, Globalscape, Seagate, EMC, Siemens and others. Created PHP/MySQL based content delivery and data capture solutions for knowledge centers, campaign tracking, and lead generation tools. Worked on multi-platform compatible HTML e-newsletters. Developed Flash based content and games in addition to motion graphics driven video projects. Skills Javascript (Front End) Angular, React, Backbone, jQuery (10+ years), Javascript (Back End) (7 years), LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) Development (10+ years), Responsive Design (7 years), Data Modeling (Redis, Mongo, MySQL) (10+ years), Scripted Image Manipulation (ImageMagick, gdlib) (6 years), Wireframing (10+ years), UI Design (10+ years), Browser Game Development (4 years), Photo Manipulation (10+ years), Data Abstraction (10+ years), Data Scraping (4 years), Standards Compliant and multibrowser HTML/CSS (10+ years), CSS postprocessors (SASS, LESS, CSSNext), Bootstrap (4 years)