Front End Architect and ADA/QA Tester <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Architect and ADA/QA Tester Front End Architect and ADA/QA Tester - US Tech Solutions Alexandria, VA Work Experience Front End Architect and ADA/QA Tester US Tech Solutions February 2019 to Present • Senior front end accessibility architect and tester supporting Kaiser Permanente (kp.org).  • Work with Scrum development and Product Quality Testing teams to find critical and high priority accessibility defects across browsers and mobile applications.  • Approve pull requests for accessibility feature integration and UI element updates.  • Review React and Angular 6 libraries for opportunities to enhance reusable components for accessibility.  • Report and track accessibility defects for the Scrum team using JIRA and Quality Center.  • Conduct functional accessibility testing of native mobile apps using VoiceOver and TalkBack.  • Provide hand-coded HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS solutions to developers as part of the overall strategy to reduce critical and high end WCAG 2.0 AA defects. Front End Engineer and ADA/QA Analyst Zillion - Vienna, VA September 2018 to February 2019 • Lead Quality Assurance and Accessibility Engineer working to ensure Navy Federal Credit Union's compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 508 standards.  • Coordinated with marketing, product, and information technology delivery teams to create style guides and procedures for integration in the redesign of NFCU.org.  • Provided hands on HTML, React, and Javascript coding support to patch bugs and address customer requests for feature enhancements.  • Collaborated with business analysts and designers to ensure that ADA requirements were incorporated in user stories.  • Reviewed and approved UX designs, wireframes, and mockups from an ADA perspective.  • Defined scenarios for cross-browser testing and mobile testing on iOS and Android devices.  • Tested campaign videos to ensure that they adhere to Communications and Video Accessibility Act regulations.  • Provided WCAG 2.1 testing status via Jira reports and agile scrum methodologies. Sr. Software and Web Developer TechFlow - Sterling, VA May 2018 to September 2018 • Developed and implemented full stack solutions in accordance with department policies and procedures.  • Created application prototypes and unit tests using Visual Studio.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining applications with technologies such as Java 1.8, .NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML5, Mocha, REST APIs and MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express.js, Angular 6, Bootstrap, and Node.js).  • Set up and configured cloud services using AWS EC2 Services including AppSync and StepFunction.  • Managed DevOps and continuous integration activities using Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Advised the department on policies regarding Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 compliance.  • Prepared and delegated scrum tasks, to guide the work of junior developers.  • Collaborated with QA team to define test cases and plan solutions for defects. Accessibility Architect Signature Consulting - Weston, FL February 2018 to May 2018 • Senior accessibility and content strategist for Ultimate Software legacy, web, and native apps (Ultimatesoftware.com).  • Reviewed marketing copy and visual designs for usability concerns before going live.  • Conducted research to identify gaps in the UX design process.  • Lead A/B testing efforts to test new implementations of .NET, Angular 4 and Ionic mobile web components.  • Analyzed metrics from Google Analytics to determine user trends and made recommendations to improve site traffic and user retention.  • Collaborated with developers to create standard components that meet company accessibility and UX guidelines.  • Advised senior leadership on ways to improve the content management strategy. Front End Engineer and Accessibility Analyst NLB Services - Washington, DC December 2017 to February 2018 • Senior Section 508 and WCAG analyst supporting web based case management systems at the Department of Justice (Justice.gov).  • Authored accessibility user guides for dissemination across the agency.  • Conducted manual testing of web content using screen readers such JAWS, NVDA, VoiceOver, and TalkBack.  • Performed visual analysis of web pages for proper use of color and fonts.  • Coded accessible solutions for the Case Information Management System (CIMS) using HTML5, CSS, Javascript, and ARIA.  • Provided instructor-led training on Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 best practices.  • Coordinated with document authors and designers to streamline the workflow for generating accessible PDFs from Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe InDesign, and Adobe LiveCycle Designer.  • Remediated stand alone PDFs using Adobe Acrobat Pro XI.  • Converted Section 508 training guides and test reports into fully accessible Microsoft Office Word, Excel, and PowerPoint documents.  • Authored VPATs (Voluntary Product Assessment Templates) to document the current accessibility conformance of web modules.  • Supported User Acceptance Testing (UAT) as needed. Microsoft Accessibility Software Architect/Engineer Zensa - Redmond, WA August 2017 to October 2017 • Managed the Accessibility Scorecard and provided hands-on interaction design and development support across the full software product portfolio at Microsoft headquarters (microsoft.com).  • Worked with project managers and other customer experience specialists to plan pre and post production feature scanning for Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 requirements.  • Triaged accessibility and usability bugs for C#, Windows 32, WinForms, WPF, XAML, Azure Cloud, Angular, and HTML5 apps.  • Provided cross browser testing and accessibility remediation for new HTML5 video applications.  • Designed low and medium fidelity site prototypes using Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, and Sketch.  • Created fully functional HTML Javascript, and CSS single page applications for weekly developer mentoring sessions.  • Supported application engineers through expert review of upcoming Microsoft accessibility testing tools.  • Authored and managed the Microsoft accessibility pattern library and training repository in support of Microsoft's enterprise accessibility program. UI Developer and Section M9 Solutions - Calverton, MD May 2017 to August 2017 508 Compliance Specialist  • Senior Section 508 subject matter expert supporting Accenture Federal Services contracts (Accenture.com).  • Integrated manual test verification techniques with automated testing tools to provide a comprehensive user experience test approach.  • Collaborated with automation test team members to identify automated accessibility testing tools such as aXe Deque and Tenon.  • Analyzed and interpreted results from Section 508 test scripts.  • Reviewed web page and PDF templates for accessibility issues.  • Mentored junior developers and testers on Section 508 design best practices.  • Served as liaison between Accenture Federal Services program office and the DHS Section 508 program office to ensure that Trusted Tester policies were adhered to at all times. Senior Section 508 Business Analyst and Developer Verizon - Ashburn, VA September 2016 to May 2017 • Senior government contract analyst for Section 508 and WCAG2 requirements at Verizon (Verizon.com).  • Analyzed systems from end to end to identify potential accessibility, privacy, and security points of failure.  • Tested software, Internet applications and phone devices as needed against Section 508 compliance and WCAG2 guidelines.  • Recommended accessibility enhancements to HTML5, AngularJS, and Ext JS web portals using WAI-ARIA.  • Hand coded HTML solutions for use by developers.  • Supported cross browser and mobile device testing of high demand government mobile applications.  • Remediated PDFs for 508 compliance as required.  • Researched automated testing tools such as WorldSpace Deque, Tenon, and Protractor for incorporation into the Section 508 testing process.  • Reviewed, updated, developed, and supported creation of VPATs as required.  • Provided Verizon with reports and analysis of its conformance to the Section 508 standards and recommended next steps.  • Assisted in reviewing and developing responses to customer RFPs as needed. Senior Accessibility UX Designer IRIS - Wilmington, DE March 2016 to September 2016 • Senior accessibility subject matter expert overseeing mobile websites and native apps for Chase Bank (Chase.com).  • Conducted visual analyses of iOS and Android designs based on human interface guidelines (HIGs).  • Updated design wireframes and mockups in Axure.  • Advised developers on C# and Java coding techniques to enable accessible native apps.  • Developed the course outline and training surveys for the Accessibility UX Team's first distance learning program.  • Approved digital marketing banner ads for use in Madison Square Garden billboards.  • Submitted reviews of closed captioning vendor services in support of company initiatives to achieve Communications Video Accessibility Act (CVAA) compliance.  • Supported agile development teams by conducting Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 test reviews throughout the lifecycle of Chase QuickPay apps.  • Trained staff across all JP Morgan Chase lines of business on best practices and assisted in identifying strategies for maintaining accessibility.  • Established WAI-ARIA design pattern libraries and electronic reference documents as part of the firm's enterprise-wide mandate to provide accessible websites and software to employees and customers.  • Launched a PDF template for the firm's first fully accessible newsletter.  • Received Chase Bank Web Developer Security Certification. FCC Usability and Web Accessibility Manager Computech Inc - Washington, DC February 2015 to March 2016 Washington, D.C.  End Client: FCC (Federal Communications Commission)  FCC Usability and Web Accessibility Manager  • Conducted accessibility compliance testing of web sites, software applications, and documents using the WCAG 2.0 guidelines or Section 508 technical accessibility standards on FCC.gov.  • Served as usability and accessibility subject matter expert in the GSA Hackathon development of an Amazon Web Services responsive app.  • Provided hands-on development support by coding WAI-ARIA enhancements to AngularJS, Bootstrap, and HTML5 elements.  • Oversaw accessibility testing for the redesigned FCC.gov Elasticsearch application.  • Led the successful remediation of the KidVid children's broadcasting site.  • Ran mobile phone and tablet test scripts using Android TalkBack and Apple VoiceOver.  • Implemented CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and UI design principles in the design of new applications.  • Documented testing methodologies and developed accessibility pattern libraries.  • Wrote accessibility compliance reports which delineated an application's compliance with the appropriate set of technical standards.  • Recommended potential solutions by evaluating new and emerging assistive technologies.  • Responsible for delivering accessibility training and seminars.  • Supported the exploration of new bid proposals as needed.  • Produced a 60-page usability findings and technical enhancements report for the redesign of the Drupal-based FCC.gov.  • Underwent a W3C HTML5.1 course. Senior Principal UX/UI Specialist Chickasaw Nation Industries - Lanham, MD March 2014 to January 2015 Lanham, Maryland  End Client: IRS (Internal Revenue Service)  Position: Senior Principal UX/UI Specialist  • Senior accessibility architect for Internal Revenue service (IRS) 508 service offerings, processes and artifacts.  • Served as thought leader and mentor for junior accessibility analysts and developers.  • Authored official accessibility advisory documents for use by employees across the agency.  • Reviewed and decomposed complex business requirements and system engineering documents for Section 508/WCAG impacts (BSR, DSR, ICD).  • Approved software acquisitions greater than three million dollars.  • Participated in the solution evaluation process, providing input and advice on architecture to program managers.  • Collaborated with developers to integrate JavaScript accessibility enhancements to dynamic PDFs (XFA) using Adobe LiveCycle Designer.  • Identified risks at regular gate reviews that impact user acceptance criteria.  • Conducted 508 testing of agency Web and software applications for enterprise life cycle validation.  • Mentored junior analysts on the use of testing methodology and assistive technology (ZoomText, Dragon Naturally Speaking, JAWS, FireEyes).  • Provided guidance on the pending changes to 508 regulations.  • Supported requirements elicitation and validate high-level system requirements development.  • Contributed technical writing expertise and review system design documents as needed.  • Offered senior-level support in accessibility planning for IRS Affordable Care Act program initiatives. BlueCross BlueShield Web Accessibility Engineer Spectraforce - Durham, NC May 2013 to February 2014 Durham, North Carolina  End Client: Blue Cross BlueShield North Carolina  Position: BlueCross BlueShield Web Accessibility Engineer  • Senior accessibility analyst for BlueCross and BlueShield  • Developed and documented internal processes for web design, development, and testing to ensure accessibility of BlueCross BlueShield of North Carolina sites (BCBSNC.com)  • Conducted in-depth Section 508/WCAG compliance assessments via a matrixed testing approach of manual reviews and automated testing tools with assistive technology  • Manipulated HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, and ARIA code to enhance the accessibility of responsive web pages.  • Analyzed Google Analytics reports to target feature optimization opportunities in the most widely used customer Web browsers.  • Reviewed Section 508 compliance defects with developers and submitted functional code samples as potential resolutions.  • Partnered with project leads, requirements analysts, and user experience designers (UI/UX) to help them appropriately document and deliver against requirements for Health and Human Services (HHS).  • Integrated best practices for universal design in department wide marketing campaigns.  • Provided consultative support across the company for Section 508/WCAG compliance in support of Affordable Care Act mandates. Senior Principal Web Analyst and Implementation Strategist Intelsat - Washington, DC September 2011 to April 2013 • Internet, Intranet, and Extranet Webmaster for the world's leading satellite technology solution provider (Intelsat Corporation).  • Supported resource and budget planning.  • Oversaw solution architecture and implementation strategy for all corporate and public facing Web initiatives.  • Conducted user experience surveys across internal lines of business in support of early research and planning for the redesigned Intelsat.com.  • Directed the user experience and functional requirements planning for the company's first Android app.  • Responsible for setting user interface standards for iPhone and satellite tracking mobile apps.  • Reported monthly Google Analytics statistics in order to track the progress of search engine optimization (SEO) activities and maximize return on investment (ROI).  • Directed messaging for social media campaigns through Google Blogger.  • Generated original content and graphics for dissemination to media outlets and prospective clients.  • Managed customer accounts through the Salesforce.com customer relationship management (CRM) portal.  • Developed and maintained HTML, ASP, and Flash applications.  • Validated all HTML pages for WCAG 2.0 compliance.  • Integrated count-down timers and slide shows using jQuery.  • Generated accessible PDF documents using Adobe Acrobat.  • Created 508 compliant image galleries for satellite launch events.  • Ensured that navigation of Sales contact form is keyboard accessible.  • Redesigned and re-launched the corporate Intranet homepage within the first two weeks of hire.  • Led mobile and responsive web testing for the company's redesigned WordPress site.  • Coordinated development activities between in-house programmers and offshore development teams.  • Partnered with Sales, Press, and Web Marketing teams to ensure that consistent theme and brand messaging standards are adhered to.  • Researched emerging technology in the telecommunications market in order to recommend future business opportunities.  • Provided 24 x 7 on-call support for ASP and Flash-based satellite monitoring applications.  • Tested and reviewed all new web applications for cross-browser compatibility.  • Undertook a W3C Mobile Web Best Practices course as part of the modernizing effort to update corporate web applications for universal access. Accessibility Program Manager and Architect Bart and Associates - Springfield, VA September 2006 to September 2011 Springfield, Virginia  End Client: U.S. Customs and Border Protection  Position: Accessibility Program Manager and Architect  • Government-appointed Section 508 Compliance Coordinator for the Passenger Systems branch of the United States Customs Service (CBP).  • Directly managed the accessibility efforts of more than 500 employees across 15 project teams.  • Coordinated with Web architects to lead customized solutions from concept to creation.  • Advised branch level management on enterprise architecture decisions in the development and procurement of all software, hardware, web, and telecommunications products.  • Lead interface designer for award-winning $2.8 million trusted traveler kiosk and biometric identification system (Global Entry).  • Established and enforced a comprehensive program of Section 508 review for all web applications and official Acrobat PDF documents.  • Hand coded Section 508 compliant Web pages using JSP, JSF, and JavaScript.  • Created Section 508 policies, procedures, and training materials for dissemination across all teams.  • Established functional performance criteria in preparation for the department's first hand-held device compatible website.  • Oversaw the interaction design for Captivate online tutorials from concept to completion.  • Acted as the technical authority for 508 compliance of all systems across the full software development life cycle.  • Submitted requirements traceability (RTM) guidelines to set agency-wide standards for handicapped-accessible software and hardware.  • Coordinated the evaluation, customization, and implementation of emerging software and hardware technologies.  • Met with stakeholders and project managers to discuss budget goals and reduce risks during procurement and acquisitions of electronic and information technology products (EI & T)  • Facilitated API enhancements in the development of the first handicapped-accessible airport traveler processing client.  • Review Panel member for GSA Section 508 Standards Refresh and WCAG Alignment (2010)  • Facilitated API enhancements in the development of the first handicapped-accessible airport traveler processing client.  • Coordinated with the DHS Office on Accessible Systems in testing BusinessObjects reporting software for agency-wide use.  • Directed the requirements effort for commercial-off-the-shelf enhancements and vendor remediation of Oracle 11g Enterprise Manager.  • Submitted a best practice approach for search engine optimization (SEO) of ESTA and GOES web applications.  • Supported the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) team in creating and coding the homepage banner to meet DHS branding guidelines.  • Implemented the iRise design tool in the redesign of the ESTA web site.  • Participated in daily scrum requirements meetings in order to integrate accessibility reviews into agile project management.  • Produced cost-benefit and alternatives analysis reports of assistive technology (AT) solutions for the Global Enrollment System.  • Conducted an independent usability study of international Global Online Registration System (GOES) using the JAWS screenreader and the AccVerify/AccMonitor tools suite.  • Supported the GOES development team through the graphic re-design of their homepage and their trusted traveler registration system for 508 compliance.  • Custom designed payment forms and language translation graphics for the GOES web application.  • Conducted an independent review of the CBPVetting website to set Section 508 update requirements and facilitated the incorporation of advanced menu controls.  • Participated on the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) initiative requirements team and set accessibility guidelines for a new land-border web tool and a touch screen system used by Border Patrol officers.  • Provided an improved document format for the WHTI performance reporting system.  • Advised Traveler Primary Air Client (TPAC) software developers on document formatting guidelines of Crystal Reports batch reports.  • Supported the CBP Procurement Office in developing requirements for a land-border license plate tracking program.  • Advised software programmers on specific coding techniques for Java accessibility.  • Authored official Section 508 test plans for use by System Acceptance Testing and Quality Assurance Testing teams.  • Performed end-to- end usability testing of finger print scanners for US-VISIT criminal identification system.  • Collaborated with the APIS development team to create a revised layout and interactive features for UNEDIFACT reports using Microsoft Excel.  • Collaborated with the Secure Freight Initiative team to develop fully accessible Flash training modules.  • Worked with developers and testers to achieve 508 compliance for new web-based Decal and Transponder Online Payment System (DTOPS).  • Responded to Helpdesk and customer service requests issues through on-site support as needed.  • Attended monthly DHS training seminars to study the latest innovations in assistive technology and universal design.  • Coordinated with DHS Section 508 Web specialists to produce official remediation reports for two Arrival Departure Information System (ADIS) web sites before launch as US-VISIT applications.  • Supported the Cargo Systems Branch in level of effort planning for the redesign of the Automated Targeting System web portal (in support of the agency's ongoing TECS modernization effort).  • Independently directed the development of accessibility features in the Watch List Service application used for security screening by CBP and the Travel Security Administration (TSA).  • Coordinated with DHS PMO to negotiate waivers for technical requirements and plan future enhancements to legacy mainframe systems.  • Held a Secret clearance with U.S. Customs and Border Protection. U.S. Immigrations Web Content Specialist Electronic Data Systems - Washington, DC November 2004 to August 2006 Washington, D.C.  End Client: Immigration and Customs and Enforcement  Position: U.S. Immigrations Web Content Specialist  • Senior Content Analyst for the official U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Web site (ICE.gov).  • Responsible for HTML, ASP, and JavaScript maintenance of the U.S. Immigrations and Naturalization Web site (USCIS.gov) and supporting Intranet sites.  • Attended daily Office of Public Affairs meetings to generate image and message enhancing ideas for ICE.  • Reviewed content to ensure that it met all copyediting and WCAG standards.  • Led training workshops on creating Section 508 compliant web pages, Microsoft Office documents, and PDFs.  • Developed multimedia galleries for distribution to press offices worldwide.  • Introduced a round-robin help-desk system for increased responsiveness to customers.  • Provided senior Webmasters with statistical results and recommendations for increased site traffic using the WebTrends software program.  • Supported software developers and network administrators in the maintenance of subordinate web sites using DHS Online and the TeamSite content management tool.  • Shared honors for the American Association of Webmasters Gold Award (March 2005) U.S. Customs Web Content Project Manager Apogen Technologies - Springfield, VA August 2000 to October 2004 Springfield, Virginia  End Client: U.S. Customs Service  Position: U.S. Customs Web Content Project Manager  • Managed over 40,000 pieces of content and five developers on the official U.S. Customs Web team.  • Advised more than 40 subject matter experts on information architecture decisions for CBP.gov.  • Oversaw systems development activities and project execution of programmers, information architects, and design team members to customize enterprise applications.  • Drafted business process requirements and service level agreement for agency-wide policy on content submission.  • Conducted usability surveys for the development of handicapped accessible Web applications and Web sites  • Led 508 accessibility workshops for the instruction of Information Technology Office staff and new developers.  • Reviewed and updated all content for Section 508 compliance in the redesign of the CBP.gov public website and CBPNet intranet.  • Authored an official Section 508 best practices document that was later vetted by the Department of Education.  • Approved all Web applications and daily publications before launch.  • Underwent formal XML, JSP, and ASP training.  • Responsible for developing a self-training repository and document tracking system using VBScript and ASP.  • Created XSL templates using XML Spy and the Java-based Expressroom content management system  • Produced multi-media presentations and promotional brochures for international trade shows.  • Lead developer in construction of NAFTA and the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism sites.  • Lead ASP developer for the Electronic Rulings online submission form.  • Provided help desk support and user feedback using the Right Now Web frequently asked questions database.  • Co-publisher of the CBP Today online newspaper.  • Recipient of three U.S. Customs letters of commendation to date (2002 and 2003) Education BS in CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 2000 college preparatory Thomas Jefferson High School for Science & Technology - Alexandria, VA June 1995 Skills QA, Quality Assurance, Java, Selenium, Manual, Localization, ETL