Regional PMO Manager - Professional Services - Central Region Regional PMO Manager - Professional Services - Central Region Project Management Office (PMO) Manager St. Louis, MO Accomplished Project Management Professional (PMP), with over 20 years of extensive technical and business experience guiding complex enterprise systems and programs through the full systems development life-cycle (SDLC). Offering immediate expertise in consulting, project and operational management, technical sales, project delivery, client support, account management, staff oversight, and day-to-day strategic and tactical leadership. Experience designing, developing, and delivering enterprise solutions, mobile and web applications, marketing and E-Commerce web sites, cloud and data center migrations, and multiple infrastructure projects. Outstanding business experience including founding a profitable web development company, and involvement in the launch of several other successful start-ups. Extensive experience planning, executing, monitoring, and closing a variety of projects; Experience in IT, management, marketing and operations coupled with broad business acumen have enabled a career of successfully and seamlessly working within many industries, managing multiple accounts & project teams of 20+ and budgets up to $3M. Work Experience Regional PMO Manager - Professional Services - Central Region World Wide Technology, Inc. - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to March 2019 ?   Team Leadership: Direct Management oversight for a team of 45 employees, 15 of which are direct reports consisting of Program Managers, Senior Project Managers, Project Managers and Project Coordinators.   ?   Network and Collaborate: Work daily with sales, engineering and business management to minimize risk and proactively address issues and escalations. Influence and negotiate for engineering resources in a matrix environment.  ?   Financial Tracking: Track all project KPIs and provide day to day support for High Impact Projects.  ?   Resource Forecasting: Staff projects and programs according to availability based on project based forecasting.  ?   Coaching: Provided oversight, coaching and support for each manager throughout the project lifecycle of their Programs and Projects. Each manager had a portfolio of 3-15 projects or one complex program.  ?   Project Management Expertise: Initially brought on to the Senior Project Manager role where I successfully managed over 25 large complex projects with multiple technologies and work streams; With revenue of $2.8 million, 45% GP, 110%  Realization;   ?   Program Oversight: Provide oversight to program managers managing large, multi-work stream Programs with successful outcomes; Subsequently promoted to role of Regional PMO Manager, a member of the Professional Services Management team.   ?   Cisco ACI SME: Recognized and acknowledged by domain peers to be World Wide Technology’s Cisco ACI Project Management “SME” and thought leader within the successful management of 8 Cisco ACI Design and implementation projects, and the facilitation of 11 ACI Project Launch Workshops.  ?  Project Launch Workshop Facilitator: One of three PLW facilitators; Day long workshop to initiate projects. Senior IT Infrastructure Project Manager World Wide Technology, Inc. - St. Louis, MO August 2016 to October 2017 ?   Initially brought on to the Senior Project Manager role where I successfully managed over 25 large complex projects with multiple technologies and work streams; With revenue of $4.5 million, 45% GP, 110%  Realization; Managed large, multi-work stream Programs with successful outcomes; Subsequently promoted to role of Regional PMO Manager, a member of the Professional Services Management team.   ?   Recognized and acknowledged by domain peers to be World Wide Technology’s Cisco ACI Project Management “SME” and thought leader within the successful management of 8 Cisco ACI Design and implementation projects, and the facilitation of 11 ACI Project Launch Workshops.  ?   Created Lessons Learned for ACI Project Managers and provided national presentation to World Wide Technology PMs and other Professional Services Stakeholders. Manager, IT Desktop Portals & Ecommerce Charter Communications (Kforce Contract) - St. Louis, MO November 2015 to July 2016 ? Managed the full project life-cycle of the development of Charter Gateway Operational Intelligence Center, a complex event processing (CEP) solution that abstracts and correlates meaningful call center / customer interactions and plots them in real-time on HTML5 dashboards with ReactJS graphs and charts. The solution was developed with TIBCO Business Works (BW), Business Events (BE) TIBCO Streambase LiveView DataMart / HTML5 / ReactJS.  ? Modeled Real-Time Business Events; defined complex event correlation points; designed the HTML5/ReactJS dashboards used to visualize Charter call center agents usage of Charter Gateway, a modern web application used by Charter Customer Support Reps (CSRs) to troubleshoot internet, telephony, and video services, take payments, and provision customer devices.  ? As customers call the Charter Call Centers, their location is plotted on a Google map, alongside charts and graphs derived by the real-time correlation and aggregation of customer account, billing, service and device status (Internet/ Phone/TV), payments, outages, troubleshooting and device provisioning business events.  ? Owned the Charter Gateway reporting product roadmap, vendor management, functional analysis, design, implementation & rollout.  ? Worked in an Agile development environment utilizing JIRA to manage frequent releases; Coordinated software engineering efforts with IT Teams to ensure comprehensive delivery; Served as escalation point for partner concerns and issues not being resolved.  ? Managed a team of software engineers and business analysts responsible for the continuous development, integration and support of the web applications (known as “Charter Gateway”) used by Charter’s Customer Operations Call Centers.  ? Managed the operational readiness of a suite of web applications.  ? JAVA / J2EE, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, ReactJS, Spring Boot, TIBCO Streambase LiveView DataMart, TIBCO Business Work, Splunk, Appdynamics, SOAP & Web API Web Services. Technical Project Manager Wells Fargo Advisors - St. Louis, MO January 2015 to August 2015 Responsibilities  -Technical Project Management of Brokerage Technology based projects within the Delivery & Support Services Project Management Office (PMO) responsible for directing the analysis, design, implementation, and support brokerage technology projects.  -Managed project process and day to day project and operations management within Wells’ Brokerage Technology division.  -Managed program stakeholder relationships, providing support and management of multiple information driven value chains.  -Directed the design and development of solutions to support the Brokerage Technology.  -Applied PMBOK based project management methodology to manage overall program health including scope, time, cost, budget, risk, resource, quality and change management    Accomplishments  Successfully led project to customize and deploy enterprise application    Skills Used  Technical Environment: Microsoft .NET, Cloud, ERP; Blend of Agile/SCRUM & Traditional Waterfall principals and practices. Project Manager/Consultant/Business Analyst Independant Consultanting - St. Louis, MO April 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities  -Providing technical and project oversight.  -Developing solutions to meet strategic business objectives.  -Project Client, Vendor, Resource, P&L, and Project Management of small portfolio of projects with various clients around the US.  -Management of distributed resources in the development of Web, Mobile, and Web Service based applications.   -Established AGILE and Waterfall hybrid process to streamline project execution.   -Providing technical support to local businesses  -Managing an artist's web site for Virgin/EMI Records UK   -Negotiating terms with and managing offshore team of developers and geographically dispersed vendors.  -Developing and nurturing client relationships with executive and director levels.  -Provides senior technical leadership including determining future directions, impact on organization, and strategic planning for the areas managed.    Skills Used  Project Management, Web Development, Cloud Host Management, PHP/MySQL, WordPress, Dreamweaver, Adobe, Visual Studio, Microsoft Project, HTML5, CSS3 IT Program Manager | Project Manager| Web Applications Specialist | Scrum Master CCA GLOBAL PARTNERS - St. Louis, MO March 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities  • Managed project health: Time, Cost, Quality, Risk, Issues, Changes, and Stakeholders.  • Collaborated with Stakeholders in Marketing, Sales, Procurement and other departments to ensure client satisfaction.  • Successfully met objectives to: Migrate mission critical Big Data, and Business Applications to the CLOUD.   • Managed the development of MOBILE applications of Apple iOS and Android phones and devices  • Managed RFP process; Assisted in selection of and the management of vendors and in house staff to successfully achieve project Time, Cost and Quality objectives.  • Led multifunctional, and geographically distributed teams through Full Software Development Life-cycle (SDLC) (from RFP to Implementation) several projects and systems to support CCA’s digital products and services, including complex transactional based web sites (CarpetOne.com, FlooringAmerica.com), mobile applications (iOS, Android Apps), web lead management, social media, and marketing campaigns. Managed Project Resources;: project teams including in house, local, and nationally distributed based development teams.   • Led development of .Net Web Applications, iOS based Mobile Applications, SQL Server based Database driven applications, Mobile Web Sites, and browser based web sites. Established PMBOK and Agile SCRUM based processes and procedures; Managed and provided daily direction for project teams of up to 10 members; Served as Scrum Master on daily scrum meetings. Represented Business Stakeholders. Applied PMBOK Processes to manage overall program health including: scope, time, cost, budget, risk, resource, quality, and change management. Applied Agile Scrum Practices; Daily Scrums, Back-log management,  • New Cloud environment was initialized to house legacy systems as well as the new CarpetOne.com and FlooringAmerica.com. Managed Hardware changes, Cloud Server Migrations, ERP Software Customizations, Data Migrations, SalesForce.com Integration, Procedure Design, Development, and Documentation; Managed Internal Staff, local contract programming vendors, Near-shore Development, and Offshore Development. Used SharePoint sites as the central project repository for all documents and other project related files.    Accomplishments  Notable Achievements:  • $1 Million dollar annual cost avoidance: Directed enterprise program of 10+ projects; Resulting in $1M annual cost avoidance.     Skills Used    (Technical Environment: Microsoft .NET, Cloud, ERP; Blend of Agile/SCRUM & Traditional Waterfall principals and practices). Program Manager/Project Manager, Customer Analytic Project Management Office (PMO) Nestle' Purina - St. Louis, MO July 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities  Managed program process and day to day project and operations management of Nestlé’s Customer Analytics division. As a member of the Customer Analytic Project Management Office (PMO), managed business intelligence, logistics, supply chain, and custom development based projects.   • Managed program process and day to day project and operations management of Nestlé’s Customer Analytics division  • Managed the Wal-Mart Customer Analytics Program, providing support and management of multiple information driven value chains.  • Member of three (3) person Project Management Office (PMO) responsible for directing the analysis, design, implementation, and support of over 85 customer analytic projects.  • Directed the design and development of solutions to support the Sales, Supply Chain, Business Management, and Marketing efforts by providing analytical tools , Business Intelligence based solutions and support for existing applications utilized to make business decisions.   • Successfully met all Project and Program objectives without sacrificing quality, time or cost. User Experience (UX) Design Manager and Solution Group Leader OAKWOOD SYSTEMS GROUP, INC - St. Louis, MO September 2007 to October 2011 Application Development management team member, and User Experience Design Solution Group Leader. In my four (4) years with Oakwood, I worked in multiple Delivery, Sales, and Operational roles. Worked as a Project Manager, Business Analyst, SharePoint Designer, UI Designer, and Solution Group leader with a wide range of project experience:     ? E-commerce Solution Group Leader  ? User Experience Solution Group Leader  ? Managed multiple projects and programs  ? Strong Business Analyst, and Project Management Skills to complement Development Skills   ? Senior Subject Matter Expert in several areas: Business Analysis (Use Cases, UML), User Experience (User Interface Design), HTML5/CSS3, .NET Master Pages, Expression Web/Blend.  ? Emerging Skill Set includes Mobile Device and Tablet Design     As Project Management: Delivered 26 enterprise projects and 8 medium-size projects on time, within budget, with highest quality, and high level of customer satisfaction. Was a team member as a Business Analyst on several more.  • Planned, executed and finalized various Programs, and Projects within Programs, according to client requirements, strict deadlines and budget constraints.  • Developed project plans, and all other project documents; Effectively communicate project expectations and status  • Project Scheduling and preparation of budget item-by-item; Task Planning of work batches (under MS-Project)  • Technical Coordination and validation of deliverables; Status reporting, Issue and Risk Management  • Service Provider Monitoring; Book and budget monitoring; Documentary management  • Managed teams of programmers, architects, business analysts and project managers in a matrix based environment. Allocated programming team resources and set delivery schedule. Managed multiple projects simultaneously, both enterprise and smaller engagements.    Manager, User Experience Design Solution Group Leader (2010 to 2011)  • User Experience / Web Development Solution Group Leader  • Served as Microsoft Virtual Technology Solutions Professional for User Experience  • Created relationships with Cloud vendors and designed proof of concept solutions   • Defined and established HTML5, CSS3, JQuery Best Practices  • Identified best practices for User Experience design, and created a solution group around the delivery of User Experience services Created a process for capturing enterprise requirements through a combination of Case Select logic that includes Use Cases and UML, as well as Agile XP, and Scrum.  • Worked with manufacturing company and designed user experience for SharePoint solution to be used to run their Supply Chain  • Designed User Interfaces for use with a Cloud Based Media solution, similar to iTunes.  o Cloud Consulting Analyst: Took initiative to recommend Cloud Consulting Services and organized group of leaders from various groups in the company to collaborate and define the solution offering.    • User Experience: As Oakwood’s senior UX designer, interface designer, and front- end developer, I was engaged on many projects and collaborated with .NET developers on multiple web and mobile engagements. Manager, Application Development / E-commerce Center of Excellence Leader OAKWOOD SYSTEMS GROUP, INC 2008 to 2010 Identified best practices for enterprise e-commerce development. Created a solution group around the delivery of e-commerce solutions and successfully marketed and closed several e-commerce projects.  • Responsible for the development of new services and business opportunities within the e-commerce space.  • Responsible for the recruiting, management and career development of consulting staff  • Responsible for staff/account management and prioritization and forecasting.  • Met professional services revenue and profit quotas while managing Program P&L.  • Established relationships with 15 other customers  • .NET Web Site Development: Designed and developed various websites using Microsoft development environments like ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, WinForms and WCF  • SharePoint Consulting: Project Management on multiple SharePoint Projects: Provided Strategy and Governance advice to customers. Provided SharePoint Custom Design; -Worked to create Design Specifications; -Integrated the designs through SharePoint Designer and Visual Studio; Captured the requirements for and managed the efforts of resources to deliver the following solutions (or collaborated with the SharePoint Practice Leader): • Provided Custom User Interface Design for SharePoint Intranet - Provided Flash animations for college web site - Met with multiple department stakeholders within an Aerospace company to derive requirements for a complex SharePoint solution to manage the data and documents associated with the development of every part that they developed on a day to day basis as a contractor for Boeing and other similar companies. Solution included automatic notifications and alerts, with multilevel approvals based on authorization levels.    • Business Intelligence Project Management: Met with various stakeholders, including company CEO and other officers, to capture requirements and specific KPI calculations for the purpose of designing a custom BI Dashboard to track their various KPI's. Designed BI Dashboards and Scorecards for use by multiple levels of employees within the enterprise. Design streamlined dashboards and helped to proliferate the solution and increase early adoption.    • Business Analyst: Established myself as the "Principal Analyst" and became known as go-to analyst on mission critical sales engagements or delivery efforts. Worked on various enterprise and smaller engagements, eliciting, analyzing, validating, specifying, and managing the business requirements of stakeholders and end users for various systems including Enterprise Change Management, B2B E-commerce, Mortgage Calculations, Manufacturing Supply Chain and others. Utilized Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and other UML models to accurately capture and communicate requirements to the development and management teams. My process was requested by the company to include as the standard for capturing requirements.    • Infrastructure Consulting: Along with a systems engineer, provided in-depth study of TCO and ROI between various Virtualization solutions including Citrix XenServer and other solutions including VMWARE Esx. Senior Consultant/Project Manager/Account Manager OAKWOOD SYSTEMS GROUP, INC - St. Louis, MO 2007 to 2008 • Recruited to turn around failing program, establish a formal E-Commerce Solution Group, and identify best practices for Enterprise Web Development.   • Successfully integrated myself into Program and was able rally the team and get things back on track with the customer, which led to another 18 months of billable engagements for several consultants, as well as my multiple additional projects to the program I managed. Chief Technology Officer Damy Media and Marketing - St. Louis, MO 2002 to 2007 Successful advertising agency serving St. Louis and the Midwest.  Chief Technology Officer  • Managed all client Digital and Technical Requirements  • Managed and maintained small network and staff.  • Business development and Application Development  • Developed Patent Pending Advertising Management System    Collaborated with CEO and other decision makers to identify, recommend, develop, implement, and support cost-effective technology solutions for the agencies client base. Delivered a Patent Pending Advertising Campaign Management System (named "The Ad Conference Room"), developed in ASP and SQL Server. - Responsible for 24/7 operations of agency network, internal servers and hosted domains and web site development, web applications, web design, managed network, and provided Web and Multi-media services to clients. CEO, Managing Partner | Application Development Project Manager | Director Sales & Business Development Robust Technology, LLC - St. Louis, MO 1997 to 2007 CEO, Managing Partner | Application Development Project Manager | Director Sales & Business Development  Successful Technology Start-up providing Web Application and Technology Consulting.  • Conceptualized, raised capital, and launched successful Technology start-up; Sold business for profit.  • Sales & Business development: Negotiated 200+ professional services contracts  • Led competitive analysis, market definition, product design, engineering process, strategic partnerships, and fund raising.  • Oversaw patents and investor relations. Created business plan, established product and technology road maps  • Managed project funding and P&L.  • Managed programs and projects; Directed local and off shore development teams in Romania, India, and Russia.   • Successfully closed and subsequently managed client relationships and projects for companies and web sites including,   • Designed and developed first ever DrSchollsShoes.com & DrSchollsSandals.com.  • Universal Motion Pictures: Developed proprietary streaming algorithm and techniques to achieve smooth media downloads on multiple bandwidth connections.  • INTEL Pentium III global launch. INTEL's Advertising Agency hired us to develop multimedia for Intel.com  • Capitol Records; Interscope Records, Universal Records – Design and develop Audio and Video streaming websites  • Universal Studios Home Entertainment – Hired to consult and provide architecture for multimedia streaming, navigation, and Database driven components of UniversalHomeVideo.com  • Developed E-commerce solution: “Flash Cart” utilized proprietary solution for several key clients including: Kik Wear International - based Kik Wear International – the $25 Million dollar, Los Angeles based apparel company. Designed/Developed , and managed B2C and B2B E-Commerce web sites - Result 60% increase in annual online sales, international press coverage, TechTV Coverage, and industry recognition including KikWear.com named “Winner – Best E-Commerce Web Site” at Flash Film Festival /Flash Forward Conference in San Francisco, California.  • Ultimate Ears: Professional custom-fit earphones. The Number One brand among touring musicians. Developed UltimateEars.com; Result: Logitech purchased the company for over $15 Million dollars.    1997-2007  • Led creation of the business plan, established product and technology roadmaps, and funded the company out of pocket  • Served as key member of executive team; participated in competitive analysis, market definition, product design, engineering processes, strategic partnerships, and fundraising. Oversaw patents and inventor relations.  • Solution Architect; Architected Flash Cart, a Flash based e-commerce solution  Marketed our services to several agencies around the US, and was approached by INTEL's Advertising Agency and were hired to provide multimedia for Intel.com for the Intel Pentium launch. Launched company on success of campaign.  • Grew customer base and negotiated more than 200+ professional services agreements as CEO and Technical Sales Lead. Established personal relationship with strategic customers and uncovered ways to increase revenues. Grew company revenue annually through strategic sales support and select customer engagements. Created relationships with offshore development teams in Romania, and India.  • Sold portion of business and returned to consulting in 2007.  • Created new division to offer  * Business Solutions Architecture Shared Services in the Cloud.  * Mobile, Tablet User Experience  • Setup Cloud Solutions in multiple data centers.  • Provide customers with various solutions, including Security, Design, and Development.    Web and Mobile Designer  Web 2.0 design, Web application design and re-design, Mobile website design, UI design for iPhone and iPad, UI design for Android, and application Migration.    2007-2011 E-commerce Manager (kikwear.com, KWB2B.com) Kik Wear Industries, Inc. - Los Angeles, CA June 1999 to October 2002 • Directed and oversaw the organizations strategic and long-range e-commerce goals.   • Designed and developed award winning, and profitable B2B and B2C ecommerce websites.   • Developed and presented Internet e-commerce strategy and coordinated effort across all IT functions to support company's B2B and B2C ecommerce websites, across 5 domains. Systems Developer/Analyst and Project Manager MasterCard International, LLC - St. Louis, MO 1996 to 1999 Recruited for Client/Server development skill set, hired and made member of the "CHIP CARD TEAM: As part of the Smart Card team, I worked on many projects specific to the Smart Card technology.  o Worked in St. Louis, New York, London, San Francisco  o Projects: The MONDEX development sessions in London., MasterCard Cash Latin America Pilot, Systems Analyst and Lead Programmer responsible for design and development of a cafeteria system, Project: MasterCard Cash Australian Pilot, Project: Visa and MasterCard Joint Terminal Certification, MONDEX Solution Design (in London), Project: New York City Launch Software Engineer | Visual Basic Developer | Front End Team Leader CPI CORP - St. Louis, MO 1994 to 1996 Designed a Touch Screen Point of Sale Application.  Object Oriented Analysis and Design Training  Microsoft Training  Rational Rose Training. Programmer Analyst Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO 1993 to 1994 Education Certification in Project Management Professional (PMP) Project Management Institute - St. Louis, MO 2007 to 2016 Certfication in MCTS - .NET 4.0 Web Development Microsoft - St. Louis, MO January 2010 to January 2010 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems (CIS) MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY - Springfield, MO January 1993 Skills Clarity (8 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), User Experience Design (10+ years), Process Improvement (4 years), Coaching (10+ years), Excel, Sharepoint, PMP, Manual Testing, Project Management Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) January 2008 to January 2013 Will re-certify this year. Assessments Social Media — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ugdk3hihsar2a0pm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information MANAGERIAL QUALIFICATIONS:  • 15+ years of project management experience, leading by example.  • Managing business analysts, specification writers, QA testers, and software engineers, Supervising designers, systems administrators and subcontractors.  • Overseeing all phases of the sales and development life cycle.  • Strong Communicator with ability to seamlessly interface with C-Level Executives, Vendors, Developers, Business Analysts, Project Managers, and Subject Matter Experts.  • Expert in leading enterprise software solution, Infrastructure, and Mobile Application projects in Agile, and PMBOK based environments.  • Exceptional Business Analysts skills identifying and documenting product requirements through Use Cases and Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Manages scope creep through Change Management Controls, and overall excellent Triple Constraint Management (Scope, Schedule, Budget).  • Superb interpersonal, collaboration, and problem solving skills. Excellent in managing, mentoring, and coaching team members.  • Develop and manage project budgets in excess of $3 Million.    TECHINCAL QUALIFICATIONS:  • Plan and sequence project tasks in Work Break Down Structures (WBS) / Project Schedules in Microsoft Project.  • Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Case Complete, Enterprise Architect, Visual Studio 2010.  • Plan and sequence project tasks in Work Break Down Structures (WBS) / Project Schedules.  • Experience Using Remedy, Clarity, Toad, Excel, TSS, VSS, Subversion  • MCTS Certification (.NET 4.0 Web Development).  • Deep knowledge in Microsoft development technologies and architecture (C#, ASP.NET, XML, SQL Server, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX and web 2.0 best practices)  • Served as Microsoft Virtual Technology Solutions Professional.  • Microsoft products implementation and integration (Project Server, SharePoint).    Methodologies: Rational Unified Process framework (RUP) ? Agile Scrum ? Agile XP ? Lean ? Waterfall ? Object Oriented Analysis and Design with Use Cases, Unified Modeling Language (UML).    User Experience Design: Expression Blend (Silverlight Development) ? Expression Web ? Adobe Dreamweaver ? SharePoint Designer ? Adobe Photoshop ? DHTML ? Adobe Illustrator ? Visual Studio ? HTML5 & CSS3 ? SQL Server (2005/2008) ? MySQL    Design Techniques: Grid and Layout ? Color theory ? Fonts ? White Balance ? Hierarchy and contrast ? Design History ? Design Inspiration    Project Management and Business Analyst Tools: Visio 10.0 ? Microsoft Project 2003, 2010 ? Microsoft Office 2010 ? Case Complete ? Enterprise Architect