Web Analytics Manager & Project Manager Web Analytics Manager &amp; Project Manager Web Analytics Manager | Digital Marketing| Project Manager Algonquin, IL I’ve been in Information Technology since ‘00. In ‘04 I co-founded a SaaS business and in ‘13 we were acquired. My goal is to bring my comprehensive digital marketing, SEO, web analytics, web management, and business ownership to my next role.    I look forward to speaking with you about your great opportunity.    Travis Hickox  847.833.6508 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Analytics Manager & Project Manager Infogroup January 2015 to Present I help improve user experience and ROI by using my experiences in SEO, web development, and web analytics. I'm well equipped to lead digital projects and provide strategy as an influencer and motivated communicator.    ? I foresaw our websites needing technical improvements to maintain and/or improve our SERP rankings. I directed our Front- End Web Developer in key areas for the creation of a new theme to be used across our 9 WordPress Marketing CMS websites. One month after migrating our first site, results show page load times have improved by 35%, goal conversions improved by 148%, the average session duration improved 27%, and organic search traffic improved 54%.    ? There wasn’t someone actively managing Google Analytics or SEO for our sites. I took on the responsibility to review all Google Analytics accounts and provide the needed direction for changes. As a result, we now have a better understanding of our users and website effectiveness.    ? I took on the additional responsibility of the management of our TMS, Google Tag Manager. Due to the complexity of our TMS, the VP of Engineering approved my suggestion to break our master container into divisional containers. After doing so, they were pleased as the potential for container deployments interrupting client facing applications was reduced. Additionally, by breaking the containers apart, they became easier to understand and manage.    ? I have 10+ years of SEO experience. To generate revenue, we must maintain positive Google SERP rankings. I continue to stay up to date with white hat SEO tactics and feel comfortable giving recommendations to leadership.    ? As the technical manager of all targeted landing pages, I taught myself how to use our vendor’s landing page platform and created reusable, shareable code to make the creation of new pages and various A/B and multivariate testing easier to produce and execute.    ? I collaborated with our copywriter who rebooted our social media presence, ensuring they understood all content must be properly tagged. The data in Google Analytics now tells a story and is more easily measured. For 2018, we’ve improved our goal conversion rate 35% YoY.     ? Because of my project management leadership, I’m aware of the required steps to execute digital marketing campaigns. I work alongside the Creative Director to ensure imagery is maintained across all touchpoints. Additionally, I work with our copywriter to guarantee web content has proper meta information for bot consumption.    ? Produced HTML emails which are delivered to a 750,000 subscriber base.    ? The Creative Director of Infogroup recruited me, remembering my problem-solving approach and desire to go above and beyond in my solution delivery. Digital Strategist Self Employed 2013 to 2016 I equipped others by sharing my experiences in communication, design, media, project management, and technology. I provided others with digital marketing strategies, developed websites, project management, SEO, and knowledge of software tools.    ? A social media client organically grew their Instagram following to nearly 100k after creating her account.    ? A web client required a website transition. I implemented their new website on budget and 150% faster than other proposals. Front- End Web Developer Restaurant.com 2012 to 2013 Dubbed "ambassador", I was selected to serve as a liaison between the marketing team and front- end developers for I had a unique gifting to communicate between the business and technical staff. The COM requested regular meetings with me because he found in me "a rare amount of wisdom for someone my age".    ? As someone who uncovers broken web experiences, I developed code which improved annual projected conversions by $500,000 using jQuery, CSS and Adobe Test&Target. Co-Founder Digital Marketer 2004 to 2013 I co-founded iMinistries and served as its COO. I delivered vision and execution by managing branding, business operations, customer support, digital marketing, front- end development, product management, project management, and SEO.    ? In my first year of full-time employment, I created a scalable environment for customers to successfully onboard, increasing our customer base by 100% to 140.    ? I hired and managed employees with technical, social, and artistic skill sets, as well as a content writer, an accountant, and customer service representatives.    ? Through my leadership, we consistently received a 97+% support satisfaction rating.    ? I developed and implemented all 100 iMinistries CMS themes.    ? I organically elevated iMinistries to on Google without a budget for our keyword terms.    ? I produced more than 150 written and video based training documents.    iMinistires was pursued and acquired by Spark Networks (NYSE:LOV) in 2013. Computer Technician Digital Marketer 2005 to 2008 I was recruited from Leo Burnett to be responsible for all computer hardware, software, and network needs for more than 200 users on the Elgin campus. I acted as a ballast for my co-workers who worked in a different suburb by solving technical issues and providing training to users. I also volunteered my time by mixing musician and vocal in-ear monitors, operated video cameras, and served as a junior high mentor. Due to the success of iMinistries, I left this position to run my company full-time. Digital Communications Specialist Leo Burnett 2002 to 2005 I developed relationships with key people while serving as a consultant to Leo Burnett. By doing so, I was contacted to help manage leoburnett.com and other web properties.    ? I reduced the amount of hours required to find, store, and disseminate press mentions to executives by 87%.    ? Due to my press mention website success, I was asked to create a web solution for global executives to review and vote on various advertising pieces. This too was successful and a web tool used well after my time at the company had ended. National Implementation Field Services Engineer Insight - Bloomingdale, IL 2000 to 2002 I worked for many large accounts and amassed varying accomplishments depending on the client.    ? Leo Burnett: I was promoted to serve as a dedicated resource to executives.    ? CNA Insurance: I was selected to help manage manpower when onsite throughout the United States. Additionally, I was 1 of only 2 consultants who were selected to be national trainers.    ? McLeodUSA: I increased PC configuration and standardization by developing a website which allowed technicians to "order" tailored hardware/software configurations. Education Master's in Business Intelligence and Analytics Creighton University - Omaha, NE Present Bachelor of Science in Business Eastern Illinois University 1996 to 2000 Skills MARKETING (10+ years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (10+ years), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (10+ years), SEO (10+ years), DIGITAL CAMPAIGN (10+ years), GOOGLE ANALYTICS (7 years), Digital Marketing (10+ years), Wordpress (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/travishickox Additional Information Areas of Expertise & Gernal Knowledge  ? Leadership ? SaaS ? Digital Strategy  ? Digital Marketing ? Entrepreneurship ? Google Analytics  ? Google Tag Manager ? Online Marketing ? SEO  ? Data Analysis ? Data Visualization ? Google Data Studio  ? Management ? Customer Support ? SQL  ? HTML ? Project Management ? CSS  ? Social Media Marketing