Technical Web Producer, Administrator and Content/Asset Manager Technical Web Producer, Administrator and Content/Asset Manager Experienced Web Professional Federal Way, WA Creative, intuitive, logical, experienced, talented, code, copy and images. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Web Producer, Administrator and Content/Asset Manager Creative Circle - Apptio - Bellevue, WA December 2018 to Present • Management, updating and publishing of consumer-facing content and asset management, web publishing and custom coding of: HTML5, CSS3, XML, XHTML and jQuery in a custom Drupal CMS environment.  • Coordinated and delivered, consumer-facing website projects. Improved, tested, and quality assurance testing of web pages across multiple browsers/devices for functionality and performance, ensuring the best user experience.  • Triaging of marketing program content development requests via: Workfront, email, in-person requests, etc. Updated Apptio.com with product information, web marketing campaigns, marketing imagery, SEO, metadata, publishing of online marketing resources.  • Ensured Apptio.com was optimized for SEO on a technical level and was following industry standard best practices.  • Managed roles, permissions and the creation of: pages, modules and data backups, to support changing marketing business requirements.  • Interfaced with and fulfilled campaign production requests; that were ambiguous in nature and required quick turnarounds, for: Designers, Marketing Managers, Project Managers, Senior Leadership.  • Conducted a large-scale content migration to Episerver from Drupal, partnered with offshore vendors. Freelance Web Developer Freelance/Self employed - Remote December 2017 to Present Web development using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, some PHP. Utilizing: inVision, cPanel, Apache, Wordpress, Git and Photoshop. Copy editing and proofreading. Front End Developer (Contract) Hosting Company - Tukwila, WA August 2018 to November 2018 Developing and expanding the front- end User Interface of features and products. Reviewing and implementing project requirements. Debugging, testing, and fixing errors using: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap 3/4, PHP.   Utilizing: NetBeans, FTP, cPanel, Apache, Git, Wordpress, SourceTree and Photoshop. Web Producer Holland of America - Seattle, WA March 2017 to November 2017 Web Development and Technical Web Production, focusing on ADA compliance and responsive conversion of the Seabourn website. Rebuilding and creating new pages for www.seabourn.com; while adhering to company design and editorial standards and guidelines using page templates and custom dynamic responsive solutions including: Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, XML, jQuery, API's, Web plugins in a custom CMS environment, Wordpress and Drupal. Copy editing and proofreading, communication with stakeholders, publishing, manipulation and management of assets and content. Technical Web Producer & Project Management WEGO Health - Remote October 2016 to January 2017 Webpage building, content updates, Asset Management and redesign of sites in a Ruby on Rails environment with Bootstrap, CSS, XML, PHP, Haml, and jQuery. Custom built WordPress themes and content migration, a custom CMS, Git, prototyping using InVision, asset creation using Sketch & Photo Shop, used MAC OS and built local development environments using Terminal, Sublime & MAMP, built Virtual Machines to emulate PC environments. Copy editing and proofreading, image manipulation, asset/content management and publishing. Technical Web Producer Microsoft (Insight Global) - Contract - Redmond, WA January 2015 to April 2016 Created fully functional new pages from design comps and written directions, using XHTML, XML, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Visual Studio, and TFS. Updated, managed, and published high-profile enterprise level consumer facing, B2B websites and their assets using Harmony, Compass and PublishThis! CMS for 10-22 locales. Was responsible for:  ? Coordinating, updating and publishing content and assets for consumer-facing websites using Enterprise and Microsoft custom CMS.  ? Management & publishing of localized assets and content, coordinated with offshore localization teams.  ? Stakeholder, design, editorial and programming team cross-collaboration to acquire, update, review, revise and publish assets and content.  ? Assisting with localization efforts, managing task loads and triaging 10 – 30 requests daily in an ambiguous environment.  ? Implemented self-starting initiative and high attention to detail, to streamline the production processes, assist team members, enhance site features and constantly grow in my role.  ? Daily, continuous publishing and global site launches (//Build).  ? Content migrations, Universal Header and Footer production.  ? Documentation and localization efforts.  ? Interfacing with team, site managers, design, editorial, and programming to ensure timely and accurate delivery.  ? Adhering to Microsoft style-guides, Verifying copy edits, updates and revising when necessary.  ? Creating team technical documentation of procedures and training guides.  ? Utilized my ability as a strong team leader to train new producers. E-commerce Project Management & Developer - Contract Providence Health & Services - Renton, WA September 2014 to November 2014 UI Development on an Agile team, building a new mobile experience for their MyChart in HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, and TFS. Used Visual Studio and GitHub for a CMS and editor. E-commerce Project Management & Developer Freelance - Seattle, WA June 2014 to September 2014 Management of e-commerce web projects from conception to completion. Creation of project scope, wireframes & navigation flow, performing discovery, directly communicating with clients and other stakeholders via: emails, phone & meetings; asset management and collection; proposal/bid writing vendor management; approving designs and some graphic design/manipulation; budget analysis & time tracking. Copy editing and revision. Editorial Freelance Graphic Designer / Web Developer Freelance - Seattle, WA February 2014 to September 2014 Utilizing Adobe Creative Cloud (InDesign, Photoshop, InCopy), created and perfected layout for a 14-chapter book, edited imagery and assisted with copy editing and proofreading. Asset management and production using Dreamweaver, Adobe Cloud ,and OneDrive. Created custom responsive websites using HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Front- End UI Developer - 3 Month Contract Starbucks - Seattle, WA December 2013 to February 2014 SharePoint UI Development, creating a new Retail Hub Interface for POS in N. America, Canada, & UK. Project Management and Web development role, creation of custom web parts with documentation of site changes and process.  ? Asset Management and production using Visual Studio Enterprise.  ? Using HTML, CSS, jQuery & handlebars.js created custom user interfaces and Web Parts in a SharePoint application.  ? Using creative and analytical processes performed troubleshooting of complex production problems in an Agile Scrum team.  ? Using TFS, tracked & assigned bugs, created burn-down schedules & used Visual Studio 2013 for CMS & an editor. Technical Web Producer - 3 month Contract, extended Surface Microsoft - Redmond, WA February 2013 to May 2013 Drove Surface Team production engineering projects to completion, delivered localized content for Web using Compass CMS and TFS bug tracking. At times high pressure publishing, localization and wave rollouts of content publishing and site launches. This was partly remote work.  ? Worked In large sets of localized contents & assets with a web producer team, produced, verified and published under tight time constraints using XHTML & CSS.  ? Using creative and analytical processes performed troubleshooting of complex production & live site issues.  ? Collaborated with onsite & remote team members for site launches and work sessions to ensure that content workflow was efficient and productive.  ? Utilizing SharePoint managed Production Team tasks and projects. Editorial Web Producer OEM Marketing - Microsoft - Remote June 2012 to December 2012 Working remotely created new content, assets and performed stakeholder content publishing requests whilst adhering to SLA guidelines. Using high attention to detail, created updates to marketing material, and video updates for various Microsoft groups.  ? Per customers request manually performed a complete internally facing site migration - OEM Marketing on InfoPedia to MyOEM - under budget & on time.  ? Communicated with Editorial and Sr. Marketing Manager to create & distribute the OEM Marketing HTML Newsletter.  ? Created technical documentation of processes and migration efforts utilizing SharePoint and SharePoint Designer 2010 to customize layout of team repository.   ? Completed a weekly total site QA to meet InfoPedia content standards.  ? Editorial edits, proofreading and management of copy. Technical Web Producer - Extended Contract CMG Digital Marketing MSCOM - Microsoft ResourcesOnline Contract - Remote September 2010 to March 2012 Drove programming updates and production engineering projects to completion, while adhering to tight deadlines and fast "turn-a-rounds." Under pressured time constraints, implemented technically sophisticated online content involving client-side and server-side scripting. Trained V-Team Web Producers in CMG protocols, and created technical documentation of Production Processes. This was a 98% remote position, received much praise in my ability to be productive and helpful to other team members.  ? Interfaced with on-site and other virtual Web Producer team members and worked closely with site managers, design, editorial, and programming team members to ensure timely and accurate delivery of updated content, images and Business Intelligence data. QA of site updates including: editorial, image, and BI data.  ? Using SharePoint Designer 2010, designed and created a Production Team Site, customized layout and feel with images and other assets, managed content and assets.  ? Worked closely with Editorial and Programming, to ensure quality of copy and it’s alignment with Microsoft branding, implementation of copy edits & proofreading.   ? Created and implemented new pages, improvements & additions, migrated localized & local content on Microsoft Homepage, Download Center, and Showcase using: CSS, XHTML, XAML, XML, HTML. Created video clips, teasers and troubleshot of media playback.  ? Kept pace with rapidly changing content, troubleshooting issues, created technical documentation, trained new producers in use of CSP platform and Web authoring tools. Utilizing InfoPath and SharePoint Designer Technical Web Producer - 1 year Contract CMG Digital MSCOM - Microsoft Comsys Contract - Bellevue, WA August 2009 to August 2010 Implemented technically sophisticated online content involving client-side and server-side scripting including: new pages, improvements and additions for the Microsoft Homepage/Download Center using CSS, XHTML and HTML.  Made improvements to production processes that decreased production time by 35 percent or greater. High pressure, and fast paced production, multiple requests requiring triaging of tasks.  ? Created resource and cost-effective testing environs with remote access to virtual machine pools, server maintenance.  ? Updated Microsoft Home Page and Download Center:with: content, images, destination links, and BI data Worked closely with design, editorial, and programming team members to ensure timely and accurate delivery.  ? Utilizing InfoPath and SharePoint Designer 2007, created customized pages and content for internal audiences. Freelance Web Developer & Designer Freelance - Remote July 2008 to August 2009 Created Web 2.0 customized websites for local customers, including final testing and deployment using: CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP, Apache, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Fireworks, Flash, Notepad, and Adobe CS3.  ? Created and developed personal/small-business sites, including graphical elements & photo retouching/optimizing,.Also designed several book covers. Lead UI Developer Konnects Inc - Tacoma, WA February 2008 to July 2008 Start-up with an Agile environment: coded AJAX, JavaScript, XHTML, CSS, and SQL in the back- end.  ? Increased member sign-up by 45 percent by completely restructuring the site from legacy HTML to Web 2.0.  ? Experienced worked in distributed teams, multiple roles, and collaborated with offshore developers (India).  ? Solely responsible for UI development & content production of a constantly evolving data-driven Web 2.0 J2EE application.  ? Created graphical design elements for marketing, and implemented programmatic UI solutions according to design specifications. Education Certificate in Multimedia Production and Web Development Clover Park Technical College - Lakewood, WA Skills Bootstrap (5 years), HTML 5 (3 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (3 years), CSS (10+ years), JQuery (5 years), PHP (3 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Photography (10+ years), Usability Testing (9 years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Accessibility (8 years), Content Management (10+ years)