Co-Founder & Software Engineer Co-Founder &amp; Software Engineer Software Engineer Las Vegas, NV I'm a software engineer and entrepreneur. I’m currently working in AI, machine learning, blockchain and cybersecurity. I worked within various size teams and I’m confident taking on new challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Co-Founder & Software Engineer DayTraders June 2019 to Present Software engineer & consultant with emphasis on Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine  Learning, and Blockchain. Work also explored Sentiment analysis, Deep & Reinforcement Learning, Neural Networks, Data Science, Blockchain trading and  analysis, UI/UX, DevOps, SoftwareArchitecture, Google Cloud, Kubernetes, as well as various entrepreneurial tasks and duties. Founder & Software Engineer EhSpook October 2016 to Present EhSpook is a software development company. Perform engineering, entrepreneurial  and management tasks. Work with various clients and projects across a broad range of stacks and web services including Wordpress, Web/Mobile App Development,  consulting, design and illustration. Full Stack Developer at Threebx Start Up October 2017 to December 2018 Part of a small team of developers responsible for building and maintaining web, mobile, desktop applications and RESTful APIs using PHP (via Symfony), NodeJS  (ES5-7 and Typescript), Python, C++, MERN (with FeatherJS) stack, Docker, AWS. Full Stack Developer at Smorgborg (Start Up) DevOps June 2018 to August 2018 Part of a small team of developers responsible for building a web application for organizations using React, Redux, Redux-Sagas, and GraphQL. Front End Web Developer Apartments247.com February 2017 to November 2017 Built and Modified websites using a proprietary CMS with Django & Less. logician and manager within the supply chain of small Logistician at U.S. Air Force October 2010 to October 2016 and large teams. Freelance Design work June 2007 to June 2010 Worked on various independent projects while in college. Gained experience working  for a variety of clients with different needs and expectations.  June 2005-May 2008 - Carpenter  • Developed hand-eye coordination, endurance, and team-work. Education Bachelors in Philosophy in Philosophy University of Maryland University College March 2019 Associates in Logistics in Logistics Air University, Community College of the Air Force 2016 Associates in Communication Design in Communication Design Northern Virginia Community College 2010 Associates in Interactive Design in Interactive Design Northern Virginia Community College 2010 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, C++, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, HASKELL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, TYPESCRIPT, WEBPACK, JENKINS, JSON, PHP, SYMFONY, PYTHON, FLASK Links http://www.philosophyanddesign.com https://github.com/ar-to Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4