Senior Front End Web Architect and UI/UX Designer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web Architect and UI/UX Designer Senior Front End Web Architect and UI/UX Designer - Microchip Technology Chandler, AZ To continue to work on the front end portion of the stack using the latest technologies. growth from a technology standpoint is very important to me and what keeps me so excited about what I do for a living.  Technical Skills/Proficiencies  • Software: JetBrains WebStorm, Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere, XD, Balsamiq, Eclipse Mars IDE, NetBeans 8.1 IDE, WindowsBuilder for Java Swing, SceneBuilder for JavaFX, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, Jade, Gulp, Bower, Node Server, NPM Chrome developer tools and Firefly, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Office Professional Suite, 3D StudioMax, Z modeler, Brackets.  • Languages: Fluid understanding of multiple programming languages/frameworks, including JavaScript, Vue.JS, Angular.JS, JQuery, Bootstrap 3/4, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS.  • 7 years of object oriented design, development and debugging, 10 years of functional programming and 20 years of graphic design experience give me the ability to develop all aspects from the front end and GUI to the back end code.    • Strong leadership and interpersonal communication skills.  • Detail oriented, self-motivated and thrives under pressure.  • Quick learner in almost any facet.  • Proven background leading teams in stressful, deadline-oriented environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Web Architect and UI/UX Designer Microchip Technology - Chandler, AZ August 2017 to Present • Rearchitected the front end of a new microservices based web site. Tech stack used is Vue.JS, Bootstrap4, Webpack.  • Built a component based Single Page Application using REST API services for our global e-commerce website.  • Responsible for managing other developers.  • Created the entire UI myself using Adobe XD. Senior Front End Web Developer InData Corp - Chandler, AZ January 2017 to May 2017 • Developed Angular 1.6 web site using angular components with UI Bootstrap.  • Researched and implemented 3rd party plugins for complex web app including drag and drop functionality, UI Grid, ng-Sanitize, etc.  • Considerable creation of icons and graphics using Adobe Photoshop.  • Technologies used include JIRA, Webstorm, Visual Studio TFS, Gulp, SCSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JQuery, Material Design, Microsoft TeamChat.  • Agile approach with 2 week sprint lengths, daily standups with review, forward look, blockers and open floor, sprint planning. Senior Front End Web Developer Healthiest You - Scottsdale, AZ December 2016 to January 2017 • Developed Angular 1.48 web site with Bootstrap and Material Design.  • Wrote end to end tests using Cucumber, Protractor, Chai as Promised.  • Developed mobile app using Ionic.  • Considerable creation of icons and graphics using Adobe Photoshop.  • Technologies used include JIRA, Webstorm, Visual Studio w/ Telerik plugin for mobile phone simulation, Git, Gulp, SCSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JQuery, Material Design, Hipchat, Mac and Parallels-Windows.  • Agile approach with variable sprint lengths, daily standups with review, forward look, blockers and open floor, sprint planning meetings, and Start/Stop/Continue retrospective. Lead Front End Web Developer Amkor Technology - Tempe, AZ August 2016 to November 2016 • Responsible for creation and execution of new UI/UX for extranet and internet sites.  • Managed the team that redesigned Amkor.com web site. New site is responsive with a much more modern feel. Uses various JavaScript functions to create interactive widgets on home page, as well as a parallax design on home page to give separation of different areas with a slower scrolling background separator. New site will be live mid December, 2016.  • Responsible for a complete redesign of the Amkor extranet (web.data ) that is used internally and externally by customers. Redesigned using responsive design with a flat theme and bootstrap components, as a single page application using AnuglarJS. Built web apps to handle data brought in from JSON files via a rest API, which allows users to manipulate, filter, edit that data in sortable tables, drag and drop lists and more.  • Technologies used to build site were HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap CSS/JS and Angular.JS 1.4.8. Wrote code to interface with a Cold Fusion back end.  • Considerable creation of icons and graphics using Adobe Photoshop.  • Use of GIT for version control via bitbucket. Front End Web Developer Neighborhood Intelligence - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to August 2016 Phoenix, AZ  • Side project that won JSVillage best web app competition  • Finalist in Phoneix Hackers Nest 2016 best new web apps. We finished in 3rd place out of over 20 teams.  • Front End Web Developer  • Developed the front end of a mobile web site for a community project and contest hosted by Phoenix JavaScript. We won it!  • My design won 67% of the votes of 6 projects from the judges and 53% of the votes from the audience of roughly 60 people for best UI/UX.  • Technologies used to build site were HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Git/Github, Jade, NPM, Bower, GULP, Node.  • The project can be viewed at https://github.com/JSVillage/neighborhood_intelligence or on your phone at https://az-precog.herokuapp.com/#/ Lead Front End Web Developer ProMaster HD - Scottsdale, AZ May 2016 to August 2016 for a short term tight deadline project.  • Developed entire front end of web site for ProMasterHD.  • Technologies used to build site were HTML5, CSS3 using SCSS, jQuery, jQueryUI and several other jQuery plugins, Bootstrap CSS/JS to allow the entire site to be responsive from desktop to phone, REST API's for most functionality, and a complicated web app built in Angular JS that allowed users to remix audio and video files, build albums, share files, buy credits and more.  • Considerable editing of .psd files from graphic designer to properly incorporate them into the site.  • Use of GIT for version control and deployment, creation of .jsp files, and testing on a PostgreSQL local server environment using Gradle. Development Lead / Partner Simple POS - Scottsdale, AZ January 2012 to May 2016 • Formed a new company that purchased StyleTeks, making me an owner and president of the company.  • all responsibilities from StyleTeks and grew Simple POS into an international business with accounts in the US, Canada, Bahamas, Africa.  • Grew and directed a staff of 12 people to become one of the top Microsoft Partners in the US based on client base and revenue.  • Created and led a software development team that developed for the Microsoft Dynamics platform and wrote many standalone applications for government entities and SMB's.  • Led our team which used a scrum approach developed many standalone Java applications using JDK 6,7 & 8, including the systems that the City of Dayton Ohio Mass Transit Authority and Maricopa County Vital Statistics use. Responsible for all user acceptance testing (UAT) during the development / debugging phases to completion.  • Test driven Java development using JUNIT framework, Git version control systems, SQL databases and use of REST web services.  • Developed a web based lead management system from the ground up for small to medium sized businesses.  • Responsible for all facets of running the company. Software Engineer / Partner Simple POS - Scottsdale, AZ January 2012 to May 2016 • Developed an eCommerce platform that connected to the SQL database of the Microsoft Dynamics Point of Sale line of software to build out a shopping cart with 2 way communication. This cart automatically built out and maintained all items online and updated the POS database and accounting software with all online sales and customer information.    • Created a brand widely recognized in the inventory control industry through growth of dealer network and acquisition of large accounts like the Toronto Zoo and AP Designs USA.  • Led our team which used a scrum approach developed many standalone Java applications using JDK 6,7 & 8, including the systems that the City of Dayton Ohio Mass Transit Authority and Maricopa County Vital Statistics use. Responsible for all user acceptance testing (UAT) during the development / debugging phases to completion.  • Test driven Java development using JUNIT framework, Git and Team Foundation version control systems, SQL databases and use of REST web services Graphic and Web Designer Pace Graphic Design - Chandler, AZ June 2003 to November 2014 • Created hundreds of ads for magazines as well as graphics for use on company web sites and social media sites.  • Logo creation for small businesses.  • Web page mockups for UI  • Web site graphic and ad creation Owner / President FihsF1.net - Chandler, AZ March 2000 to December 2007 • Responsible for design and creation of web site, forum, and in game UI.  • Developed a member based online racing league and forum based around Formula 1 racing. As president of the league, I secured co-located servers, developed software, and managed web development, marketing and a 6 member judging panel.  • Part of the MMG team that created the official BMW formula 1 team's simulator software which was released to the public for rFactor - an ISI software package. My primary duties for this were 3d modeling and 2d texturing with Photoshop. Contract Web Developer Chandler, AZ May 1997 to December 2003 • Owner / President  • Created and hosted web sites for many small businesses in Arizona, stretching from Tucson to Flagstaff. Education business Farleigh Dickinson University - Rutherford, NJ Bachelor's in Computer Science Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills UI, Front End, Angular, Javascript, Angularjs, Jquery, Front-End, User Interface