Front- end Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Retail Creative Director / Web Developer Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Web Developer Creative Web Pro Inc. - Columbus, OH 2009 to Present (2009-Present) Front- end Web Developer. Knowledgeable in all aspects of the technology and construction of websites.    Fluent in the e-commerce Magento CMS platform. Designed and constructed many online stores with some reaching over a thousand products.    Specialize in the WordPress CMS platform. Able to design and code any websites to the clients’ request. Create all websites from scratch without the use of pre-built themes or plugins. Senior Art Director Talbots Inc. - Boston, MA 2006 to 2008 (2006-2008) Senior Art Director. Hired to conceptualize for the “modern classic style” brand. Developed seasonal mock-ups, comps and materials to celebrate the brand’s heritage through highlighting it’s history as a leading women’s apparel company. Coordinated and presented campaign concepts to other colleagues (including web, retail and print). Directed the production of approved concepts and insured timely delivery of a quality product.    The new concepts and campaigns were well received by the market and resulted in increased revenue. Was recognized for the quality work and the success of the campaigns. The concepts included advertising, corresponding photography, store window presentations, in-store displays and print media. Full-time Consultant and Vendor The Columbus Zoo and Aquarium - Columbus, OH 1999 to 2005 (1999-2005) Columbus Zoo’s new charity committee representative for the “Save The Manatees” endeavor. The Zoo’s program coordinated an intake of injured Manatees into their newly built aquarium and nursed them back to health. The project goal was to return the manatees to their natural habitats.    Created a line of graphic printed tee shirts to promote awareness and raise money for the program. The successful launch led to The Columbus Zoo requesting additional design of multiple lines of clothing (adult and kids) and corresponding marketing for the Zoo’s onsite store. Expanded on the “Save The Manatees” and created the “Wildlife Conservation Program” to support the Zoo’s goal to bring awareness to many endangered animal species. Became the full-time consultant and vendor, for a number of years, of those products and oversaw the production, quality, budget, communications and procedures to ensure seamless on-time delivery. Consulted full-time to design the brand identity and other projects. O.S.U. College of Arts - Columbus, OH 1996 to 1998 Consulted full-time to design the brand identity for the O.S.U. College of Arts. The college was celebrating the completion of a newly remodeled building that was sponsored by many local businesses. They needed a new identity program to promote the college and t0 thank the businesses who had donated to the school.    Performed the necessary research to develop a brand concept that could encompass all divisions (Dance, Art & Technology, Ceramics, Glass, Painting & Drawing, Photography, Printmaking and Sculpture). Successfully obtained buy-in and approval from their marketing department for the identity program and participated in the production. The greatly successful program covered a wide range of interactive, print, ads and outdoor advertising. The campaign resulted in my consulting services being utilized on projects and events supporting different divisions in the following years. Senior Art Director Abercrombie & Fitch - Columbus, OH 1992 to 1996 Hired as a Senior Graphic Designer to the newly purchased company of the Limited, Inc. Became very hands-on, as I was the only full-time graphic designer at the time. Worked closely with the VP of marketing (who worked with Les Wexner when he opened his first store) to develop an outdoors lifestyle theme of the Adirondacks. Traveled to the Adirondacks to gather graphics, type fonts, colors, photos and experiences of that area. Developed seasonal storyboards and then campaigns to incorporate that information into a creative concept for the store’s marketing and merchandise.  Was promoted to Art Director and given the responsibility for staffing and hiring the marketing department’s graphic designers, copy writers and production personnel. Became Senior Art Director and later became the senior most member of the marketing department for two years after the VP retired. The work included everything from designing the garment labels to art directing photography shoots, and national ad campaigns. Freelance Positions: Express, Structure, Bath & Body Works, Victoria Secret, Limited Brands, La Senva, Affiliated. - Columbus, OH (Spanning Career) Worked on many different brands as a freelance Graphic Designer and later as a Consultant. BBW, VS and EXP were freelance employment (scheduled for different days) before moving over to Structure exclusively. The Limited Brands and La Senza were consultant work that came after my Abercrombie & Fitch years.    All five retail brands gave me a great experience to see how each business operated. It exposed me to many different marketing departments and the opportunity to observe how each business approached their brands.    Affiliated kicked off the start of my web technology path. I was able to use my retail knowledge of Adobe programs (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign) as a starting point to learn many different coding languages. Education B.F.A. in Advertising Design Columbus College of Art & Design B.A. in Economics Muskingum College Skills HTML5, CSS3, CSS-Grid, XML, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, (LAMP Stack) Bootstrap, Node.js, Terminal Command Line, Source Code Optimizing for SEO, WordPress, Magento, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Dreamweaver, NetBeans (IDE), Analytics, Authorize.net, Social Media Platforms, Photography (10+ years) Links http://mikemollmann.com Additional Information Portfolio at: mikemollmann.com