Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer United States Experienced web developer in the IT industry with focus on internet development solutions. Interested in contributing my development and technical experience to an organization, in a challenging developer or product owner position, with an opportunity for continued growth. Prefer remote position with office visits when required. Work Experience Web Developer AT&T - Redmond, WA September 2015 to May 2019 Front and back- end AT&T mobility lab developer roles    Worked in agile environment with primary focus of implementing and maintaining mobility lab support applications. Front- end tasks included many projects, such as creating interface for users to test mobility phones interfacing with REST utilizing Bootstrap, Angular, Javascript. Created REST API using C# for this application. Maintained and extended this and other project code such as application that managed user accounts and access, using C# and ASP.NET. Worked on both front and backend stories. Teamed with development manager on design and implementation. Other apps include Web portal, calendar app, auditing and others. Brought agile management to the team to handle and schedule the work-load across the main apps. Assisted in advising QA tasks. Position skills: C#, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, REST, CSS, ASP.NET, MSSQL, SQL, Jira, Git, Visual Studio, Node, Responsive Design. Front- End Web Developer AT&T - Redmond, WA November 2013 to September 2015 Front- end developer on AT&T's developer web portals    Worked maintaining a developer web portal in an agile development. In two week sprints, front- end tasks included maintainance and implementation of functionality and web site designs using Javascript, JQuery, CSS/HTML, Responsive design and other front- end tools working with team and product owner. Used a custom content management program to verify and publish work. In addition, began the implementation of front- end portal to use an Angular framework. Position skills: JavaScript/JQuery, HTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, BCC, ACC, Agile, Git, Node, Resposive Design. Front- End Web Developer Rooms To Go - Tampa, FL January 2012 to May 2013 Primary Front- end / interface developer on an ATG platform.    Worked in an agile development environment with primary focus of implementing and maintaining front- end code tasks. Front- end stories varied from UI functionality/logic to implementing Google Analytics throughout the site using JavaScript and jQuery, to CSS/HTML styling across the site. Some specific tasks included creating modal window framework using JQuery, development work optimization for mobile site, SEO and analytics related coding tasks. All work done on ATG platform and BCC with content pages. Ensured interface tasks work cross-browser. Provided QA assistance as needed. Position skills: JavaScript/JQuery, JSP, JSTL, Java, ATG, HTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, BCC, ACC, Agile Project Management. Contract Developer / Owner Green Rain Designs - Florida May 2007 to January 2012 PHP/MySQL developer using LAMP technologies in development, design and/or management of web-based projects of any size for clients. Position Skills: PHP, MYSQL, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX. Other Experience Microsoft - Redmond, WA Worked a number of different positions with Microsoft in software development and QA. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Oregon State University - Corvallis, OR June 1987 to August 1990