Freelance Creative Director / Designer Freelance Creative Director / Designer Experienced, award-winning, cross-disciplinary creative providing smart, strategic thinking in a variety of business categories. Lakewood, CO Creative concepting, design & production  in various mediums including above- and below-the-line  advertising/marketing, mobile/interactive/digital design,  print, and apparel. Currently freelance seeking contract  and full-time opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Creative Director / Designer February 2018 to Present Clients include Archer Daniels Midland, Vail Resorts, Keystone, Longines, High Hawk. Associate Creative Director The Integer Group - Denver, CO January 2005 to February 2018 I managed a number of creative teams across multiple business categories.  Key Accomplishments: Global and national Awards, new business, NY office transition    Clients:  Kellogg’s, P&G, Bounty, Miller Coors, Dex, Dexcom, Duracell, WhiteWave Foods, International Delight, Land o’ Lakes, OneTouch, Pfizer, Costco & Kroger Channel Marketing, Pur, Silk, Visa    Specialized in:  Advertising, Brand Strategy, Consumer Promotions, Digital Marketing, Event Marketing, Product Innovation, and Shopper Marketing Sr. Graphic and Apparel Designer JNCO/Revatex - Los Angeles, CA December 2002 to December 2004 Design and production of multiple young men & boys lines. Work directly with a team of illustrators and designers to develop themes and direction for each season. Design of apparel styles, graphic treatments, trim, hardware and packaging as well as marketing and advertising campaigns. Deal directly with vendors for trim, hardware, and sample production.    Shopping in NYC/London for competitive reference to determine future trends and strategies. Creative Director Movable Media - Los Angeles, CA April 2000 to December 2002 Management of all aspects of business development including client contact, sales generation, estimation of project costs and timing, concept designs, development and presentation. Coordinated vendors, freelancers and  print production.    Creative direction instrumental in client win of 2.5M print/direct mail account. Program estimated to have surpassed previous year’s campaign response of 3% and generated 2.4B in sales.    Completed multiple web site overhauls. Enhanced usability and increased interactivity by developing interactive radio featuring +15K songs and audio advertisements. Ecommerce initiatives increased online sales +300%. Introduced clients to digital routing and approval process expediting workflow. Sr. Art Director/UI Designer/ Front- End Web Developer V2Commerce Corp. - San Diego, CA August 1999 to March 2000 Worked with a team of programmers and developers to develop site architecture and user-interfaces for web-based applications. UI prototypes led to additional vc funding. Designed and developed print and web-based collateral in a dynamic team environment. Performed application coding, testing and review. Art Director DDB - Los Angeles, CA June 1997 to August 1999 Developed print, direct mail, POS, outdoor, and radio campaigns for clients in multiple industries as well as brand identity & guidelines for Wells Fargo campaigns.    Clients: Kia, Wells Fargo, Epson, Fetzer Vineyards, Enron Education BFA in Graphic Design San Diego State University - San Diego, CA Skills Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), Creative Concepting (10+ years), Brand Development (10+ years), Usability & Site Structure (6 years), Ecommerce (10+ years), Shopper Marketing (10+ years), Design and Illustration (10+ years), Powerpoint/Keynote (10+ years), Social Media Marketing Awards Honors and Awards 2015 J&J Burke Award North American Regional – The Co-Pay Challenge  2014 J&J Burke Award Health Care Access – Walmart Show Your Card…  2013 J&J Burke Award New Business Model – Walmart Sick Days  2103 ADCD Winner – Self-Promotion Integer BFA  2013 ADCD Winner – Illustration Integer BFA  2012 HUB Prize Bronze – OneTouch® Recipe for Success  2012 EFFIE Silver – OneTouch® The Power of Knowing  2008 Reggie Award Bronze –Silk® Green Caps for Green Energy  2008 The Denver 50 – Silk® Green Caps for Green Energy  2008 TBWA\ Disruption Awards Finalist — Silk® Green Caps for Green Energy™  2003 HOW International Design Annual – Illustration - OP King of Skate