IT Business Solutions Developer IT Business Solutions <span class="hl">Developer</span> IT Business Solutions Developer White Plains, NY Work Experience IT Business Solutions Developer PepsiCo - Pepsi Beverages Company - Somers, NY January 2010 to April 2013 As a member of the application support team with a specialty in Korn shell scripting and Oracle SQL development and reporting the HQ Finance team. I am charged with analyzing and managing the client needs for the Customer Payment System (CPS), performing the following tasks:  • Monitoring the Production and Fit core primary UNIX Oracle Server based Systems for the Retail Sales execution of the Finance Arm based in Somers and for the CPS Enterprise app [vendor + internal build].  • "Break and Fix" role duties for the centrally managed Enterprise Application governing accruals for all field programs at the national/local customer level for all of PBC Selling Arm for over 4000 users. Provided 7X24 support coverage.  • Perform data fix operations on multiple critical tables between the CPS database and the DWH database, following all the proper fit system testing, Sox and Quality Control procedures.  • Provide primary Sox support, testing and knowledge management as the subject matter expert (SME) for the core CPS application suite.  • Performance improvement special task for batch recalculation module inside the PL/SQL 'accrual engine'. I identified the issue, and came up with a different approach that was presented to the team. The chosen solution was implemented to Production based on successful Fit testing.  • Create and execute the update channel testing plan in WinXP/Win7 for 2 vendors' apps (JDA Planogram and Apollo ProSpace) to our Marimba push manager to assure the products provided the expected functionality and speed. IT Senior Specialist Pepsi Bottling Group - Somers, NY 2006 to 2010 Resolve Oracle and Unix server issues with the help of the on-call DBA and Unix Engineering technical teams as needed.  • Create ad-hoc reports and analysis for the Business Team of more than 100 reports per year on average.  • Work with and was the primary technical liaison with CAS, our vendor for the last 2 years of the project, rolled out over 60 bug fixes and enhancements.  • Worked on porting vendor binaries to run on new HP server, as part of a major system upgrade. Supported the migration of the main Prod Server to HP hardware with dual core Intel chips with new CPU's and also upgraded to Oracle 9i at same time.  • Worked on SQL and script project; additional scripting required and Fit test batches were run for over a period of 9 months. Did triage as needed, kept track of issues, ran weekly status meeting and we also upgraded to Oracle 10g at this time.  • Coordinate, deliver and oversee execution of project plans for all HA (High Availability) work and database/server upgrades.  • Designed, coded and tested the 2nd revision for the Data Warehouse to CPS customer hierarchy. Validation scripts were written in following languages: SQLPLUS, PL/SQL anonymous blocks, SQL and Korn shell with a few Perl 1 liners as well as sftp script. Use DB2 SQL calls "nohupped" from a separate primitive pipeline mechanism of functional SQL and shell script calls made together to DB2. Comparison queries obtained results, using set theory to determine if we were in sync. IT Specialist Pepsi Bottling Group - Somers, NY 2002 to 2006 Work with and was the primary technical liaison with CAS, a provider in the Trade Promotion Management space now owned by Accenture, our vendor for the first 6 years of the project, rolled out over 140 bug fixes and enhancements.  • Created and updated the System support document bundle which contained over 1 dozen Word, Text, Excel and Power Point documents to help run the System with screenshots as needed.  • Created detailed training document and trained team members to bring them up to speed on the new System processes.  • Shell and SQL script work performed; Clean up all fit and prod system and batch level scripts and made them meet new company standards and for all to be callable by Autosys, with reused components and similar batch sections, thus reducing batch script maintenance by using library calls and previously tested similar template pieces.  • Created the semi-automated GL drilldown period end script (taken from vendor code inside an MS-Access db) and integrated it into existing core Batch to help run the period close in a more automated manner. Updated the MS-Access db tool, used by the Business, to investigate calls about accruals and period close transactions.  • Upgrade and test all the server scripts, including all the Cron scripts and ad-hoc scripts. Technical Support Analyst Dunn & Bradstreet (DNB) - Morristown, NJ 2001 to 2002 Provided maintenance and implementation support for the tier level 1 customers of a premier DNB product for advanced marketing and customer veracity services.  • Tasked with the special project to recoup the failed legacy database containing all enterprise bugs for the company.  • I designed and built a scripted environment in Lotus Notes to take the output of all relevant open case data and use that to construct a lotus notes database to resurrect the corporate bug database in a little over 5 months including testing - with minimal support and tools and no budget.  • Created and updated technical System documentation.  • Helped resolve half dozen bug fix type issues.  • Found and resolved an issue with a bad tape of data that was sent to a customer to update their DNB System Database. Lead Tester, Quality Team & Front End Analyst Proxy.com - New York, NY 2000 to 2000 Tested the internal live website, created test plan and led regression testing efforts as well.  • Created and updated over 2 dozen small white papers on feasibility and challenges to the valid and efficient operation of the website to the testing manager. Specialist JP Morgan Chase, Credit Card Services Division - Hicksville, NY 1993 to 2000 Supported the Credit Card Customer Service group with technical support for the resolution of IT team internal user issues.  • Created a support ad-hoc tool to automate the running of a previously created support library and leveraged it into a menu-driven system to allow junior members to update items in prod and fit using this special production support system.  • Provided 7X24 level support for the Prod and Fit servers, running HP and Informix Databases, supporting 2400 users.  • Provided support and resolution to all issue related to ad-hoc queries run against the Eclipse Informix Enterprise App.  • Designed and tested the front- end VB and backend Informix 4gl part of the charge back print manager upgrade project.  • Helped implement Mosaix as our main VRU software and hardware provider for a new project for Credit Card Area. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Manhattan College - New York, NY May 1991 Skills Operating Systems: Aix, HP-UX, Win XP, Win 7. Database and Computer Languages: Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL, Korn shell, Awk, Sed, Grep, Perl, Powershell, Informix 4gl, VB3/VB5, C, C++, Gdb. Additional Information Operating Systems: Aix, HP-UX, Win XP, Win 7.  Database and Computer Languages: Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL, Korn shell, Awk, Sed, Grep, Perl, Powershell, Informix 4gl, VB3/VB5, C, C++, Gdb.  Tools: Toad, Notepad++, Wingrep, Windows Search, SQL Detective, Rapid SQL, SQL Developer.