VP of Consumer Experience VP of Consumer Experience Currently looking for remote or local opportunities. Franklin, NC Accomplished, resourceful and goal-driven individual with a career history of exceeding expectations of consumers and customers by creating and delivering best-in-class products and services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VP of Consumer Experience Hearst Autos - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to March 2018 Led product strategy, operations, and consumer experience design activities, search engine optimization, social media marketing, branding, analytics, and content design.  • Completed redesign of the caranddriver.com website, resulting in an improved car shopping process for consumers and new sales opportunities for dealerships.  • Introduced mobile ad products generating nearly 50M net new monthly impressions.  • Led high-performing teams to deliver award-winning enterprise MediaOS publishing integration project on time, on budget, enabling more efficient publishing process and reducing overall costs.  • Introduced new content and designs which enabled our coverage of new cars to double annually over a 2-year roll-out.  • Implemented a new product design approach based on consumer-focused research, experimentation and conversion optimization methodologies.  • Implemented New Car Listings, creating new dealership partnership and revenue opportunities, adding over 200 new customers in the first 6 months.  • Co-founded Hearst Autos Product Development division to align multiple businesses to a new operating plan, mission, and vision with a mission to help connect car buyers and sellers and was the car buying experience.  • Initiated, developed plans, and executed baseline consumer research to begin a multi-year redesign of the CarandDriver.com website.  • Established monthly consumer survey reporting and completed 15 consumer research studies in 2016.  • Contributed to overall ad revenue increases 59% from target in first year of website design, content optimizations, and new traffic from social channels.  • Exceeded 2016 YOY website traffic goals by 34% through optimizing Social Media messaging and strategy.  • Completion of website design plan in 2017 resulted in 113% growth in mobile advertising revenue.  • Integrated new advertising products in 2017 with $345K MRR potential.  • Improved consumer engagement with primary content pages on both mobile and desktop through better understanding of our consumer market.    Co-Founder, Chief Experience Officer Automotive Ventures, LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to August 2015 As co-founder of a startup, I worked closely in all aspects of the business. As CXO, I led  all user experience design activities as well as search engine optimization, marketing,  branding, and analytics which built a brand to solve the problems of new car shoppers.  We rapidly iterated though designs and prototypes continuously, based on consumer  input from monthly in-depth interviews. To build the brand and generate traffic to continue conversion optimization and design iterations to bring consumers the tools and  information to support their car shopping, we monitored Google Analytics data,  implemented A/B tests through Optimizely, executed plans to drive in-bound traffic through all digital channels, leveraged SEO/SEM tools to guide our content creation  efforts, tracked competitive/trending keywords to adjust our SEM spend and campaign  content, and maintained blog content to help users navigate the car shopping process as well as optimize SEO rankings. User Experience Designer Manheim - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to June 2014 Experience designer for search experiences of Manheim's online auctions.  Role includes planning and executing customer interviews and usability tests,  developing design concepts and interactive prototypes to support testing and as deliverables for IT implementation. To better understand search behaviors, this role also  includes working closely with web analytics to establish tagging and reporting  capabilities that drive actionable insights. Work with stakeholders to identify business  requirements, cross-project dependencies, and prioritize new features and functionality.  Contribute to the developing and maintaining an online style guide. User Experience Consultant Slalom, LLC - Atlanta, GA August 2013 to December 2013 Atlanta, GA  Client: Manheim, SR User Experience Designer - 8/2013 - 12/2013  Leading product and feature design initiatives for Manheim, primarily focused on the automotive search experiences across desktop and mobile channels. Collaborated with both Product Management and IT stakeholders with a key focus on aligning the multiple  digital auction experiences to ultimately converge them into a single online destination.  Provided design support for multiple ongoing initiatives to incrementally improve  experiences based on feedback from the field. SR Manager, Interaction Design & Usability Autotrader.com - Atlanta, GA June 2012 to April 2013 Led a team of designers and user research analysts, supporting cross-business unit  initiatives including new products and features, display and integrated advertising, and back- end tools and systems, while keeping an eye on the continual evolution of an  energizing and empowering user experience that facilitates the buying and selling of vehicles and delights shoppers, dealership, and manufacturer customers alike. A key  accomplishment during my time in this role was leading the UX design activities for the core search experience evolution, which drives more than 80% of the company's  revenue stream and supports over 16 million unique visitors a month in shopping for the second largest purchase they will make in their life. This included aligning subscription and advertiser goals with user needs through the creation of simple and elegant  interactions that generate key business value events. User Expereince Manager Autotrader.com - Atlanta, GA March 2009 to June 2012 In this role, my team expanded from three to eight user experience designers, added  usability analysts, and matured the discipline to contribute to strategic planning and research in addition to the tactical design support through the product development  lifecycle. While developing leadership skills on the job and through professional  development programs, I played a key role in the maturation of their SEO practice, as part of a small cross-disciplinary team, to push organic, non-branded search traffic to over 1 million unique visitors a month. Taking advantage of opportunities to work behind the scenes and outside of normal operating channels, and with growing support from  executive leadership, we designed and implemented site optimizations to capture long- tail traffic and developed strategies around maintaining market share for top industry  search terms. In 2012, we were received multiple awards for our iPhone app and innovative national advertising product called Overdrive, where we closely partner with  key manufacturers to launch coordinated, take-over display advertising and content on SR Interaction Designer Autotrader.com December 2007 to March 2009 Primary activities during this time included supporting product management initiatives  focused on improving key product offerings and evolving the consumer experiences for our consumer-facing properties. I was a key contributor to the home page redesign  initiative, which was the first step in establishing a new look and feel based on rigorous  user research and brand development. Following the successful launch of the new  home page design, I also worked with a small group to create the company's first  experience guide, documenting styles, standards, and a pattern library that continues to govern all design and development work on the site. Additionally, as part of a cross-  departmental research effort, I contributed to the development of AutoTrader's shopper  type segmentation, from which the company continues to apply findings from and learn  more about what their end-users need most to facilitate their car shopping experience. Interaction Designer Autotrader.com - Atlanta, GA June 2006 to December 2007 Supported a large program of initiatives designed to drive new and innovative  advertising products for dealers and OEM customers. I contributed to features including a multi-media framework providing dealers the ability to upload and manage video  assets for their inventory, new vehicle specials platform that provides for the creation and scheduling of special offers and incentives, and a new suite of national accounts  advertising modules that better support industry standards and made coordinating with agency customers more efficient, while also utilizing more ad space availability. BellSouth, Application Architect MDI - Atlanta, GA July 2002 to April 2006 Acted in a variety of roles on a small team supporting the sales force through the development of online enablement of tools and sales collateral. Daily responsibilities  included front- end web design and development, gathering requirements for future  capacity cycles and interpreting them into design documentation, capacity planning, QA,  planning and executing user acceptance tests with users and stakeholders, and coordinating and supervising releases. Front- end Developer Faucett New Media - Atlanta, GA April 2000 to February 2002 Collaborated with design team and stakeholders to build out HTML/CSS/Javascript  frameworks for client projects. Created production graphics as needed. Unit tested and deployed code for UAT and QA efforts. Gathered and curated content for client sites.  Managed feature updates and client requests. Received Show South award for our  company website. Education Masters of Information Technology American Intercontinental University - Atlanta, GA 2000 Bachelor of Arts in Geography/Anthropology University of South Florida - Tampa, FL 1994 Skills Interaction Design (10+ years), HTML/CSS (10+ years), Wireframes (10+ years), User Research (10+ years), Analytics (3 years), SEO (10+ years), Axure (3 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Visio (10+ years), Wordpress (4 years), Conversion Optimization (5 years), Leadership (6 years), A/B Testing (6 years), Social Media (6 years), Google Analytics (2 years), Usability Testing (7 years), User Experience Design (10+ years), Information Architecture (10+ years), Personas (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Optimizely X Web Foundations December 2018 to December 2019 Optimizely X Technical Foundations December 2018 to December 2019 Optimizely X Strategy Foundations December 2018 to December 2019 Optimizely X Full Stack Foundations December 2018 to December 2019 Google Analytics for Power Users December 2018 to December 2020 Google Analytics for Beginners December 2018 to December 2020 Advanced Google Analytics December 2018 to December 2020 Additional Information Skills  Creative: User-centered design, interaction design, information architecture,  wireframing, storyboarding, usability  Technical: SEO, technical design, Axure, Optimizely/multivariate testing, Google  Analytics  Leadership: Performance management, strategy, resource management, mentoring,  planning  Marketing: SEM, social media marketing, in-bound, content management, WordPress