Senior Technical Product Manager, Ad Creative Technology Senior Technical Product Manager, Ad Creative Technology Technical Product Manager Sunnyvale, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Technical Product Manager, Ad Creative Technology Yahoo!/Oath/Verizon - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to Present ?       Led Global transition program for ad format delivery solutions from legacy Yahoo reserved platform to legacy AOL platform, resulting in 0 loss of revenue and only minimal operational hiccups in less than 2 months  ?       Product owner for ad building platform used to build and serve ads generating an additional $14.5m in yearly revenue  ?       Work with senior leadership, sales stakeholders, monetization, and publisher & platform engineering teams to develop and release rich ad products and features for reserved, native, and programmatic platforms across Oath O&O globally.   ?  Mobile Live Streaming Video - Doubled overall live stream views from desktop experience with average interaction times of over 8 minutes  ?  Oath Custom Tiles - Generates ~$5m of additional annual revenue with 30% above-average engagement rate  ?  360 Image/Video -44% above average Ad Engagement Rate and a 4-second above-average time spent on ad  ?       Product owner for new ad format building framework, formats, and UI set to reduce load times by more than 1/3  ?       Develop documentation detailing ad product specs and ‘how to’ guides for ad builders, sellers, and traffickers  ?       Work with programmatic, native, and guaranteed platform product teams to align ad product offerings, specs, and delivery  ?       Analyze ad performance and sales metrics to generate marketing KPI’s and refine ACT ad portfolio Senior Technical Manager, Ad Creative Technology Yahoo! Inc. - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to December 2017 ?       Manage distributed team of Front- End Developers that build complex interactive ad experiences across Oath properties  ?       Instituted robust QA plan, performance budget, and optimization best practices resulting in a 100% drop in make goods   ?       Drove transition from Flash to html5 for ad development within 2 months, resulting in minimal revenue loss and no drop in the delivery of rich ad experiences across Yahoo’s O&O Senior Front- End Developer, Ad Creative Technology Yahoo! Inc. - New York, NY April 2012 to October 2014 ?       Developed premium rich media advertising campaigns across desktop, mobile and tablet on Yahoo.com using a mix of Flash, Html5, CSS3 and JS, working directly with sales and advertiser to support millions of dollars of campaign spend Front- End Developer (Freelance) McGraw-Hill Education - New York, NY November 2010 to March 2013 Lead Front- End Developer Adventive, Inc. - New York, NY March 2010 to April 2012 ?       Scoped, developed and shipped Flex Interface for Adventive’s AdBuilder platform along with team of front- end engineers  ?       Developed Flash framework and modules for ad serving incorporating Google Maps, video, Facebook and Twitter apis  ?       Prioritized backlog, created wireframes and tested UX updates Front- End Developer (Freelance) Beautiful Stranger.tv - New York, NY May 2008 to February 2011 Front- End Developer Marchand Media - New York, NY May 2008 to January 2010 Education MBA College of William & Mary 2018 to 2020 MFA in Computer Art School of Visual Arts 2006 to 2008 B.A in Digital Media and Studio Art Macaulay Honors College at Hunter College 2002 to 2006 Skills Front End (9 years), Jira (9 years), Product Management (4 years), SDLC (8 years), Program Management (5 years), Management (5 years), Advertising (9 years), Mobile (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) June 2016 to Present Additional Information Skills & Expertise  Product Management, Ad tech, Jira, Confluence, Scrum, Agile, SDLC, Front End Development & Design, UI, UX