Content Developer Content <span class="hl">Developer</span> Bainbridge Island, WA Work Experience Content Developer Go2marine | LFS Marine Outdoor | Trident Seafoods - Poulsbo, WA July 2017 to Present NetSuite administrator implementing and managing SuiteCommerce Advanced web stores.    Product merchandiser, marketing manager, content manager: promotions, generate upsell and cross-sell opportunities.    Configure order management processes, such as shipping, inventory, out-of-stock behavior and billing.    Create inventory, drop-ship, and gift certificate items, create item options, configure item images and specify pricing.    Create web store promotions, configure related and correlated items, faceted navigation, and configure product search, filter    Optimize search engine optimization (SEO) using URL components, ALT image tags, meta tags    Expedite resolutions by assigning, managing, and routing customer support cases across multiple communications channels, including phone, fax and web.    Responsible for monitoring and validating electronic files from vendors and Merchants    Ensures accuracy of data before additions and/or changes are made to the merchandising system database.    Creates and inputs promotional discounts for advertised and unadvertised specials    Identifies and recommends solutions for all promotional pricing issues to the Merchants.    Proofs ads to ensure pricing accuracy.    Ensures pricing accuracy for all retail stores.    Responds to customer inquiries via phone and email.  Receives, checks and responds to customer feedback.  Occasional shipping and receiving.  Informs customer of shipping dates, anticipated delays, returns and any additional information needed by customer.  Approves, processes, changes or cancels orders as necessary.  Initiates orders for replacement product to correct errors.  Assists in inventory management.  Update pricing and product content on the website.  Additional Responsibilities:     Customer Focus:    Builds customer confidence by ensuring expectations and commitments are met. Establishes and maintains effective and positive relationship with internal and external customers. Acts with customers in mind, and values the importance of providing high-quality customer service.    Integrity & Trust:    Sets an example by consistently modeling high standards of honesty and integrity. Is widely trusted and is seen as a direct, truthful individual who presents information in an appropriate and helpful manner. Maintains a reputation for honesty, confidentiality, reliability and fairness. Is willing to admit mistakes, and doesn’t misrepresent him/her self for personal gain.    Getting Results:    Performs work with energy and drive; values planning, but will take quick, decisive action when an opportunity presents itself.    Creativity & Innovation:     Injects originality into daily work and generates many new and unique ideas. Thinks "outside the box" and is seen as original and value-added in brainstorming ideas. Creates competitive and breakthrough solutions.    Collaboration:              Collaborates positively to achieve team and company objectives. Works effectively within a diverse environment. Builds strong relationships with fellow employees, helping to support a contribution to overall company success. Sales Associate Harrisons Footwear - Poulsbo, WA May 2016 to June 2017 Deli Clerk Central Market - Poulsbo, WA July 2015 to April 2016 Freelance Michaelson Design - Shoreline, WA January 1997 to March 2015 Principal/Project Manager/Designer Director of Web Development ConversionCraft - Kirkland, WA 2015 to January 2015 via Michaelson Design ( 3 week assignment) Creative Director AdsUpNow - Bothell, WA September 2014 to October 2014 Front End Web Designer Callison Architecture - Seattle, WA January 2008 to May 2013 Web Designer Safeco Insurance - Seattle, WA July 2002 to August 2012 (contract through Redtech)  Online Experience Web and Graphic Designer Web/Graphic Designer Microsoft - Redmond, WA May 2012 to June 2012 Web Designer and Content Manager/Joomla Expert CTS International, - Bellevue, WA February 2010 to March 2012 Web Designer/SEO Associated Behavioral Health Care - Bellevue, WA October 2009 to December 2009 Manager - Web Design and Email Services SmartPros - Hawthorne, NY January 2008 to August 2008 Web Manager Rockwell Institute - Bellevue, WA July 2005 to January 2008 Brand & Design Vision  Develop a principled brand and design vision to drive a consistent look & feel across all products & communications.    Product & Communication Design  Develop and execute a design plan that maps to business strategy, helps to inform the product vision and design processes, and increases our ability to accurately plan ahead.    Design Process & Integration  Refine current design process to integrate more efficiently with other departments and increase the quality of deliverables.    Building the Team  Define the design team structure and strategy for recruiting, onboarding, and ongoing development of people.    Establishes Web Project  Establishes Web project scope by studying strategic business drivers; discovering and validating business and technical requirements and parameters; obtaining input from subject-matter experts; examining and recommending changes to current business practices; developing and writing proposals.    Develops Web Solution  Develops Web solution by formulating objectives; planning project life-cycle deliverables and resource availability and application; preparing installation and modification specifications; leading the exploration, evaluation, and design of technical solutions.    Implements Web Solution  Implements Web solution by monitoring project progress; tracking action items; conducting design and implementation reviews; examining, researching, and resolving issues; escalating issues to appropriate authority; responding to team members' concerns; coordinating requirements with interested departments.    Front- end Design  Day-to-Day Maintenance and Enhancements of Websites and Web Applications  Joomla and WordPress CMS Expert  Design with Standards Compliant Code with Emphasis on Browser Compatibility  XHTML & CSS Coding, Image Editing  Custom RSS Feeds with Yahoo! Pipes  Website Analysis (Google Analytics including filters and goals, custom widgets)    User Interface and User Experience Design  Concepts, Mockups, Wireframes, Redlines  Organize Content and Test Usability of Projects  Social Media  Responsible for Facebook, Twitter, Google+, YouTube, Vimeo, and LinkedIn Accounts  FBML and Third-Party Apps for Facebook    Email Marketing  Email Campaign Setup Including: email coding and configuration, optimizes existing creative, targeting, data  monitoring, scheduling, tracking, testing, and deployment using Lyris for 100+ K members weekly  Incorporated Email Best Practices  Spam and Deliverability Testing  Distributed and Managed Reporting for all HTML Newsletters  Managed Web Statistics Tracking and Reporting  Managed Tactical Production and Reporting of Webinars Education Project Management Shoreline Community College Web Programming North Seattle Community College Bachelor's in Sociology Washington State University Skills HTML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills  Netsuite, Excel, Quickbooks. Adobe Creative Suite, Content Management Systems, HTML, CSS. MS Programs