Senior Software Engineer II Senior Software Engineer II Senior Software Engineer II - Uber Inc Mountain View, CA I am a software designer & programmer, primarily focusing on web development. I am passionate about consumer products and am a big fan of well-designed UX. Lately I have been fascinated with web-based data visualizations. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Software Engineer II Uber Inc June 2015 to Present Uber is a transportation network company. I work with the freight team (previous teams: marketplace) that is at the core of Uber algorithms. I create web-based tools that helps us debug, monitor and tweak our algorithms,  performance & operations. Staff Engineer 1 (Web/ Front- end) Platfora Inc April 2013 to May 2015 Platfora is an end-to- end software platform that runs natively on Hadoop and provides capabilities from raw  data preparation to rich visualizations and reporting through a web interface.  I work with the data visualization team to enable users to create interactive visualizations that let them find  patterns and anomalies in their data. The interface further lets users slice-and-dice their data as they explore for more insights. Software Developer (Web / Flash) Cooliris Inc May 2010 to April 2013 Cooliris (later acquired by Yahoo!) is the creator of some of the most beautiful messaging and photo-sharing  experiences on the web & mobile. At Cooliris, I worked on a couple of projects:  ? LiveShare - I was one of the three developers on the web client for this messaging service. The web  client integrates with a REST api and was developed as a single-page JavaScript application.  ? 3D Gallery - Sole Developer on this interactive Flash-based signature product that lets users view their  own photos from various sources (Flickr, Facebook etc.) or photos from the web (Google Image  Search). Users could create their own customized wall of 3D photos and get the embed code for embedding the gallery into any web-page. Freelance Software Developer (Web / Flex) Makara June 2008 to April 2010 Makara (later acquired by Red Hat) was a leading provider of Cloud Application Platform Solutions. I worked with them as an independent consultant to create a library for visualizing interactive timelines. The product  worked as a loosely coupled module that shipped with their cloud offering. Game Developer (Web / Flash) SilverTree Media May 2007 to April 2010 SilverTree creates casual games for mobile and web. My main projects included:  ? Disney's web-based MMO Pixie Hollow - Flash/Web based project based on the Tinker Bell Franchise  targeted at teens. I worked on the avatar creator, chatting application within the MMO, mini-games, rendering & performance.  ? Spore's 2D Creature Creator for Electronic Arts' - This game created a 2D version of Spore's creature  creator that could be accessed online by fans. I created a spring-based skeleton system and a procedural rendering system for the creature skins. Game Developer Carnegie Mellon March 2007 to May 2007 Created a 2D Platformer Puzzle game named Polarity based on the concept of magnetism. The game went on to win the 2008 Independent Games Festival Student Showcase award as well as the Independent Game  Festival Strategy Award finalist. I created a procedural texture rendering system and a level editor for quick iteration that let the designer pause a live game to do in-game editing for live games. Technical Director DreamWorks Animation SKG - Los Angeles, CA May 2006 to August 2006 I helped cut down the rendering time for the movie by 30%. Technologies: C, Python. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services June 2003 to July 2005 Worked as a Web Developer to create and maintain web applications for General Electric Health Care.  Technologies: J2EE & Oracle. Software Intern Indian Space Research Organization - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2003 to June 2003 Spring & Summer 2003 Researched and implemented signal processing algorithms for image restoration from hi-res satellite imagery. Technology: C++. Education Master of Entertainment Technology in simulations & physics Carnegie Mellon University September 2005 to March 2007 BS in Computer Engineering Gujarat University September 1999 to March 2003 Skills Haml, JAVASCRIPT, REDUX, PHP, PYTHON