Senior Software Developer III Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Front- End Web Developer Fort Mill, SC Driven by innovative functionality without forfeiting the need for clean, compliant code. I am seeking an environment where the combination of innovation and elegance mesh effortlessly; an environment, which allows one to focus on the big picture while maintaining enough room for my meticulous attention to detail. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer III Comporium - Rock Hill, SC January 2017 to Present Assisted in designing and developing our first E-Commerce site, utilizing React.js and many libraries within such as Redux, Bluebird, React-Router, testing suites Mocha, Chai and more.    I also assisted in development and maintenance with an in-house Product Catalog that allows dynamic content and imagery to feed the E-Commerce store data based on users location, qualifications and approved equipment.    I work with our marketing team on a weekly basis to continue reviewing data via Google Analytics, Google Optimize, Hubspot and HotJar to improve the customers experience. I continue to support each site and implement new features for both new and existing customers. Front- End Web Developer Lowe's - Mooresville, NC August 2016 to January 2017 All around Front- End Web Development with a primary focus on analytics. We fully utilize HTML5, CSS, JS, Jquery, JSON, and AJAX. Additionally, we leverage several tools for tag management, analytics, and A/B user testing.  • All projects vary utilizing numerous coding languages including, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, AJAX/JSON, Bootstrap and PHP.  • Analytics are coded and managed utilizing Adobe DTM. Additionally, we use a broad scope of tools such as: Git, GitHub, Grunt, Adobe Test & Target, and several more.  • Starting to transition older, Legacy sites over to our new framework which adds node.js to our stack. Front- End Web Developer Nutramax Laboratories, Inc June 2013 to August 2016 I have designed, developed and maintained forty plus websites, landing pages, and surveys, including Joomla, Wordpress and HTML5 landing pages. I'm also responsible for updating our client database with subscribers, Veterinarians, and Doctors. While being asked to develop and maintain our HTML emails.  • All projects vary utilizing numerous coding languages including, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, AJAX/JSON, Bootstrap and PHP. We support all browsers dating back to Internet Explorer 8.  • Develop websites and forms using optimal coding practices for all individual landing pages and websites. Including those contained within our Joomla and Wordpress templates.  • Code, test, and manage all HTML emails that reach 1 million plus annually. Including separate client databases that keep all of our clientele separate allowing us to reach out with multiple offers.  • Create and implement graphics and wireframes from Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign for Web and E-mail applications.  • Consistently meet with our business units and Project Managers to brainstorm, create wireframes and implement their visions throughout a rigorous routing process. Front- End Web Developer Red Ventures February 2009 to March 2013 I work in a small cluster of designers, front- end and back- end developers to design, create and code out tons of third-party websites for our clients.  • Front- end development on a variety of sites for a general cluster of clientele managing over 50 sites. Maximizing the versatility of HTML, HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript for SEO purposes.  • UX design (Typically smaller projects) & Coding and sending HTML e-mails  • Maintaining and testing new experiences across multiple sites with different content, hero images, animations and SEO rankings. Owner / Developer Hoyle Web Design March 2006 to January 2009 I work with clients to implement designs for their websites in various platforms. Most of the work I do is PSD to WordPress theme or PSD to HTML for more simple pages.  • Obtained new clientele while maintaining current projects.  • Managed 2 employees while maintaining payroll, taxes, insurance & other managerial responsibilities.  • Designed wireframes, logos and other individual requested .eps & .psd files.  • Wrote code to ensure the client's site would be SEO optimal while maintaining complete functionality. Code included HTML, CSS, JS, Jquery, PHP & Actionscript.  United States Marine Corps E-5, Sergeant USMC March 1998 to March 2006 In conjunction with the everyday expectations of a US Marine; my MOS was in logistics. My responsibilities included but were not limited to shipping, receiving and air-drops.  • Obtained 2 Good Conduct Medals & the Navy Achievement Medal.  • Managed 13 Marines within my squad and oversaw all duties & relayed necessary communications between my superior officers and my team.  • Successfully partook in 17 deployed, both domestic & foreign. Six of which were during wartime. Successfully carried out numerous missions to ensure objectives were completed, while displaying extreme caution and maintaining safety protocols to ensure all Marines returned back to base.  • Daily responsibilities displaying proper conduct of a US Marine. Education Bachelor's in Elementary Education University of Maryland January 2000 to January 2002 general York Technical College June 1997 to January 1998 Skills UI, Front End, Javascript, React Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-3 Additional Information Skills    • Ability to apply advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Knowledgeable in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and Jquery. Also proficient with Photoshop CS5/CS6.  • Contribute user interface design mockups and designs.  • Work fiercely with product groups to develop and enhance usability.  • Ability to approach front- end projects with confidence from beginning through completion.  • Currently dabble with Angular, AJAX/JSON, XML, XHTML and various Jquery libraries.  • Portfolio is located at http://www.chadhoyle.com