Business Analyst III Business Analyst III Business Analyst III - York Absence Management, Digital Marketing Group Dublin, OH Work Experience Business Analyst III York Absence Management, Digital Marketing Group November 2018 to Present * Provide support via manual update of legacy case-related letters and forms on an as-needed basis in response to ServiceNow Ticket requests submitted by users throughout the organization.  * Automated creation of vast variety of case-related communications to establish uniform messaging and respond to array of an number of possible situations to save time/improve efficiency.  Re-branding via update of all logos and standardization of phone numbers/addresses/Faxes/Emails Short-Term maternity Leave Temporary Ohio State University, Digital Marketing Group August 2018 to Present Primary Responsibilities: Email Development and responsive/dynamic coding, sends, tracking/analytics, testing via Litmus and Email on Acid. Technical Lead/Data Analyst Huntington Bank March 2018 to October 2018 Primary Responsibilities: Serving as Team Lead for expansion of functionality of newly installed NetOxygen system including Relocation and Assumption loans that may apply to mortgages. NetOxygen was being utilized as a key component of a loan origination system that integrates with every major financial system within this Mid-West Regional Technical Center for the Bank  Software Expertise:  MS Word MS Access WhereIs Notepad+ MS Outlook Skype MS Internet Explorer PaperCut Adobe Reader BlitzDocs Docutech Freddie Mac Fannie Mae ComplianceEase Various Mortgage Insurance Companies Equifax Transunion BeyondCompare Agent Ransack mRemote NG NetOx Zenoss Zena Splunk ServiceNow Dynatrace GetFiles Sharepoint RUM Cyberark Privileged Account Security Visual Studio Hewlett Packard ALM Quality Visio 2013 SQL Server Management Studio MS Excel  Additional Responsibilities: Served as team lead focused on logical organization of 1000+ accumulated legacy Word, PDF, and Excel documents re: newel installed NetOxygen system  Special Project Management:  * Introducing logical structure easily accessible for reference by team members as well as outside teams (i.e. quality, devops, etc.)  * Versioning of documents  * Creating Template system  * Facilitating maintenance and contingency planning to accommodate future needs  * Referencing Windows Native Directory as well as organization mirrored in SharePoint  * Weekly status report to update management on progress. Email Specialist, E-commerce Front End Developer, Technical/Business Analyst Big Lots Stores, Inc - Columbus, OH 2011 to 2017 Columbus, Ohio - A Fortune 500 discount retail operations headquartered in Columbus, Ohio  Email Specialist, E-commerce Front End Developer, Technical/Business Analyst 2011-2017  Analyzed computer technical problems, evaluating improvements & benefits derived from modifications of existing systems,developing plans to address issues, opportunities & concerns in a cost-effective manner. Used HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, jQuery & vanilla JavaScript to code, test and debug systems, programs, modules and end-user defined modifications. Proficient writing code utilizing broadly adopted programming languages, and frameworks. System monitoring, data analytics, metric analysis (Utilizing Adobe Analytics/Omniture as well as Google Analytics) Akamai. Responsive Dynamic coding for mobile devices.    Key Duties & Responsibilities:  * Maintained the functionality of Big Lots digital initiatives & platforms (Website, mobile apps, social media, and interactives). Website platform consist built on Oracle ATG, Endeca, Adobe XM, Adobe BCC.  * Provided comprehensive coding for E-commerce Websites  * Code, test, & deliver 90 million+ marketing emails per month via Salesforce Marketing Cloud and, in a previous generation, Teradata's Aprimo Email Marketing Suite  * Directed quality assurance testing and training of other team members for two new system-designs of previous generations desktop and responsive mobile apps for the biglots.com Website; experience coding, and testing enterprise systems using object-oriented design & development concepts. Acted as lead on mobile testing (Unit, System, UAT to assure system satisfies customer needs, Regression) point of sale/coupon testing (POS). Created Use cases, storyboarding templates  * Combined visual design, content, layout, & interactivity to create engaging and highly usable experiences for target audiences on a variety of platforms  * Worked with cross-functional teams to include back- end developers and assure completion of coding projects from start to finish  * Social Media monitoring and responses to post.s on Twitter and facebook.  * Search Engine Optimization (SEO)    Special Assignments:  As sole technical resource assigned to digital marketing group, conducted all business analysis tasks associated with all phases of special projects:  ? Automated Tracking/Metrics - Integrating various tracking (Adobe Analytics/Dynamic Tag Manager) methodologies into code (A/B testing, device prevalence profiles, response to various images/content) on continuous basis to improve related metrics. Subject Line Performance and influence on open rates/click-thru, etc.  ? Oversaw Data Migration - Legacy Product Database to SAP - Creating customized Filemaker Pro 11 database solution to facilitate migration of product data from legacy proprietary system to new systems. Prepared data for upload to SAP  ? Addressed Americans with Disability Act - Created & refined requirements to assure compliance (for speech and contrast as well as special allowances for physical, and mental impairment)  ? Facilitated ESP Conversion - Teradata Aprimo data and template transition to Salesforce Marketing Cloud over 3 month period during IP warm-up period  ? Invented and Created CArS (Centralized Asset System) - Redesigned email development & deployment process by developing single, centralized repository for all assets necessary for creation and delivery of emails through "semi-automation" using a dedicated, personally designed/created custom Filemaker Pro 11 interface solution. Reduced production time for a week's worth of emails from 40 hours to approximately 2 hours  High-level technical/business systems Analysis performed for special assignments:  • Created technical & business requirements for multiple internal system lifecycle projects - Utilizing an Agile approach to deliver software development as a part of daily scrums, Sprint planning sessions, Retrospectives working with Product Owner to prioritize & groom the backlog. Use cases, user stories/story boarding.  • Implemented Agile Documentation Sprint Planning/ Backlog Documentation - Documenting minutes & tracking Sprints/ Sprint Planning, Retrospectives, Playing Poker Estimates & Timelines, and working with the Product Owner/ Business Owner to facilitating successful outcomes as a part of the process/ project team - contributing transparency & monitoring velocity/ cadence  • Change Control documentation - Submitted plans to address & document issues, successfully circumventing potential problems, communicating concerns to the project team, and provide solutions in a cost-effective manner  • Created Functional & Technical System Documentation - Created Field and System mapping technical components such as servers, cloud structure, desktop connections, etc. Gap Analysis, Systems Analysis, as well as documenting detailed field requirement specifications  • Provided Production Support - Fulfillment of requirements support through documentation of the project for audit-readiness and future releases through the creating of Requirements Traceability Matrices  • Acted as Business Liason - Established and maintained open line of communication between stakeholder, technical teams, and internal/external users.  • Conduction JAD Sessions- Facilitated JAD sessions as well as acting as scribe to assure all relevant information has been accurately recorded from input of various user groups for incorporation into BRD/FRDs.    Key Technology Tools Utilized:  Adobe & Google Analytics, as well as supporting social media marketing through Twitter, Facebooks, Pinterest utilizing Predictive Intelligence. SharePoint repository documentation storage, JIRA; ALM/Quality Center - Testing Software, Microsoft Office Suites - Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Communicator; Supporting/Developing Projects: SAP, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, jQuery & native JavaScript projects to code, test, and debug systems, programs, modules and develop end-user defined modifications. FilemakerPro 11-13, Dynamic Tag Manager, Teradata's Aprimo Email Marketing Suite, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Balsamiq, JBOSS, Apache, GIT    Golden Fox Online, Columbus, Ohio - Sole proprietor of a Columbus-based Web site design company creating small business & non-profit online support, marketing, development & Support of Diverse Companies/ Online Projects Business Owner & Joomla CMS Web Developer Golden Fox Online - Columbus, OH 2008 to 2011 Initiated, developed & deployed content customizations/ Web applications in Content Management Systems & other Web server system environments to meet the business requirements of process owners, users & stakeholders. Prepared business requirements/ analysis & technical specification documents; writing, debugging and maintaining efficient, modular and re-useable code; planning and conducting thorough unit testing of all developed code.    Key Achievements:  ? Collaboratively worked with an internal team to create and establish a Web portal targeting a senior citizens.  ? Acquired business liaison relationships with advertisers to post banners & text-based ads in association with generated profits for the web portal.  ? Effectively worked to catalog 1,700 news feeds for data aggregation and display per copyright holder's "Terms of Use". Technical Analyst/Account Manager Aegis Mission Essential Personnel, L.L.C - Columbus, OH 2007 to 2008 Columbus, Ohio - Contract Company primarily focused on mission support for the U.S. military.  Business/Technical Analyst/Account Manager, 2007 - 2008  * Collaborated with the project team on the formulation of short/long range Division plans, goals, & objectives. Assisted management during various reorganizations by advising on position management, organizational & classification changes assessing the impact of reduction in force, and reviewing associated actions to assure compliance with requirements.  * Developed, & aided in the development of documentation - vacancy announcements, recruitment strategic presentation decks, proposed organizational or position management reviews, background information & analyzed data for many issues, e.g., position classification, staffing, etc.  * Key Achievements:  ? Launched new sales division providing talent acquisition services; analyzing and designing an effective business support model & supporting the overall project plan which $15,000 in revenue within the first three weeks of the project startup.  ? Orchestrated the development of an automated proprietary solution of human resource forms by increasing the onboarding productivity of over 2,000+ new hires through the integration of onboarding new systems as a part of the project team. Utilizing CSS & JavaScript, FileMaker Pro 8.5 & 9 Advanced Instant Web Publishing feature thus affording the end-user remote access to data warehouse databases. Account manager/Recruiter Capstone Search Group - Columbus, OH 1998 to 2006 As an award-winning affiliate of Management Recruiters, International. Capstone Search Group delivered sophisticated staffing and talent acquisition services to various Fortune 1000 companies within retail, financial, healthcare, and manufacturing industries.    ? Built long-lasting strategic relationships globally to support client deliverable(s) in a multi vendor consortium; provided professional staffing and talent acquisition services to Fortune 1000 companies in retail, financial, healthcare, and manufacturing industries.  ? Managed several complete project life-cycles, from coordinating business development and full life-cycle talent acquisitions to designing compensation structures, candidate retention strategies, and performance management tools.  ? Successful in recruiting high-performance achievers, developed industry specific hiring/salary surveys resulting in limited turnover and improved business results.  ? Assisted in training of newly hired staff, principally through role-playing exercises.  Highlights: Top Twenty Professional Recruiter 1998 to 2006 Consistently achieved top satisfaction ratings, generated one of the highest volumes of revenue in the Midwest region; recognized as "Top Twenty Professional Recruiter" repeatedly from 1998 through 2006.  ? Achieved MRI Pacesetter Status, honored among top 3% of 6,000 recruiting professionals and producers, generated average of $250,000 in revenue annually. Operations Manager BioWorld - Columbus, OH 1994 to 1998 BioWorld is an international retail supplier of molecular biology armamentarium and laboratory services to life science researchers. Clients included: Major universities, government research facilities, private research concerns (pharmaceutical companies, etc.), National Institutes of Health, United Nations sponsored facilities, and hundreds of other equally prestigious institutions.    ? Administered purchasing, marketing, infrastructure development, customer technical support, order fulfillment, human resources, maintenance, operations, and warehouse management. Developed multiple systems using Filemaker Pro 4.0.  ? Directed small project-team staff in developing all marketing materials including 200+ page full color catalog.  ? Developed a highly technical product literature for promotion and training purposes as well as coded, uploaded, and maintained in excess of 1,500 page Website featuring 2,700 products. Dentist/Business Owner Columbus, OH 1986 to 1994 Responsible for all aspects of patient care and office operations. Education Doctorate in Dental Surgery The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Bachelor of Science in Genetics University of California - Davis, CA Certificate of Completion in Business Analysis Theory & Practice-Babbage-Simmel Management Recruiters International University Skills Api, Html, Javascript, Visio, Mysql, Excel, testing, Business Intelligence