Senior Front End Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Web Developer - FriendFinder Networks Inc Union City, CA Full stack web developer with experience in perl, javascript, angular, nodejs, mysql. Looking for development role either full stack or backend. Looking to add value to a company and improve and add to current skill set. Work Experience Senior Front End Web Developer FriendFinder Networks Inc - Sunnyvale, CA November 2015 to Present Sunnyvale, California  Internet-based social networking and technology company operating several of the most heavily-traffic websites in the world.    Senior Front End Web Developer November 2015 - Present  • Full stack development of customer and internal facing features using Perl, JQuery, Angular, Material, Javascript,  JSON, Perl, NodeJS, and Mysql. Some experience with Python.  • Manage release for newly implemented features.  • Worked in a team of three to redesign the instant message center using angular and material.  • Update and maintain the instant message NodeJS code. Oversaw and managed node server upgrades  (upgrade to newer version of node and pm2).  • Build new apis in PERL as needed for various site features.  • Some experience working with python. Helped build a few libraries.  • Fixed site vulnerabilities as part of a security initiative.  • Investigate and fix high priority / feature down issues.  • Train new employees. Software Engineer Netline Corporation - Los Gatos, CA August 2013 to November 2015 Los Gatos, California  Online B2B multi-channel content marketing service providing targeted branding and high quality lead generation.    Software Engineer August 2013 - November 2015  • Design, develop, and maintain programs responsible for uploading leads to a client's database.  • Implemented new features on web facing content syndication tool: http://portal.netline.com  • Responsible for full product cycle for each project (Writing spec, Implementation, Test, and Release).  • Improved existing programs to aid in error detection and debugging.  • Full stack development (MySQL, Perl, Javascript, HTML/CSS) Tools Developer Lead FriendFinder Networks Inc - Sunnyvale, CA December 2011 to August 2013 Sunnyvale, California  Internet-based social networking and technology company operating several of the most heavily-traffic websites in the world.    Tools Developer Lead December 2011 - August 2013  • Designed and developed internal tools using perl, mysql, html, css and javascript  • Troubleshoot and fixed issues reported with existing tools  • Managed small team comprised of developers and QA.  • Looked to improve skills of QA by assigning simple programming bugs and training Project Manager FriendFinder Networks Inc - Sunnyvale, CA February 2008 to December 2011 • Managed multiple projects in a fast paced work environment (5-6 projects with 1 month release cycle)  • Met with stakeholders to define project requirements  • Managed small project teams to complete projects according to stakeholders specifications  • Trained new hires on internal tools  • Documented new features (describe new features, how to use new features) for customer service training. QE Engineer FriendFinder Networks - Palo Alto, CA July 2004 to February 2008 • QA existing and new site features  • Grey box testing (ran scripts, checked data against database)  • Wrote test cases to test product according to specification  • Reported bugs and made suggestions for improvement  • Sought to improve the quality of the product by assuming the role of the user and using the product Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA 1997 to 2003 Skills Javascript, Front End, UI, Angular Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/adrian-mendoza/1/147/9b1