Digital Manager Digital Manager UX Developer & Multimedia Specialist Oviedo, FL To whom it may concern,    As a highly skilled Video Producer and editor, I read your posting for a Videographer. My experience aligns well with the qualifications you are seeking, in particular, my role as a Video Producer at Starwood Hotels and resorts, and I am certain I would make a valuable addition to your organization.    With more than 15 years of experience as a Video Producer, I am adept in translating promotional messages into an engaging and exciting motion picture, contract management, and workflow organization. My on-the-job experience has afforded me a well-rounded skill set, including first-rate time management and communication skills.    In addition to my experience and personal qualities, I have a solid understanding of all aspects of video production and a passion for media. Here is my rig setup:    Certified FAA Drone pilot - (renewed certification by July 14th)  - DJI Mavic Pro 2 Drone w/1inch sensor  - Yuneec Typhoon Q5004K Drone  - DJI Ronin 3axis Gimbal  - Atomos Ninja Flame 4k Recorder/Field monitor  - 5ft. Slider dolly  - Sony A7S II w/FE 4/24-105 G OSS Lens  - Sony A7R II w/FE 4/16-35 Lens  - Lumix GH4 w/12-35  - Mac Pro Editing Laptop  - Alienware Editing Laptop    Please review my attached resume for additional details regarding my expertise and abilities. I would like to request an appointment to discuss how my experience and background meet your needs.    Thank you for your time and consideration.    Sincerely,    Damian Thomas Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Manager Marriott Vacations Worldwide - Oviedo, FL February 2018 to Present - Produce promotional campaigns for owner communications.  - Manage freelancers and direct reports on UX design, landing page design/development, and mobile UX development.  - Produce Associate facing video pieces for directional meeting that addresses associates worldwide. UX Design Manager / VIDEO PRODUCER Starwood Hotel & Resorts | Vistana Signature Experiences - Orlando, FL 2015 to 2018 - Produced ARDA award-winning video series for associate facing campaign.  - Produce video content for resort overview and amenities.  - Capture video of talent on location for the lifestyle video shoot.  - Produce video content for in-room resort channel and SPG promotional channel.  - Developed and produced “Digital Asset Video Catalog” for sales galleries to include in the sales process during the gallery tour.  - In charge of deploying sales gallery technology and production of video content that plays throughout the galleries.  - Edit and produce customer, forward facing videos for and owner communications.  - Produce resort specific video promotions for Welcome Centers and restaurant displays. Multimedia programmer/Sr. Web Developer Xcellimark - Casselberry, FL 2009 to 2013 - Created Web-based training tools for company-wide training and client education.  - Created promotional videos for corporate overviews and webmercials.  - Designed and developed websites geared toward search engine optimization and target market conversions. Multimedia Designer/ Front- End Developer Valencia College - Orlando, FL 2008 to 2009 - Created interactive Flash designs for department websites using CSS, HTML, and Javascript.  - Content creation for internal websites.  - Produced and captured photography and video for corporate events and college news outlets. Web Content Producer Bright House Networks / Spectrum - Maitland, FL 2004 to 2008 - User interface design for web-based training software.  - Created and designed new web content for news channel 13.  - Designed Flash promotional banner ads for clients web marketing campaign.  - Created evergreen content for all company news sites as well as interactive features. Interactive Designer Avatar Technologies, Inc. - Miami Beach, FL 2003 to 2004 - Design and implemented streaming content and Flash development for client websites.  - Designed Front- end User interface for Avatar’s ePOSmedia software suite and customized user interfaces for all accounts licensing the software product which includes customization for Bacardi, Heineken, Meristar Hotels, IHR Hotels & Resorts and Starwood Hotels (Westin & Sheraton). Education Some College in Computer Science Wagner College - Staten Island, NY September 1990 to September 1991 Associate in Computer Science Wagner College - Orlando, FL May 1989 to May 1991 Skills Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (8 years), After Effects (10+ years), Digital Marketing, Premiere Pro (10+ years), Final Cut Pro (7 years), Davinci Resolve (5 years), HTML5 (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), SASS (2 years), Javascript (7 years), CMS- Wordpress (7 years), CMS - Drupal (5 years), Google Analytics Links https://vimeo.com/showcase/4076469 Certifications/Licenses Marketing Experiments 2013 to Present Site Optimization & SEO Certified FAA Certified 2015 to Present Drone Pilot