Client/Family liaison Client/Family liaison Greenview, IL A fulfilling career in which I am able to use my education and skills daily to carry out tasks with efficiency, professionalism and effectiveness. As well as to excel through hard work, perseverance and dedication.    Career Summary Combined ten years of medical and clinical experiences, including customer service, data entry, accountants payable and receivable, and maintaining professional, courteous relationships. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Client/Family liaison Behavioral Perspective Inc. - Springfield, IL April 2019 to Present Main contact for families. Check insurance benefits and relay information to families. Greet new families and provide information along with a tour of the facility. Administrative duties, such as filing, scheduling, email, etc. Regional Operations Manager Autism Services Group November 2018 to February 2019 Supervise all clinic operations. Create and execute clinical schedules for clients and therapist. Hiring and onboarding for new staff. Communications with the company leadership team and other offices. Ordering supplies.  Intake and managing new client referrals, along with insurance prior  authorizations. Human Resources Assistant Vibra Hospital July 2018 to February 2019 Assist with new employee onboarding, background checks, and ensuring  all employee files were up to date with licensing. Great and assist guest.  Answer all incoming calls. Employee engagement projects. Lead Claims Developer Public Consulting Group August 2016 to January 2018 Maintain and process social security applications for The Department of Children and Family Services. Professional communications with the  client, social workers, social security administration, and foster parents. Front End Manager Specialty Cakes March 2016 to August 2016 Customer service, accounts payable and receivable, manage and update  payroll. Supervise front end staff and provide excellent customer service. Certified Medical Assistant Springfield Clinic July 2010 to February 2016 Assist patients and doctors in a clinical environment. Administer injections.  Follow HIPAA and practice guidelines. Worked in acute care/family  practice and Ophthalmology. Billing Manager/Dispatch Supervisor CDS Office Technologies November 2007 to June 2009 Maintain and distribute monthly invoices for customers, supervise a team  of dispatch. Assist with customer calls and technical concerns or complaints. Education Medical Midwest Technical Institute March 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (7 years), Google Drive (3 years), Quikbooks (1 year), Medical Terminology (7 years), Electronic Medical Records (7 years), Customer Service Experience (10+ years), Case Management, Customer Service, Home Health Additional Information I am driven and motivated. I work well on a team or independently. Possess the skills to be a leader and motivate other to succeed.