Graphic / Website Designer and Developer Graphic / Website Designer and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Visual Designer / Developer Franklin, MA Creative Visual Designer / Developer with 15+ years of experience building brands and designing responsive websites and interactive features that enhance and improve User Experience. Expert at translating visual needs through technology. Work Experience Graphic / Website Designer and Developer Elliott Graphics - Franklin, MA September 1996 to Present •        Architect client websites including concepting, design, planning, UI, development and execution to promote their business or service in the best light with highest visibility.  •        Administer and maintain websites, analyze performance and create SEO plans, email design, and internet consulting to increase client company awareness.  •        Create graphics, logos, brochures, direct mail, advertising, reports, collateral and signage as needed to advocate the clients’ message and brand. Front End Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts - Quincy, MA October 2017 to November 2018 •        Developed new pages, site sections and user interface enhancements to accelerate a new digital platform initiative.  •        Tested for compatibility on various browsers and devices, enhancing and modifying features as necessary to ensure the best experience for the user.  •        Updated and maintained content through WebSphere and TeamSite, and Drupal, analyzing issues and debugging as necessary for corporate rebranding. Website Developer Bose - Westborough, MA August 2014 to April 2017 •        Created wireframes and built functional prototypes for new products, features and UX requirements to advance company rebranding effort.  •        Developed new content and features to update or enhance websites through TeamSite, Hybris, and Adobe Experience Manager to support new product offerings.  •        Initiated and executed plan to dynamically generate HTML for emails in Exact Target that saved the company an estimated $90k/year. User Interface Designer Intertek - Boxborough, MA July 2008 to April 2014 •        Implemented an iterative design process to revamp the design, layout and user interface of underperforming legacy websites and portals to increase customer satisfaction.  •        Created new designs and functional prototypes for new features and products to expand company offerings.  •        Updated existing website templates to make products and portals responsive, and devised dashboards for clients to visualize test results at a glance in real time. Art Director/Graphic Designer Softbank Comdex - Needham, MA September 1990 to September 1996 •        Concepted and designed campaigns, direct marketing pieces, promotional collateral and signage to promote multiple event channels.  •        Designed brands and logos, desktop publishing, graphic and website design, icons, style guides, brand guidelines and illustration as needed to support campaign objectives.  •        Coordinated mechanical preparation, pre-press checks, mentored junior designers and oversaw contract artists to meet or exceed deadlines. Education Bachelor's in Art Framingham State University - Framingham, MA Certification in Website Design and Development Northeastern University - Burlington, MA Skills Visual Design (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Indesign (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Website Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), User Interface, Front-End, Front End, UI, CSS, Sketch, InVision, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Advanced Javascript August 2010