OWNER, ARTIST OWNER, ARTIST Milton, GA Work Experience OWNER, ARTIST Gaby Friedman's Art September 2012 to Present I'm passionate about contemporary abstract art, in particular, the relationship between nature  and colors. I come from a long line of artists. I relish the multi-cultural experience. My person- al motto is that each of us can make our world happier. My work radiates this energy. I    • Manage my online business, including social media and my website.    • Maintain strong working relationships with customers, vendors, and other small-busi- ness owners.    • Participated in the design and creation of a line of wedding invitations and paper  goods. SUPPORT MANAGER ETF.COM February 2008 to May 2010 I was the liaison between our US, UK and the IT department in Ecuador. I managed a team of developers and designers which implemented all the editorial team requirements for the  company's websites.    My responsibilities included:    • Identifying and fully understanding client requests.  • Assigning and tracking tasks in project management system.  • Ensuring developers and designers adhere to standards of scope, budget, and time- lines for each client project.  • Monitoring project progress continuously on measurable items, such as milestones  and deliverables and making detailed scheduled reports for external clients and in- house staff.  • Communicating proactively with all in-house personnel to inspire and ensure ac- countability of their assigned tasks, identifying problems, creating solutions, resolving  roadblocks and implementing improvements.  • Performing detailed Quality Assurance on completed design and development tasks.  • Executing marketing materials (email blasts, banner ads and updating company's  websites).  • Attending and leading meetings as well as preparing and providing status reports. VOLUNTEER THE KIBBUTZ EIN HASHOFET July 2007 to December 2007 FRONT END WEB DEVELOPER, YAGÉ www.yage.com.ec January 2006 to June 2007 Responsible for front end development for various projects from web landing pages  to HTML pages using JavaScript.  • Created UI style guides and component libraries for client project.  • Translated HTML/CSS code into PHP templates.  • Assisted in managing content for client websites such as implementing SEO content  in pages.  • Oversaw multiple client projects simultaneously and coordinated with project man- agers to effectively complete tasks for given deadlines.  • Communicated with project managers about requirements of projects as well as trou- bleshooting issues.  • Proficiency with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, PHP, MySQL and additional developer  tools. WEB DEVELOPER www.plus-projects.com January 2004 to January 2006 Responsible for end-to- end development of Java-based applications using Oracle  JDeveloper.  • Addressed every step of the Java-based applications lifecycle.  • Built efficient, testable, and reusable PHP modules.  • Created UI style guides and component libraries for client project.  • Translated HTML/CSS code into PHP templates.  • Coordinated with project managers about requirements to effectively complete tasks  for given deadlines.  • Analyzed user specifications and requirements.  • Developed block diagrams and logic flow charts for Java and PHP programs. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in (BS) COMPUTER SOFTWARE ENGINEERING THE PONTIFICAL CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF ECUADOR March 2007 Skills Customer Service Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/gaby-friedman