Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Michigan State University Lansing, MI • Above 3 years of professional IT experience in Web 2.0 and Java technologies.  • Extensive experience in responsive design, development and testing of complex web based applications.  • Worked extensively in HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery.  • Experienced in Responsive Web Designing (RWD).  • Extensively used Apache Tomcat Server for hosting web applications.  • Good Experience in using Cascade Server (CMS) for creating frameworks and publishing the websites.  • Well versed with cross browser development and cross browser issues (for IE, Mozilla and Chrome).  • Good understanding knowledge of SASS, PHP.  • Self motivated with excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.  • Quick learner and a great Team Player with excellent development and troubleshooting skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Michigan State University - Lansing, MI May 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed new responsive web sites (www.msu.edu/gradfactor)and also redesigned and developed existing sites (www.misconduct.msu.edu) utilizing Bootstrap Framework.  • Using Cascade Server, Created Frameworks, and publishing the Websites.  • Cross browser testing in Internet Explorer 8+, Safari, Chrome, and Firefox on Mac OS Windows.  • Developed interactive webpage model using jQuery.  • Conversion of PSD files to pixel perfect HTML pages for Feature Stories.  Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Responsive Web Design, Mac environment, Bootstrap, Hannon Hill Cascade Server. Front End Developer Office Depot - Chicago, IL October 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Front End Development including HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery utilizing the Bootstrap framework.  • Involved in the requirement analysis along with the estimations and scheduling.  • Initiated and developed proof of concept of responsive web design for demonstration to the clients.  • Implemented responsive web design and its techniques to the existing web site.  • UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic e-commerce website.  • Cross browser testing in Internet Explorer 7+, Safari, Chrome, and Firefox on Mac OS and Windows.  • Setup Agile iteration, product life cycle, and had daily scrum meetings.  • Used SVN for repositories.  • Used SONAR for code quality and code analytics.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Responsive Web Design, JSON, MySQL, Notepad++, VMware Workstation, Mac & Windows 7 & 8 environments. Education Master of Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL 2011 Bachelors of Technology in Technology JNT University 2006 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java  Web2.0 (UI) Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  Database Systems SQL Server 2000/2005/2008  Application Server Apache Tomcat  Browsers Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox & Google Chrome, Safari  Development Tools Eclipse, Ant, CVS, Dreamweaver, Sublime Text, Adobe Photoshop, Text Pad, Firebug, Cascade Server  Operating Systems Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, Unix.