Web Developer (Part-time, Freelance) Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Part-time, Freelance) Web Developer (Part-time, Freelance) - WebsiteDesigner.com Seekonk, MA To utilize my development skills within a professional environment. Work Experience Web Developer (Part-time, Freelance) WebsiteDesigner.com - Providence, RI February 2017 to Present - Create Wordpress based sites for clients using custom templates and Javascript.  - Implement E-Commerce solutions.  - Create custom templates based on clients specifications. Front- End Web Developer CVS - Woonsocket, RI March 2016 to Present - Maintain CVS online shop and MinuteClinic pages utilizing HTML, CSS, Javascript.  - Using JQuery and Angular to create new pages with minimal coding.  - Create new campaign pages for the Pharmacy and MinuteClinic. Web Developer United Natural Foods, Inc - Providence, RI July 2014 to March 2016 - Create websites for several brands distributed by UNFI utilizing Drupal.  ? Mediterranean Organic - http://www.mediterraneanorganic.com/  ? Fantastic World Foods - http://www.fantasticworldfoods.com/  - Created templates for each site utilizing CSS, HTML and JQuery.  - Create intranet websites utilizing Sharepoint. Web Developer Fidelity - Smithfield, RI October 2012 to June 2014 - Create online demos for potential new clients utilizing HTML, CSS, Javascript and ASP.  - Maintain and enhance current processes based on needs from sales team.  - Implemented an iPad demo for the salesforce utilizing JQuery, Javascript, HTML and CSS.  - Use JQuery UI and Javascript to create responsive websites for mobile and desktop use.  - Utilize HTML5 and CSS3 for rich design based demos with video and audio output.  - Utilized BackboneJS and SASS for rich web based applications. Web Application Developer Entertainment Benefits Group, Inc - Orlando, FL May 2012 to August 2012 - Maintaining multiple travel based websites  - Developing new applications for end users utilizing PHP, MySQL, JSON, JQuery, Ajax and Smarty templates  - Worked on public facing websites, enhancing applications and adding new functionality. Websites were for attractions based in Orlando, New York and Las Vegas so public usage was very high.  - Utilized a Windows based LAMP server to develop (WAMP).  - Used HTML and CSS to create the front end of the websites. Web Developer Maverick Investment Technologies, Ltd - East Providence, RI May 2011 to May 2012 - Creating web based administrative panel utilizing PHP, Javascript, JQuery and JSON.  - Utilizing MySQL to perform complex queries for investment reporting.  - Worked for the client (The Principal Group) to make enhancements and additions.  - Utilized a Windows based LAMP server to develop (WAMP). Senior Production Specialist Health Dialog Analytic Solutions - Boston, MA July 2004 to May 2011 - Utilize SAS to create target populations of members who fall within certain criteria for various mail and call campaigns.  - Designed logical and physical data bases.  - Coordinated physical changes to computer data bases.  - Executed daily operations of creating mail and call lists for clients.  - Reviewed procedures in data base management system manuals for making changes to data base. Education Bachelor of Science University of Rhode Island - Kingston, RI Certificate Community College of Rhode Island - Warwick, RI