Co-Founder Co-Founder Co-Founder - WerkSpace Rich has led creative teams who have won 40+ interactive,  promotions and design awards and he has held senior creative  leadership roles at some of the top Interactive, Shopper Marketing &  Promotion agencies around.  In 2014 Richard founded IDEAlley, a creative boutique which he  sold to BrandShop digital commerce in 2016. In selling IDEAlley,  Rich in turn held the title of Executive Creative Director of parent the  company BrandShop Digital Commerce. Rich integrated IDEAlly,  established creative process, led key clients and the creative  development of responsive commerce websites for Land Rover,  Jaguar, Softsoap, Frito-lay, Hershey's, Casio, Nexgrill and several  others in his time there.  Idea Breed was created in response to both agencies and consumer  brands needing access to high end, no nonsense creative thinking,  ideation and creative solutions. Idea Breed is available for consulting  and project based assignments. We unbiasedly helps organizations  think and execute creatively, working with CPG Manufacturers,  Marketing agencies, non-profit organizations and eCommerce  companies on digital, creative engagements. Work Experience Co-Founder WerkSpace - Black Rock, CT May 2018 to Present Love how you work! WerkSpace is a 5000+ Sq.Ft. dynamic multiple room  coworking space located in Black Rock, CT. We offer traditional offices, dedicated, flexible desks conference rooms and casual areas to remote employees, start-ups, entrepreneurs, students, freelancers & small business owners helping them all to achieve their professional goals. Senior Creative Director Idea Breed October 2016 to Present A uniquely adept creative boutique that works with marketing, media, social  agencies and brands to develop crisp creative help brands grow online and offline. We  focus on Concept & Idea Development, Activations, Digital Strategy, Creative  Direction, Social Media Content, Creative Strategy, UX, Design, Presentations, Integrated Projects, Online Advertising, Shopper Marketing.    Clients include Amstel Light, Newcastle Brown Ale, Red Stripe Beer, Strongbow Cider, Villa Italian Kitchen, NO-AD Sunscreen, Ocean Potion Sunscreen, Bullfrog Sunscreen, High Ridge Brands, IDOC, NASCAR, EOS, Stanford U., Subway, Octagon. Executive Creative Director BrandShop Digital Commerce July 2015 to September 2016 ? Led key clients on large scale engagements. Clients include. Land Rover, Jaguar, Frito-lay, Colgate Palmolive's Softsoap, Georgia Pacific, Nexgrill and  others.  ? Introduced creative process covering strategy, ideas, design & UX including  timing & deliverables.  ? Introduction of content and copywriting and photography process.  ? Introduced profitable model for creative team.  ? Closed gaps on unpaid time for creative services.  ? Integrated my former creative studio IDEAlley into the BrandShop fold.  ? Strategy and creation of capability decks around IDEAlley offering & integration with BrandShop.  ? Visual redesign of BrandShop's brand including marketing materials and decks. Founder & Executive Creative Director Idealley - Shelton, CT January 2014 to September 2016 Creative Boutique focusing on Concept Development, Digital / Interactive Strategy, Creative Direction, Social Media, Creative Strategy, UX, Design, Presentations, Integrated Projects, Online Advertising, Shopper Marketing.    *IDEAlley is proud to announce that it is now part of BrandShop, the leading digital commerce partner for brands and retailers. IDEAlley has built on its base of outstanding design, promotional and social marketing capabilities to now include extensive user experience design and strategic digital marketing  focus. The combination of the two companies gives both expanded realms of expertise.    http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/brandshop-acquires-creative- boutique-idealley-and-names-richard-magalik-as-its-first-executive-creative-  director-300224551.html Director, Digital & Social Media Creative Colangelo Synergy Marketing (OMNICOM) April 2012 to November 2013 Point person for large integrated engagements and key  clients. Managed digital creative group. Managed multiple  integrated, digital, and social media campaigns.    Created the social media creative approach and content  strategy across 10 brands including Grand Marnier, Trojan, GM Titanium, Arm & Hammer, Godiva Spirits and others.    Core clients: Trojan Condoms, Grand Marnier, GM, Titanium, Smithwick's, Guinness, Oxi-Clean, Arm & Hammer Godiva Spirits, Cabin Fever Whisky. VP, ACD ? SVP, Creative Director Ryan Partnership May 2005 to April 2012 7 years)  In my tenure at DL Ryan Companies which includes both Ryan Partnership & Catapult Marketing I was a charged with leading the inception and growth of  digital creative departments across both sister agencies.  ? Promoted swiftly throughout tenure.  ? New business & incremental wins of over 15 million.  ? Hired over 30+ creatives.  ? My direct teams recognized for over 50 marketing, interactive and promotions awards. SVP, Creative Director Ryan Partnership November 2010 to March 2012 Managed half of the agencies creative initiatives. Instrumental in new business efforts, creative brainstorming on large client and inter-agency groups across Digital, Social Media, TV, Promotions, Mobile, Brand Planning and new business.  ? Led US launch of Unliever's Magnum Ice Cream  ? Led digital campaign for Unilever's Hellmann's with Bobby Flay.  ? Concepted, created and sold the agencies first TV Spot to the NFL/47 Brand    Core clients: Energizer, San Pelligrino, Hasbro, Hellmann's, Magnum  Ice Cream, Breyers Ice Cream, Nestle' Waters, 47 Brand. Bacardi, Bombay Sapphire, Dewars EVP, Creative Director Catapult Marketing August 2007 to November 2010 3 years 4 months)  ny metro area  ? Led winning of Mars Petcare Digital Agency of Record.  ? Established and managed a digital creative team of nine.  ? Responsible for ten million in revenue due to new business wins. Established creative digital group and presence within the agency. Recognized by dozens of industry awards. Winner of 2010 Super Reggie. Rated PROMO Magazine's agency of the year    Core clients: Pedigree, Intel, Subway, Sears, Evian, Cesar k9 Cuisine, CapitolOne, Kraft, Avon. VP, Creative Director Ryan Partnership May 2005 to August 2007 ? Led winning of agency of record for Hellmann's interactive business.  ? Built Wyeth account to over 4 million in revenue for brands Advil, Chapstick and Centrum.  ? Won multi-million dollar account for Mead School Supplies.  ? Hired 20 digital art and copywriters.  ? Led creative on 8+ Million in new business    Core clients: Hellmann's, Dove's Campaign for Real Beauty, PGA, TIMEX, VP, Creative Director Havas Life - New York, NY May 2001 to May 2005 ? Managed between $4-10 million in business.  ? Led global branding engagements, brainstorming sessions, new business.In depth knowledge of  pharmaceutical rules of engage.    Core clients: Novartis, Aventis, Genentech, Pfizer, Renovis, Abbott, Elan Associate Creative Director Groundswell - San Francisco, CA February 2000 to April 2001 ? Sr. Creative lead for Visa business.  ? Led and managed front end development team.  ? Design/ Creative lead on multiple client engagements.  ? UX/UI on multiple engagements.  ? Mentoring, training, performance evaluations.    Core Clients: Visa, Public Storage Art Director iXL January 1998 to February 2000 Clients: Hoffmann LaRoche, Airtouch, Pacific Stock Exchange, Eli Lilly, General Mills, Honeywell, Compaq, Texaco. Web Designer And Front- end Developer Modem Media - Westport, CT 1996 to 1998 Coded industries first successful HTML Banner  Core Clients: Citibank, Delta, John Hancock, Quicken, AT&T, Mentadent, Cigna. Education BFA in Graphic Design & Fine Art New York Institute of Technology Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/magalik?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BODn4U1EsT0ujfoysv7LeAw%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile