Warehouse Sortation Associate/FC Associate I Warehouse Sortation Associate/FC Associate I Denver, CO OBJECTIVE: Seeking a position with a company that will not only challenge me, but that will also allow me to grow within the company while enhancing the company’s productivity, and reputation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Warehouse Sortation Associate/FC Associate I Amazon - Aurora, CO September 2018 to Present Working at the Amazon sortation warehouse, which is the last stop before packages are shipped out to the customer. Experience working in busy and fast paced warehouse environment, skilled in picking, and sorting orders according to established protocols and procedures. Safely handling different types of items and transport them into assigned areas.    • Problem Solve: Safely (hazmat trained) process incoming damaged, or mislabeled packages to insure the customer receives their order as quickly as possible - by following company's strict safety rules, and proper procedures.  • Manual Scan: Manually scan incoming ready-to-ship labeled packages using an RF Scanner Gun ranging from small jiffy envelopes, to large boxes weighing up to 50 (or more) pounds. Then move it to the correct pallet based on shipping destination.  • AR (Amazon Robotics) Scan Machine/and Robots (High Volume/Fast Pace): While standing using an overhead scanner, scan jiffy envelopes as well as small-to-large boxes that come down a chute, then place on a robot to be taken to correct destination prepped for outbound shipping.  • Staging/Prep for Outbound Shipping: Operation use of a pallet-jack moving pallets filled packages/boxes to outbound/designated area, or load onto truck for carrier/driver pick-up.    • Member of the following Amazon Committees: ASC (Associate Safety Committee), AAC (Associate Activities Committee), and a member of the Associates Appeals Program. Billing & Settlements Medallion Transport & Logistics - Mooresville, NC July 2018 to September 2018 • Data entry using Aljex - Visions and Classic  • Logging and filing of hard copy reports received  • Analyze and check for accuracy of incoming Bill of Lading reports, such as the correct load number, client info, and trucker from/to destination routes, in order to release payments. Front End Associate/Cashier King Soopers/Kroger Grocery Store - Aurora, CO January 2018 to April 2018 * Greet every customer with a smile, and inquire about their store experience.  * Answer questions about products, and maintain current knowledge of all promotions.  * Efficiently ring up items, and process payments to keep customers flowing through the check-out aisles.  * Assist younger cashiers with questions, and age-restricted purchases. Product Reviewer & Sales Self Employed - San Diego, CA March 2013 to October 2017 P/T - Reviewing new products for 3rd party sellers for various major online shopping sites. This consisted of photos, as well as a detailed write-up of my opinion of the product, and sometimes included a video demonstration.  Property Owner/Manager Llynisa LTD - Denver, CO November 1995 to December 2012 · Owned and managed a small apartment building in downtown Denver, Colorado  · Residential lease and addendum write-ups via Microsoft Office  · Light bookkeeping and accounting  · Basic plumbing and electrical skills Self Employed Web Developer Store Kits - Denver, CO May 2001 to August 2006 · Self-taught basic HTML  · Web Design and Management  · Offering turnkey solutions for clients  · Provided customer assistance, and troubleshoot via email and phone    *My Store Kits business currently runs itself independently with no assistance required from me since 2006 Operations Clerk/Machine Operator Norwest Bank - Denver, CO April 1995 to May 1996 · Operated very fast-paced OPEX mail sorter machine  · Responsible for accuracy of customers billing and payment receipts Education High school or equivalent Skills Customer Service (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Budgeting (10+ years), Web Design (5 years), Cashier (Less than 1 year), Machine Operator (1 year), Property Management (10+ years), Counseling (8 years), Warehouse Associate, Order Puller, Picker Packer, Shipping Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Summary of Qualifications:    · Strong ability to work independently and achieve results  · Ability to problem-solve issues with little or no assistance  · Excellent communication skills: written, verbal and listening  · Familiarity with Microsoft Word, Chrome, Facebook, and Twitter  · Ability to resolve customer problems and complaints in an effective and professional manner