Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Development Huntsville, AL DEVELOPMENT EXPERIENCE  Responsive web design using modern web standards, HTML5, CSS3, PHP  Frameworks such as Bootstrap 3 and 4  Layout modules including CSS Grid and Flexbox  LAMP development environment, node server js, npm.  Hosting interfaces WHM, CPanel  API’s from Ebay Partner Network, Amazon affiliate program, Adsense, Adwords and other advertising networks and affiliate programs  DevOps version control Github, GitLab, Visual Studio Code  Agile development methodologies, Slack, Scrum  Payment processor integrations PayPal, Stripe  Wordpress CMS including plugins and theming  Experienced working with a large web application codebase developed in Laravel, Vue.js, custom Javascript integrated with dozens of libraries  Hybrid iOS and Android mobile Apps developed with Ionic/Cordova Libraries, Appery IDE; tested on XCode and Android Studio  PC hardware and components including PC building, repair and upgrading  Customer Management software, Infusionsoft, Hubspot and Zoho    MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE  History of developing outstanding teams, fostering a positive, focussed work environment and delivering first class customer service  Taught out of the box, creative sales techniques and promoted an atmosphere of sales driven customer engagement leading to increased sales  Developed effective store layouts and merchandising plans and advised other store managers on advanced merchandising techniques  Reduced shrink levels through a combination of employee development and tight inventory management  Maintained a positive payroll budget through careful planning and an ability to quickly adapt to fluid situations  Willingness to take full ownership of the Profit and Loss statement and accept responsibility for my results and strive to improve every quarter  Committed to providing first class customer service and always striving to improve the customer experience  Skilled at focussing on the customers goals and providing solutions that are actionable and effective  Experienced trouble shooter who can provide creative solutions and resolve issues quickly Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Contract - Various - Remote November 2018 to June 2019 • Designed and developed an auction website on a Wordpress platform for a client, set up hosting and server environment, installed analytics and plugins, instructed owners on use and maintenance of site.  • Worked on the design and maintenance of a Wordpress VIP hosted website for a client. Helped team determine resource allocation using analytics, developed a plugin, streamlined sister site and support site. Account Manager, Front End Development Sharp Auction Engine - Huntsville, AL May 2017 to November 2018 Sold SAAS web application to businesses both foreign and domestic.  ? Facilitated and closed Exclusive national contracts.  ? Maintained and supported customers and improved retention rate.  ? Wrote custom code to improve user experience and customize buyers web  application.  ? Created custom landing pages for clients.  ? Designed and developed custom versions of our web application for demonstrations and promotions.  ? Demonstrated software to prospective customers.  ? Trained customers on proper use of the software.  ? Developed mobile friendly improvements to code base written in a combination of vanilla JS, Vue JS, Laravel PHP and Bootstrap on a Node server configuration.  ? Developed a Hybrid Mobile application written in Angular2 and jQuery using  Cordova libraries, with Firebase integration..  ? Implemented push notifications with a customer web portal for clients.  ? Experienced with GitLab workflow and Slack communication tools, with Linux as a local development platform Web Developer Self Employed - Annandale, MN February 2006 to July 2015 Developed and sold websites to local businesses.  ? Used Wordpress, PHP, HTML/CSS, JavaScript on a daily basis to create various  internet businesses  ? Created and maintained profitable online businesses.  ? Bought and sold web properties and domains on commercial sites and to private  investors.  ? Built, maintained and promoted affiliate websites using the Amazon Associates  program, Ebay Partner Network and Adsense as primary revenue sources  ? Used a wide variety of Search Engine Optimization and social marketing  techniques to drive traffic.  ? Maintained web servers on both a LAMP stack and WAMP stack  ? Built a search engine network to capture long tail search traffic and monetized it  with a combination of advertising programs Store Manager KB Toys - Albertville, MN May 2003 to March 2006 Responsibilities included taking ownership of P and L improvement, creative  control of merchandising, increasing sales, hiring and training of all staff, daily  bookkeeping and bank deposits.  ? Trained staff in unique sales techniques to increase sales and created a model  store that was emulated by the other stores in the region.  ? Traveled to other locations to train managers in merchandising techniques and inventory management. Store Director Rainbow Foods - Saint Cloud, MN May 2002 to January 2003 Responsible for overseeing retail grocery store consisting of 120+ employees  including 12 department managers.  ? Held weekly meetings to disseminate information and ensured company  directives were put into action. Store Manager Nash Finch - Brooklyn Park, MN May 2001 to May 2002 Managed a high volume grocery store with low overhead with including  ownership of P and L improvement, merchandising, training of all staff, daily  bookkeeping and bank deposits.  ? Improved store layout, overall store standards and customer service.  ? Maintained stock levels in all departments (grocery, produce, dairy, meat) using  efficient ordering and stricter inventory management. Education High school or equivalent Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years) Links http://wesarnold.io