Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Colina.net Washington, DC Creative, well-rounded professional with 30+ years in web development, programming and graphic design across various industries and roles, thriving in the environments that drive performance.  • Enthusiastic achiever and problem solver who can effectively handle technical and business issues  • Goal-oriented, open for collaboration in order to meet organizational goals  • Focused, detail-oriented specialist well versed with the latest digital technologies and tools  • Regarded for strategic vision, multidisciplinary approach, and the ability to deliver results Work Experience Front- End Developer Colina.net - Washington, DC February 2018 to Present Working as a freelance developer, teacher and consultant in the USA, Colombia, Cuba and Ecuador  Early in 2018, I quit my job and took a few months to assist my mom in her final days. After her passing, I continued freelancing and consulting but also furthering my education and volunteering. I took an advanced ES15 JavaScript Course, an advanced VueJS course and an Angular6 masterclass. Currently in a "React for developers class". Among my volunteering, I was teaching youth to program RaspberryPi microcomputers (Cuba and Colombia).My freelance/consulting work consisted of migrating 235 online (SCORM) courses for Idealliance of VA. Each course is a complex self-contained website that consists of video, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Web Application Developer Pew Charitable Trusts - Washington, DC February 2015 to February 2018 Developed interactive data visualizations for www.pewtrusts.org. Provided UX and UI support and guidance while developing internal competencies. Developed cross- department work-flows to support rapid development. Created interactive content tools for non-programmers, including a chart making tool, quiz generator and an interactive maps solution.  • Standardized a build tool-chain to collaborate with 3rd party developers  • Developed a VueJs based design system to improve collaboration with designers  • Built Testing and QA systems covering: usability, code integrity and browser compatibility Senior Front- End Developer Dell Federal - Washington, DC June 2014 to December 2014 Responsible for all aspects of front end design and development of the US Mint Site (usmint.gov). Insured compliance with 508 regulations of all new interactive materials, HTML5 and Flash Game development. Associate Creative Director PBS / Public Broadcasting Service - Arlington, VA July 2013 to June 2014 Responsible for a re-branding and product re-positioning effort while moving forward several major marketing tent-pole campaigns. Produced, directed and edited promotional videos, websites and comprehensive print and digital marketing toolkits. Lead team up to 3 consultants/designers Front- End Developer PBS / Public Broadcasting Service - Arlington, VA June 2011 to June 2013 As Front End Developer, I was responsible for leading the interface design and development for high-quality PBS Education digital products, with a focus on PBS TeacherLine. Projects are managed with Agile methodology.  • Developed extensions and integration of Moodle LMS (PHP) Freelancer Silver Spring, MD June 2001 to May 2010 Over 10 years as a graphic designer and web developer. I am also a technology consultant to small companies, entrepreneurs and non-profit organizations in the Washington DC area. Skills used: HTML, User Experience Design, Coldfusion, eCommerce, Web Design, CSS, User Interface/Experience, Content Management Systems, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator.  • Full stack development to ecommerce websites including design and implementation  • Packaging design, video production, publishing, corporate identity, branding and more  • Designed over 60 websites  Major Clients as a Freelancer  • The American Society for Public Administration - aspanet.org - Web Developer & Print Designer  • The Institute for Public Procurement - nigp.org - Web Developer & Designer  • National Association of Home Builders - nahb.org - Designer/ UX/UI - Redesign website  • Home Warranty Specialists National - hms.com - Web Developer  • Leading Age (formerly AAHSA) - leadingage.org - Designer and Web Developer Art Director/Programmer PrimeShot Corp - Washington, DC October 1999 to June 2001 Art director responsible for all of the website's interface design and UX, Also programmer (ColdFusion, MySQL, CSS, HTML) design and development of front end as well as back end e-commerce, and content management system Webmaster/Designer Consumer Electronics Association - Arlington, VA October 1998 to October 1999 • Oversaw the production of the CES website and several other minor internal and external sites.  • Managed 4 designers, 2 programmers and 2 content editors Webmaster/Designer Optical Society of America - Washington, DC February 1996 to October 1998 Designed, developed, and maintained 2,400 plus page website Graphic Designer Price Waterhouse - Washington, DC December 1993 to January 1995 Conceptualized, designed and produced four-color brochures, proposals, and other marketing materials providing original illustration where needed Technology project manager/ Trainer Bell Atlantic - Greenbelt, MD June 1990 to November 1992 Coordinated development of a three-year technology project aimed at automating every Yellow Pages ad production area throughout Bell Atlantic Display Ad Designer Bell Atlantic - Greenbelt, MD August 1989 to June 1990 Designed 30 to 40 ad layouts a week for client approval Education Diploma in Computer Programming in Computer Programming P.S.I. Institute of Silver Spring - Silver Spring, MD March 1985 to 1987 Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, WEBPACK, CSS3, Front End, HTML5, UI, Front-End, Jquery Links http://www.colina.net Additional Information Skills  HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JS frameworks (10+ years),  PHP(5 years), jQuery (10+ years), ColdFusion (10+ years), Webpack (2 years),  Git (5 years), Flash (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Bootstrap (4 years),  VueJS (1 years), Illustrator (10+ years), After Effects (10+ years), Agile (5 years),  NPM (2 years), Adobe XD (1 years), Browserify (2 years), MySQL(1yr),  WAMP (10+ years), Premier Pro (10+ years), Moodle (2+ years), SCORM (2 years),  LAMP (10+ years), WordPress (5 years), Wire framing (5 years), HighCharts (3 years),  InDesign and other Adobe Creative Cloud tools. (10+ years)