Senior UX/Visual Designer Senior UX/Visual Designer Senior UX/Visual Designer - Verizon Wireless Cumming, GA • Over 15+ Years of Experience with primary skills in Visual Design, Web Designing, Concept Planning, designing logo, Business Cards, Catalogue, UI/UX/GUI Designing, Project Coordination & Art director for WebZone Global, India.  • Extensive knowledge in tools like Adobe Photoshop CC, Sketch App, Adobe Illustrator CC, Adobe Dreamweaver CS6, Adobe in Design CS6, Corel Draw X5, Adobe Flash CS6, Microsoft Visio 2013, OmniGraffle 6.0, Balsamiq 2.2, Salesforce and Axure 7.0.  • Experience in HTML 5.0 and CSS3.0 with browser compatibility handling.  • Experience working in collaboration with product development teams using Agile/Scrum and waterfall software methodologies.  • Excellent conceptualization and implementation skills.  • Good knowledge of designing responsive interfaces.  • Keen eye for color combination and easy access features for interactive website content.  • Impressive detailing to the overall design, typography, color palate and information flow.  • Strong Analytical and Problem solving skills.  • Good Communication and Interpersonal skills.  • Self-motivated team player with ability to handle work independently.  • Always Optimistic, Hardworking and Results oriented.  • Online portfolio link is http://www.reeverenju.com/ & www.reeverenju.com/verizon Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UX/Visual Designer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX May 2018 to Present Verizon Wireless provides wireless services to 125.3 million subscribers. It is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, the company was originally a joint venture of American telecommunications firm Bell Atlantic, which would soon become Verizon Communications, and global British telecommunications company Vodafone.    Job Description:  • Create high fidelity clickable prototypes for interfaces involving challenging and complex designs across world-class Salesforce based UX.  • Scope, architect, wireframe(Axure), design (Photoshop & Sketch) and launch and present UX designs  • Create experience briefs, user flows, content inventories, wireframes, storyboards, and prototypes, along with thorough and timely UI documentation.  • Work directly with product teams, developers, stakeholders, users and management and represent user experience.  • Involved in discussion with various current users; compare the product with the available competitors' products and incorporate the improvements to meet users experience with the business needs.  • Create original graphic designs.  • Illustrate design ideas using story boards, process flows and sitemaps.  • Re-design the UX work flow for Verizon Partner Solution (VPS) B2B E-commerce application for Ordering Ethernet Switched eLine products.  • Design and customize out of the box features of Vlocity template.  • Create Desktop Brand Center UI Components.  • Participated and contributed in all stages of agile methodology in project including Backlog refinement, Sprint planning, Daily scrum and sprint retrospective.  • Created new reusable production art, icons, web buttons/scroll bars and other collateral, and authored an extensive Brand Center Guidelines.  • Manage and support Infosys offshore development teams (Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad) with all necessary design specs.    Environment:  Photoshop CC, Sketch 55.2, Axure 7.0, Illustrator CC, Agile Methodology, Salesforce (Vlocity). Senior UX/Visual Designer (Desktop and Mobility) GAF Materials Corporation - Parsippany, NJ December 2016 to March 2018 Founded in 1886, GAF has become North America's largest manufacturer of commercial and residential roofing (Source: Fredonia Group study). Our success in growing the company to nearly $3 billion in sales has been a result of our relentless pursuit of quality, combined with industry-leading expertise and comprehensive roofing solutions. Jim Schnepper is the President of GAF, an operating subsidiary of Standard Industries.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and business teams.  • Create high fidelity prototypes for interfaces involving challenging and complex designs across different technology platforms.  • Creating the Visual design based on GAF design guidelines.  • Design the UI flow for GAF ONE (Desktop and Mobile app), Inspection Report, GAF Portals, GAF Rewards (Responsive design) and GAF Market pulse SMS based Survey in Salesforce platform.  • Creating GAF Guidelines for Desktop and Mobile Components.  • Performed UI Audit for all the application.  • Created new reusable production art, icons, posters for business team and for Portals.  • Project deliverables - Visual Design, interaction specifications, and user interface guidelines, etc.    Environment:  Sketch App, Photoshop CC, Microsoft Visio, Salesforce and Illustrator CC Senior UI/UX/Visual Designer PricewaterhouseCoopers March 2016 to November 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers (trading as PwC) is a multinational professional services network headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It is the largest professional services firm in the world, and is one of the Big Four auditors, along with Deloitte, EY and KPMG. Vault Accounting 50 has ranked PwC as the most prestigious accounting firm in the world for seven consecutive years, as well as the top firm to work for in North America for three consecutive years.    Responsibilities:  • Create Clickable Low/high fidelity prototypes for interfaces involving challenging and complex designs across different technology platforms.  • Design the UX flow for Desktop application CAM (Connect Audit Management).  • Enhancing the User Experience based on the existing screens.  • Creating the Visual design for the approved wireframe based on PwC guidelines.  • Project deliverables - information architecture, wireframes, interaction specifications, and user interface guides, etc.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and product teams.  • Created new reusable production art, icons, web buttons/scroll bars and other collateral, and authored an extensive Brand Center Guidelines.  • Manage and support offshore development teams (Mangalore) with all necessary design specs.    Environment:  Photoshop CC, Illustrator CC and Axure 7.0 Senior UI/UX/Visual Designer (Desktop and Mobility) Verizon Wireless - Piscataway, NJ May 2014 to January 2016 Verizon Wireless provides wireless services to 125.3 million subscribers. It is the largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States. Headquartered in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, the company was originally a joint venture of American telecommunications firm Bell Atlantic, which would soon become Verizon Communications, and global British telecommunications company Vodafone.    Responsibilities:  • Create high fidelity prototypes for interfaces involving challenging and complex designs across different technology platforms.  • Design the UI flow for Mobile/Tablet Apps (Machine to Machine Account Management) and Visual Design for M2M AM, Lower Funnel e-commerce experience, Contract Transparency(CT), Enterprise Solution Management Platform (ESMP), Enterprise Portal Account Maintenance (EPAM) and Operation Center (OC).  • Responsive design for Just Talk (Admin Portal).  • Setting the Desktop Brand Center and Mobile/Tablet Components.  • Create compelling Mobile/Tablet App UI Design for iPhone/iPad  • Performed user testing against prototype for the iPhone/iPad application  • Created new reusable production art, icons, web buttons/scroll bars and other collateral, and authored an extensive Brand Center Guidelines.  • Manage and support offshore development teams (Chennai) with all necessary design specs.    Environment:  Photoshop CS6, Illustrator CS6 and Microsoft Visio 2013  Work - http://www.reeverenju.com/verizon Senior UI/UX/Visual Designer Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New jersey - Newark, NJ May 2013 to May 2014 Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, headquartered in Newark, New Jersey is the only licensed Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association plan in New Jersey, providing health insurance coverage to over 3.2 million people throughout all of North, Central, and South Jersey.    Responsibilities:  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Design the UI/UX flow for Consumer portal (e-commerce) and broker portal.  • Involved in discussions with the Business/System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  • Setting the basic wireframe for modules like Census, Prospect, Quotes & Proposals, Billing & Payment, Conversions, Dashboard, Group Enrollment, Member Maintenance, Renewals, Reports and I Need Insurance based on the product owner's inputs.  • Enhancing the wireframe based on the feedback till it is approved.  • Creating the Visual design for the approved wireframe based on Horizon branding guidelines.  • project deliverables - information architecture, wireframes, interaction specifications, and user interface guides, etc.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and product teams.  • Created new reusable production art, icons, web buttons/scroll bars and other collateral, and authored an extensive branding guide  • Manage and support offshore development teams (in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai) with all necessary design specs.    Environment:  Photoshop CS6, Illustrator CS6, Microsoft Visio 2013 and Axure 6.5 Senior UI/UX Designer American Express, NY - New York, NY May 2013 to September 2013 American Express Company, also known as AmEx, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center, Manhattan, New York City, New York, United States. Founded in 1850, it is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its credit card, charge card, and traveler's cheque businesses. Amex cards account for approximately 24% of the total dollar volume of credit card transactions in the US.    Responsibilities:  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Design the UI/UX flow for Magic card - Simply Cash, MultiRemit (Auto Pay and Threshold payment) and Employee controls and Alerts.  • Involved in discussions with the Business/System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  • Setting the basic wireframe based on the product owner's inputs.  • Enhancing the wireframe based on the feedback till it is approved.  • Creating the Visual design for the approved wireframe based on the branding system.  • project deliverables - information architecture, wireframes, interaction specifications, and user interface guides, etc.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and product teams.  • Created new reusable production art, icons, web buttons/scroll bars and other collateral, and authored an extensive branding guide  • Involved in writing user stories for Employee controls and Alerts.  • Collaborate with other programmers on application code quality, overall design, and ensure application quality of services such as reusability, reliability, scalability, and security.  • Creative responsive design for mobile with the specs.    Environment:  Photoshop CS6, Dreamweaver CS6, Illustrator CS6, Microsoft Visio 2013 and Balsamiq 2.0 Front- End Designer/Web Developer The McGraw-Hill Companies - East Windsor, NJ October 2012 to May 2013 The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., is an American publicly traded corporation headquartered in Rockefeller Center in New York City. Its primary areas of business are financial, education, publishing, and business services. It publishes numerous textbooks and magazines, including Architectural Record and Aviation Week, and is the parent company of Standard & Poor's, Platts, and J.D. Power and Associates. Current project is about design and developing "McGraw Hill Financial" website.    Responsibilities:  • Development of corporate brand style guides for McGraw Hill Financial website and print  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Design and lead discovery activities including stakeholder interviews and user inquiry though wireframe and prototype development.  • Setting project deliverables - discovery findings, heuristic evaluations, information architecture, wireframes, interaction specifications, and user interface guides, etc.  • Helped establish internal best practices for better integrating user experience design within Agile/Scrum methodology. Participated in Agile sprint and release planning.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and product teams.  • Created new branding system for the organization, including a large library of reusable production art, web buttons/banners and other collateral, and authored an extensive branding guide  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • After the approval of the template, the pages will be constructed in XHTML format.  • Collaborate with other programmers on application code quality, overall design, and ensure application quality of services such as reusability, reliability, scalability, and security.  • Involved in discussions with the Business/System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines and effectively utilized Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Strategies.  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design.  • The completion of the admin control panel including the report generation design  • Taleo implementation, testing, and documentation of all processes and applications  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Successfully deployed websites on the Limelight  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio, Quality Center, Limelight and Taleo Interactive designer & Art Director WebZone Global August 2003 to September 2012 The internet industry at this point was still in its infancy and I was happy to be offered this position in what was at the time, Bangalore's most well-known web design company with 1200 Clients worldwide. I have closely interacted with companies like Hindustan Unilever, Ocwen Financial Corporation and IIMB, for their internal GUI design. In this role I performed a range of tasks including the creative, design, and production of websites, and other technical work.    Project: http://www.clikkshopper.com  Client: Clikkshopper  Position: Design Head  Clikkshopper is a group of entrepreneurs with the idea to create an on-line store that offered the best selection in terms of price, brands, styles and utility value launched Clikkshopper.com. In addition to offering the best selection the goal is to be the company that provides best service online. This is an e-commerce application, dealing mainly with Electronics, Mobiles, Movies (CD's, DVD's), Books and Boutiques.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering Requirements for the project to give the client a clear cut idea of what they are looking for.  • Understanding fully what a project will deliver is critical to its success.  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI/UX design, UI specifications and visual consistency based on logo theme.  • Setting up details such as navigation, Images, Graphic and contents to display in the homepage.  • Setting standards and writing detailed user interface design documents for development team.  • Maintain consistency with logo and in house applications  • Low and high fidelity mockups on paper, with Photoshop, Fireworks, PowerPoint, Visio, HTML  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • After the approval of the template, the pages will be constructed in XHTML format.  • The pages will be W3C Compliant.  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design,  • User Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.  • The completion of the admin control panel design    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio    Client: UGain Dubai  Project: http://www.ugainonline.com  Position: Design Head  UGain is an online biding application for the Middle East. The application is completely built in HTML 5.0 standards using CSS3.0. This application is completely content manageable, the backend application is built using the open sources CMS system and the e-commerce application.    Responsibilities:  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Organizing Navigation Structure like Primary and Secondary.  • Setting standards and writing detailed user interface design documents for development team.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and product teams.  • Created new branding system and logo for the organization, including a large library of reusable production art, web buttons/banners and other collateral, and authored an extensive branding guide  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • Consistent with device UI guidelines and behaviors  • After the approval of the template, the pages will be constructed in XHTML format.  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design,  • User Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, AJAX, JQUERY, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio, XML and RSS, APIs    Client: SRM Global  Project: http://www.srmglobal.org  Position: Design Head  SRM Global is a deliverance ministry in 1993, headquartered in Bangalore, India. There ministerial activities revolve around two core areas of evangelization and charity and their main focus apart from evangelization is to deliver people from captivity and bondage of their sins, and relational and generational curses through spiritual warfare with the Word of God. SRM website is completely content manageable, the backend application is built using PHP. The Application is built using HTML 5.0 and CSS 3.0 and the UI Interactions are made using jQuery library.    Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the site's look and feel, defined graphic standards and brand aesthetic, global navigation, and documented user experience requirements.  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Discuss regarding The Elements of Navigation and User Experience Guidelines  • Consistency in design to make elements look uniform  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design, User  • Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.  • The completion of the admin control panel including the report generation design  • Written different level of documents  • Responsible for visual and interaction design and worked with the Senior Product Manager on the information architecture and registration process for the product adoption  • Designed collateral materials, including certificates, posters, postcards, brochures, etc. for marketing communications, giveaways and promotions    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, XML, Video Sharing    Client: Fin@Work  Project: http://www.finatwork.com  Position: Design Head    Founded by an IIT & IIM alumnus, Fin@Work helps individuals achieve their financial goals and build long term wealth in a structured and scientific way. Private wealth management is limited to very high net worth individuals, Fin@work caters to the middle income group providing high quality advisory service.    Responsibilities:  • Development of corporate brand style guides for web and print  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Construct a Planning and built environment  • Setting standards and writing detailed user interface design documents for development team.  • After the approval of the template, the pages will be constructed in XHTML format.  • The pages will be W3C Compliant.  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design, User Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.  • The completion of the admin control panel including the report generation design    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Blogs, Video Streaming    Client: CIS  Project: http://www.canadianinternationalschool.com  Position: Design Head  Canadian International School (CIS) was started in 1996 to provide the best international education in Bangalore. Well-rounded education being its motto, the international school has gained accolades for its education system and is considered as the best international school in Bangalore. The school has been accredited by the prestigious Council of International Schools and the New England Association of Schools.    Responsibilities:  • Development of all visual and interactive design elements, including page layouts, site navigation and information architecture.  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • After the approval of the template, the pages will be constructed in XHTML format.  • Discuss regarding User Experience Guidelines  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design, User Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.  • Managing sections like Calendar events, News, testimonial, Campus Tour, Gallery  • Creation of all visual design elements, maintained the online brand and provided leadership in creating the User Experience strategy for Web Properties initiatives  • The completion of the admin control panel including the report generation design  • Management and supervision of in-house digital photo department including photographer, digital imager and archivist    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio    Client: Central Lab  Project: http://www.centrallab.co  Position: Design Head  Central Lab started their operation in Nov 2000, lots of lab investigations were being outsourced to Mumbai causing communication gap or delay in service. They introduced many uncommon investigations not available in your neighborhood lab pertaining to hormones, cancer screening, and metabolism and so on.    Responsibilities:  • Create functional wireframe prototype, interaction flows, Usability centered, UI & UX design and UI specifications.  • Setting standards and writing detailed user interface design documents for development team.  • Static website design, this includes template design (Template to be provided in jpeg format)  • GUI Design for the dynamic application also includes the admin control panel design, User  • Registration, CMS System which facilitates the admin to manage the contents of the static pages.  • Managing sections like test menu, gallery.    Environment:  HTML 5.0, CSS 3.0, Javascript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, Microsoft Visio Education Bachelor's Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/renju-chandran-4602a1106