Webmaster, Graphic Designer & Prepress technician Webmaster, Graphic Designer &amp; Prepress technician Graphic Designer / Web Designer / Front End Developer McKinney, TX Able to do more then you'll believe. I'll design and implement your website, design and prepress any print project and rebuild your motor!    Like a down to earth small company vibe but work easily in a big company environment as well! I have many years of experience and still hungry to learn more! On time (mostly early) work mostly independent but still like to work with a well organized team! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster, Graphic Designer & Prepress technician Hightech Signs - Richardson, TX June 2018 to Present ? Work directly with the sales, clients and production crew to design and manage prepress for all  signage, direct print jobs, vehicle wraps and casino games.  ? Managing web development, introducing a new updated site framework and design. Lead Graphic Designer & Front End Developer Blindster & YourBlinds.com July 2011 to June 2018 ? Conceptualize, design and implement trending e-commerce UI and UX experiences, bringing both IP’s  forward to current standards increasing user intuitiveness and conversions.  ? Managed SEO agencies to develop and manage SEO applications to sites, increasing page rank and  keyword ROI  ? Solely performed all graphic design duties required for web, email marketing and print collateral. Graphic Designer, Web Developer, Marketing Manager, Technician (Contract Work) Project Import - Orange, CA July 2005 to April 2017 ? Developed and implemented Google business apps, and web based services to establish internal  infrastructure for managing the business’s new work volume. Increasing productivity by 45%.  ? Planned, designed, implemented and managed wordpress e-commerce and business website. Keeping  up to date with best practices in online shopping and SEO trends and technologies.  ? Designed all marketing creatives used in print, web, email and social media.  ? Worked with clients to manage and perform mechanical installation and fabrication work. Lead Graphic Designer & Front End Developer Yellowbot.com - Burbank, CA September 2009 to July 2011 ? Worked closely in an Agile/Scrum environment with clients, company owners, lead software and  developers to produce UI / UX wireframes, Hi-Fi mockups and implement front- end development using  best practices of HTML/CSS/Bootstrap for desktop and mobile applications.  ? Produced products that increased B2B & B2C satisfaction and ROI for the foremost reputation  management system in US and Canada, tracking data on 1.7 million business.  ? Managing lead on email campaigns, landing pages, white papers and other promotional materials for  internal B2B and client marketing needs. Graphic Designer iEnjoy Technologies - Lake Forest, CA June 2010 to January 2011 ? Provided fresh new perspective to company's product branding by elevating the quality of the logo,  packaging design, all relative product print materials and web site.  ? Illustrated all product instructional assets and elements used in all print materials, manuals and  guides.  ? Created all company B2B materials. e.g. Business cards, brochures and email marketing creatives.  Helping to increase prospecting investor reach and pre wholesale awareness.  ? Performed all post photo editing, including color corrections, photo manipulation, object  removal/addition.  ? Completed all projects ahead of schedule allowing product to go to certification review and to market  faster. Graphic Designer, Web Developer, Technician Harmon Motive Tuning - Torrance, CA July 2006 to September 2007 ? Designed and implemented new company branding and web site.  ? Created all print assets for marketing and business collateral.  ? Managed online store product and sales. Lead Graphic Designer / Web Designer Evil Angel Productions - Van Nuys, CA November 2004 to July 2006 ? Directly worked with movie producers and directors to design and develop their individual  e-commerce sites.  ? Lead creative designer for all print creatives using Photoshop, Illustrator and Coreldraw producing  weekly publication marketing and sale ads, trade show signage, booth backdrops and merch. Also  including DVD boxes and packaging.  ? Produced Posters and actor signing slicks. Involving high end photo correction and manipulations  followed with print proofing and completion.  ? Designed various company and director apparel and merchandise. PC & Network Support Technician The Computer Guys - Orange, CA March 2002 to November 2004 ? Provided on-site and remote technical service support, installation, configuration and problem  resolution in personal and commercial PC / Network environments.  ? Diagnosed mechanical, hardware, software and system failures using established procedures.  ? Performed one-on-one sales working with customers to design and complete full builds of custom,  personal, executive/financial level and high- end gaming PC’s  ? Conducted on-site setup and installs of PCs, printers and networks for both residential and  commercial customers.  ? Onsite commercial network installations. Doing cable runs, wall mounts, cable toning, server room  installs, setting up networking peripherals then concluding initial testing of completed setup. Education Computer Science Principles ROP 2002 to 2002 Some college in Digital media arts and Commercial arts design Orange Coast College 1999 to 2001 Skills Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Print Design (10+ years), Packaging Design (6 years), Illustration (5 years), Apparel Design (5 years), Screen Printing (6 years), Logo Design (4 years), Icon Design (4 years), Sticker Designs (2 years), Trade Show both and marketing materials design (3 years), HTML (7 years), CSS (6 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Bitbucket (1 year), Git (3 years), Terminal (2 years), Bootstrap (1 year), Wordpress (5 years), WooCommerce (5 years), JIRA (2 years), Basecamp (4 years), Magento (1 year), MailChimp (3 years), Hootsuite (1 year), Kalio Mail (Less than 1 year), Yotpo (2 years), UI, Front-End, Front End, Indesign, Graphic Design, Adobe Links http://www.698designs.com Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/49ylywj86qfufqfm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Have completed various design projects ahead of schedule making me known to work reliably fast.    • Have been closely involved with CEOs or top level developers were I have been and integral part in completion of both high end complex projects.    • (A little bragging here.) My icon designs and e-commerce UI designs have been imitated from various competitors in the Blinds and Shades industry.  (Imitation is a form of flattery?)