Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Front- End Developer Schadler Kramer Group April 2016 to December 2018 Responsible for the development of front- end and back- end templates and associated functionality, including (but not limited to) custom javascript, php,  custom Wordpress functions to accommodate special post types or pages to full- blown Wordpress plugins and custom Three.js WebGL 3D maps and visualizations.  Also handled many non-programming-related 3D projects, including fully rendered  pre-construction 3D animations, and stills for print and video. System Specialist PRM Connect April 2015 to November 2015 Responsible for configuring lead capture kiosk software for use at a variety of conventions. Duties included configuring hardware (including iPads, Nexus 7s,  Surface, HP Slate, Honeywell and Socket badge scanners), writing HTML and javascript, remote supporting ongoing shows. Additional duties include design work in Photoshop, modifying reports and spreadsheets. Senior Programmer Pigeon.ly August 2013 to February 2015 Helped build innovative products to help family members of incarcerated individuals to A. reduce phone costs by providing phone numbers local to federal prisons, and B.  make it easier to send photos to incarcerated loved ones. Maintained and updated  Drupal site during rebuild and migration to Symfony. Technologies used: Drupal 7,  Symfony framework, NginX Server, MariaDB, Gitlabs, Subversion, Sass, Compass,  Jquery, Twitter Bootstrap, Twig templating engine. Onsite Concierge R66T Networks June 2009 to August 2013 Senior Programmer/Lead Developer  Built an online concierge system to allow hotel guests to find local restaurants and entertainment from a touchscreen computer in the lobby. Build online portal system  for users of hotel Wi-Fi systems that incorporated much of the concierge system, as well as news, weather and social functionality and business center functionality.  Technologies used: Zend Framework, MSSQL database, Amazon AWS and EC2,  Subversion, Jquery, Twitter Bootstrap, Adobe Air. Contract Web Developer Ziff Davis Publishing April 2008 to June 2009 FileFront.com  Principal duties include maintaining current FileFront.com codebase, fixing bugs as they are found and adding new features, as well as on-call shifts to handle any  immediate server or software issues. Also responsible for code and feature updates for flash movies, including the flash video player and latest games rotator.  Technologies used: FreeBSD, PHP 4, Apache 2, MySQL5, SVN, Jquery, Flash. Freelance Consultant May 2006 to April 2008 Develop scripts for various clients with a wide range of needs. Photo management  scripts, banner systems, product databases etc. Consultant working for Harrah's Entertainment Robert Half Technologies November 2005 to May 2006 Development of Harrah's corporate Intranet working in Interwoven Teamsite  environment. Working with different teams throughout the company to find out what  their needs are for the intranet and then providing solutions to fill those needs. Programmer PartnerWeekly.com October 2004 to July 2005 Redesigned and rewrote existing affiliate network site with vast improvements in all  areas, from affiliate navigation and use to administration and maintenance and fraud  control and prevention. Since the rewrite, PartnerWeekly.com has gone from producing a small percentage of company profit to producing the largest profit gain in the company, which continues to increase every month. Freelance designer/ developer March 2004 to October 2004 Programmer/innovator Innovative Ideas International, Inc June 2002 to March 2004 Developed web based tracking, linking, reporting and maintenance scripts for a very  high traffic affiliate program. Developed php/mysql/javascript based linking code  system that would automatically generate linking codes for affiliates based on their  choices. Developed WAP stats reporting system so affiliates could check their stats on the go via WAP enabled phone. Developed geographic based user tracking system  to allow us to track where users and affiliates were connecting from, and redirect  accordingly. Developed and Managed large dating site (www.loveatfirstclick.com). Education Stuttgart American High School Skills Front-End, UI, Front End, Javascript, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist (E4) Additional Information Skills: PHP (22 years), HTML (22 years), CSS (15 years), JavaScript (18 years), Wordpress  (6 years), Symfony Framework (4 years), Composer (4 years), GIT (4 years),  Subversion (5 years), Jquery (10 years), Twitter Bootstrap (5 years), SASS/Compass  (5 year), Twig templating engine (2 year), Rain templating engine (3 years),  PHPStorm (4 years), MySQL/MariaDB (16 years), Microsoft SQL Server (5 years),  IBM DB2 (3 years), Microsoft IIS (4 years), putty (15 years), Redhat Linux (6 years),  FreeBSD (6 years), Apache Web Server (15 years), Rhinoceros (8 years), Blender (3  years), Adobe Premier 6 (3 years), Adobe Photoshop (15 years), Adobe Illustrator  (12 years), too many others to list.