Lead, Senior Developer, Vendor Mgmt Lead, Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Vendor Mgmt Lead, Senior Developer, Vendor Mgmt - MACMILLAN Austin, TX Award-winning Lead Senior Developer with an affinity for Agile SDLC, UX/UI, accessibility, and responsive web design.  Passion for building collaborative cross-functional teams and creating complimentary business relationships. Over ten  years experience in startups, ed-tech, and advertising agencies. Work Experience Lead, Senior Developer, Vendor Mgmt MACMILLAN 2011 to Present Work closely with Product, UX, QA, and Content to conceptualize, draft, and technically vet product ideas. Develop  reusable application engines and NPM UI components libraries, along with scalable and documented workflows for rapidly developing highly technical science simulations and business applications with internal teams and off-shore  vendors within budgets and timelines.    Direct three vendor dev teams in successful execution of various applications, provide technical governance, create  workflows for simulation projects process. Advocate of Agile, Scrum/Kanban, and Lean UX to company. Create VM  workflows and training sessions to enable developers and QA to test across Mac, Win, mobile, and screen readers in real-time, as well as optimizing integration pain points. Build and maintain CI using Jenkins and Bamboo.  Tech: React-Redux-Sagas, JS, NPM, Webpack, AWS, Node, Jenkins, MySQL, D3, OpenLayers, Storybook    Front- End Lead  Sapling iOS and Android apps  Native iOS and Android apps for our homework platform. Calendar sync and due date alerts as well as grades, status, and homework available via mobile and tablet devices. Greenfield project in conjunction with new data API project  after acquisition. Pilot project for many engineering initiatives such as Lean UX, Agile Scrum, field trip user testing, and  internal/public marketing efforts.  Tech: Objective-C, Java, Swift, Fabric, TestFlight, Mixpanel, Node, MySQL    Developer  Sapling Learning online homework platform  Develop complex interactive, gradable learning tools such as molecular drawing, math equations, and custom learning  simulations. Work on Learning Management System (type of CMS), payment systems, and accessibility compliance.  Tech: PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery, Angular, Flash ActionScript, Moodle, Drupal, Wordpress, AWS, Selenium Front- End Developer GSD&M IDEA CITY 2006 to 2010 Produced innovative interactive features, rich media ads, and web apps for high-profile brands such as BMW, US Air  Force, Kohler, L.L.Bean, Chili's, Hallmark.    Built specialized animation libraries and tools for scaffolding projects. Mentored colleagues in best practices and re- usable programming techniques on directive to strengthen internal development team.    Industry-awarded by Webby's and Yahoo! on four campaign projects including US Air Force. Interactive Developer (Independent) GSD&M IDEA CITY 2007 to 2008 Produced training software for various clients featuring assessment and video. Developed interactive learning tools and math education software for Pearson.    SCIENCE Flash Developer (Independent) Education Associate of Arts in web technologies COLLINS COLLEGE - Tempe, AZ 2003 to 2005 Links http://zonabidesign.com