Digital Marketing Manager Digital Marketing Manager Digital Marketing Manager Irvine, CA Work Experience Digital Marketing Manager Golden Gate Study Abroad Agency - Irvine, CA January 2014 to May 2019 www.ggstudyabroad.com    • Managed the creation of a web presence for programs, services and corporate; concept through functional tech spec and launch.  • Improved Planning and implementation for the online marketing campaigns (SEO, social media, Google Adwords and email campaigns)  • Assisted with short- and long-term planning and design of project direction objectives.  • Managed and Improved Google Adwords conversion rate by over 70%, while decreasing cost per conversion by 30%, resulting in 6000 qualified leads per year with return of investment (ROI) at 35%.  • Developed targeted email lists by researching and analyzing audience demographics, interests, preferences and engagement  • Assisted in development and implementation of Welcome and Review Solicitation email series which increased revenue and number of product reviews  • Evaluated effectiveness of project direction, schedules and activities. Recommends and implements project activities and modifications of projects and schedules as necessary to ensure achievement of project goals and objectives. Front End Web Developer www.gtb.com - Dearborn, MI July 2013 to November 2013 • Developed and implemented new online project using (HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX JS and PHP/MYSQL).  • Worked in RWD design to make website responsive CSS for all media device using media query library and make sure website design working for all web/devices browsers.  • Optimized web pages to improve organic search placement and decreasing bounce rate from 60% to 30%  • Using SVN sub version between development department and Apanta Studio. Web and Digital Media Specialist Access Community Organization - Dearborn, MI November 2012 to July 2013 www.accesscommunity.org    • Scoped and delivered numerous web projects, including the redesign of main organization website which resulted in resulted in an 80% increase in mobile traffic, 85% growth in online revenue, 180% increase in email sign-ups; managed external developer and delivered on time and within budget.  • Implemented and managed search engine and social media marketing and advertising, and all related online activities for multiple programs, offer and corporate site achieving exponential and record traffic growth.  • Oversaw social media strategy and web design for All fundraising campaigns launched in collaboration with PR team; acquired 60K new leads within 24 hours of 2013 campaign launch.  • Build strong social media presence on Twitter and Facebook to increase brand awareness  • Converted psd files to HTML/CSS to be compatible to work with Joomla. Digital Marketing Manager Arabian Group for Exhibitions February 2009 to October 2011 • Planned and Managed digital marketing campaigns for exhibitions.  • Developed and launched new online services for opening new markets through Strategic Planning, Market Research, and Product Development.  • Worked closely with the corporate communications team to develop and create digital media in support of internal and external communications strategies.  • Wrote and send out company-wide promotional emails and editorial newsletters.  • Supervisor of all social media channels and creator of the inside marketing strategies.  • Increased the social media followers leading to the goal of a higher sales volume.  • Developed and implemented diverse brand strategies and consulted with different sales vendors. Web Developer INET April 2005 to January 2009 • Developed websites for online business solution as MVC Module-View-controller.  • Validated solution requirements and developed functional specifications, technical design documents, reviewed code, coordinated testing and production roll-outs.  • Tools used: Joomla CMS, PHP, MySql, Java Script, jQuery, HTML with CSS, Dreamwaver, Photoshop, and Plesk hosting  PROJECT MANAGER  • Analysis, Design, Project Management, Development and Implementation of a new system called schools management system.  • Prepared technical specifications for IT equipments and proposals and apply for tender books for IT equipment, Networking and services procurement.  • Tools used: Joomla CMS, PHP, MySql, Java Script, jQuery, HTML with CSS, Dreamwaver, Photoshop, Plesk hosting, Visio and MS Project    EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATES: Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Management SVU University - Damascus, SY 2010 Skills MARKETING, DIGITAL MARKETING, SEM, SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION, SEO, ADVERTISING, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, MACROMEDIA, SEARCH ENGINE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, jQuery, MYSQL, CMS, OPEN SOURCE, PERFORCE, LINUX, OPTIMIZATION Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/soufianashour