Designer/ Developer/Owner Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span>/Owner Minneapolis, MN Looking for a contract or flexible position with a company that could use one or many of my skills including design, front- end, UX/UI, A/V engineering. I have a vast knowledge in many areas across many industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer/ Developer/Owner Ultimate Team Gear - Blaine, MN January 2013 to Present Owner, operator, designer, and developer of a company that is the leader in sublimated sporting apparel for many sports with a focus on Darts, Pool, eSports, Bowling and Fishing. Proud sponsor of 4 events that air on ESPN/Sky Sports.     Over the past 5 years outside of operating and growing the business, I have spent most of my time developing and operating our Live Streaming services which is the industry leader in Pool and Darts. We are capable of running multiple professional streams with up to 16 cameras, commentators and multiple end-points.  User Experience Lead Rosetta Stone - Austin, TX February 2013 to March 2015 Managed a team of UX Designers and UX Developers to turn ideas into engaging and intuitively usable interactive experiences in an agile environment. Created and delivered compelling presentations to articulate the strategies and roadmaps for the companies vision. Worked closely with Project Managers and Product Owners to deliver on-time and on budget deliverables.     Responsible for translation of the UI/UX design wireframes to actual code and produced visual and interactive prototypes. I used my knowledge and experience bridge the gap between graphical design and technical implementation. Sr. Front- End Developer/iOS Developer (Contract) PayPal - San Jose, CA September 2012 to February 2013 AS3/ActionScript/iOS developer designing and developing fully interactive rapid prototypes with a code base used in production. Sr. Flash Developer Google/Meebo - Mountain View, CA January 2011 to January 2013 Developed and maintained the ActionScript 3 code base for the Flash ads platform. Developed, maintained and documented all interactive ad templates for clients/partners which included but not limited to tracking for all user interactions, geo-location services, web services and data feeds from Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, BestBuy, PriceGrabber and many more.    Daily duties included supporting the team of Flash designers, developers and contractors by debugging and developing custom scripts for particular needs. Other daily tasks included designing and building custom Flash rich-media ad units from scratch as well as creating hi-fidelity interactive prototypes for various departments and products.    Projects and tasks outside of normal duties included working with JavaScript engineers to increase better performance and flexibly of the ads platform. Creating proof of concepts solutions with hi fidelity prototypes. Senior UI Developer/Designer (Flash) Freelancer.com - San Francisco Bay Area, CA May 2004 to January 2011 Utilized my expertise to create high-performance Flash based rich internet applications (RIA) and portals for LeapFrog.com. Other projects included a complete Web Accessibility Assessment using W3C standards for Wal-Mart's retail site, UI design for Abbott Labs, as well as various Flash based prototypes for various clients.    Created interactive media for the largest broadband touch screen media network in the United States. Develop a range of complex object-oriented ActionScript-based applications, games and mini-sites. Other duties included creating interactive prototypes, designing and implementing website redesign and creating a Flash Developer Standards documentation.    Worked with Fortune 500 clients on back- end coding for large e-Learning projects dealing with video and animation. Interfaced with graphic designers to develop complex Flash interfaces and applications using classes, interfaces, events, and component development. Managed the technical development of back- end assets and libraries to be assigned to contractors. Experience developing with SCORM conformity requirements. Education High school Valley High School - Sacramento, CA September 1991 to June 1995 Skills Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, AS3, AfterEffects (10+ years), Wirecast, Angular (5 years)