Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - Aceso - MA Seattle, WA ? Over 8+ Years of Experience in developing web applications and interactive software products using HTML4.01/5, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, DOJO, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  ? Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Extensive experience of OOAD, OOPS, Multi-tier and distributed architectures in developing web-based and client-server application  ? Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  ? Good Knowledge on how to implement User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  ? Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  ? Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQUERY.  ? Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Experience in making Responsive web pages using Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, Wire-framing and HTML5.  ? Experience in using AngularJS for creating user interface and single page web applications.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap templates  ? Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  ? Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  ? Experience in developing website content and managing content management systems  ? Working knowledge of popular content management systems  ? Experience in Ext.js and React.js.  ? Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development.  ? Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills.  ? Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using FireBug, Developer ToolBar.  ? Familiar with Cross Browser Testing and Debugging.  ? Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.  ? Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  ? Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments.  ? Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.  ? Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS. Work Experience Front End Developer Aceso - MA November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, jQUERY, and AJAX.  ? Determining the needs or conditions for a product development.  ? Performed testing and documentation of UI.  ? Estimated time to develop for all approved prototypes and the implementation of those prototypes using jQuery and CSS as well as showing to project team and receiving and implementing any changes or implementation updates.  ? Used JavaScript for validations, Ajax for server side data operations.  ? Develop unit test, site pages and assist implementation of client web sites.  ? Adding new enhancements maintaining existing UI architecture.  ? Worked with existing application to convert static layout.  ? Applied jQUERY core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  ? Used jQUERY and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Utilized various JavaScript and jQUERY libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Used React.js to develop complex UIs without losing code clarity  ? Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  ? Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  ? Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Experience in Version Control tools including Git  ? Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  ? Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  ? Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  ? Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQUERY.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, React.js, JSON, Photoshop. Sr.UI Web Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR September 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:    ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, jQUERY, and AJAX.  ? Developed front end along with pages for user interactions; for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Applied jQUERY core library functions for the logical implementation of all the applications at the client side.  ? Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  ? Used jQUERY and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Utilized various JavaScript and jQUERY libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  ? Used AJAX, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the website.  ? Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  ? Extensively used Angular UI (Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  ? Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Structured the JavaScript code using Angular JS  ? Experience in Version Control tools including Git and SVN.  ? Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  ? Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility.  ? Interacted and worked with cross-functional teams  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  ? Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQUERY.  ? Used SVN for Version Control  ? Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM.    Environment: HTML4.0/5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSTL, XML, XHTML, Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver, My SQL,JIRA, AngularJS, Bootstrap, GIT, JAVA Adobe Photoshop and MS Office. UI/HTML Developer TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC December 2012 to August 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Plan, develop, implement, debug and support user friendly front end applications for products and client sites.  ? Developing the code for Enhancement CR using AngularJS, HTML5,CSS and Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Involved in 'face-lifting' of internal clients projects by enhancing content editing CSS and accessing DOM objects using Firebug.  ? Used advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and CSS layouts.  ? Included custom providers to support workflow within portals and to maintain module settings for further reference by Java developers and database manager.  ? Developed Cost Estimate software using jQuery for the entire UI prototyping team.  ? Followed MVC Architecture using AngularJS Framework.  ? Developed custom web application interfaces using HTML and CSS to meet the requirements of the client.  ? Responsible for design and development of the web pages.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  ? Developed UI Prototypes using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic data to the web pages on the client side.  ? Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Involved in writing the Unit test cases using Jasmine.  ? Responsible to design the browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and so.  ? Used Git for version control.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: AngularJS, Photoshop, Fireworks, JavaScript , jQuery, Teamsite CMS, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON,MY SQL,Jasmine Front End Web Developer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:    ? Involved in requirement gathering and creating initial documentation for the system.  ? Presented the flow to the business with documentation and a dummy environment.  ? Involved in creating the xml based parses which take the feed from system and redirect the user to appropriate sections based on user interaction.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS & JavaScript, JQuery.  ? Involved in translating Wireframes & Photoshop designs into functional prototypes using HTML/CSS/JS  ? Understanding the functionality from scratch from provided wireframes, used cases & other documents.  ? Involved in requirement gathering phase & discussions with tech team for feasibility analysis of the requirement and finalizing the approach.  ? Involved in client/product owner interaction to understand the requirements & during complete development phase for any change request, functionality demo, daily status meeting etc.  ? Provided technical guidance to team  ? Involved in performance improvement (page load speed, Ajax response timings, lazy loading of images, minimized http requests etc) of the application on various devices.  ? Involved in unit testing & peer reviews of the developed code.  ? Involved in integration testing & interaction with third party codes.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON ,Photoshop. Jr Software Engineer (Web Developer) Miracle Technologies - IN January 2009 to October 2010 Miracle Technologies Miracle Corporate Solutions is considered as a novel definition in the sphere of providing training, software development services, GPS solutions, assessments, consulting and IT outsourcing, etc. Each and every exquisite work is delivered under the presence of skilled professionals. The agency delivers inherited legacy of immaculate works that can touch the modern understanding in each and every job responsibility. Miracle India is known for its Excellence in Software Education in India.    Responsibilities:  ? Creating Front- end Applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Contributed to the design direction by building mock-ups in Photoshop and Front End.  ? Contributed positively to the overall team dynamic; participated in stand-up meetings, planning and design sessions and other business-development working.  ? Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  ? Leading technical projects with a focus on quality and improving the user experience.  ? Working directly with clients to design and develop elegant solutions.  ? Tested cross-browsers compatibility on a range of projects.  ? Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.  ? Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  ? Created new Theme & configured the client websites using HTML4, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Testing and bug fixing.  ? Code sites according to SEO, and keyword analysis.  ? Created web contents and tested for cross-browser compatibility, security, operating systems, and screen resolutions.  ? Involved in Drupal installing, configuring, modifying, publishing and testing the Site.  ? Developed and maintaining the layouts using CSS2 for all intranet applications compliant with W3C standards.  ? Responsible for SEO, Google Analytics.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript (Libraries: jQuery), Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, MS Office, Firefox, Chrome Education Master's Northwestern Polytechnic University in Computer Engineering Bachelors in Electronics and communication in engineering Jawaharlal Technological University Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (8 years), AJAX (8 years), jQuery (9 years), UI, Front End, Angular, React, Front-End, Bootstrap, User Interface, Angularjs, HTML5, Java, Node, CSS3 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS  JavaScript Libraries jQuery, AngularJS,React.js, Backbone.js  Database Oracle , MySQL  IDE & Tools Eclipse, WebStorm, Notepad++, SublimeText  Version Control Perforce and GIT Hub  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar,  Operating System Windows 7/8, MAC OS X, Linux,Unix