Senior UX Designer Senior UX Designer Senior UX Designer Washington, NJ Jesse is a creative, detail obsessed, UX problem solver with over 15 years of experience. He has designed and developed websites and mobile apps for various pharmaceutical industries, brokerage institutions, and the U.S. Army. He has the ability to switch easily between concurrent tasks, and the flexibility to handle a rapidly changing environment while delivering high quality results. Jesse is always a professional and thoughtful team player with strong interpersonal skills.    User Experience Design  • Voice of the user  • Information Architecture (IA)  • Wireframes, flows, journeys and site maps  • A/B, Card Sort, User Testing  • Interpret web site analytics  • Requirements Gathering  • Desktop, responsive, and mobile app experience in both B2B and consumer    Prototyping / Front End Development  • Rapid prototyping for websites and mobile apps utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Cross browser testing and knowledge of specific browser capabilities  • Low and hi-fidelity hand coded and Axure prototypes  • Coding for responsive designs Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UX Designer Bank of America / Merrill Lynch September 2010 to Present • Creation of wireframes, site maps, user journeys, IA, and prototypes (desktop and mobile)  • Project Lead managing visual designers, editors, interactive designers, and deliverables  • Present and drive meetings with UX team, business partners, and technical teams.  • Create prototypes to convey complex interactions and usability testing.  • Designed usability studies, created testing perimeters, questions, and scripts.  • Negotiate trade-offs between business and technical teams while mediating and resolving competing requirements and designs UX Consultant / Prototyper Bank of America / Merrill Lynch - Hopewell, NJ June 2010 to September 2010 • Created wireframes and user flows for iPad and iPhone apps  • Designed user flow and interaction between iPad and iPhone screens  • Created prototypes of iPad and iPhone applications for testing and executive acceptance. UX Consultant (part-time) ICA Creative - Citibank - New York, NY January 2010 to June 2010 • Design, wireframes, and coding of email templates and newsletters  • SharePoint master page and page layouts, general SharePoint support, SharePoint admin  • General information architecture recommendations and evaluations. Drupal / Wordpress Themer / Web Designer (part-time) Mary Pomerantz Advertising - Highland Park, NJ November 2009 to June 2010 • Design and develop themes with HTML/CSS/JS for Drupal and Wordpress CMS websites  • Modifying PHP and modules as necessary. UX Consultant Web App and Mobile Pinsonault Associates - Mount Olive, NJ April 2009 to June 2010 • UX/UI design and front end coding for complex graphing / data controls  • Evaluate current web app information architectures  • Wireframed, designed, coded and tested mobile responsive website UX Designer / Prototyper Bearing Point - Township of Warren, NJ March 2009 to April 2009 • UX/UI and design for portal concepts for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals  • Used flash, html, CSS, and javascript to develop prototypes  • Created wireframes and visual designs Front End Developer / Prototyper / SharePoint MISI Company - Woodbridge, NJ April 2008 to February 2009 • Developed HTML, CSS, JavaScript for asp.net and SharePoint (master pages, etc..)  • Creation of prototypes and mock ups  • Set up of out of the box SharePoint features and web parts / detailed skinning of webparts UI Designer / Flash / SharePoint / Front- end Developer Bearing Point - Nutley, NJ January 2007 to April 2008 • UX/UI for Roche Pharmaceutical websites  • Designer for SharePoint, modified master, page layouts and modified core.css  • Creation of documentation and style guides Multimedia Designer Symbolic Systems - US Army at Fort Monmouth - Fort Monmouth, NJ January 2004 to January 2007 • UI Designer of Internet and intranet sites producing visuals and front end code.  • Videographer / Editor / Motion Graphics Designer for US Army events. Daily video shooting and edits on an Avid or Premier editing system. Composition of 2D and 3D animations  • Video Producer - Writing scripts, coordinating talent and vendors, creating shooting schedules  • Graphic Designer of print media from tri-folds to large-scale trade show materials. Education Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ Skills Photoshop, UI, User Interface