Senior Full Stack Developer Senior Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full Stack Developer - Capital One Gaithersburg, MD ? Around 10 years of experience in Software development and Software Testing with excellent knowledge  of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies, frame works and processes.  ? Excellent skill in developing, professional Ajax driven elegant enterprise web applications using Ajax,  JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML 4/5 and CSS2/3  ? Experience in developing web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and  JSP Tag libraries.  ? Excellent skill in developing, professional Ajax driven elegant enterprise web applications using Ajax,  JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML 4/5 and CSS2/3  ? Good experience and understanding of Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript.  ? Excellent understanding on cross browser compatibility issues and porting.  ? Strong experience with DOM , dynamic creation and DOM injection of elements.  ? Excellent front end debugging experience with most of the browsers.  ? Good programming skills in Java, JDBC, threads, servlets and JSP.  ? Solid Experience working with LAMP (Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP) Stack  ? Experienced in application development using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, Struts.  ? Experienced in developing Test Scripts, Test Cases and Test Plans for the User Acceptance testing.  ? Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design and  Agile Methodology.  ? Experience in database development using SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  ? Familiar with continuous integration tools including JIRA, Jenkins and Maven.  ? Strong experience in Source control tools like SVN, and Github.  ? Experience in J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, DAO, DTO, Front controller and Singleton.  ? Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Strong Image for dedicated  teamwork, high energy, work ethics and commitment with capability to handle new technologies and  situations.  ? Team player and self-starter with excellent communication, coordination, documentation, project  planning and interpersonal skills.    Tools & Technologies    Languages: PHP, Java, C, C++  Web Technologies: HTML, XML, JavaScript, jquery, CSS, React/Redux, AngularJs,  Gulp, Grunt, NPM,  Relational MySQL, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 10g/9i  Database:    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_H7TgS2o02t8rdb_-el3F4DSqxydJW2c6cnkKuwYmZs/edit 1/6  6/20/2019 Ranjan_Resume_Web _UPDATED (1) - Google Docs    Tools: PhpStorm, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Netbeans, Rational  Rose, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Project, Atlassian (JIRA,  Confluence, Bitbucket) Work Experience Senior Full Stack Developer Capital One - McLean, VA March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Initiated development of new web application Market Data Hub in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript  (ES6), ReactJS and Redux.  ? Deployment of lambda's using AWS Cloud formation templates and testing the infrastructure  deployment and lambda's  ? Worked on the Amazon web services such as creating S3 buckets, Lambda's.  ? Created a Bogie (Internal Wrapper around Jenkins) CI/CD pipeline to automate the deployment  process.  ? Improved error logging for the controllers to have better insights on the errors.  ? Modified existing so ware to fix bugs, which enhanced the performance of the system  ? Modified existing application to solve the problems to go global with the product such as localization of the content.  ? Used Node Package manager (npm) to simplify installing and updating project dependencies  ? Worked with ES6 to develop new controllers in NodeJS.  ? Used Babel and webpack as build tools. Full Stack JavaScript Developer PayPal - Timonium, MD September 2017 to March 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and integrated new features into the web application in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6),  ReactJS and Redux.  r  ? C eated optimized websites and application interfaces using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  ? Used jQuery-Ajax plug-in to get the data in JSON format and displayed on the web page    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_H7TgS2o02t8rdb_-el3F4DSqxydJW2c6cnkKuwYmZs/edit 2/6  6/20/2019 Ranjan_Resume_Web _UPDATED (1) - Google Docs    ? Worked on the merchant experience platform.  ? Worked on fixing cross browser compatibility issues.  Used SASS CSS pre-processor for consistent style reuse and mix-ins as needed.  ? Improved error logging for the controllers to have better insights on the errors.  ? Modified existing software to fix bugs, which enhanced the performance of the system  ? Modified existing application to solve the problems to go global with the product such as localization of the content.  ? Developed micro services using Java Spring, REST and JSON.  ? Used Node Package manager (npm) to simplify installing and updating project dependencies  ? Worked with ES6 to develop new controllers in NodeJS.  ? Used Babel and webpack as build tools.  ? s  Worked with Istanbul that tracks tatement, branch, and function coverage and reverse-engineers line  f  coverage or JavaScript Code Coverage.  ? Write integration tests using mocha and chai.  ? Write functional tests using nemo framework (Internal PayPal Framework)  ? Review Pull Requests submitted by other team members. Sr. Front End/UI Developer Fidelity Investments - Jersey City, NJ October 2014 to June 2017 Responsibilities:    ? Designed, developed and integrated new features into the web application in JavaScript, Core Java  and AngularJs.  ? Handling code optimization techniques and concept of unobtrusive JavaScript to make the JavaScript code more scalable and separated from all other codes.  ? Used rid system and tylus CSS pre-processor for consistent style reuse and mixins as needed  g s  ? Designed, developed and modified software systems using system analysis and data models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of the design.  ? Created AngularJS directives for components to use as declarative way  ? Used Bower Package manager to simplify installing and updating project dependencies.  ? Used Gulp for optimizing build process and to automate and enhance workflow.  ? Used Google Maps to display maps on web site  ? Developed Application using Object Oriented Framework where each component within the application has its own component script which is reusable for other applications  ? Developed the front- end web page by using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript, taking advantage of the frameworks AngularJS.  ? Experienced in developing applications using Bootstrap framework.  ? Used Grunt for automated SASS compile, Build & Test    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_H7TgS2o02t8rdb_-el3F4DSqxydJW2c6cnkKuwYmZs/edit 3/6  6/20/2019 Ranjan_Resume_Web _UPDATED (1) - Google Docs    ? Worked with Istanbul that tracks statement, branch, and function coverage and reverse-engineers line  coverage for JavaScript Code Coverage.  ? Used Grunt for building configurations for adding new apps and web pages to the site  ? Working with browsers compatibility issues  ? Modified existing software to fix bugs, which enhanced the performance of the system.  ? Developed Application to assess JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side  using Javascript and AngularJs.  ? Actively working on developing code using Core JAVA/J2EE and SpringMVC  ? Validate REST Web Service using Chrome plugin Rest Client as a part of unit testing.  ? Create SQL scripts to identify, analyze and correct data issues.  ? Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick  turnaround time. Sr. Full Stack Developer VoloForce LLC - Germantown, MD September 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Designed, developed and integrated new features into the web application in LAMP stack and AngularJs.  ? Designed, developed and modified software systems using system analysis and data models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of the design.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript for searching grants.  ? Wrote SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax and AngularJS.  ? Involved in creating AngularJS filters, routers, AngularJS validation and UI Dashboard.  ? Used Angular Material for designing UI pages and making better user experience.  ? Created AngularJS directives for components to use as declarative way  ? Experienced in developing applications using Bootstrap framework.  ? Used Firebug, chrome developer tools to view and debug HTML5, DOM and JavaScript errors.  ? Used Bower Package manager to simplify installing and updating project dependencies.  ? Used Gulp for optimizing build process and to automate and enhance workflow  ? POC on Javascript framework ReactJS  ? Modified existing software to fix bugs, which enhanced the performance of the system.  ? Designed and developed database scripts to accommodate new features into the system.  ? Designed and developed import scripts to import client data into the system as per the API standards.  ? Designed and developed well documented REST APIs to add new features into the system.  ? Developed Test Scripts, Test Cases and Test plan and performed but not limited to Unit Testing,  System Testing, and Regression Testing.  ? Created ack- end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing HP and ySQL  b P M  ? Develop HP reusable classes using OOPS concept to build the business logic of product  P    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_H7TgS2o02t8rdb_-el3F4DSqxydJW2c6cnkKuwYmZs/edit 4/6  6/20/2019 Ranjan_Resume_Web _UPDATED (1) - Google Docs    ? Analyzed the test results and documented and reported unwanted behavior to the team.  ? Conferred with Engineers, programmers and stakeholders to design system and obtain information  on project limitations, capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.  ? Analyzed software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints  resulting in on time delivery of the projects.  ? Created documents such as functional specifications, code comments, UML diagrams not limited to Use case diagram, class diagram etc.  ? Identified information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances and events.  ? Identified the underlying principles, reasons or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.  ? Optimized SQL queries to enhance the performance of the system by reducing the query execution  time from 30s to 3s.    E Web Developer ast Carolina University - Greenville, NC January 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:    ? Gathered the requirements from the researchers and interacting with them on the different aspect of software testing methodologies.  ? Developed and delivered a tool in core java for generating regular expressions, which made the research easier because of the time sensitivity.  ? Developed unit test cases using JUnit testing framework to perform unit testing. Also performed  system testing to test the system is working properly.  ? Worked with Angular 1.x to Design, Develop new features in to application  ? Performed Research in Evaluation of t-wise Approach for Testing Logical Expressions in Software.  ? Developed the JAVA web application based on the Object Oriented Architecture  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design.  ? Implemented data validation using JavaScript for client side  ? Implemented views using JSP & JSTL1.0.  ? Implemented code MVC framework using JSP's & Servlets.  ? Performed application level logging using log4j for debugging purpose.  ? Thoroughly involved in testing phase and implemented test cases using JUnit.    H ( Software Developer) - India CL Technologies February 2010 to August 2010 Responsibilities:    ? Developed the web-based application using Struts as control between front end and service layer.  ? Worked on the application includes development, bug fixing, use case analysis, designing, and unit  testing.  ? Coded JavaScript functions to handle client-side validations.    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_H7TgS2o02t8rdb_-el3F4DSqxydJW2c6cnkKuwYmZs/edit 5/6  6/20/2019 Ranjan_Resume_Web _UPDATED (1) - Google Docs    ? Developed JSP pages using Struts tags for the Presentation tier  ? Involved in Coding and Testing Phase. Software Developer) - India Tasmed India Pvt Ltd September 2007 to January 2010 Responsibilities:    ? Gathered, interpreted and analyzed cross-functional business requirements from multiple  stakeholders and teams and provided an overall alignment strategy resulting in a cohesive business,  product, testing, and development team.  ? Collaborated with designers and stakeholders to finalize wireframes and comps to provide to Development and Test teams resulting in improvement of efficiency and elimination of soiled  behavior.  ? Communicated business and system requirements to the development team resulting in clear concise  directions of development direction.  ? Monitored progress regularly by actively leading or participating in project status meetings with Key  Stakeholders resulting in concise and transparent progress as well as changes in direction.  ? Collaborated with project managers to define schedules and drive deliverables resulting the mitigation of the project's critical path  ? Managed development teams ensuring met schedules, code that meets requirements, provide the development teams assistance during the product development phases in resulting in an on track  project.  ? Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing.  ? Build and Deployed Applications on Development, Test, UAT.  ? Developed SQL Queries to retrieve data from Oracle Database.  ? Provided Production support for external users. Education M.S, Software Engineering in Software Design & Development ast Carolina University July 2013 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering urukshetra University August 2008 Skills Node, React, Javascript, Angular Publications Evaluation of t-wise Approach for Testing Logical Expressions in Software https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6571640 2013-03 Pair-wise and, more generally, t-wise testing are the most common and powerful combinatorial testing approaches. This paper investigates the effectiveness of the t-wise approach for testing logical expressions in software in terms of its fault detecting capabilities. Effectiveness is evaluated experimentally using special software tools for generating logical expressions and t-wise test cases, simulating faults in expressions, testing faulty expressions, and evaluating effectiveness of the testing. T-wise testing effectiveness is measured in its totality and for specific types of faults; it is then compared with random testing. A detailed analysis of the experimental results is also provided. Additional Information Methodologies: Scrum, UML, RUP, SDLC, Waterfall, Agile Development.    Version Control GitHub, Svn  Tools:  Testing Black Box Testing (Functional Testing, User Acceptance Testing,    Methodologies: System Testing), White Box Testing (Unit Testing, Integration  Testing, Regression Testing)    Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows, Mac OSX