Software Engineering Contractor Software Engineering Contractor Software Engineering Contractor Cary, NC Work Experience Software Engineering Contractor Optum in Raleigh - Cary, NC 2015 to 2019 NC  I currently contract through Collabera at Optum in Raleigh, NC. The team on which I work has rebuilt Optum's one and only eCommerce site, raising it from the ashes of an obsolete and arcane tech stack to a clean, fast, modern, mobile-friendly website. I use Visual Studio as an IDE to write HTML(5), CSS (Less), javaScript (jQuery), a bit of C# and .NET, and to troubleshoot that same code, working collaboratively with my fellow developers. As the team's only front end developer, I am responsible for assuring a quality user interface (UI) by testing the website against industry accessibility standards and by complying with Optum user experience (UX) guidelines. I use Bootstrap to deliver a clean and fast mobile UI. I use WAVE to test accessibility.    I contracted through Belcan at Buhler Aeroglide. I was part of a new, small web-based software team that built a suite of products that connects Buhler Aeroglide's thermal processing units to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). I used HTML(5), CSS3, jQuery and PHP on a daily basis. I used Bootstrap to provide a responsive user experience on mobile devices and adhered to Buhler standards, provided in company style guides, and to industry best practices.  I contracted through Vaco, at Quintiles, developing and maintaining online portals for medical professionals researching pharmaceuticals and medical devices for FDA approval. These portals were delivered to seamlessly function across desktop and mobile platforms. I used HTML(5), jQuery, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap and Foundation to provide all the front end elements required by the user experience designers. I coordinated daily with management, testing, and back end development teams across the globe.    I am Webmaster at http://www.soundsystem7.com. Using Angular JS to load pages, Bootstrap for responsive design and navigation, jQuery to extend that navigation, PHP for client-side form management, and HTML(5) & CSS3 for display, I created and manage a single page application (SPA) which serves as the online hub for my band's Web presence.  I also contracted through Robert Half Technologies at Cargosphere, creating online Software as a Service (SaaS) prototypes and maintaining existing online software packages. I used HTML(5), CSS3, jQuery and JSON. My tasks included development, troubleshooting UI and UX issues, repair, deployment, and design/development of data-driven interactions using Java Server Pages (JSPs). I used Compliance Sheriff to test code. Front End Web Developer III Iron Data Solutions - Raleigh, NC 2012 to 2015 I helped to design and implement user interfaces for online eGovernment case management and inspection software, complying with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. My concentration was on responsive mobile applications as well as desktop apps. I ensured user accessibility by delivering valid XHTML, CSS and jQuery, WAI-ARIA landmarks and JAWS compatible semantic code, and by performing unit and e2e testing. Contract Web Developer Raleigh, NC 2010 to 2012 I contracted through Computer Task Group at IBM to develop browser-based server management software. I wrote XHTML, CSS, and Dojo JavaScript to implement new functionality and continually reviewed entire applications for Section 508 compliance.  Contracting through Principle Solutions Group to IronData, I helped to design and then implemented user interfaces for online eGovernment software products. I also teamed with other global business units to modify and maintain the IronData public sector website. I delivered code that was W3C and Section 508 compliant and was compatible with all major platforms. I created a Drupal prototype of IronData's corporate website. Front End Engineer CC Intelligent Solutions - Raleigh, NC 2009 to 2010 NC  At CC Intelligent Solutions, utilizing XHTML, jQuery and CSS, I designed and produced web-based UI/UX prototypes from which back end engineers would build online eGovernment software products. My code was required to be W3C and WCAG compliant, cross-browser compatible, and based upon industry best practices. I tested this code using Rational Policy Tester. I also maintained the CCIS website (PHP) and multimedia content therein.    At Smart Online I wrote XHTML, CSS and JavaScript to standardize online software user interfaces(UIs). My concentration was in cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility, user experience(UX) and code optimization. I also did a small but appreciable amount of graphics and JSP work. Web Developer/Software Deployment Engineer DataDirect - Morrisville, NC 2008 to 2009 I deployed Omniture's SiteCatalyst analytics package on the company website, ensuring consistent communication between legacy HTML, JSP, JavaScript and Omniture code. I coordinated efforts between third party support, local contractors, and management to provide accurate online marketing data. I collected, passed, and reported data through non-standard and mismatched channels. I was also responsible for internationalization and localization of company web portals. Software Engineering Contractor, Computer Task Group CTG - Research Triangle Park, NC 2006 to 2008 Contracted to IBM as a data administrator for the ServerProven hardware and software compatibility website, I was responsible for processing SQL data and ensuring its timely and accurate display on the website through Visual Basic, JavaScript, and HTML code. This back end work supported a worldwide sales force and customer base. My tasks included daily maintenance of the data set, planning system launches, and liaison between technical staff and content owners. I was promoted to Webmaster to lead the team working technical aspects of the website including production, deployment, development, maintenance, data flow, and customer satisfaction. I controlled and assured ServerProven quality from start to finish.  I was then contracted to Lenovo as a Web applications developer. Using HTML, JavaScript, ASP, and MySQL I developed globalized intranet-based tools, which enabled Lenovo managers worldwide to evaluate their employees' performance for semiannual bonus pay and advancement. I also supported employee access to intranet training via an authentication system that interfaced with the main employee database and a third-party training provider's library of courseware. Contract Web Developer Oxford University Press - Cary, NC 2002 to 2006 I helped to implement a Content Management System (Mediasurface) and to incorporate its use into a complete eCommerce website redesign. I delivered prototypes that content owners could modify to their individual needs. My tasks included developing web-based multimedia, designing and producing instructional video and distance learning materials, planning and implementing information architecture and an online catalogue, and producing content updates based on user-centered design and user accessibility principles. After implementing the CMS I made companion websites for college textbooks. These sites could include downloadable and streaming media, courseware, and interactive applications. Each site involved working within the framework I had set up while deploying the CMS. Independent Web Contractor Central Carolina Bank's - Durham, NC 2003 to 2005 NC  My job, contracting through Danvil Management Systems, was to decommission Central Carolina Bank's customer websites and to ensure the smooth transition of services to SunTrust's websites during their merger. My tasks included daily updates to static intranet and internet banking websites, developing web graphics, modifying existing PHP scripts, and developing new scripts for rendering dynamic web pages and assuring quality user experience by writing W3C compliant code.  Contracted to Venue Communications, I used HTML, JavaScript, and Flash to make real estate and insurance agent websites. My tasks included planning and implementing information architecture, coordinating with content owners to ensure effective messaging, producing deliverables and content updates based on user-centered design and user accessibility principles, developing web-based graphic animation, and assuring quality user experience through W3C compliant code. Education BA in Mass Media North Carolina State University BA in Business Management North Carolina State University Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Content management, Git, Front End, UI, Front-End, Javascript Links http://www.yournewwebguy.com