Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Eau Claire, WI Seeking a position in the web development field where excellent problem-solving skills and several years of web  development experience will help to improve efficiency and enhance profitability. The ideal position would utilize my  passion for web development and programming as well as challenge me in learning new concepts. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Menards - Eau Claire, WI 2018 to 2019 Fixed bugs and inconsistencies using HTML, CSS, and Javascript on existing menards.com website  ? Converted code from Velocity templating framework to Thymeleaf templating framework  ? Converted over existing code to Vue.js framework Programmer Analyst Club's Choice Fundraising - Eau Claire, WI 2013 to 2018 Created and maintain multiple internal and external websites in C#.NET  ? Used Bootstrap to create mobile friendly responsive websites as well as CSS, Javascript, and jQuery  ? Maintained and update older websites in PHP  ? Learned and used the KnockoutJS library for several sites  ? Provided general IT support with computers, servers, networking, phones and printers IT Support/Networking/Web Development Veritas Steel - Eau Claire, WI 2009 to 2013 Provided technology support for 5 separate offices  ? Rewrote company Intranet and coding web applications for the company Intranet using Apache, HTML(5),  PHP, CSS, Javascript, and MySQL  ? Converted static data pages to dynamic pages using data loaded from a MySQL database for Intranet  phonebook  ? Wrote various other applications using PHP, MySQL, HTML, Javascript (including JQuery), and CSS Web Designer/Java Programmer Applied Data Consultants - Eau Claire, WI 2008 to 2009 Designed numerous websites and applications for clients and for Applied Data Consultants  ? Fixed bugs in numerous websites and applications  ? Used the following technologies and languages: HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript, Jquery, Java, and JSP Computer/Technology Specialist Intern Campus Crusade for Christ - Regional Office - Minneapolis, MN 2006 to 2007 Worked on programming projects involving the use of Java, HTML, PHP, MySQL, Javascript, and Flash.  ? Administered office network and company website.  ? Established and maintained wireless network and provided technical support for 30-person office.  ? Maintained Dell Poweredge 2950 server including backups, antivirus, user creation and deletion.  ? Provided computer access and support for large regional conferences. Education Continuing Education University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire, WI 2009 Bachelors Degree in Computer Science University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire, WI 2005 Skills Javascript, Front End, PHP