Principal Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories Principal Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories Principla Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories - SAIC Greenbrier, TN Work Experience Principal Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories SAIC March 2019 to Present • Developing the Front- End for Inside Sandia application where the data was either static or being retrieved from various Databased sources.  • Integrated with the backend developer who delivered JSON data objects through services, grouping related data and presenting in an intuitive User Interface that was built with HTML5, CSS3 (precompiled from SASS modules).  • Converting application from AngularJS to Angular 7. Building pages in an Object-Oriented mythology allowed commonly used design-patterns for both JavaScript and HTML to create base templates which were then inherited from and extended to present a cohesive set of pages.  • Page routing used lazy-loading of page modules to reduce initial page load time.  • Source code was stored and versioned using GitLab. Unit testing used Jasmine and Karma. Senior Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories SAIC February 2017 to February 2019 • Developed the Front- End for a Policies and Processes application where the data was being moved from Cascade server to Archer (a GRC product).  • Worked closely with the backend/Archer developer who created php web services that converted XML result from Archer into JSON Objects.  • Angular 4 was used to access these JSON objects through services, grouping related data and presenting data to user in an intuitive User Interface that was built with HTML5, CSS3 (precompiled from SASS modules), Typescript and a smattering of native JavaScript and jQuery.  • Using Angular allowed the application to be built relying heavily on reusable and common modules with complex layout logic using containers and templates.  • Page routing used lazy-loading of page modules to reduce initial page load time. Source code was stored and versioned using GitLab.  • Unit testing used Jasmine and Karma. This project was built in 8 months and delivered the last week of Aug 2018.    • Mentored and aided an understaffed team in the conversion of an existing AngularJS application to Angular 6 using the expertise I learned from the previously mentioned Policies and Processes application.  • Aided extensively in the restructuring of the existing portlets into Angular modules that were lazy-loaded along with breaking out commonly used code snippets into reusable modules.  • Converted existing CSS files into module level SASS files.  • Source code was stored and versioned using GitLab.  • Unit testing used Jasmine and Karma. This project was built in 5 months and is being delivered the first week in Oct 2018. Senior Software Engineer Vignet Corp December 2016 to February 2017 • Develop module and form based medical patient tracking software allowing patients to take surveys, enter current medical data for programs that support the care of various cancer patient while preparing for, engaged in and after care of cancer treatment plans.  • Software is AngularJS based using AWS services for back- end retrieval of data stored in a JSON format.  • Extensive use of directives and controllers are the basis of building the forms and surveys that support numerous Cancer research programs.  • Business logic is provided by binding business rules to form entities to create single and multi-page surveys and forms for patient input.  • Display of these program surveys and forms is accomplished combining HTML 5 elements, SASS and Bootstrap while incorporating dynamic inline styles.  • The source code is store in GitLab enabling developers to create task level branches from a main development branch to be merged after the task work is completed.  • Gulp is used to serve development and QA environments with npm and bower to provide reusable components and modules Senior Software Engineer supporting Sandia National Laboratories SAIC March 2015 to December 2016 • Support development or conversion of internal websites at Sandia National Laboratories. Converting existing web applications from JBoss (Java and Html4 based) to RESTful applications using Laravel for web-services while using AngularJS as the front- end JavaScript framework.   • Extensive use of AJAX methods to retrieve JSON data sets to populate modular portlets of dis-similar personal and company information.  • The front- end was built with HTML5, CSS3 and leveraging Bootstrap3 and Sass to create responsive, mobile-first web applications.  • Have created several prototypes for new application development using Angularjs, Bootstrap, SASS, HTML5 and grunt to serve applications in a development environment as well as documenting applications using ng-docs, performing automated testing with jasmine and protractor, utilize grunt to create builds, serve codebase and deploy applications.  • Used git/github for source code repository and versioning.  • Use bower and npm to create reusable bower components and node modules. Mobile Web Application Developer Raven's Work January 2013 to March 2015 Develop web based mobile applications using HTML5, CSS3, Less, javascript, jquery, jquery ui, AJAX, JSON and PHP 5 to create web based mobile friendly restful applications Senior UI Engineer Fishbowl January 2010 to January 2015 • My duties at Fishbowl as the Senior UI Engineer include developing application prototypes through to final application from wireframes and design mocks provided from UX and design group.  • Well-formed XHTML and CSS are hand-coded to provide table-free layouts. These layouts are further enhanced by using Javascript and jQuery/jQuery-UI to manipulate DOM level elements creating ajax/json driven dynamic and user-friendly User Interfaces that are cross-browser compatible.  • Images are consolidated into sprite files wherever possible to assure the web-application is optimized for downloading speed and performance with results being verified using page testing tools.  • Prototypes and final front- end deliverables are created using Webstorm/PHPStorm and converted to .Net with some backend methods being created in controllers.  • Grids are populated using Telerik grid controls.   Sr. Web Technologist, Front- End Development Lead - Real Estate Channel AOL LLC January 2006 to December 2009 • As a Senior Web Technologist and Front- end Development Lead for the AOL Real Estate Channel, I am responsible for interfacing with the Design, UI and Front- end development teams to create enticing, friendly and usable web applications.  • Data is retrieved using JavaBeans and displayed using a combination of Java Server Pages, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript that adhere to the mocks and specifications provided by the Design/UI groups and are hand coded.  • JQuery is used for event handlers, AJAX-ing of dynamic page data and to provide DOM level manipulation.  • CSS and JavaScript files are compressed and images are consolidated into sprite images where possible to assure site is optimized for downloading speed and performance with results being verified using page testing tools.  • Pages are designed for cross-browser compatibility.  • Modules including CSS/JS overrides, News, photo galleries are accessible via homegrown Java based CMS. Software Developer (contractor) Lockheed Martin July 2005 to January 2006 My position with TEKSystems is as a consultant to Lockheed Martin as a Software Developer and I was responsible for maintenance of the Shipboard Electromagnetic Compatibility Improvement Program (SEMPIC) Technical Assistance Network (STAN) web site for the Navy Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA). This web site is a combination of static and dynamic table based web pages created with ASP, ASP.NET, CSS and JavaScript using Foxpro 6 classes and database files. The development environment is Windows 2000 Server using IIS 2003 servers and Homesite+ being used to create and maintain the static and dynamic HTML in a hand coding environment. Web Production Specialist (contractor) Software AG USA - Reston, VA November 2002 to July 2005 My responsibilities ranged from web-site maintenance to new design or complete redesign and includes initial requirements gathering, design prototyping, database or XML schema design, design revisions and final delivery and documentation. Each project utilized Homesite+ to hand code the XHTML, DHTML, CSS, ASP or JavaScript source code. A library of templates that were table-less and used Server Side Includes extensively were developed to aid the design team when new pages were required. Webpage design necessitated adhering to existing company design standards to include creating cross-browser (html, CSS and JavaScript) compatible web pages, the use of CSS-P (for element placement and style, font styles, DHTML manipulation and to provide a common user interface), the use of Server Side Include files (to maximize the reuse of commonly used code snippets and create function libraries) and website branding. Some projects I handled required interfacing with data stored in SQL Databases (MS SQL Server, ADABAS), XML databases (Tamino), Excel spreadsheets or plain text files. Photoshop CS was used to create/manipulate multi-layered web graphics. The development was Windows 2000 Professional using IIS 2003 servers. Web Production Specialist Inkaware, Inc October 2001 to November 2002 As a Web Production Specialist I was responsible for all phases of the development process of each project including initial requirements gathering, design prototyping, database design, XML schema design, final design revisions and documentation, delivery of each web project. Each project utilized either Microsoft's Visual InterDev or FrontPage to hand code XHTML, ASP, XML or JavaScript source code. Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase SQL Anywhere or Microsoft Access was used as the database sources in a Windows NT development environment. Internet Information Server was used as the development web server. Extensive use of Server-Side Includes (SSI), grouped into process libraries, maximized the reuse and portability of commonly used DHTML code snippets, XSL and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to provide a common user interface throughout each web site. Fireworks, NetStudio, Paintshop Pro, Microsoft GIF Animator and Flash were used to create static and animated web graphics. JavaScript was used for browser independent client side form validation, preliminary logic processing and to create DHTML events. I created, managed and maintained the hardware and software aspects of the development intranets, integrating domain controllers, database and web servers, developer workstations, printers and associated LAN/WAN connections for a seamless environment. As part of my responsibilities, I conducted numerous briefings keeping clients informed of the current development effort, any change requests and expected date of delivery. Project Technical Coordinator User Technology Associates, Inc April 2000 to October 2001 I was responsible for leading and training a development team consisting of one System Engineer, three Web Developers, one Database Administrator and one Technical Writer to create a web application for the Federal Aviation Administration's Suspected Unapproved Parts reporting system. Microsoft's Visual InterDev was used in a Windows NT environment to hand code the XHTML, ASP code with Microsoft SQL Server as the database, and Internet Information Server as the web server. Extensive use of Server-Side Includes (SSI), allowed the development team to maximize the reuse of commonly used code snippets and function libraries. Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) provided a common user interface. ActiveX controls and Java applets were used to provide spell check, graphing and calendar capabilities. Microsoft Word was used to create standard correspondence, forms, reports and alerts. JavaScript was used for browser independent client side form validation and logic processing. I managed the development and production intranets that included creating, maintaining and troubleshooting database servers, web servers, developer workstations and all printers used within these intranets. As part of my responsibilities, I led the quarterly Joint Application Development sessions, in which the program requirements were evaluated and analyzed to determine if the provided recommendations met or exceeded the technical specifications as defined by the contract. I tracked all errors, problems and program deficiencies to determine if the errors were valid and took immediate corrective action when necessary. I was responsible for the scheduling and timely delivery of all phases of the development effort including determining the risk factors and any required adjustments necessary to meet the end-user needs. I conducted numerous briefings keeping both the contractor and government management informed of the status of the program. This included the current level of development, anticipated or unanticipated problems and short/long-term solutions to resolve any outstanding issues. Web designer Inkaware, Inc April 1998 to April 2000 developer I was responsible for developing and maintaining the TCAIMS II project based Intranet using ASP, JavaScript, Access database in a Windows NT environment using Internet Information Server. The web site allowed entry and retrieval of Configuration Management information stored as Microsoft Word documents and accessible via the Internet using the associated hyperlinks. A "Query By Example" data form could be used to filter document or report listings. The site also provided general project and contact information, Information Technology department information and Help Desk problem logging. Web Designer/ Developer, Programmer/Analyst Inkaware, Inc November 1996 to April 2000 As a senior level developer I used Powerbuilder 5/6.x and Oracle and Sybase to develop client/server software and Microsoft Visual InterDev, ASP, JavaScript, VBScript, DHTML, Microsoft SQL Server and Access databases.    The following is a list of the companies I provided contracting support to: Programmer/Analyst - I.E.T Inkaware, Inc November 1996 to April 1998 NEMIS project (FEMA) - November 1996 - April 1998  My primary responsibility was to provide development support for the Allocations Module of the NEMIS project using Powerbuilder to develop the user interface and report display. Oracle stored procedures, triggers and functions were used extensively through out the design and coding process for reports and business rule processing. This module provides a common user interface between other financial modules in the NEMIS project.    Dyncorp, Inc - Programmer/Analyst - I.E.T. Software Developer Federal Communications Commission - Washington, DC April 1996 to November 1996 I provided development support using Powerbuilder to develop user interfaces and Sybase stored procedures and triggers for business logic processing. I developed a common user interface for the Public Notice Common Module that allowed access and retrieval of data from three different stand-alone application databases to create a set of standard reports in both HTML and Docutech formats. As additional responsibilities I developed and modified Sybase stored procedures for the Amateur Radio Module used to create ad hoc reports, process and submit requests for vanity call signs for Amateur Radio applications. Lead Software Developer -A.E. Operations Sverdrup Facilities, Inc November 1992 to April 1996 Created and maintained client/server and stand-alone applications using Powerbuilder, Microsoft Access, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and various commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products. Graphics developer/CAD project coordinator Ralph M. Parsons, Inc March 1991 to November 1992 I customized Mircostation, using internal and external programming languages to enhance productivity by creating and maintaining custom function libraries of repetitive drawing tasks. As a CAD project coordinator my responsibilities were to provide senior level expertise in design/development support of 2D and 3D computer modeling and rendering to various Architectural and Engineering disciplines. Cad Project Coordinator Consultant CAD Innovations, Inc August 1988 to October 1991 I supplied senior level Microstation and Autocad expertise in resolving software and hardware related problems in addition to providing CAD support to architectural, mechanical, electrical and civil engineering departments as needed. CAD Operator CAD-CON, Inc June 1985 to August 1988 I supplied Intergraph and Microstation CAD support services to architectural, mechanical, electrical and civil engineering departments when needed. I was responsible for inter-discipline coordination of CAD design files. Cartographic CAD operator U. S. Geological Survey August 1981 to June 1985 I supplied CAD support services in the scanning, editing and plotting of topographic maps.    Computer experience:  Angular (4/6/JS, SASS, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Less, Javascript, Jquery, Jquery-UI, Bootstrap, PHP5, .Net (C#), Java, JSP, ASP (Classic), ASP.Net, Windows, WAMP, SQL, SQL Server, MS SQL Server. Education Associates in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College - Sterling, VA 1986 Associates of Arts in General Studies Northern Virginia Community College - Sterling, VA 1983 Certificate in Technical Illustration Northern Virginia Community College - Sterling, VA 1982 Skills angular2/4/6 (2 years), angularJS (3 years), html/html5 (10+ years), CSS/CSS3 (10+ years), javascript (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), Booststrap (4 years), SASS (3 years), php (5 years), C# (3 years), .NET (3 years), Asp (5 years), Asp.Net (3 years), Asp (7 years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 August 1976 to August 1979 Microwave Communications Specialist