Sr. Web UI Developer Sr. Web UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web UI Developer - American Airlines, Inc • 10 years strong experience in Web Application development using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, MVC, Angular, RxJs, Mobile, Web Services, JSON, TypeScript, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, SASS and SQL using latest version.  • 3+ years of Architect level and solid UI/UX design experience with Angular 2.x (1+ Years)/1.x, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, Angular CLI, TypeScript, Bower, npm, Gulp/Grunt and WebAPI.  • 8+ years of experience with UI/UX, MVC 3/4/5/6, Web API, Razor, WCF, HTML5, CSS3, RWD, BS, WCF and EF.  • Over 5 yrs of experience in Hybrid Mobile Application development [IOS, Android - PHONEGAP].  • Successfully developed 15+ application on iOS, Android (HTML5, PHONEGAP) and developed, updated many Adobe Phonegap plugins. Computer Vision, linux, SimpleCV, OpenCV, Implementing MySQL/Drupal replication.  • Background includes extensive experience in design, operations management, payroll processing, information technology, and estimating/fiscal management.  • Demonstrated ability to complete all phases of the project cycle including consultation, research, analysis, architect, development, design, functionality, maintenance, testing and support.  • Highly expert to develop creative web user interface including layout design and graphic design.  • Strong ability to troubleshoot hardware, software, network and internet-related problems.  • Experience with programming / scripting languages, including CSS3, HTML5, TSQL, C#, XML, PHP, VB.Net, Python, Ruby, Java, JavaScript, and Ruby on Rails, JSON, Angular.JS, and AJAX, Adobe Phonegap (IOS, ANDROID), JAVASCRIPT, CSS3, Jquery, Require JS, Backbone JS, Handlebar JS etc.  • Extensive UI/UX Design and Web Design and Development skills over a decade of intensive experience and formal college training.  • Expertise in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, Less, Twitter Bootstrap, NodeJS, BackboneJS, AngularJS, GulpJS, GruntJS, LAMP/PHP/MySQL, CMS - WordPress, GoogleMaps, Drupal and Responsive Web Mobile application design and development technologies.  • Implementation of AngularJS 2.0, being used extensively for mobile apps and are still in design and prototyping stages for AngularJS 2.  • Adobe CS6/CC Suite- Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Muse.  • Introduced a new platform/SaaS model that included a move towards technologies and practices such as Ruby on Rails, ReactJS, RESTful APIs, Heroku, GitHub, SendGrid, CircleCI, and PostgreSQL.  • Source control using SVN and Git  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Experience in Maintaining WebLogic/JBOSS/Apache/Tomcat Servers on different UNIX and Windows platforms and setting up the Development, Testing and Production environments.  • Implemented server-side Restful web services for external vendors to access our applications.  • E-Commerce platforms (Shopify, WooCommerce, Magento, etc.). Work Experience Sr. Web UI Developer CSI Companies - Arlington, VA April 2019 to June 2019 As a lead developer, I created UI components for Intrusion Data Visualization Software.  Responsibilities:  • React Component Development using Bootstrap  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Database Development using ArangoDB Foxx Services and the Cursor API  • Node Development Using Express Frameworks  • Link Graph Development using D3 and Keylines Components  • MERN Stack Development using NPM and Bootstrap  • Data Visualization using Elastic Search and Kibana    Languages Used: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, ReactJS, Bootstrap, Node, Express, JavaScript, JSON, SOAP, Apache, NFS, RESTful Webservices, linux, Junit, Rest API, Elastic Search, Kibana Sr. Web UI Developer/ Team Lead ITC Defense - Crystal City, VA August 2018 to December 2018 As a team lead and developer, I guided the team to an important milestone in the SLDC. Using technologies like Java and Angular I was able to lead the group of developers to follow the development schedule.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Cross-Domain Mobile App: Developed cross platform mobile apps Hybrid App using JQuery, Backbone Model, Collections, Views and JQuery Plugins.  • Added various features like JQuery Animations, Slides, Dialog, Modal Pop-Ups, Controls, Slide-Out Menu, Slide-Over, Carousal, Action Items, Infinite Scroll, etc.  • Used Phonegap while building hybrid apps.  • Database implementations using SQLite.  • Geo Fencing and Placing Locations GIS  • UI development using SASS and TypeScript, RxJS  • Use Applicable Technologies to Analyze Layers of GIS Data  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Manipulating GIS data in Real Time.  • Geo Fencing and Placing Locations GIS  • Java JDK 7/8 using Spring Framework and Hibernate  • Leading the Daily Scrum and Providing Alternative Solutions    Languages Used: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, PhoneGap, Android and IOS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSON, Jquery, SOAP, Apache, NFS, RESTful Webservices, linux, Junit, HPALM Rest API, Jquery, AJAX, Bootstrap Sr. Web UI Developer ByteCubed LLC - Crystal City, VA May 2012 to August 2018 As a Front- end Developer I worked on a project that supports reporting data for small business grants. The project allows for small businesses to see reports that aid in the granting process and application process. While at this position I worked in an Agile environment using Angular and Scala based technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Database implementations using SQLite.  • Geo Fencing and Placing Locations GIS  • Leading the Daily Scrum and Providing Guidance and Mentorship  • Creating New Controllers using Scala  • Java JDK 7/8 using Spring Framework and Hibernate  • Git for source control and pipeline integration  • UI development using SASS, CSS and TypeScript, RxJS  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Feasibility Analysis and Alternative Solution Integration    Languages Used: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, PhoneGap, Android and IOS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSON, Jquery, SOAP, Apache, NFS, RESTful Webservices, linux, Junit, HPALM Rest API, Jquery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular Front End Web Developer American Airlines, Inc May 2017 to March 2018 As a Front- end Developer (FED) in the Tech Ops department, in the process of creating a centralized location for data to improve data analytics, trending, dashboards, and reporting, I have been providing direction for the future development of all front- end technologies (CSS3, HTML5, DOM, JavaScript, JSP, Apache Tiles, etc.) used on AA.com. Working closely with business owners, product owners, business analysts, project managers, UX leadership and graphic designers, and J2EE developers and tech leads. Effectively using the Agile project methodology. Am responsible for establishing and executing the User Experience Front End Technology vision using industry best practices and standards for AA.com user interface (UI) development. Strong focus is in Front End Development but also, I create functional web based solutions, assisting Tech Ops in developing the tools necessary to create standard and custom reports utilizing reference data.    Responsibilities:  • Collaborating in an environment to rapidly iterate and prototype digital products  • Developing front end applications and dashboards using strong DOM Markup, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS.  • Leading technical solutions throughout the entire product lifecycle, from initial explorations through final design deliverables  • Creating pixel perfect visuals with cross browser compatibility (especially Internet Explorer)  • Developing with bandwidth optimization in mind  • Applying up to date web development methods and use a solid understanding of good design principles  • Writing clean, well-organized and fully documented code  • Develop custom components and directives using angular 4/5/6  • Implement custom templates for reusability and sustainability  • UI development using SASS, CSS and TypeScript, RxJS  • Angular/2 with Angular Material UI Framework development  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Mobile Development Using Java SE 7  • ASP.NET - Visual Studio/MVC Modelling/C#/SQL Server/Blend and Azure  • Java JDK 7/8 using Spring Framework and Hibernate  • Git for source control and pipeline integration  • Microservice development using Java 9 Spring Framework with Que  • Tomcat development using a proxy with Slack API integration  • Designing, developing and unit testing web based applications in accordance with established standards  • Producing and delivering final assets using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript frameworks (jQuery, jQueryUI, etc.) for AA.com  • Producing and delivering WCAG 2.0 compliant technical solutions for accessibility  • Producing technical solutions throughout the entire product lifecycle, from initial explorations through final design deliverables such as screen layouts, user interface elements, and prototypes  • Translating usability and field research findings into design/function improvements  • Collaborating with AA.com Interactive Marketing and Publishing teams to develop cross-product solutions  • Communicating technology strategy and rationale to key stakeholders and project member(s)  • Documenting AA.com front- end technology standards and procedures  • Working in an Agile team environment using two-week sprints for delivery of production quality code  • Contributing to a culture of innovation and teamwork  • Pushing the boundaries of what's possible to create better experiences for our users  • Semantic HTML5  • CSS3, SASS/SCSS/LESS/COMPASS implementation and best practices    Languages Used: MySQL, Angular 2+, Bootstrap 4, ng-bootstrap, Less Sass, Grunt, Gulp, DHTML + JavaScript + CSS3 + Ajax, Knockout, WebAPI, REST, SOAP, MongoDB, SQLite Short Contract DDC Public Affairs - Washington, DC March 2017 to May 2017 Web/Mobile Application Developer - Phonegap    A responsive web application that is being taken to the App Store and Google Play Store by wrapping it in PhoneGap's WebView and building a few credential-based workflows in the PhoneGap application. My responsibilities were a highly consultative and hands-on development, leaning on deep experience with PhoneGap and Cordova plugins to help guide through implementation decisions and ensure that the application is review accepted by each application store.    Responsibilities:  • A firm understanding of identity management in each native application store.  • Working with a team of interested and talented software engineers, product managers and a software architect to impart deep knowledge of the application store environments, the PhoneGap environment, its constructs and constraints, implementation patterns, best practices, recommended definitive Cordova plugins for phone API integration, and with engineers, set up continuous integration and build automation environment(s).  • Delivers the application to each store and ensure the team can take full ownership of all aspects of the application.  • The mobile application is designed using Sencha Touch 1.1, HTML5, CSS3 and PhoneGap APIs.  • Android: using the sqlite4java library (sqlite 3.8.7 embedded) and iOS: sqlite 3.8.9 embedded; WP8: performance/stability issues have been reported with the CSharp-SQLite library. Windows (universal) platform.  • Flurry Analytics Phonegap Plugin for android, IOS (Updated). etc.  • API to open the database may be changed somewhat to be more streamlined.  • Helps determine resources & strategy needed at various stages of development  • Optimizes team productivity through reduction of overall people-hours in meetings  • Creates/alters processes to improve team engagement  • Git for source control and pipeline integration  • UI development using SASS, CSS and TypeScript, RxJS  • ASP.NET - Visual Studio/MVC Modelling/C#/SQL Server/Blend and Azure  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Develops custom controls for integration with Kentico CMS that utilized it's given API structure  • Assists with any issues and find technical & non-technical solutions (i.e. process, workload balancing) to keep team unblocked  • Fixes difficult bugs and refactor code as needed for optimization in structure & better readability  • Assists in product planning by pointing out technical challenges/ability with various UI/UX paradigms and helped explore consequences of various decisions  • Builds rapid prototype for user testing experimenting with complex drag and drop interactions  • Sets up applications for team to have optimized development experience  • Angular 2 frontend applications with hot module replacement & test coverage  • Node.js microservice with hapi & websockets, AVA for testing, nyc/istanbul for test coverage  • Coding AngularJS 2 and writing them in ES6.    Languages Used: MySQL, Angular 2+, Bootstrap 4, ng-bootstrap, Less Sass, Phonegap, Cordova, Sencha Touch, Grunt, Gulp, Python, PHP + DHTML + JavaScript + CSS3 + Ajax, Knockout, WebAPI, REST, SOAP, MongoDB, SQLite Lead Software Engineer - Web UI/Angular (.Net) Development Earthlink - Fairfax, VA March 2016 to March 2017 I am currently managing a team of 3 web developers working on building the company's main website using Ruby on Rails, Javascript, and HTML/CSS. I represent my department as the point of contact for Project Managers, Creative Team leaders, and company founders. Additionally, my contributions for this project is being a Full Stack Developer; I have done 100 percent of the Front- End coding and about 80 percent Back End coding. The main focus of this project is to specify templates directly in HTML and extend its syntax of AngularJS 2.0. Some of the lofty goals using AngularJS's template compiler in 2 are:  • Simplify the directive API  • Integrate with other component frameworks using web standards  • Improve performance  • Allow tools like IDEs to analyze and validate templates    Responsibilities:  • Helps determine resources & strategy needed at various stages of development  • Optimizes team productivity through reduction of overall people-hours in meetings  • Creates/alters processes to improve team engagement  • UI development using SASS and TypeScript, RxJS  • Manages team of 10-15 software engineers ( developers & QA)  • Develops custom controls for integration with Kentico CMS that utilized its given API structure  • Assists with any issues and find technical & non-technical solutions (i.e. process, workload balancing) to keep team unblocked    • Perform PCI audits on front- end pull requests and add bug fixes to features on a large-scale, multi-repository billing interface project using AngularJS, LESS, HTML5, Git, and Gulp/Grunt    • Takes on QA story work for writing automated Selenium tests when QA engineers are overwhelmed  • Fixes difficult bugs and refactor code as needed for optimization in structure & better readability  • Assists in product planning by pointing out technical challenges/ability with various UI/UX paradigms and helped explore consequences of various decisions  • Builds rapid prototype for user testing experimenting with complex drag and drop interactions  • Sets up applications for team to have optimized development experience  • Java JDK 7/8 using Spring Framework and Hibernate  • Angular 2 frontend applications with hot module replacement & test coverage  • Node.js microservice with hapi & websockets, AVA for testing, nyc/istanbul for test coverage  • Builds highly modular drag and drop module in Angular 2 without any third party libraries  • Creates abstractions to make QA automation code simpler & more readable  • Identifies actionable testing strategies to improve QA engineer performance  • Dockerisation of services/web applications, in order to reduce environment-related issues.  • Coding AngularJS 2 and writing them in ES6.  • ASP.NET - Visual Studio/MVC Modelling/C#/SQL Server/Blend and Azure  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • By using JavaScript + jQuery + Restful Web-Services + JSON in front, and Node.js(ExpressJS) + MongoDB in the backend, I created an animation JavaScript application to perfectly implement this feature.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, JQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML    Languages Used: Kentico CMS, React, Redux, GraphQL, OAuth2.0, Webpack, Babel, ObjectiveSugar, Lockbox, FBSDKCoreKit, FBSDKLoginKit, Adjust, AFNetworking, Alamofire, PromiseKit, OCMapper, RestKit, Express, Mocha, Chai Node.js v4, hapi, socket.io, redis, MySQL, .Net, rxjs, Angular 2+, Bootstrap 4, ng-bootstrap, Selenium, Less Sass, Grunt, Gulp, Java, Python, PHP + DHTML + JavaScript + CSS3 + Ajax + Oracle, Perl + Perl Modules, Ruby on Rails, DBD: Oracle, DBI, XML: Twig etc., RedHat, MVC4, linux, HTML5, LESS, JQuery, ReactJS, Karma, Jasmine, NodeJS, GitHub, .NET 4.5, MVC, NHibernate, C# 5.0, web service (WCF), Bootstrap, Knockout, WebAPI, REST, SOAP, MongoDB Lead Full Stack Web Developer NJVC - O'Fallon, IL September 2015 to March 2016 Angular, Backbone, KnockOut & EmberJS/ReactJS, Express, Node, Marionette, MongoDB) - We have now created a revamped version of this platform, based on Ruby on Rails, with SaaS delivery. On this platform, my responsibilities have involved creating new interfaces for the front end, developing our services on all levels, and creating a more intuitive feel for the market. This SaaS (Software as a Service) platform is implemented with MEAN-stack (MongoDB, Express web framework, AngularJS, NodeJS).    Responsibilities:  • A lot of EmberJS development with heavy Angular, Backbone, KnockOut, React and heavy JavaScript with Ajax, asynchronous processing, and web 2.0.  • Developing consumer ready Native Android Applications - Hybrid Mobile Applications Android/iOS/Mobile Web using Phonegap, Javascript, JQuery.  • Android Technical Lead and point of contact for all Android development, while building hybrid mobile applications using Phonegap.  • Developed the administrative UI using Backbone.js and Backbone.Marionette.js.  • On Frontend, using AngularJS directives, services, filters, controllers, templates, several design patterns, to implement rich functionality in various pages: advertisers' comparison, PDF documents integration, annotation on PDF, zoom/rotation, user authentication by passport.js, form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, server-side proxy, unit tests, Amazon S3 cloud integration etc.  • On Server-side, to implement advertisement documents store and access. Node Express servers process and proxy http-requests, email processing, documents upload, events control flows; MongoDB for data storage and access, DB schemas validation, Mongoose Restangular access; Amazon S3 Cloud Service for PDF/documents storage.  • The project is integrated with Codeship, version control by git/github, project management by pivotaltracker, task management by grunt/Gruntfile.js, components management by bower, syntax checking with jshint, Unit test using Jasmine and Karma.  • XHTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, and JSON/XML as well as JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, and GruntJS  • Some of the technologies I have been working with are: HTML5, CSS3, JS, Jquery, Phonegap/Cordova/Sencha and other JS libraries  • MVC JavaScript frameworks such as Angular, Node, Backbone, Ember, Jasmin and React to implement Web and Mobile apps.  • Used a commercial Content Management Systems - Kentico CMS for creation of custom components and website creation  • Implementing MySQL in Caching technologies like Populating and managing the Cache.  • Created a build script using Gulp.js and Node.js for internal use  • Built the application with ReactJS, with client custom architecture built over MVC4  • Built a WCF service which was developed for other applications to send data to our application  • Client-Side code were written in ReactJS/JQuery and Server-Side Code were developed using MVC4  • Debugs and profiles Node.js applications  • Experience in implementing MySQL.  • ASP.NET - Visual Studio/MVC Modelling/C#/SQL Server/Blend and Azure  • Tomcat Development using Version 7 and Spring Hibernate technologies  • Configure and management of Apache reverse proxy for backend WebLogic server using mod-proxy module.  • Build RESTful Web services using JAX-RS API  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Install and configured email solution on RedHat Enterprise OS  Know how to use a standard style and JavaScript framework to bring the prototype to life as semi-functional HTML, JavaScript and CSS, using the various frameworks and infrastructure currently in place  • Using a lot of languages such as C# /4.0/ 3.5/ 2.0, VB.Net, ASP.Net 4.5/ 3.5/ 2.0/1.1/Classic Asp, JavaScript, JQuery, ReactJS, WebAPI, AngularJS, NodeJs  • Ruby on Rails (~>3), HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SCSS, jQuery, TDD (Test::Unit, Rspec), Scrum, Git, Wireframing  • Extensive training on Ruby, JavaScript, Rails, HTML/CSS, Backbone.js, team projects, project presentations, and coding challenges. Built 30+ applications.  Languages Used: JavaScript, JSON, SOAP, Apache, NFS, RESTful Webservices, linux, Junit, HPALM Rest API, Cucumber, Jquery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular, Backbone, Marionette, KnockOut, ExpressJS, NodeJS, EmberJS, ReactJS, Red Hat Enterprise OS, JavaScript Framework, Ruby on Rails, MongoDB Java Full Stack Developer DAON Inc - Fairfax, VA January 2015 to June 2015 As a Front- end Developer I worked on a project that supports TSA Precheck for Homeland Security. The project allows for users to sign up online and schedule an interview at a qualified shop/business.  Responsibilities:  • Biometrics Fingerprint and Face Capture  • Custom Biometrics Capture using Daon specific JavaScript framework  • Leading the Daily Scrum and Providing Guidance and Mentorship  • Java JDK 7/8 using Spring Framework and Hibernate  • Git for source control and pipeline integration  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Feasibility Analysis and Alternative Solution Integration    Languages Used: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Jquery, SOAP, Apache, NFS, RESTful Webservices, linux, Junit, HPALM Rest API, Jquery, AJAX, Bootstrap Senior Programmer Analyst National Grid - Brooklyn, NY November 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Managed 40-50 projects and worked with contractors to ensure jobs complied with contract terms.  • Developed Custom Project Management Tracking Software to Organize Work.  • Designed Custom Project Manager to coordinate field teams.  • Implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful service.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Provided JSON response format to support various service clients.  • Relational Database SQL Postgres, Oracle, Microsoft SQL MySQL  • Focusing on web applications for insurance business. Already developed 5 websites for agents, agency, carriers and other customer services.  • PHP: Agent & Agency Managements; Document Lookup; Google Maps app; PDF generator; Case Management; Commission Admin; etc.  • Besides above, also used Drupal CMS to manage user accounts and customize applications.  • Perl: Automatically download bulky data from secured websites, parse and extract data into Oracle DB; XML Data Transferring; Application integration  • Projects: Sports Arena, Cemetery, Schools, Police Station, Water Treatment. Designer, Web Developer/Programmer Consolidated Edison - New York, NY September 2007 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on large scale projects by estimating and resource planning for construction.  • Worked on Gas Construction Estimating Program Project LengthVB.Net.  • Worked on some specific web developing, as well as Construction management administration software.  • By using PHP/MySQL/jQuery/CSS/jQuery-UI, developed some web apps.  • By using Perl's Agile MVC framework Catalyst, I implemented a web application for presenting and switching data with legacy Oracle Database.  • ASP.NET - Visual Studio/MVC Modelling/C#/SQL Server/Blend and Azure  • Microsoft architecture using ASP.NET  • Mobile Development Using Java SE 6/7  • Delivered experience with the design and implementation of enterprise web applications  • Demonstrated the ability to analyze and implement enhancements to existing legacy based applications. I provided experience in developing programs that would interface with back- end databases (e.g. Oracle. MS SQL)  • Ensured that all information was present in the proper sequencing, formatting, and functionality to satisfy all user  • UIX quality requirements for the client. I worked on business and technical requirements teams.  • Web design and development using SharePoint and Ruby on Rails, ASP.NET/Visual Studio 2010 and MVC.  • Projects: Trump Towers and Oil to Gas. Gas Estimating Software. Education Associates Degree in Accounting Southern New Hampshire University 2016 Skills Front-End, Javascript, UI, React, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/marlon-gaines-4920aa39