Camera Sales Professional Camera Sales Professional Lincoln City, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Camera Sales Professional The Shutterbug - Lincoln City, OR September 2016 to Present • Sell a broad range of photo-related products meeting the highest-level of customer satisfaction.  • Resolve specific customer questions.  • Accurately operate retail cash register system, capturing proper sales information for all transactions.  • Assist with photofinishing customers. Sales Associate and Cashier Old Navy - Lincoln City, OR June 2016 to October 2016 • Welcomed customers with a smile and set the expectations for service.   • Educated customers about the benefits of the Old Navy Card.  • Followed all cash handling procedures per company guidelines. Retail Merchandiser Advantage Sales & Marketing - Portland, OR March 2015 to June 2016 • Merchandising, reset, display changes, and inventory projects for national retailers and brands (Proctor&Gamble, Microsoft, Target, Best Buy) in the Portland metro area.  • Managed two pet supplies departments at Fred Meyer stores.   • Accountable for logging call reports, mileage, administrative time.  • Built relationships with retailers for positive sales and merchandising outcomes. CMS Specialist 24Seven Talent - Portland, OR May 2015 to July 2015 • Client Web site updates for a 150 year-old Oregon company.  • Wrote HTML and CSS in a content management system. Digital Printing Specialist (Seasonal) GISI Marketing Group - Portland, OR June 2014 to September 2014 • Operated digital color printers, copiers, and CD/DVD printers.  • Output of customer files with Adobe Suite and Fiery EFI.  • Operated mailing, stuffing, and labeling equipment. Front End Web Developer CUI, Inc - Tualatin, OR February 2013 to January 2014 • Designed, built, modified high quality external and internal corporate  Web properties extending and refreshing the brand.  • Created wireframes resulting in improved user flow.  • Improved search performance.  • Developed HTML newsletters increasing brand reach.  • Managed digital collateral including photos, prototypes, Web fonts. Art Director & Web Designer ProSchools - Portland, OR February 2005 to March 2012 • Completed Web site migration from hand-coded pages to Kentico, a .NET-based Content Management System.  • Supported three WordPress blogs and Social Media platform.  • Introduced search visibility and analytics into the company.  • Designed and produced all print marketing materials.  • Solved persistent printing issues by implementing PDF workflow.  • Reduced printing and mailing costs with improved designs. Graphic Artist Everybody's Garden Center - Portland, OR May 2002 to September 2004 • Managed department of three designers.  • Produced corporate point-of-purchase/point-of-sale materials, direct mail, national advertising, trade show materials, kiosks, and Web design.  • Developed internal digital product image library and product ID system.  • Created style guides.  • Won 2003 HMA Best in Show Award. Graphic Artist Emerald Studios - Portland, OR April 2000 to April 2001 • Extensive production work including silkscreen color separations. 4-color printing, advertising, and Web.  • Worked directly with clients and vendors satisfying project design goals and budget requirements. Education Certificate in Search Marketing & Visibility Search Academy - Portland, OR 2008 Marketing Portland Community College - Portland, OR August 2002 to May 2005 Certificate in Electronic Publishing U of O - Portland, OR 1997 Art Eastern Montana College - Billings, MT 1992 Diploma Billings Senior High School 1990 Links http://www.misterfusion.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/misterfusion Awards Portland Ad Federation Merit Award 1998 Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Graphic Art, Layout, Illustration, Presentations, Writing, Editing, Publications, Wireframing, CMS, UI/UX, Advertising Appeals, Social Media, Mac & Windows    Personal Skills  • Commercially focused  • Strategic thinker  • Keen sense of humor  • Open to direction