UX, Front- End Dev & Product Strategist UX, <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Dev &amp; Product Strategist UX & Product Strategy Woodstock, GA Specializing in enterprise-wide UX oriented strategies, bringing products to market quickly and developing high quality User Experiences for web apps and a wide range of other applications with a heavy emphasis on usability, structure, innovation and design. Experienced at working with executives to help define their Product & UX Strategies, build and train design & development teams, manage corporate branding and lead UI design & development projects.  Http://www.axelsson.net/jim/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX, Front- End Dev & Product Strategist Woo.IQ (TechSafari) - Roswell, GA November 2017 to Present Having previously helped the founders of Tea Leaves Health (TechSafari) create their last company, which was sold to Everyday Health for an estimated $30 million; I was recruited to help envision another new product. Over the past two years, my small team diligently worked to create a blazing fast Customer Profiling engine that allows our customers to easily upload and interact with their data in a whole new way; to discover hidden audiences and locations for each individual product across 250 million people, on the fly.    UX Architect, Front- End Developer and Product Strategist  • Led the Product Strategy development from inception to beta customers  • Designed the User Experience, Model and Workflow for the application  • Developed the mobile-first responsive front end UI using ReactJS, JavaScript, Stylus CSS, OpenStreetMaps and Geocoding with MapBox GL JS  • Created interactive cross-filtering graphs and self customizing dashboards  • Created a mapping UI able to plot millions of filtered prospects on the fly, using a geospatial hexagonal interface (based on Uber’s H3) to make finding new prospective customers easier. UX & Product Development Itential - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to November 2017 Itential is a Network Orchestration and SDN start up in midtown Atlanta. After having built up a number of large clients, they were ready to build out a suite of products; which is when I was brought on board. Since everyone else at the company was a back- end developer, I led both development and design on the front- end. In my time there the company grew from 20 to 80 employees.    UX Architect / Front End Developer  • In charge of designing and developing the Mobile-First User Interface for all the products in the Suite.  • Developed a semantic HTML5/CSS3 structure for the front end.  • Created many tools such as a Form Renderer that quickly creates customizable responsive web forms based on JSON data for customer projects.  • Leveraging my experience to create a product suite strategy that both builds reusable components and delivers quickly on feature requests with the products long term evolution in mind.  • Due to customer needs, moved the front end from AngularJS to a framework agnostic front end.  • Mentoring junior developers on the best way to approach customer projects. UX Director The Network (acq. by Navex Global) - Norcross, GA August 2014 to April 2016 The Network is a leading SaaS provider in the Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) field. While the company has been around for 30 years it was only in the last 5 that they switched over to becoming a software company. Having a range of products that had grown organically at different speeds, they were having trouble delivering on the promise of an integrated suite experience. Navex Global acquired The Network in August of 2015.    • Worked with CEO and other executives to understand the vision and potential of the company in order to lay out our medium to long-term strategy.  • Worked closely with 5 Product Managers and 30 Remote Developers across 5 teams to align the products to that single vision while still delivering immediate results.  • Worked closely with the System Architects to help them understand how to optimize the structure to deliver a better holistic experience with more actionable intelligence.  • Lead the effort to unify the products within the suite to share more components for faster delivery of new features to more places.  • Helped train the BA and other team members to better understand how to approach managing and optimizing a SaaS platform.  • Instituted Dual-Track Scrum across a team of 40 developers, architects and product managers in order to help correct many of the short sighted problems we were experiencing with Agile Development on a distributed SaaS platform.  • Lead the transition to Fluid and Responsive HTML5 across the company.  • Trained and worked closely with developers on our Responsive HTML5 strategy,  including coding and prototyping.  • Lead the User Experience Design, Workflow Analysis and Mental Modeling efforts. UX / Product Architect Snapfinger (acq. by Tillster/EMN8) - Alpharetta, GA April 2013 to August 2014 Snapfinger is an online ordering company supporting fast casual and quick service restaurant brands like CPK, Romano's, Steak 'n Shake, Blimpie's, Zaxby's and many more. Having been one of the early companies in the business they had plateaud with their current solutions and were ready for a change. With too many customized applications for web and mobile devices and a long lead-time to launch branded sites, they were a great opportunity for a brand new approach. In just a few months we were able to completely re-envision their product strategy.  Snapfinger was acquired by EMN8 for $30 million in July 2013 forming Tillster. The combined Tillster plans to move all their online ordering to our new platform.    • Upon joining the company, worked with the leadership team to lead the analysis and re-envisioning of the structure and management of their menus.  • Proposed and developed a completely new Mobile-First HTML5 (Responsive Web) strategy that allows the company to have a single platform to deliver to any device.  • Worked with the .Net development team to lead the creation of a new Menu Manager application that is intended to become a self service solution for their clients.  • In charge of UX design, Information Architecture, HTML5, JavaScript and JQuery coding.  • Created a customization strategy that allows for complete flexibility for branding by the in-house design team, while making maintenance and innovation much easier. Consultant June 2011 to April 2013 Due to high demand for UX specialists and a number of opportunities, I decided to take a few short-term consulting projects with tight deadlines. This also allowing me some time to search for more opportunities where I could help a company grow and position itself well for the future.    IHG - UX Manager (Consultant)  • In charge of Design, Branding and UX Strategy for InterContinental Hotels Group's $100 million project to re-envision their reservation system.  • Put together a solid Creative, UX, IA Team to execute the strategy on multiple tracks simultaneously.  • Developed a Responsive Web Strategy and UX Vision for the project. Because the new reservation system will be a part of the bigger eco-system, recommended and managed an initiative to envision the future state of their Hotel Management System, enlisting executives and associates from around the world for brainstorming and collaboration.  • Developed a Task Oriented unified UI strategy with the goal of bringing many disparate systems together in one Responsive Web based UI.  • In charge of agency relationships and outsourcing to augment staffing and additional design needs.    Tech Safari - UX Architect / Product Strategist (Consultant)  • Designed two flagship Medical CRM Systems called Tea Leaves Health and Physicianology (a successful spin-off from Tech Safari), which allows hospitals to communicate with their patients, prospect and physicians using a simple map-based interface that allows them to navigate and search their vast data warehouse and create customized direct mail, email and text messages. Tea Leaves Health was acquired by Everyday Health for a healthy sum.    Maldivica - UX Architect / Product Strategist (Consultant)  • Designed a flagship product for local Cloud Storage start-up Maldivica, which delivers secure data mobilization to enterprises looking to more easily move into the Cloud.    Cox Communications - UX Architect (Consultant)  • Designed the Customer Community/Support Forum for Cox Communications, a nationwide cable TV, internet & phone provide. Worked with several departments, created wireframes using Visio, designed the community in Photoshop/Illustrator and prepared the design for the .Net developers. UX Manager Internap June 2010 to June 2011 Internap is a global Internet connectivity, cloud computing and content distribution company headquartered in Atlanta. Founded in 1996, the company had grown stagnant and needed to find a way to innovate and begin to grow again. With too many separately managed services, I was brought on to redesign their entire application infrastructure to simplify and standardize the User Experience so we could focus on building next generation products.    UX Manager  • Put together and lead a team of IA's, UI Designers and CSS Developers.  • Worked regularly with several Product Managers and Directors to brainstorm and design the next generation features of their respective products as well as ensure UX consistency across the enterprise.  • Produced Wireframes, Final UI Designs, HTML mockups, UX Analysis Reviews, Workflow Diagrams, Product Requirement Documents and Functional Spec Documents regularly across multiple projects.  • Designed and championed a new unified Application Portal infrastructure allowing the company to more easily cross-sell services to customers by simplifying the sign up and upgrade processes.  • Designed a User Account Management system to allow our Network Operations Center to support, maintain and log all customer interactions through the same interface. This simplified their process and allowed Internap to more easily bring new features and services to market.  • Developed CSS and worked closely with a dozen developers to implement and fine tune our UI designs, ensuring that the UX was designed for mobile devices as well.  • Completely redesigned the Content Delivery Network to make features more reusable, allow it to grow in a more organized way and help the user more easily find and use all of its functions.  • Worked with Product Managers and Directors to design Internap's new Cloud Storage and Cloud Computing services to be released in Q3 2011.  • The new Application Portal design also allowed us to integrate our services more tightly and made it easier for the customers to publish and cross manage their Cloud Storage Content on our Content Delivery Network.  • Created and designed a proposal for the next generation PlayStream.com to be based on our CDN infrastructure and become a streaming media publishing service.  • Designed a new interface and structure that simplified the management of and usage of our Accelerated IP service (XIP). UX Manager (Consultant) EyeWonder (acq. by Limelight) October 2009 to May 2010 Oct 2009-May 2010  EyeWonder is an international rich media advertising company located in Atlanta. The company had been growing rapidly and needed to rebuild their entire internal and client facing system to meet current needs and maintain an edge on the competition. An additional goal was to position the company well for being acquired. Limelight Networks acquired EyeWonder in April of 2010 for $110 million.    • Designed the user experience of their new system to meet their growing needs and position it well for future expansion.  • Worked closely with the Product Manager, Business Analysts, Development Managers, 25 Developers, 3 UI designers, 3 QA specialists and several executives.  • Met regularly with many departments to analyze and verify business processes.  • Created easy to understand wireframes and worked closely with the development team using AJAX, C#, .Net, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, Photoshop, Illustrator and Flash.  • Developed a corporate UI Design Guide to help everyone stay consistent with the details and overall vision of the project.  • Advised the Project Manager on how to avoid pitfalls in an agile environment. UX Architect Access Insurance March 2009 to October 2009 Access Insurance is a fast growing automobile insurance company with approximately 270k insured and thousands of daily online users. They realized the need to unify their development processes and bring together all their tools into a cohesive User Experience. Working closely with the system architect, the project took about 6 months and resulted in several new user interfaces across the enterprise, a cohesive user experience and helped them rethink their overall UI structure.    • Created wireframes, reusable UI design elements, overall UX application structure and a style guide to help them in future development projects.  • Designed a new intuitive web based policy quote system, initially targeted for use by 1200 insurance agents in the first state, then rolling out to 7 additional states.  • Charged with redesigning and unifying the entire User Experience across all their applications; using C#, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Lead the user experience reengineering initiative; analyzing how to enhance the UI and create a cohesive environment for the end users. UX & Product Architect / Creative Director A Closer Look 2005 to 2009 A Closer Look is contracted by clients such as Capital Grille, P.F. Chang's and Hilton Hotels to provide them with customized mystery shopping services and reports in order to closely monitor all their locations. The ACL application has 120 corporate clients and approximately 20,000 active users doing 25,000 mystery shops per year. Because of the wide range of users, the application needed to be easily understood by anyone upon first login.    • Redesigned the application interface and structure, making it simple to access a wide range of tools within 3 clicks.  • Designed the interface around information workflow in order to optimize usability.  • Served as .Net team leader, helping transition the company to the .Net platform.  • Led the rebuilding of the system from the ground up around Natural User Interaction principles using C#, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, SQL, PhotoShop and Adobe Illustrator.  • Exploring, prototyping and developing products, such as a Survey Response Tool.  • Redesigned their corporate identity and marketing materials for a cohesive look.  • Photographed their new marketing images in order to get a consistent look and feel. Interactive Marketing Manager / UX Designer & .Net Developer XcelleNet (acq. by iAnywhere/Sybase/SAP) 2003 to 2005 2003-2005  An international software company specializing in mobile and remote systems management. XcelleNet was acquired by iAnywhere/Sybase/SAP in 2004 for $95 million.    Interactive Marketing Manager / UX Designer & .Net Developer  Lead the company's web, interactive marketing and graphic design team. Personally in charge of designing & developing a new dynamic website and XML based Flash projects as well as corporate identity management and interactive marketing campaigns worldwide.  • Designed User Interfaces for PC and mobile platforms including product packaging.  • Designed & Developed a new website and publication system using ASP.Net, VB.Net, allowing employees worldwide to initiate and measure the effectiveness of campaigns.  • Developed interactive Flash presentations for websites and for partners such as HP and Microsoft, which runs on Pocket PC's and other smartphones.  • Created a user behavior tracking system for their website.  • Created a permission marketing system that gave the sales and marketing teams access to potential customers through marketing campaigns and online forms.  • Designed and executed measurable direct/e-mail marketing campaigns.  • Worked with IT staff to integrate the new website and tracking system with other systems such as the sales and customers databases.  • Headed up Search Engine Optimization and spider optimization projects. Interim Creative Director The Abovo Group 2003 to 2003 The Creative Director at Abovo was on Extended Leave and they needed someone who could fill in at all stages of their existing and new projects. This was a great opportunity to brush up on agency and design experience. Creative Services Manager E3 Corp (acq. by JDA Software Group) 1998 to 2002 A $300 million software company with 1500 employees and offices in 21 countries. JDA acquired E3, a best-of-breed supply chain company in 2001 for approximately $50 million.    Creative Services Manager - JDA  In charge of designing and developing web interfaces, collateral and multimedia projects for a worldwide audience. Reporting to the VP of Marketing. Worked closely with the CEO and other executives.  • Designed a Flash, ASP and XML based corporate website, as well as developed and integrated a translation, publication and tracking engine for the site.  • Integrated 20 regional websites into one multilingual site updated by offices worldwide, resulting in one message, shared information, and saving $100,000/year.  • Designed the GUI for JDA's B2B Collaboration portal, and added XML based news output capabilities from intranet publication engine.  • Requested by President and CPO to design the GUI, identity and logo for JDA's new suite of products.  • Reworked the website and e-Newsletters into lead generation tools which funneled the leads directly to the appropriate sales team.  • Helped design a new corporate identity and worldwide collateral/marketing materials.  • Created Macromedia Flash and Director animations and presentations.    Creative Services Manager - E3  In charge of creating and managing web, Flash, design, GUI and multimedia projects. Supervised third-party projects. Reported to the VP of Marketing.  • Designed and developed E3's dynamic and interactive corporate website integrating 9 regional websites into one multilingual site updated by 12 offices, saving $250,000 in development and maintenance costs.  • Designed the GUI for E3's B2B collaboration portal.  • Created a 3D Natural User Interface (NUI) for E3's executive decision support tool.  • Designed a customer support portal to facilitate communication and distribute product updates and documentation more cost-effectively.  • Created Macromedia Flash and Director animations and presentations.  • Internally developed and produced multimedia CD-ROMs, saving an estimated $50,000+ in outsourcing costs.  • Developed a user conference database to enable registration, seminar assignment, tracking and customized schedules for each attendee saving $25,000 per event.  • Developed a translation, publication and tracking engine for the international website.  • Developed a system that assigned values to marketing activities to automatically track effectiveness and ROI for executives.  • Trained and managed other web developers. Web Developer & Graphic Designer Elite Systems, Inc 1998 to 1998 Served as the only designer and interactive developer at a 10-person start up consulting firm in Alpharetta, GA.  • Designed and developed intranets and websites for clients such as SunTrust, Ply-Mart and Southern Company.  • Designed GUI's for all of Elite's consulting projects.  • Designed Elite's corporate identity and website. Interactive Multimedia Developer & Graphic Designer IBM Interactive Media 1997 to 1998 One of three developers on the Chrysler Showcase touch screen kiosk. An innovative three million dollar project used at over 5000 dealerships and malls around the US.  • Developed the multilingual ThinkPad Essentials CD using MPEG video.  • Developed the MCI Marketing Communications CD, a customizable sales presentation tool kit. Multimedia Developer & Graphic Designer E3 Corp 1993 to 1996 Education B.F.A. in Computer Graphics Syracuse University Skills User Experience, Wireframe, UX, Axure, Sketch, Omnigraffle, User Interface, Adobe, UI Links http://www.axelsson.net/jim Additional Information KEY SKILLS    Microsoft Visio, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Balsamiq, iRise, ASP.Net, HTML, DHTML, XML, HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, Jquery, ExtJS, Visual Studio .Net, C#, Visual Basic, T-SQL, SQL Server, Stored Procedures, IIS, Premiere, After Effects, Final Cut Pro, Adobe Flash, Flash Video (FLV), Acrobat, Director, MS Project, ComponentArt, Dundas Charts, ChartFX, PowerPoint, Alias|Wavefront, 3DStudio, Quark, Fireworks, Windows, Macintosh, Photography, Streaming Media/Video, Swedish, Italian, German and English.