Integration Intake & Continuous Improvement Lead / Change Request Management Consultant Integration Intake &amp; Continuous Improvement Lead / Change Request Management Consultant Analytical, organized professional with 10+ years’ success in client-facing roles including 5+ years of supervisory experience. Charleston, SC Innovative and proactive leader with passion for project management and focus on quality, consistency, and customer success. Outstanding interpersonal skills leveraged to drive employee engagement, facilitate activities throughout multidisciplinary onshore and offshore teams, and gain consensus among key stakeholders at all levels. Capable of liaising with clients to gather requirements, defining project scope and goals, and working internally to develop and deliver comprehensive technical solutions. Organized approach to balancing multiple concurrent initiatives; managing deliverables changes, and expectations; and achieving expected outcomes within demanding timelines and budgets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Integration Intake & Continuous Improvement Lead / Change Request Management Consultant Benefitfocus.com, Inc - Charleston, SC May 2018 to Present Led team of five offshore intake analysts, two onshore intake coordinators, and two integration project managers. Provide guidance, coaching, and mentoring to staff to support achievement of personal and professional goals. Collaborate with multidisciplinary teams to develop scope, budget, and timelines for incoming integration projects and ensure timely production of deliverables.  Key Accomplishments:  • Continuously identify opportunities for improvement by adding an integration intake process that prevented missed workflow deadlines and consolidating integrated confluence documentation to improve efficiency and process outcomes.  • Championed a workforce management program, known as ActiveOps, on behalf of the integrations department.  • Developed Salesforce reports and a 2019 capacity model to help 50 team members track workflow efficiency in real time, resulting in more projects completed by assigned deadlines and improved customer satisfaction outcomes.   • Streamlined and defined internal processes to provide transparent structure for executing change requests for ongoing business, resulting in fewer customer escalations.  • Orchestrated 800+ in-flight change requests involving extensive cross-functional teamwork. Lead Test Analyst / Configuration Testing Analyst Benefitfocus.com, Inc - Charleston, SC September 2014 to May 2018 Motivated, trained, and directed up to 12 geographically distributed associates to skillfully and thoroughly complete configuration testing activities. Liaised with implementation consultants, configuration consultants, supervisors, and team members to bridge communication gaps and ensure workflow aligned with organizational goals. Meticulously validated and resolved configuration issues and provided thorough documentation.  Key Accomplishments:  • Steered team to complete 100% of testing coverage for open enrollment by collaborating with internal team to obtain resources at high-volume times, building an effective capacity model, and sustaining daily team productivity.  • Authored enterprise-wide processes for configuration testing and improved QA process for carrier groups to enhance user experience, testing efficiency, and accuracy.  • Received multiple accolades from clients, consultants, and senior management for advanced problem-solving and analytical skills as well as steadfast dedication to business success. Creative Director Flipventures / Black Web Marketing - Mount Pleasant, SC February 2013 to June 2014 Collaborated with managers, developers, and clients to identify requirements, develop project scope, manage expectations and milestones, and provide status reports. Provided comprehensive responses to request for proposals (RFP) regarding web design and maintenance activities.  Key Accomplishments:  • Facilitated teamwork for timely production of custom website on CodeIgniter and Wordpress.  • Designed and maintained six Wordpress-based websites generating majority of company revenue.  • Slashed man-hours/month by 40+ by developing effective Excel spreadsheets. Owner/Graphic & Web Designer STEPHANIE SCHULTZ DESIGN - Charleston, SC September 2007 to May 2013 • Created steady growth of client base from October 2011 through referral based marketing  • Formulated effective online marketing strategies to include website, email marketing, and social media management for small business clients  • Developed identity packages and custom graphics to client specifications  • Maintain hosting agreements to minimize site downtime and ensure site and database backups  • Executed development & maintenance of websites Graphic Designer, Web Designer & Front End Developer Summerville, SC September 2012 to February 2013 • Designed and developed client websites for deployment on multiple platforms  • Manage multiple customer hosting and email accounts  • Worked with management and clients to establish project needs and strategies and collaborate to implement plans effectively  • Created print advertising for local media outlets  • Designed and printed identity pieces and collateral marketing material for multiple clients Engineering Laboratory Technician UNITED STATES NAVY November 1999 to June 2001 Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Web Design and Interactive Media ART INSTITUTE OF CHARLESTON - Charleston, SC June 2011 Associate in Science TRIDENT TECHNICAL COLLEGE - North Charleston, SC Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Saleforce (3 years), Adobe Creative Suite (9 years), JIRA (2 years), Web Design (9 years), Web Development (7 years), Google Analytics (7 years), Training (3 years), Testing (2 years), Visual Design (10+ years), FTP (7 years), MySQL (2 years), Organizational, Change Management Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 November 1997 to June 2002 Served on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower as an Engineering Laboratory Technician. Commendations: Navy Achievement Medal, 2002 Certifications/Licenses Group Benefits Associate December 2026