Graphic Design - Web Design Graphic Design - Web Design Graphic Design + UI/UX Design + Web Design + CSS3/ HTML5 + Branding + Digital Marketing Orlando, FL Jon Burton is a creative professional and has become the industries most requested designer.     Multitalented professional Web/Graphic Designer with extensive experience in Print Design, Multimedia, Digital Marketing and Web Development. Exceptional collaborative and interpersonal skills; dynamic team player with well-developed written and verbal communication abilities. Highly skilled and at building and maintaining “win-win” partnerships. Passionate and inventive creator of effective strategies, campaigns, and design; accustomed to performing in deadline-driven environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graphic Design - Web Design EPIC ENGINEERING - Orlando, FL October 2018 to Present • Consulted with Creative Director and assisted in developing UI Design concepts  • Translated complex engineering schematics into simplified and clear illustrations and maps utilizing Adobe Creative Cloud  • Assisted in layouts and output of printed material such as proposals, media kits.  • Assisted in the development and maintenance of functional responsive websites and e-newsletters  • Produced intuitive UI Design for various web applications Freelance Web & Graphic Designer Jon Burton Design - Jon Burton | www.jonburtondesign.com - Orlando, FL January 2006 to Present • Freeelancer Front- End Developer - Digital Marketing - Graphic Design Crystal Clear Digital Marketing - Orlando, FL September 2016 to January 2018 • Successfully branded cosmetic and dental practice websites with custom logos, font and look feel  • Working knowledge of Adobe CC including, Photoshop, Indesign, Illustrator, DreamWeaver, After Effects, Edge Animate and Media Encoder CC  • Successfully created branding graphics for clients print campaigns and drip email marketing initiatives  • Worked collaboratively with clients to build, schedule and QA email and social media marketing campaigns  • Designed HTML5 drip email campaigns for multiple clients to advertise newsletters and product specials  • Created videos, animated images and multimedia assets with Adobe CC, After Effects and Edge Animate  • Executed front- end web development using hand-coding HTML5 and CSS3 in Wordpress Framework  • Worked with Creative Director to create a client-facing email campaign builder with pre-designed templates  • Mentored junior designers on graphic/web designs trends, best practices and effective composition layouts Design/ Program Analyst & Talent Acquisition (special project contractual) The Walt Disney Company - Lake Buena Vista, FL March 2016 to September 2016 • Monitored Disney’s online job portal to analyze user behavior and click rates to generate SEM paid search reports  • Created retargeting tags via Tealuim Tag Manager to track, user click behavior on Disney's global career portal  • Analyzed low metrics using Adobe SiteCatalyst/Omniture and implemented ideas to improve click rates  • Added Indeed tags to analyze data from Indeed server hand-off through Disney’s job application process  • Worked in Disney's job portals via Safari/ Chrome/ Firefox developer consoles to debug and test retargeting tags  • Designed wireframe concepts and mobile-first UI/UX for Disney’s global job portal website  • Updated CMS with new content, brand images and ensured page layout displayed properly on desktop and PC Web Design/Graphic Design/ Multimedia CDP Orlando - Orlando, FL March 2014 to March 2016 • Conceptualized and designed political campaign collateral, T-shirts/hats and magazine layouts for advertisements  • Successfully story-boarded and produced television commercials for immediate cable broadcast locally  • Designed business cards, stationery, flyers, book covers, billboards and other print pieces for advertising  • Utilized Adobe Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator and Adobe Acrobat Pro to create dynamic print collateral  • Conceptualized and designed HTML5/CSS3 emails for large enterprises and small business startups  • Utilized mobile responsive media queries for mobile-first HTML/CSS design within the Wordpress framework  • Successfully reformatted Wordpress themes with Visual Composer, CSS3/ HTLM5, jQuery and Bootstrap library  • Tested urls for special characters, length, file extensions, complexity and uppercase characters.  • Integrated payment gateways and merchant API's such as PayPay to sync with CMS eCommerce functions  • Coded for the web in staging environments and Managed WordPress server including site migrations/URL redirects Visual Design & Development Consultant Pandera Systems - Orlando, FL April 2013 to February 2014 • Designed company corporate brochures, training documents and product catalogs for print and online  • Successfully produce company videos utilizing After Effects to advertise events, new products and services  • Design interface mockups, wireframes and UI/UX concepts for visual references used in development  • Designed visual assets needed to build interactive IOS data-driven dashboards within a Microstrategy Framework  • Traveled on site to work with our remote development team as a Visual Designer & Development Consultant  • Designed event flyers, Keynote speaker “Save-the-Dates” and magazine advertising for internal marketing initiatives  • Created dynamic branding images for use on the company’s blog post, social media pages and company website Education Associate in Web Design & Interactive Media Art Institute of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA Graphic Design (coursework applied) in Graphic Design Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA Skills GRAPHIC DESIGN (3 years), CMS (2 years), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (2 years), MARKETING (2 years), WEB DESIGN (2 years), Indesign, Typography, Adobe, Photoshop, Motion, Dreamweaver, Acrobat, Social Media Management, Digital Marketing, SEO, HTML, Social Media Marketing, Advertising, Wordpress Links http://jonburtondesign.com/ Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E3/SN Boatswain's Mate (BM) January 2003 to March 2007 • Deployed in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) engagements. Pacific Fleet (USPACFLT) sailor aboard USS Russell DD59 - Pearl Harbor Naval Station, Hawaii Commendations: • Navy & Marine Corps Achievement Medal Awards Navy & Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2007-03 • The Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal is awarded to members of the Armed Forces, including members of Reserve components on active or inactive duty, of the grade of lieutenant commander/major and below. The award shall be presented for meritorious service or achievement in combat or non-combat circumstances based on sustained performance or specific achievement of a superlative nature, and shall be of such merit as to warrant more recognition than is possible by a fitness report or performance evaluation, but which is not significant enough to justify a Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal or higher. Groups Art Institute Atlanta Alumni Present • The Art Institute of Atlanta is an institution with a rich history of academic achievement. We are a private college of creative professional studies that prepares students for careers in design, media, and culinary arts. Our academic programs are formulated with industry input. To ensure that our students are equipped with skills and competencies that are aligned with industry standards, we have taken the extra measure in the development of our curriculum to provide a career-oriented education that addresses the multifaceted needs of an emerging global market.    https://www.artinstitutes.edu/atlanta Publications Interactive Digital Portfolio Booklet http://jonburtondesign.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Jon-Burton-Interactive-Portfolio.pdf 2019-05 Visual Portfolio support document  • Download it TODAY! Additional Information Skills    1. CSS3, HTML5  2. Adobe Creative Cloud, Creative Suite  3. Digital Marketing, Social Media  4. Marketing  5. Video Editing  6. Web Design,  7. Graphic Design  8. CMS, Wordpress  9. Analytics, Google Analytics,  10. User Experience Design, User Interface Design, UI, Front End    Links    Online Portfolio: http://jonburtondesign.com    Bio:  Jon Burton is a digital design professional with more than 8 years of experience as a Graphic Artist/Web Designer with additional skills in Video and Music Production. Jon's success in multimedia and design begin with completing an extensive art school curriculum covering composition layouts, iconography, art history, color psychology, Marketing/Advertising, video production, WC3 compliant coding to include CSS3/HTML5.    Jon has also acquired skills in packaging design, corporate branding, UI/UX mockups for web and mobile apps including visual story-boarding. He has studied both independently and collectively within industry standards exercised at Louisiana Tech University and The Art Institute of Atlanta -- accredited by The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges.    Jon excels at analyzing visual needs for design and is excellent at translating creative ideas into potential company branding or user experience for the web as it relates to strategic marketing and advertising strategies. Jon's design standards are creative innovations all in-line with the latest industry trends happening now. From concept to completion, he approaches design by blending creativity with strategy, art with technology and design with business.    As a creative designer, Jon has helped develop specific company branding and has enhanced existing corporate identities - working alongside companies ranging from small business to international enterprises with knowledge of both the visual and technical tactics required for delivery.    Jon can integrate well with any team and understands that differentiated deliverables that are relevant and coherent are those that will be valued by both its internal and external audiences.