Demand Planning Analyst Demand Planning Analyst a stellar mix of project management, technology and business analytics Worthington, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Demand Planning Analyst JPMORGAN CHASE & CO - Columbus, OH May 2014 to Present Ensure that the Business Banking annual technology book of work is well-defined, prioritized, budgeted and implemented to meet the goals and objectives of the Firm and program sponsors. Use project management and business analysis skills in an Agile environment to plan technology demand and follow those projects to deployment through quarterly releases. Provide insight and visibility into the process for Business Banking Sales & Strategy Support and our partners.  • Drive and track the timely completion of key deliverable for technology release project candidates, such as project documentation, requirements, estimates, design, and commitment.  • Provide oversight and transparency into Business Banking technology quarterly releases by gathering information into a central repository and distributing a weekly project status report.  • Plan and coordinate activities for coordinated and warranty releases, including status calls, tracking issues and mitigating risks.  • Manage a backlog of ~80 small technology enhancement requests; ensuring that each request flows smoothly through prioritization, estimation, scheduling, development and implementation. Business Analysis & Reporting Analyst JPMORGAN CHASE & CO - Columbus, OH May 2014 to April 2018 Hand-picked to stand up a process improvement group within to reduce customer pain points. Led a team which focused on reporting and automation to provide the Enhanced Root Cause Analysis Group with information to discuss issues and recommend solutions to Home Lending partners. Managed the group's production and quality statistics.  • Improved quality, consistency, and reliability by automating manual tasks, identifying opportunities to eliminate or reduce manual intervention and potential user errors.  • Designed and implemented a quality control process for action items to improve response rate and response quality from business partners.  • Gather and analyze data to create monthly, quarterly, yearly reports (trends, themes, emerging issues, etc.).  • Present root cause analysis findings to the Home Lending lines of business and other partners (Risk & Controls, Compliance, etc.). RCSA Senior Control Analyst JPMORGAN CHASE & CO - Columbus, OH June 2013 to May 2014 Responsible for data management, control, and integrity for all facets of data used by the Department of Justice Controls team which evaluates risks and tested controls as established by the Department of Justice/National Mortgage Settlement.  • Created and maintained a SharePoint reporting dashboard which met regulatory standards to track controls testing and house testing results.  • Gathered and analyzed data to create production reporting, executive presentation decks and other ad-hoc reporting.  • Built strong relationships with process and data owners to identify gaps and implement solutions to improve processes and strengthen controls. Project Manager JPMORGAN CHASE & CO - Columbus, OH June 2012 to June 2013 Provided leadership to inbound and outbound mortgage loan transfers within the Loan Transfers group that were essential to the strategic objective to improve the strength and profitability of Home Lending and the Firm. Engaged internal departments and drove the timely completion of required tasks as well as ensured that both parties received the complete and accurate data needed for a successful transfer.  • Worked within a pre-determined timeline, engaged stakeholder, planned tasks and deliverables, built teams from cross-functional departments, presented project status to executives and steering committees, managed issues and risks and process improvement.  • Developed new tools that are now used for all transfer projects: SharePoint site templates for document repository and issue/risk tracking, and a high-level deliverables checklist with timeline.  • Managed transfer of 19,000 loans worth $3 billion to a sub-servicing vendor. Planned and led all phases of the transfer, working with over 20 internal groups. Designed the project plan and ensured that the internal groups had plans in place to complete their tasks to meet the timeline. Business Analyst & Project Manager/Business Analyst I JPMORGAN CHASE & CO - Columbus, OH November 2010 to June 2012 Performed both Project Manager and Business Analyst tasks for a variety of system and reporting projects while in Loan Administration Automation Services. Managed concurrent internal projects through all phase of the Systems Development Life Cycle.  • Defined the goals and purpose of projects, scoping and planning, stakeholder engagement, building cross-functional team, gathering and analyzing requirements, coordinating development and testing, resolving conflicts, training, managing risk and issues, and identifying lessons learned.  • Led and supported over 20 projects in 18 months to automate manual or non-standard processes by creating .NET applications or reporting suites. Client Operations Manager and Front- End PERL Developer MANTA MEDIA - Columbus, OH 2004 to 2010 With both Business Analysis and Project Management responsibilities, I worked with external clients to identify their needs, analyze business problems and managed the projects that implemented the solutions. I increased the effectiveness and profitability of e-commerce websites created and maintained for publishers such as The Gale Group, McGraw-Hill, Standard and Poor’s, J.D. Power, and LexisNexis.   • Served as liaison between external clients and internal teams to elicit, analyze, communicate and validate requirements and create specifications for enhancements and new applications  • Led project team of 14 members during a year-long initiative to redesign the Manta flagship property from inception to successful launch  • Promoted from Web Developer and Lead Developer roles Web Designer HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL - SENSING & CONTROL - Columbus, OH 2002 to 2004 As a Web Designer/ Developer and Marketing Department contributor, I increased product sales by providing information about products and their applications to customers. I developed and maintained the Honeywell Sensotec website which ranged from product data sheets and interactive product selectors to a virtual tour of the production facility and a distributor locator tool.  • Led 6+ month project to fully redesign and reorganize 1,000+ page marketing and product site from static HTML to ASP.NET  • Designed web applications that utilized ADO to access product, customer, and distributor data from database Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Columbus, OH Bachelor of Arts in Business and Applied Economics in Applied Economics The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Minor in City and Regional Planning The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Skills Excel, database, training Certifications/Licenses Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) May 2018 to Present Cicerone Certified Beer Server June 2019 to Present Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wok2gwemd-jrbi52 Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ngqiybpc8ft2uncl Data Analysis — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9oly-ln2hpu8l2cb Critical Thinking — Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4o9w3kgcad9o2ujw Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient June 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cygzzzw2dasjcsll Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient June 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mml-4qb67uhv27re Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.