Co-Owner Co-Owner Website Consultant - PR.Business Sunrise, FL Work Experience Co-Owner SecondHand Goddess August 2016 to Present • Act as President and Treasurer for the company.  • Assist in developing ideas for new product lines.  • Manage social media presence across Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Writer/Editor The Evolving DM November 2015 to Present Blogger  • Write posts related to Dungeons and Dragons and the roleplaying game industry.  • Edit posts for content, clarity, and conciseness.  • Publish the posts on a semiregular schedule.  • Promote posts cross social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Google+, and LinkedIn. Website Consultant PR.Business July 2018 to June 2019 • Do a screen sharing presentation with a client to show them their website.  • Edit or create copy for client websites while on the phone.  • Make minor revisions using either the Wix or WordPress platform while on the phone with the client.  • Make major revisions off the phone, while setting expectations with the client on follow up appointment  • As necessary, design new websites in Wix or WordPress, depending upon the client.  • For some clients, go into their existing websites and make changes, regardless of platform. Front End Developer Q Interactive April 2010 to January 2017 • Building responsive, mobile friendly, cross-browser compatible projects ranging from landing pages to web based lead generation forms for clients.  • Bridging the gap between graphical design and technical implementation.  • Optimizing code and web assets for max speed.  • Collaborating with other team members to improve internal work flow.  • Assist with maintaining internal standards and practices.    7/2008 - 3/2009, Newtek Business Services Assistant Vice President Client Relations November 2008 to March 2009 • Participate in various outbound calling campaigns to current customers to make to make them aware of other business services.  • Make appropriate referrals to business unit for follow up.  • Trouble shoot customer issues and make necessary referrals to business support teams. Business Service Specialist July 2008 to November 2008 • Handle in bound phone calls, emails, and live chats for web hosting subsidiary.  • Make out bound calls to attract interest.  • Have cursory knowledge of all sister company products and ability to direct clients to the proper sister company for more information. Special Education Teacher New York City Department of Education September 2005 to March 2008 • Teach grades 6 - 8, all subjects, but with a focus on math and science.  • Prepare and update students' IEP. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Multimedia and Web Design Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale April 2000 to March 2004 Bachelor of Arts degree in Communication and Sociology DePaul University August 1994 to June 1998 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, HTML5, SASS, WORDPRESS (Less than 1 year) Links http://theevolvingdm.wordpress.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS:  HTML5 JavaScript WordPress  CSS3 jQuery  SASS Git