Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Integra Technologies Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Front- End Developer Integra Technologies - Wilmington, DE January 2018 to Present • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the application.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner by using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 as per company standards.  • Developed tabbed pages using AJAX, Angular.js and Node.js for quick view of related content,  scores, top stories, and headlines.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap.js which allowed the same application to be  optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript and Angular.js codes to build web forms and simulate  process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used AJAX and JSON with JQuery to fetch and post the data to the backend.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add  dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding  elements, etc.).  • Worked with databases like MySQL to read data from the server.  • Involved in finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Discussed various ideas/suggestions for the ongoing web sites regarding the page layout and creative design. Junior Front- End Developer Amber Solutions - IN July 2014 to August 2015 • Created a single page application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript  • Used jQuery, AJAX via JSON to request data and update the HTML page.  • Created dynamic dropdown lists using jQuery.  • Involved in complete SDLC from Requirement, Analysis, Development through Integration testing.  • Responsible for cross-browser compatibility like Safari, Firefox, Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Used directives and modules to create reusable components to use across projects.  • Worked on CSS for design and templates for the web pages. Used Bootstrap to make the pages  responsive and creative. Used Git for source code management and Jenkins to build the code.  • Debugged the application using the manual testing and developer tools.  • Worked with clients and gather requirements and developed as per their needs and requirements. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JSS Academy of Technical Education (VTU) - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 Skills Adobe Photoshop (Less than 1 year), AJAX (2 years), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), C (Less than 1 year), databases (1 year), Dreamweaver. (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), HTML5 (1 year), Java (1 year), JavaScript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), JSON (2 years), Life Cycle (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), MATLAB (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Photoshop (Less than 1 year), SDLC (1 year), Front End, UI, User Interface, CSS3, Front-End