Senior Front End Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Software Engineer Senior Front End Software Engineer - TALIX San Francisco, CA § Trained, led and managed remote and on-site teams in all aspects of software development, prioritizing, delegating tasks and  making sound decisions quickly while maintaining focus on the bottom line.  § Successfully founded and managed own profitable startup.  § Known for simplistic, clean, and easy-to-use design that leverages new technologies and industry best practices.  § Successfully cultivated positive relationships with clients and colleagues, adept at communicating with clarity and diplomacy to  individuals from diverse and cultural backgrounds.  § Able to present both technical and abstract concepts in a clear and concise manner to non-technical business stakeholders. Work Experience Senior Front End Software Engineer TALIX - San Francisco, CA August 2018 to Present Partner with product managers and backend engineers to build best-in-class cross-browser web applications  § Continuously improve the front- end code base with a focus on testability, maintainability, and performance.  § Contribute to / lead architecture, tools, standards and best practices for the engineering organization.  § Migrated AngularJS 1.x legacy UI to ReactJS  § Tools: JavaScript, ES6, Typescript, Cypress, ReactJS, AngularJS, LESS, A/B Testing, Agile, JIRA, Gulp, Webpack, MobX, Gulp Software Engineer, User Interface (UI) Lead CLEVER - San Francisco, CA February 2018 to August 2018 Lead all Front End development efforts  § Manage timelines and deliverables for Front End projects  § Mentor Junior developers  § Manage deployment of Front End production releases  § Tools: JavaScript, AngularJS, Gulp, Selenium/Webdriver, Mocha, Jasmine Software Engineer CLEVER - San Francisco, CA June 2015 to February 2018 Develop single-page enterprise responsive applications from the ground up, predominantly in JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery,  Bootstrap, and PHP, for nearly 8K members and Program managers consuming data from a Python/Django backend.  § Lead Front- End Engineering efforts for new and existing applications, planning, developing and delivering projects in tight  timelines with exceptionally high quality.  § Maintain and refurbish proprietary JavaScript tracking pixel as needed.  § Drive SEO efforts to improve online traffic, bringing corporate website from ~~~~~~ to page one on Google and BING within 45  days. Part-Time JavaScript Mentor V School ò - Salt Lake City, UT February 2016 to March 2017 Assist Faculty in educating students on JavaScript and some of its major libraries/frameworks.  § Prepare course projects and provide mentoring and coaching to ensure all students understand and can apply the material.  § Provide the instructors with feedback on coursework and student progress. Web Developer Rapid Claim ò - Provo, UT May 2015 to June 2015 Worked in a customized MEAN/MEEN stack environment, coordinating with designers and developers to complete tasks with stringent timelines while achieving high quality.  § Conducted routine maintenance of existing sites and applications to ensure ~~~~~~ functionality.  § Brainstormed technical and workflow solutions with clients and other developers.  § Contributed to the technical assessment, scope definition, analysis, design, implementation, & testing of large projects. Web Developer Coding Campus ò - Provo, UT April 2015 to June 2015 Built experience as part of a cross-functional team to develop web-based applications, completing all deliverables on time and to client requirements.  § Worked in SCRUM/Agile environment, focused on Full-Stack Javascript (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, jQuery, and NodeJS)  and responsive web design.  § Demonstrated the mature understanding of the entire development process, including design, specification, documentation,  implementation, and testing of web applications. Engineering Manager Mobile Express Contact Solutions - Iloilo City August 2008 to January 2015 Led and managed a team of Technical Support, Web, and SDK Engineers in a deadline-driven environment.  § Participated in sales and marketing efforts, working directly with clients across Singapore, the UK, US, and Australia.  § Managed operations of business and major client accounts to ensure all projects were received with high satisfaction.  § Directed Business Process Outsourcing Services, leading both in-house and remote teams in Search Engine Optimization (SEO),  back-office work, web development, and other services. Technical Sales/Support Engineer R&B Import and Export Trading - Iloilo City 2007 to 2007 Technical Sales & Support Engineer ECHO Communications and Development Corporation - Iloilo City 2007 to 2007 Texas Instruments, Baguio City 2006 to 2007 EURO-Wireless TEST Engineering Product Support Group Cable Engineering Intern, Cable Engineering Department GLOBE Telecommunications - Cebu City 2005 to 2005 Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Enterprise Applications American Public University 2020 Bachelor's of Science in Engineering in Electronics and Communications Central Philippine University 2006 Skills Account management (Less than 1 year), Application development (Less than 1 year), Business development (Less than 1 year), Design/development (Less than 1 year), marketing (6 years), Front End, Angular, Javascript, React, UI Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ervinkleitz http://òwww.github.com/ervinkleitz Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  § New Business Development § Website Application Development § Project Management  § Software Design/Development § Account Management § Digital Marketing  § Technical Solutions/Improvements § Performance Development § Troubleshooting  § Team Training & Management § Data Implementation Strategies § Production Planning