Senior UI Designer / Developer Senior UI Designer / <span class="hl">Developer</span> I've worked as a director, manager, and developer for 10 years. Austin, TX My career began as a developer with a focus on interactive experiences, ranging from single page applications to interactive web experiences that focused on marketing products that appealed to targeted users.    While my career path has had a focus on front end development, I also have been drawn into leadership roles as my experience grew. I became a manager or director of departments where I was involved with managing not just projects, but the cross-discipline team members involved in these projects. While managing a department, I was also actively involved with the development work.    If you take some time to look through my resume, you will learn more of how I have built departments while also driving projects from their infancy through to end product delivery. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Designer / Developer Software Advice - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present USER EXPERIENCE  • Designed and developed interactive prototypes and experiments to be performed using Optimizely, Userzoom, or Hotjar tests.  • Researched and developed creative solutions with the back- end engineering team members, to perform feature specific A/B tests.    DEVELOPMENT  • Worked with Vanilla Javascript, SCSS, and Angular.  • Collaborated between UX and Engineering departments to find an efficient method of delivering a robust pattern library.  • Improved application performance by doing things like reducing DOM Node Counts by introducing lightweight SCSS / SVG components. User Interface Department Director Indigo Slate - Bellevue, WA September 2015 to Present DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT  - Led the growth of a development department from 2 front- end developers to 12 front and back- end developers.  - Managed the integration of a growing development team into a primarily creative agency environment and workflow.  - Directed cross-department collaboration between the development, design, motion, business analysis, and QA departments.   - Actively managed department resourcing needs through involvement with both active and upcoming work.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT  - Managed team’s projects in their entirety, including initial client pitches, creative or development phases, and final delivery.  - Led client and internal stakeholder meetings pertaining to both ongoing and upcoming projects.  - Acted as a final approver of design and development work before final asset delivery or deployment.  - Managed critique and review sessions through the design and development team’s project workflows.    TEAM INVOLVEMENT  - Provided mentorship and guidance on development troubleshooting, bug resolution, and best practices.  - Coached development team members to grow comfortable working with Creative Suite products.  - Actively contributed to development projects. Principle User Interface Developer Indigo Slate - Bellevue, WA March 2015 to September 2015 DEVELOPMENT  - Extensive work with CSS3 / JavaScript animation libraries and their introduction to highly interactive web experiences.  - Additional focus on user interface development for single page applications by pairing with user experience designers.  - Contributed to interactive kiosk development used in-stores and at conferences through Unity and Chrome Applications.    RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT  - Experimented with the concept of Augmented Reality development, and how this could be used as a marketing tool.  - Explored the concepts of navigating websites beyond a linear format through multi-layered depth of field interactions.    DESIGN COLLABORATION  - Led the introduction of cross-discipline department collaboration through interactive critiques and co-working.  - Educated the creative team on web development basics to provide guidance during the design phase of web projects. Senior UX/UI Developer PageDNA LLC - Seattle, WA October 2011 to March 2015 OVERVIEW  Worked with a development team focused on the continuous improvement of a SaaS Web-to-print application. The product was originally built in a Python environment, however the product was being rebuilt using AngularJS.     My development primarily focused on creating new and improved user interface solutions to streamline the product user flow and interaction.     HIGHLIGHT  Later in my time with the company, my role became focused on pairing the front- end development and visual design teams more directly with the engineering teams.     This collaboration led to greatly improving the product design process, which in turn led to releasing full application re-designs smoothly and effectively. Lead Developer/Designer Norpac Fisheries Export - Seattle, WA May 2010 to November 2011 OVERVIEW  Worked as the lead developer for a small team based in both Seattle and Hawaii. The role involved introducing new internal and external tools and services, while maintaining the existing company branding and identity.    HIGHLIGHT  Designed and developed a mobile barcode scanning application to be used in a variety of grocery stores. This application was built to provide information for consumers include: GPS coordinates of the catch location, nutrition facts, paired recipes and wines. Front- end Developer Pacific Software Publishing - Bellevue, WA November 2008 to May 2010 Education BFA in Visual Media Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY Skills Team management (5 years), Development (10+ years), Visual Design (10+ years), User Interface Design (7 years), Product Management (5 years), Project Management (7 years), Creative Direction (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Executive Support (5 years), Team Building (7 years), Front End, Javascript, UI, Sketch (2 years), Abstract (2 years), InVision (3 years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years) Links http://www.mattmichaels.info