Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - First USA/Bank One Raleigh, NC • Overall 8+ years of experience in IT for Client-Server, Web-Based, Desktop, Mobile applications, Web Services in Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, CSS /CSS3 and JavaScript frameworks like JQuery UI, Node.js, AngularJS, DOM, AJAX, Content Management System, XAMP technology and MVC framework.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, XUL, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, XML, JSON and Ajax.  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including model view controller(MVC), event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON and XML  • Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Angular 2.0, Node.js, Express.js, Backbone.js , Ember.js Underscore.js, React.js D3.js Ext.JS, Pdf.js, Spine.js, Responsive web design. (RWD).  • Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RESTful API, restful and UDDI.  • Experience in developing Web-centric applications using XML, Angular.js2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Photoshop, and Dreamweaver. Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Experience in developing various UI widgets using JQuery, worked with JQuery library.  • Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Strong Experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS 1.x and Angular JS 2.  • Experience in designing table less web applications using with the help of CSS 3.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards Used Jasmine and karma for productive java script unit testing.  • Experience on React js on the front end styled using SCSS.  • Attend Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for each story card in a sprint  • Strong analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. Demonstrated track record of analyzing situations, implementing solutions in a fast paced environment.  • Active involvement in designing and developing real-time projects/enterprise applications, starting from the requirements analysis/design stages and through the whole Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good communication skills and quick learning ability.  • Highly passionate and curious about new Front- End development technologies and has ability in mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments.  • Has strong communication and interpersonal skills and is a committed team player. Work Experience Senior UI Developer First USA/Bank One - Milwaukee, WI October 2016 to Present FIT Engine: The FIT Engine is a Web based multi-tier home equity mortgage application that enables tele-lenders to process a loan or line of credit application in real time. This distributed objects system is developed with HTML based thin client and JAVA servlets and enterprise Javabeans middle-tier deployed in WebLogic application server. The Oracle database server provides storage as the application is processed, while the Netscape server offloads gateway activities to the clients from the WebLogic server. Call center agents enter applications from potential customers into the Fit Engine through a Web browser interface. At a certain point, the FIT engine talks to Magnum mainframe through MQ series which scores the customer credit based on credit bureau records. EJBs of Weblogic sever receives the score and implements all other lending policies, and eventually renders HTML pages to Fit Engine to display various products that Call Center agents can offer to the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Involved in developing the single page web applications using MVC frameworks like Angular2  • Involved in developing mobile version of web application using Bootstrap libraries.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript  • Built SPA with loading multiple views using route services using Angular2 and NodeJS  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2 and NodeJS.  • Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation.  • Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes and injectables.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Worked with advanced JavaScript concepts like Closures, Prototype and Inheritance.  • Used Node.js to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable network  application.  • Used Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node Js.  • Created various Mongo-DB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the application.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of attributes using jQuery.  • Implemented front end user interface and features in the application using AJAX.  • Created and tested scripts on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE, etc.  • Written unit test scripts for controllers, filters and services using karma and Jasmine.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily SCRUM meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Developed web pages using MEAN stack software bundle( MongoDB, Express.js, AngularJS (or Angular), and Node.js).  • Worked with Angular.js routers, forms, modules, DOM, events, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using Node.js, AJAX and JSON  • Worked with Bit bucket and GIT makes projects more organized while preventing data loss when changes are made to source code.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the Customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts 1.2, Ajax and Java Script.  • Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using DHTML, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by  • implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Adobe Flex and Developed Jasper report.  • Created Clear Case VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  • Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Core developer of the application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front- end architecture usingAJAX.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server Side components using Servlets on Eclipse.  • Mentored/trained a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML  design documents.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate  Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML/ XSLT, HTML and CSS.  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, BootStrap3, JSON, AJAX, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Web logic, APACHE CXF, REST, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, SERVLET, Oracle, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, ITEXT, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Clear Case, Jasper report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA. Front End Developer Well mark blue cross blue shield - Des Moines, IA August 2014 to September 2016 Well mark blue cross blue shield is a health care legal advisory application for healthcare brokers. Application maintains all information's about their clients/customers for each and every claim. Claim can be initiated when clients/customer fail to follow the rules or process payments on time. Also application holds their entire attorney's and their claims. Application is designed with HTML, CSS3, Ajax, and Angular Js.    Responsibilities:  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed Server Pages Using JSP and validated Client Pages Using Java Script.  • Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front- end development.  • Developed the site layout/user interface from provided design concepts by using standard HTML5/CSS, JQuery practices.  • Developed the front- end web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design (RWD), Grunt and JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS.  • Worked with Project Managers and other members of the Development Team to both develop detailed specification documents with clear project deliverables and timelines, and to ensure timely completion of deliverables.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap using Subversion for version control.  • Worked with UX designers and back- end developers to analyze and enhance the performance of web pages.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation  • Developed content pages with CSS3 layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern using AngularJS and developed reusable components with AngularJS custom directives.  • Utilized CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts and CSS Sprites to improve performance and decrease page load speed.  • Implemented custom validation controls for various forms through AngularJS custom directives validation controls.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, NodeJS as server side technology.  • Worked on writing extensive unit tests using frameworks and test runners like Jasmine, Karma etc.  • Worked on CSS pre-processors like SASS and LESS.  • Developed Java Script utility objects for common client side validations, history handling, window management and menus management  • Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Extensively used IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features.  • Experience working on WebSphere Portal User management APIs.  • Implement web service components using JiBX and Apache CXF framework.  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for  • data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Involved in creating UI components using CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Coded Java backend, JSP, Struts, JavaScript, Business classes.  • Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS & DHTML  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript,  • AJAX.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online  services with Flash/Flex.  • Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front- End Framework.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML/ XSLT, HTML and CSS.  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere.  • Involved in configuring JNDI properties, data sources for Oracle, UDB, DB2 data bases in websphere.  • Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions and also performed polymorphic associations.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server Side components using Servlets on Eclipse.  • Mentored/trained a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML  design documents.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, Maven, Jetty.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Used Perl, Php and MySql to develop several personal web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  • Installed and configured IBM WebSphere Application Server on Linux,AIX,Solaris platforms.  • Used EJB,JMS,Java Script in enhancement of the product.  • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Followed Agile and SCRUM in development process.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using WATERFALL and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  • Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Adobe Flex and Developed Jasper report.  • Installed and configured plugins including Green Hopper, Bonfire, Subversion and Balsamiq  for JIRA and other Atlassian products.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Core developer of the application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front- end architecture using AJAX.  • Involved in publishing the web content in the portal site by using the Oracle ECM.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Configured Hibernate session factory in applicationcontext.XML to integrate Hibernate with Spring.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, BootStrap3, JSON, AJAX, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Websphere Portal, APACHE CXF, soap, Web, Services, DOJO, JavaScript, "Sencha ExtJS ", CSS, AJAX, Html5, JSP, JavaServer, SERVLET, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, ITEXT, XML, Oracle Enterprise Content Management (Oracle ECM ), GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, Subversion (SVN), Jasper report, ILOG, JRules, Scrum, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apachi TomcaT, Linux. PHP. Senior Web Developer Johnson Controls, Inc - Reston, VA June 2012 to July 2014 Supplier Invoice Router (SIR) is a custom application build to route Supplier Invoices to different JCI ERP System. The SIR Service component reads Invoices from Message Queue (MQ), applies routing rules and routes Invoices to the appropriate ERP System. If an Invoice doesn't meet the routing validation rules then it is stored in the database in exception state to be corrected by the user from the SIR UI Screen. The SIR UI component is a web based form which is used by the users to correct Invoices that are in exception state in the system. Apart for this users can run reports & search for rule data through this web based component. SIR is a custom message broker solution build with a configurable design to minimize the effort on maintenance and also have a scalable product.    Responsibilities:  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Implemented Client Side validations using Java Script  • Developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions.  • Used Framework., JDBC, Hibernate, Struts 2, EJB2, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Had good working experience in Java Scripting, Ajax for validating the Java server pages.  • Extensively used JSP, HTML, CSS, Java script for developing new pages.  • Some sample tests were incorporated using Multi-Threaded Java Applets, Java Scripts were used for playing audio clips and to the make the price lists interactive to the User.  • Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • I worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used.  • Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  • Database design and implementation of backend logic in DAO classes & iBatis SQL mapping.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and  • CSS.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Implemented Hibernate and Spring to replace EJBs in the earlier architecture.  • Developed Hibernate persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity Manager.  • Migration of Commerce and caWE applications to JBoss and code changes to remove weblogic specific EJB related dependencies.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server.  • Auto-Generation of client side code using APACHE AXIS2 with JAXB-RI binding.  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  • Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Involved in creation of web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, mysql.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Written and executed stored-procedures on SQL SERVER back- end through JDBC API.  • Designed and Installed Server software which included WebSphere 6.02, DB2, and DB2 Everyplace.  • Mentored/trained a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML  design documents.  • Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Used ANT for building the application and deployed on BEA WebLogic 8.1 Application Server.  • Configured Hibernate session factory in applicationcontext.XML to integrate Hibernate with Spring.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Designed the front end using Java Applets and Swing, as well as JSP.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) for source code maintenance.  • Created Active Reports in Cognos 10 as Proof of Concepts for offline reporting.  • Extensively used the BAL constructs to handle collections in ILOG. Worked with large data sets in ILOG.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  • Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Business layer implemented using Spring MVC and Enterprise layer using JMS - IBM MQ Series  which would in turn store the data on AS/400.  • During the life cycle of the project my responsibility also includes MySQL database administration and maintenance over Linux server.  • Deployed and tested the application on Weblogic7.0 in windows and Unix environment.  • Co-developed dynamic Ruby on Rails/HTML5 application highlighting numerous data  visualization of web metrics.  • Configured WordPress publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML,  CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  • Participate in architecting and engineering a Pinterest-style "style-board" that integrated w/  content from the Drupal CMS and Magento Shop systems via the server-side "core" API,  utilizing Backbone.js for client-side display logic and asynchronous communication with the server.  • Developed a .NET 4.0 desktop application using VB to process hardware products for a GSA  reseller that loads an XML data download, calculates prices, allows manipulation of the data, and exports the data into a variety of CSV files.  • Developed using VB, Asp, C/C++, some java, javascript, vbscript, SQL, ADO record sets,  ODBC and Com/DCom technologies, windows API. Utilized many of the significant internet  programming languages.  • Level 3 Application support, troubleshooting, and vendor management for the following  software products: mainframe IBM Java, mainframe IBM C++, Edge Portfolio Analyzer,  Subversion, XML Toolkit, IBM Language Environment (LE).  • Involved in developing PL/SQL stored procs and Informatica Workflows to migrate data from Legacy Mainframe/AS400 based systems.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Responsible for the design, development, unit testing, deployment and maintenance of COBOL and PL/I programs for two major projects:  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Reverse engineered and reengineered the Student Enrollment System for the Louisiana  Community Technical College System using VB and ASP.NET 2.0.    Environment: Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jboss, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, JQuery, JQuery, JSP, SERVLET, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, UML, Netbeans, SeleniuM, ANT, Xml, EMC Documentum, JIRA, SWING, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Cognos, ILOG, Water fall model. Lead Java Developer ABN AMRO - Albany, NY April 2010 to May 2012 ABN AMRO also provides investors and financial advisors with a broad range of brokerage, mutual fund, banking and other consumer financial products on an integrated basis. It provides its customers with latest financial market data and comprehensive research information as well as web trading. Quotes and news are distributed to clients in real time through Java Applets. "TradeFolio", a Java applet is a portfolio-tracking tool that allows clients to view real-time financial information, including news, latest prices, fundamentals and charts.    Responsibilities:  • High-level design and low-level design of AML UI, KYC Web Services, and ILOG JRules.  • Implementing of AML KYCS front end (Create Entity page, Search Entity page, Retrieve Entity page and Update Entity page) using JSP, Spring MVC framework.  • Generation of client jars for search Entity, Retrieve Entity, Create Entity and Update Entity web services.  • Integration of web services in AML Front end.    • Writing java client code for Search Entity, Retrieve Entity, Create Entity, Update Entity, and Associate management web services.  • Writing build scripts to generate client jars for Search Entity, Retrieve Entity, Create Entity, Update Entity, and Associate management web services using both axis2 and WebSphere runtime environments.  • Writing build scripts to generate front end ear using axis2.  • Integration of ILOG JRules with front end.  • Using Apache Commons Configuration API to read configuration data (appId, wsdl urls. etc) from DB2 for (AML FE).  • Creating the data source in WebSphere application server.  • SSO integration with AML front end.  • Designing and development of KYC search and GAR search SOA java web services.  • Writing java client code for KYC search and GAR search web services.  • Writing DOT NET client to access KYC Search and GAR search java web services which are used by DOT NET clients.  • Designing and development of kyc validation web service which is used for front end validations and an interface between front- end and ILog JRules.  • Leveraging Web Services with SAAJ for SOAP messaging.  • Utilizing Apache Commons Configuration API to read configuration data (appId, wsdl urls etc) from Oracle for (KYC Services).  • Creating the JDBC data source in WebLogic Application Server.  • Writing client side WS-Handlers to pass request context (Username, password, AppId, Person no) to the server side web service.  • Writing log handlers for web services.  • Writing Create Entity validation rules and kyc validation rules using ILOG JRules.  • Writing DML scripts to store application help text in DB2 database.  • Writing DML scripts to store config data in DB2 and Oracle database.  • Promoting DML scripts to DB2 and Oracle databases.  • Setting up Rational ClearCase (Thick Client) and Rational ClearCase Remote Client (CCRC) plug-in for Rational Application Developer, ILOG Rules studio and WebLogic workshop.  • Setting up Cruise Control to automate the build process, this will get the code from clear case and build the ear/jar files. This later replaced with Rational Build Forge.  • Code labeling, branching and writing config specs for ClearCase.  • Migrate EAR/JAR files to non-prod WebLogic/WebSphere/ILOG RES servers.  • Coordinating the AML production releases with WebLogic/WebSphere webadmin and DB2/Oracle DBA.  • Providing production support for AML FE, KYC web Services, and ILOG JRules.  • Leveraging WebLogic/WebSphere webadmin to resolve infrastructure issues like out of memory, java heap size, performance issues.  • Working with LT team to run the Load Test on AML application.  • Using Interoscope for performance monitoring.  • Coordinating with system admin to setup MQ environment.  • Creating queue managers and queues.  • Capacity planning of queues.  • Designing and implementing of Event Publish web service for publishing the events to MQ queue.    Environment: JDK, Rational Application Developer (RAD ), Spring MVC, AppFuse , AIX, Solaris, WebSphere Application Server, IBM HTTP Server V6.1.0.5, BEA WebLogic Application Server, ILOG JRULES V6.5(Rule Execution Server, Rule Team Server), DB2 V8.2, Oracle9i,10G, Axis2, Apache ANT, Rational Base Clear CasE, Cruise control, Rational ClearCase , Clear Case UCM, Rational ClearQuest7.0.1, Site minder Single Sing On, XML Spy, TOAD , Oracle, Toad, DB2, Interoscope7.1, Mercury Quality center, WebSphere MQ, M1, WebSphere Business Modeler, WebSphere Integration Developer, WebSphere Process Server, Websphere Business Monitor. Java Developer MCI - Ashburn, VA February 2008 to March 2010 The Access Optimization (AO) project has been implemented by ACELA to integrate several of Verizon's Networks provisioning systems like, NetPro, F&E, Cameo etc. The Access Optimization application accepts orders from NetPro, F&E and COMS, stores the order in the ICS transient database, and then interacts with:    • The CAMEO application, which determine the optimal path to provision the order. During the determination of the optimal path, CAMEO invokes the CFA Validation routine of the AO application. The CFA Validation routine in turn interacts with F&E, NetPro, TCOMS and Symphony to determine circuit availability.  • The Symphony application to do LEC Address Validation.  Once A & B are complete, the AO application returns the processed order information back to the originating system. AO application also processes requests from the PSG to do Path Selection, CFA Validation and LEC Address Validation. These interfaces have been developed using WebSphere Business Integration (WBI) Interchange Server (ICS). It includes development of Business Objects, Data Handlers, Maps, Collaboration and configuring connectors, relationships and Database Connection Pools.    Responsibilities:  • A new interface between Acela and IMPACT was developed. IMPACT will provide a web service that will allow Acela to notify it to start and stop monitoring of a circuit. Acela will utilize the Web services adapter to communicate with IMPACT.  • Modified interface between Acela and F&E. This Receives F&E requests to update F&E circuit segments in NetPro CSDB (Circuit Segment Database).  • Built UNIX scripts to monitor each instance of ICS, which check if ICS process is running, application adapters are running and bring them up if they are down.  • Responsible for developing complex SQL queries for ICS Core  • Designed and Developed the Collaboration flow for each interface  • Performance tuning of interfaces developed by other development teams  • Development of the Business Objects, Maps, Collaboration Template/Objects  • Extensively used JDBC, Email, Workflow and Webservices connectors  • Involved in the testing phase and in the deployment of interfaces from DEV to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Debugging data in Work In Progress (WIP) tables  • Used Flow Manager for failed flow resubmission  • Debugging of Production issues in critical time bound situations.  • Prepared production support documentation    Environment: JDK, IBM WBI ICS, WebSphere MQ, Web services Adapter, JDBC Adapter, Workflow Adapter, Email Adapter, Oracle.    Visa Status: US Citizen Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Virginia