PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Developer Eagle Mountain, UT Work Experience PHP Developer Bullmatrix.com June 2012 to September 2013 duties:  * At this position, I worked in a small team environment mostly maintaining the administrative portion of the existing AMC Links site's back- end code. While there, I created a HTML templating class to aid in the transitioning of the code to a more MVC design pattern as well as a helper class to created commonly used elements such data driven select options and radio sets.  * Many of the new projects involved creating complex queries to retrieve data and UI development for the clients and output reports.  * Some of the work I did involved improving and replacing inefficient code, examples: 1) One application that uploaded a csv file and compared values against the database, took 2-3 minutes to run and render on the browser, after recoding, I improved the time to 1.9 seconds. 2) An application that found the average appraisal turnaround times for a specific area, and if none found, kept widening it to county, state and had admin side default that could be set. This original application was written with over 20 queries and very slow, I was able to replace this with 2 queries and about a quarter of the lines of code.  * I developed a small recursive method that did address abbreviation permutations and compared addresses existing in the database to find possible duplicates that were input incorrectly.  * In addition to the backend coding I also developed user interfaces for the administrative pages. As well as some graphic sprites.  * In addition to working on AMC Links, I also sis some limited work on the SSM Hub, BMT's site (which is undergoing a huge change and the new code is not live yet), Appraiser Halo (which is a system that is not live). I created nearly the entire backend of the First National Bank of Lehi's intranet document management system. It consisted of a hierarchal tiering display of topics and containing sub topics and links to contained documents that could be infinitely tiered and the documents could be placed in multiple topics that only displayed if the user had the correct credentials. Because these documents needed to be extra secure, the files themselves were located outside the public root and named with a salted hash. The links to these files were also encrypted with a different hash that was salted differently with every login.    contact: Christine Orton, Email: christine@bullmatrix.com phone (801) 285-0265 Front End Developer Overstock.com October 2011 to February 2012 duties:  * I worked in a large team environment for development, implementation, maintenance and application deployment of javascript, jQuery, HTML, and CSS on the overstock.com website.  * Helped perform performance tests for browser rendering times.  * Streamline CSS for more efficient data transfer and rendering  * Javascript / jQuery applications for front- end ui ease of use  * Worked on project for global "detachable search bar'.  * Implemented new json fields and logic for maximum quantities for 'quickview add to cart'  * Fixed bugs in redline deals countdown based on availability of product  * Built animated banner ad using jquery and CSS  * Built a new carousel (not implemented)  * Allowed for use of back buttons in gift finder wich was an etirely ajax driven app.  * Fixed global positioning problem with vertical height placement of left right buttons  * Tests for upgrade from jQuery 1.42 to 1.7  * Update and minifying of master CSS file  * Finding cross-browser styling issues  contact: Bradford Johnson, Email: bjohnson1@o.co Web Developer Utah Valley University December 2010 to September 2011 duties:  * Maintaining and extending functionality for legacy coldfusion applications for the testing center and creating new user interfaces for greater user usability using coldfusion, javascript, jquery, jquery ui, mysql, html, css.  * Dealt with a legacy coldfusion application name C.O.M.E.T. that controlled existing classes, future classes, and retired classes, and followed them through the approval process. Mostly with this I created complex mysql queries to extract data for reports and altered some data upon departmental request.  * Developed Exam Display interface using jquery, css.html, ajax, json for a future display that students will see while standing in line waiting for tests. The exact data structure of the new testing center application had not yet been established, so I created this as somewhat of a SOA architecture that could easily be laid over the top of any database structure with the change of a simple query and limited coding. (Not Yet Implemented but built).  * Created a gallery slide show for displaying images using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and json for a non-profit website called the clothesline project, which paginated and auto forwarded through images.  * Initial setup and team developed a project management system OIT using the zend framework using php, html, css, jQuery, mysql, jQuery UI, ajax. (Unsure if this has been implemented live yet)  * Helped work on a project called T.O.P.S. which created, stored, and guided the policy departments through the new policy approval process. This application was done mostly in the symfony framework. I mostly aided with user interface design, dynamic jquery created form elements, jquery form validation which accessed logging controllers via ajax. Created controllers for outputting data as comma delimited lists for viewing in excel. Developed a reports controller for outputting report data for viewing the life-cycle of the policy.  * Developed with jQuery a script to auto populated the search page with result data from the google-mini UVU owns for their search so that the pages would change on "key-up" like the existing google website does. Also created the same effect with the drop down box selections using jQuery auto complete plugin.  * Re-coded the bus tracking system front- end (several different versions) that, using google maps, tracked the UVU busses around the campus and displayed icons for various points of interest. jQuery, CSS, HTML, ajax, json.  contact: Nathan Gerber, Phone: 1-801-863-7973; UX Developer Ebay July 2010 to September 2010 duties:  * At this position I was mostly utilized as a UX designer creating wireframes and mockups for the proposed functionality development of a new online service Ebay is creating and had to sign a "non-disclosure" agreement. So, i will be somewhat general. Working in a team, we studied various user interfaces, functionality, and features of existing sites that were similar to Ebay's future product. Compiled the components that we thought were most important for the system that would be proposed and that would be compatible with existing ebay billing technologies. Then with this list of functionality and components, we developed workflows for the user experience using wireframes and graphical mockups that would be passed on to the developers.  contact: Ed Young, Phone: 1-801-885-4835 Website Developer Ultradent Products Inc October 2007 to February 2010 duties:  * I maintained, revised and developed corporate sites for Ultradent products using HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP.  * replaced the Oracle istore ecommerce cart with a php based cart customized to utilize the oracle pricing (http://www.ultradent.com).  * I created the http:www.ultradentresourcecenter.com site to help the marketing/graphic design department download marketing materials using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax and PHP  * created the database schema for the site and an administration section with password protection for the departments to upload their files  * I created connections in the flash to a mysql database using flash remoting and amfphp for a prize give-a-way contest. http://www.ultrasealclub.com/ (not current)  * created a web based application in HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax and PHP for the warehouses scanners to assist in more efficient pulling and replacement of stock.  contact: Dirk Davenport, Phone: 1-801-553-4184 Website Developer ArosNet Internet Services January 2000 to February 2007 duties:  * I developed websites for clients from beginning to end using HTML, CSS, Javascript and Cold Fusion.  * I Assisted in the sale of the websites, planned the navigation, flow charts and graphical layout of the sites;  * programmed the front and backends of the sites; and assisted in the maintenance of the sites.  * The sites ranged from simple html sites to fully dynamic Coldfusion sites using the Mysql database as the datasource.  * Other skill used include: javascript, css, flash, some asp, and some php.  * I have created nearly 50 websites and worked on over 100 since working here.  * While at ArosNet, I created and managed the www.utahsymphony.org and www.utahsymphony.org site, although these sites have been replaced in the last 5 years.  * On the Microsoft access side, I created an order-taking and reservation database in Access for a client, commonly used excel for internal statistics, and used MS Word for creating sales information pages and merges for bulk mailings.  * In addition, I was used as an in-house graphic designer for advertising, corporate identity, and brochures.  contact: Bjorn Ablad, Phone: 1-801-580-1456 Education B.A. in Design Brigham Young University June 1996