Charge Nurse Charge Nurse Charge Nurse - Millbrook Red Oak, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Charge Nurse Millbrook - Lancaster, TX December 2018 to Present Administer medication via PICC line, PEG tube, IV, by mouth and other routes in a timely manner. Trach, PEG and G-tube care. Starting IV and catheter care. Charge Nurse A.G. Rhodes - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to November 2018 Administer medication via PICC line, PEG tube, IV, by mouth and other routes in a timely manner. Take and record resident's vital signs. Responsible for patient/family teaching and proper documentation for the care of residents. Eden At Home facility. Floor Nurse Regency Healthcare - Taylor, MI September 2016 to December 2016 Administer specified medication, orally, subcutaneous or intramuscular injection and other routes noting time and amount on patients' charts. Assembled and use such equipment as catheters, tracheotomy care, and oxygen apparatus. Administer TB tests. CNA/ Med Aide Temp Davinci Staffing - Dallas, TX July 2015 to August 2016 Performed various duties with residents including activities of daily living (ADL). Worked at various senior resident centers as a temporary agent. Documented and passed medication to residents. Senior Care Pleasant Manor CNA - Waxahachie, TX September 2014 to July 2015 Assist in ADL for the residents; answer call lights; meet the needs of the residents by communicating concerns with nurse Loving Care Home Agency - Grosse Ile, MI June 2014 to August 2014 perineal care and feedings Asst. Program Director DRM Learning Center - Lansing, MI June 2013 to May 2014 Managed classes, training and office operations. Facilitated orientations. Preschool Teacher Lil' Grad Learning Center - Roswell, GA October 2011 to May 2013 Created and taught curriculum to preschoolers. Front End Supervisor Ross Stores - East Point, GA October 2008 to January 2011 Organized customer service. Created break schedules. Trained and supervised cashiers. Managed cash office Community Developer US Peace Corps July 2007 to September 2008 Utilized my resources and skills to promote family participation in education. Assisted in student counseling and training. Education Vocational Nursing Navarro College - Waxahachie, TX B.S. Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI Skills LVN, Staff Nurse, LPN