Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Sacramento, CA A successful Software Engineer with an Associates Degree in Information Technology and  Software Engineering who thrives in a dynamic and challenging production environment.  Proven track record of providing, fast, accurate and effective code in response to requests  from management to improve existing products or address critical issues with  infrastructure. Skilled in the following areas:    • JavaScript • Visual Basic .NET • Basic SQL  • JQuery • CSS3 • HTML5  • EXTJS • Responsive Design • UI/UX  • Visual Studio • Angular.JS • GIT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer HealthNet - Kelly Services April 2016 to August 2016 During my time at HealthNet, I wrote front end code in AngularJS, Bootstrap, and Visual Basic .NET. We were building a unified utility for the research and correction of  errors in submitted healthcare claims, and my code defined the front end as well as shaping the queries to our MySQL database that informed the provided data.    Originally, the project was to have been written solely in Angular.JS, and Bootstrap,  but that idea was shot down after code completion due to political issues within the office, so I had to pick up Visual Basic on the fly. It's was an interesting departure, and I enjoyed the learning experience.    Ultimately, this project was shelved as a result of insufficient budget and technical  privileges on the part of the department - the company's third party IT department  simply wouldn't let us have the platforms we needed to complete the job. Front End Developer Axion Health November 2013 to March 2015 In November of 2013, I accepted a position at Axion Health writing Javascript under the EXTJS framework with selected interface outliers written in Angular.JS and  Bootstrap, Java middle tier components, and SQL queries for a healthcare  application to be marketed to hospitals and industry clients as a means of managing  their employee healthcare concerns.    In addition, I acted as buildmaster, running their Git repository and resolving build  issues varied and sundry as they came up. This position came about as a result of my  suggestion that they move away from Subversion, which was blocking their ability to decouple the development processes from the QA processes.    Axion Health itself is currently reforming it's business processes, having recently lost  it's CEO, and my position has effectively been reduced to an on call advisory position. Front End Developer Level 3 Communications January 2013 to September 2013 From January to September in 2013 I worked in an Agile development environment  with Level 3 Communication on the 'Om' project, an internal web application  designed to track client orders from the beginning to the end of their lifecycle.    The front end was written in EXTJS 4.2 and raw JavaScript using MVC architecture,  we used C# for the middle tier, and our workflow layer was implemented in Cassandra. I personally was responsible for the implementation of several new  features as well as addressing posted defects as found by our QA team.  Additionally, during that time I took on the defacto role of support for GIT, as the majority of our workforce had limited experience with it, and had as a primary  responsibility the development of a data aggregation/ruleset enforcement  mechanism in Java. Front End Developer National Multiple Sclerosis Society September 2012 to November 2012 In Autumn, 2012, I worked a short term contract with NMSS building out new  features and facets of their website using JavaScript and JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5. Lead Developer Accelerated Network Solutions November 2011 to May 2012 At Accelerated Network Solutions I headed up the development arm of the company.  Heavy Sharepoint development under Foundation 2010 using C# and ASP.Net  technologies, in addition to light JavaScript. Design work including massive CSS  stylesheet work with Sharepoint master pages, and accompanying HTML. Project  management aspects of the position involved requirements gathering and delegation of project components to subordinates in addition to charting progress. Front End Developer Amadeus Consulting September 2011 to November 2011 Through Amadeus, I worked with the Television Games Network, writing JQuery- enabled JavaScript and HTML supported by PHP information controllers as my  contribution to the TVG3 project available at http://beta.tvg.com.  My code is used not only to define the front- end user experience, but also (using .Net and C# API modules) to direct key dynamic information from a variety of remote data  sources regarding the status of horse races on an international scale, allowing for the  user to successfully place wagers, monitor races, keep track of their winnings (and losses), and track tax information. Front End Developer Pearson eCollege - Denver, CO 2006 to 2011 Wrote and converted HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP code during client migrations  from competing platforms including:    ? Simple web applications in JavaScript and/or PHP  ? Wrapper software for proprietary documentation in JavaScript  ? CSS and HTML tweaks to compensate for changes to the overall look and feel of the data imposed by transition to the Pearson platform    Wrote fast, lean, and efficient AHK and X86 ASM code for use in process automation on the back- end, and trained personnel successfully on its usage. Projects included:    ? The Global Toolkit, an underlying infrastructure paradigm allowing for the aggregation of existing tools into a single, functional unit; one-stop shopping for  back- end automation tools  ? ETL utilities for use in converting IMS manifests originating out of data taken  from competing platforms into well-formed XML, tweaking it for compatibility with the Pearson platform, then re-introducing the data to the Pearson platform  in the form of a modified IMS manifest  ? Utilities for the conversion of 3rd party proprietary quiz formats into either the Pearson proprietary quiz upload format, or XML-based format(s) compatible with  the Respondus conversion utility  ? Project management software for the purpose of automating the process of engaging the existing employee base in such a fashion as ties up a minimum of  overhead while maximizing relevant talent on targeted projects. Front End Developer Boulder County School District - Boulder, CO 2005 to 2006 Wrote HTML, CSS and JavaScript in addition to implementing SharePoint and moving  existing code from their extant LAMP stack to the new SharePoint platform:    ? Wrote web applications in JavaScript and .NET so as to retain existing  functionality during the migration away from a LAMP environment implementing  PHP and MySQL in favor of SharePoint  ? Tweaked existing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP to compensate for changes  imposed by the move into SharePoint  ? Administered the SharePoint instance as new data came in  ? Ensured timely conversion of extant pages so as to ensure that downtime was  minimal for the district Owner/Operator Eceria Enterprises - San Diego, CA 2002 to 2005 Eceria Enterprises was the end result of some very hard work on the part of myself  and three friends; Karen Leudtke and Scott & Shannon McCollough. We did business  creating novelty websites and marketing memberships to them. The company did  better than we expected, and I sold my shares in May of 2005 in order to build capital for a sole proprietorship.    While I was a partner with Eceria, I managed the entirety of the accounting side of the business. Concurrently, I maintained the database of user accounts and acted as  the moderator over several of our news forums and chat groups. In addition, with the help of my partners, I came up with new marketable ideas for membership-based  websites. Education Associates Degree in Information Tech / Software Engineering in Information Tech / Software Engineering University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ