UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Westwood, NJ Work Experience UI Developer Eileen Fisher Inc - New York, NY 2012 to 2019 Technical Scope:HTML5, SCSS, CSS, Magneto CMS, Angular, JS, NPM, Angular Material  Coordinated with several teams to analyze, uncover, and gather requirements as well as implement chosen e-commerce solutions. Created reusable, scalable, cross-browser, cross-device templates. Collaborated with back- end developers and vendors to guarantee an upgraded user experience. Established and integrated clean, informative web pages with low bandwidth for optimal user download speeds, and optimized content for search engines.  Selected projects include  • Spearheaded the innovative design and development of the company's new website.  • Utilized most efficient performance and usability methods to quickly solve any potential issues.  • Enhanced load speed of website pages by 15% on both mobile devices and desktops. Front End Web Developer Saks Fifth Avenue - New York, NY 2011 to 2012 Technical Scope: HTM5L, CSS3, SASS, JS, jQuery  Supervised the fabrication, development, and testing phases of responsive user interactions, HTML templates, the company editorial, and seasonal email marketing initiatives that worked properly across all devices and browsers.  Selected projects include  • Assisted the marketing department in surpassing holiday sales goals by 7%. Front End Web Developer SASS, JS - Fort Lee, NJ 2008 to 2011 Technical Scope: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JS  Collaborated with marketing, design, and programming teams to perform analytical research on stakeholder and user needs, gathering requirements and developing initial plan of action. Created and developed user interactions for both internal and external web applications, web site templates and micro sites for company clients, and various interface designs.  Selected projects include  • Key player in the 15% increase in the procurement of digital subscription sales from clients.  • Developed web sites and templates for several reputable clients including T-Mobile, Direct TV, New York Times, Conde Nast, Verizon, MetLife, Equifax, and Prudential.  • Performed usability and accessibility testing on newly implemented interface designs to ensure fast, effective, and positive user experience.