Lead Front End / React Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> / React <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front End / React Developer - Wells Fargo Work Experience Lead Front End / React Developer Wells Fargo January 2014 to Present Managed the team to migrate 3 application from non-cloud to Azure Cloud which reduced the IT bottom-line cost by 30%.  ? Led a team that developed highly efficient and scalable REST API's that is communicating with ATM and delivering messages from real time data  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  ? Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  ? Used flickity.js for creating carousel-images.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back- End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  ? Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  ? Worked with Karma and Jasmine, supporting QA team to debug and write tests.  ? Oversee all stages of design, development, and deployment of new Java-based application system for financial-services industry.  ? Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up sprints. Senior Front- End Developer Wells Fargo July 2008 to December 2014 Extensively involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle such as Requirements Analysis, Design and Implementation and Maintenance in Agile environment.  ? Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Created a custom responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular JS.  ? Developing and designing SPA user interfaces in AngularJS.  ? Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5  ? Utilized AngularJS to achieve the client-side elements Hide, Show, Event Handling and AJAX Call on JSON response, and implemented Angular's jqLite to achieve SOM manipulation.  ? Handled Cross Browser Compatibility Issues and Unified CSS Layout across various browsers and platforms such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Opera.  ? Utilized AngularJS UI-Route for managing the State Transition and URL route.  ? Utilized the Node.js and Express.js to do the relevant backend RESTful API.  ? Used the Git for version controlling an JIRA for the project tracking.  ? Involved on numerous projects utilizing Java, Java EE, Enterprise Java Bean, and Apache Struts Web applications to create fully-integrated client management systems End Developer ROA Technologies March 2006 to April 2008 Participated in Agile methodology of the project process from gathering requirements, system design, development and integration testing.  ? Utilized the front- end technologies including HTML, CSS, JavaScript to layout the front- end pages.  ? Created responsive webpages by using Bootstrap Grid System, navigation, forms, panels, image carousels, button and form inputs.  ? Implemented two-way data binding among models, controllers and views to provide continuous updates among view and model.  ? Implemented Factory, Service and Provider to organize code and allow for easier future maintenance.  ? Used client-side form validation of ASP.NET to monitor the states of the form and input fields and notify the user about the current state.  ? Created Custom Filers to organize data in a more controlled and precise manner.  ? Used ASP.NET $http call to asynchronously pass JSON data between HTML page and server.  ? Optimized web page components for maximum speed, scalability and conversion.  ? Used VSS as version control system for the project. Front End UI Developer Chakkilam Infotech - IN June 2003 to June 2006 Develop new user interfaces and implement new feature.  ? Build reusable code and libraries for future use.  ? Worked closely with the programmers and graphic designers for project requirement and analysis.  ? Analyzed user requirements and converted into use cases.  ? Achieve technical feasibility of UI/UX designs using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Created Stored Procedure, Trigger for database access and events.  ? Involved in the design and development of user profile planning for those accessing the system.  ? Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, React, Angular, Node