Front End/Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/Full Stack Developer El Dorado Hills, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End/Full Stack Developer TundraLogic - Sacramento, CA March 2017 to September 2017 TundraLogic provides web-based applications to with a focus on the insurance industry to manage customer communications and the policy writing. Duties include designing user experience for JavaScript and ASP.NET. Working with ASP.NET controllers and models in addition to views in MVC architecture.  • Created new and unique UI elements to improve application usability and user experience  • Built new applications within industry for client needs that included client management, filtering and customizing of rules for insurance company internal use, tracking of legal data.  • Wireframe and prototyping through the design and development process  • Whiteboard diagraming to establish user flows and analyze requirements  • Usability and unit testing  • Technologies used: JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Gulp, Bower, Git, Node.js, ASP.NET, C#, SQL, Illustrator, Photoshop Front End Developer First Marblehead - Mather, CA July 2014 to December 2016 First Marblehead provided SaaS solutions for financial institutions seeking to provide private student loans. Software included web-based applications for loan submission, origination, credit worthiness verification, and funds transfers to colleges and universities. Focus of duties was primarily to improve the UX/UI and front- end function of existing web-based financial sector applications and in the development of new applications. Additionally, development in an asp.net, C# in an Agile development environment.  • Built new web-based applications for loan application submission and updated UI of existing applications to allow responsive layouts for mobile device access  • Wireframe and prototyping through the design and development process  • Whiteboard diagraming to establish user flows and analyze requirements  • Usability and unit testing    Technologies used: CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, ASP.NET, C#, SQL, Illustrator, WSDL, SVN, Tortoise Full Stack Developer YourWay Group - Ogden, UT April 2014 to July 2014 YourWay Group serves local businesses through marketing, insurance, and concierge services. My duties were that of developing the concierge platform online that included eCommerce, CRM and membership functionality, allowing YourWay Group to serve our clients' customers through the procurement and delivery of gifts and rewards.  • Developed store front for client ordering  • Designed and implemented UI for YourWay Group's online services  • Consulted with ownership on correct technology and software platform necessary to achieve business goals  • Allocated 50% of effort to develop and test UI components of the application with JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and jQuery.  • 50% of time was dedicated to backend developed primarily using PHP.    Technologies Used: PHP, MySQL, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery Front End Developer Franklin Covey - Salt Lake City, UT December 2013 to April 2014 Franklin Covey provides training world-wide for time, personnel, and organizational culture management. I was contracted to manage projects specific to the launch of a new 7 Habits for Highly Effective People.  • Designed, coded and maintained landing pages and micro sites for event announcements.  • Designed, coded and tested emails for product launch.  • Enabled direct registration through site applications allowing attendees to avoid needing to register by phone or email.  • Instituted responsive design principles previously lacking throughout similar marketing efforts.    Technologies used: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript Full Stack Developer Storage Marketing Solutions - Ogden, UT June 2007 to December 2013 Storage Marketing Solutions managed marketing and training efforts for self-storage owners and operators across the country, providing services for hundreds of facilities.  • Built multi-paged and single-paged applications for client education and tracking.  • Built service-based applications for the self-storage community to avoid loss through search and reporting tools.  • Development of eCommerce solutions for clients for product ordering and online payments of monthly payment and other products.  • Maintained client email marketing efforts.  • Installed custom versions of our developed applications on client servers for special use.  • Oversaw all visual marketing projects and design work.    Technologies used: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Illustrator, Photoshop, Premiere Pro Front End Developer Rastar Digital Marketing - Salt Lake City, UT May 2004 to July 2009 Rastar Digital Marketing provided custom direct mail and email marketing services to a large portfolio of clients including Acura, Honda, Alpha graphics, Berringer Wines, and Wells Fargo.  • Created XML templates for custom print output.  • Developed custom UI and controls for client ordering portals.  • Worked with ASP.NET development team to analyze scope and requirements to develop business rules and correct logic.    Technologies used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Illustrator, Photoshop    Freelance design and development:    Skyline Energy Savers  • Developed easily managed site as a ground work to improve business visibility  • Corrected issues with navigation and site function that business experienced in the past • Made use of URL redirects to allow for simpler URL structure and allow users and owner to find parts of the site quickly and efficiently    Bangers & Mash Tees  • Designed, developed, tested, and implemented online presence. Setup and maintained eCommerce platform including the design and listing of products  • Maintained store front online site by fixing bugs and improving UX design.    Paisley Rose Cashmere  • Designed and established company brand  • Set up and maintained eCommerce platform    Heather J Harris Design/Cuddlebug Creations  • Designed and established company brand  • Built and maintained eCommerce platform  • Maintained online product catalog  • Integrated shipping services to CRM platform Education Associates in Graphic Design Eagle Gate College - Murray, UT 2003 Skills ILLUSTRATION (10+ years), ILLUSTRATOR (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years), ECOMMERCE (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS3 (9 years), JQuery (7 years) Additional Information Skills Summary:    HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript(ES6), jQuery, JSON, Angular.js, TypeScript, Node.js, Gulp, SASS, Bootstrap, PHP, SQL, AJAX, ASP.NET, C#, .NET, eCommerce, WSDL, Web Services, AJAX, RESTful APIs, Source Control, Git, Photoshop, Illustrator