Web Designer / Front- End Developer Web Designer / <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end developer. Clermont, FL I am a front- end and JavaScript developer looking for contract and freelance opportunities in the Orlando, Florida area. I specialize in JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer / Front- End Developer Chip Spencer Designs August 2008 to Present Currently developing Gabriel Performance Product's corporate website built on a WordPress 3.04 foundation. It uses WordPress as a content management system rather than a blog. It uses a custom built theme, custom php, JQuery and AJAX scripts for their product catalog, GeoLocation services, and distributor locator services. Other recent projects include the Stitz-Zeager Open Source Mathematics project, also using WordPress as a CMS with a custom theme, custom php code and embedded LaTeX for mathematic formula publishing.    • Planned and implemented web design projects from initial concept and design through wireframes, coding, testing, deployment, and client approval.    • Designed and annotated wireframe prototypes, screen flows, and interaction concepts to visually provide user experience, business-initiated design changes to the client.    • Deployed WordPress as an Content Management System.    • Created custom WordPress themes from Photoshop design files.    • Developed custom WordPress functions in Php for client specific tasks.    • Coded HTML & CSS to W3C specifications. JavaScript Developer Universal Studios Resort - Orlando, FL August 2018 to September 2018 • Part of a documentation team that analyzed over 700 endpoints from 15 microservice projects and documented the endpoint request parameters and bodies when required, response bodies for both successful and unsuccessful responses in YAML.  • Wrote a script using NodeJS to migrate records from CouchDB in one  environment to CouchDB in another environment.  • Familiar with NodeJS, LoopbackJS, ExpressJS, CouchDB and Yaml. Front End Developer Kratos Defense and Security Solutions - Orlando, FL July 2018 to August 2018 This was a six week contract to fix a number of issues with the multi-function displays in a helicopter simulator. These included:  • Part of an agile software development team that worked on the CH-53K Marine helicopter maintenance simulator. I developed and maintained the multi function displays inside the cockpit and various test set displays using VueJS and traditional front end technologies.   • Processed over 30 Jira tickets inside a 6 week period. These included fixing an assortment of issues and adding new features as required. Front End Developer Allianz Life - Minneapolis, MN November 2013 to June 2018 ? Architected & developed over two dozen client-side financial tools and calculators for the life insurance industry using AngularJS, TypeScript, ES6, Node.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, Sitecore CMS and Sitecore’s web api rest services.  ? Evaluated and assessed software needs for development tools and web services.  ? Championed team goals in testing, quality, innovation, effective communication, and developer happiness.  ? Interviewed & hired additional in-house development resources and managed development tasks with outsourced & contract resources.  ? Mentored junior developers and content specialists in semantic html, sass and current front- end tooling and techniques.  ? Spent most of my time working in JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Also using libraries & tools such as Babel, React, Redux, Mobx, Node.js, TypeScript, underscore.js, jQuery, Webpack, Karma, and Jasmine. Front End Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN April 2013 to November 2013 ? Refactored Target’s Cartwheel website CSS using Foundation and object oriented CSS best practices, reducing the CSS footprint by 30% and improving page load times.  ? Implemented OAUTH 2.0 authentication for Target’s Cartwheel website using authentication JavaScript apis for Facebook, Google and Target’s own authentication services.   ? Developed several proof of concept versions of cartwheel using backbone.js, underscore.js and services.  ? Assisted the Target in-house team to reduce their mobile web app service tickets. Front End Developer BI Worldwide - Minneapolis, MN October 2012 to April 2013 ? Developed responsive websites and HTML5 games for media and entertainment clients, working closely with designers and back- end developers.  ? Created rich, flexible, standards-compliant websites using hand-coded HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed a mobile claim web application for Carrier Heating and Cooling, increasing dealer rebate claim submissions by 10%.  ? Converted Flash games to HTML5 using canvas and the CreateJS suite of JavaScript libraries.  ? Worked closely with back- end developers to modify and maintain Java Server Pages (JSPs) in a enterprise Java environment, ensuring a continuous integration from HTML prototype to Java project. Front End Developer HealthPartners - Minneapolis, MN August 2011 to September 2012 ? Participated in the Mobile Development team as a Front- End developer for the new m.healthpartners.com web application including mobile pharmacy.  ? Developed proof-of-concept projects to determine the viability of new ideas including client-side applications using Backbone.js and Rest service integration, responsive design and parallax scrolling concepts.  ? Built high-fidelity prototypes for the HealthPartners Mobile web experience in HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript and jQuery mobile.  ? Provided technical advice to designers, recommending appropriate user interface design elements and confirming their technical feasibility.  ? Created custom jQuery Mobile themes using Adobe ThemeRoller and hand-coded CSS.  ? Built custom JavaScript interactive components such as content sliders, animated information panels and JSON driven iOS styled scroll wheels.  ? Contributed to information architecture and user experience discussions as projects evolved and clients’ needs changed.  ? Established departmental coding standards to promote consistency and efficiency. UI Designer Syncada LLC February 2011 to August 2011 ? Design and create user interface schematics, functional prototypes, work flows, information architecture documents and guidelines/specification documents to communicate design ideas between developers and non-technical stakeholders.  ? Work closely with users, product and program managers, analysts and senior leaders to define product direction and user interface requirements.  ? Scope, plan and manage multiple design projects from strategic product definition to launch while facilitating communication across teams.  ? Define user experience guidelines, visual design guidelines, user interface library, interaction design patterns and overall UX processes and methodology. Education AS in BioScience Technology Lakeland Community College January 2005 to January 2008 Windows 2000 Certified Systems Engineer MicroTrain, LLC January 2004 Sun Solaris Certified Systems Administrator Sun Microsystems January 2002 Skills HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (7 years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (7 years), Javascript (8 years), PHP (3 years), JQuery (10+ years), SQL (5 years), NodeJS (5 years), Git (5 years), Gulp (4 years), Grunt (2 years), AngularJS (5 years), Agile (6 years), SVN (6 years), ES6 (1 year), TypeScript (2 years), Bootstrap (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chip-spencer/