Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Booz Allen Hamilton Deerfield Beach, FL Work Experience Front- End Developer Booz Allen Hamilton - Fort Meade, MD September 2015 to Present An experienced front- end developer; member of a 5-person team of technologists, working in a fast-moving environment, solving real-world problems related to our planet's biggest threat: terrorism. Working out of a top-secret SCIF location in Fort Meade, Maryland, was responsible for designing and implementing world-class UI for internal and external users of our proprietary software applications.    Essential Responsibilities:  • Proficient understanding of web markup, including HTML5, CSS3.  • Basic understanding of server-side CSS pre-processing platforms, such as LESS and SASS.  • Proficient understanding of client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks, including jQuery, Bootstrap and current JavaScript libraries.  • Good understanding of how front- end technologies can integrate with middle ware (Express.js).  • Good knowledge on asynchronous request handling, partial page updates, and AJAX.  • Expert knowledge of image authoring tools, like Photoshop, Illustrator, Gimp, and Inkscape.  • Journeymen with respects to cross-browser compatibility and how to best mitigate issues.  • Agile SCRUM methodology preferred. Front- End Developer NCCI - Boca Raton, FL 2018 to December 2018 Present A Front- End Developer that loves to work on new and existing micro-sites, landing pages, and templates and provide guidance and troubleshooting support to clients. Seeking to become fully immersed into the React/Angular world with a great team of fellow developers.    Essential Responsibilities:  • Refactored a Visual Basic user interface into a modern SPA above industry standard.  • Executed and contributed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser compatibility.  • Developed beautiful interfaces with React & various cutting-edge (at the time) technologies in support of the NCCI 2019 Hackathon Event Registration.  • Assisted in development of back end features in Mongo and Node.  • Worked in both Agile and Waterfall settings.  • Tested front- end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  • Maintained brand standards under company guidelines.  • Developed simple React apps, deployed to Heroku, and coached team on how to automate the pipeline via VS Code.  • Participated in projects in all stages of the product life cycle.  • Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.  • Exposure and experience with ReactJS, Angular, Oracle.  • Fun to work with and easy going. Front- End Developer Vertical Bridge LLC - Boca Raton, FL January 2017 to October 2018 Passionate Developer creating custom solutions leveraging JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, and REST APIs to meet challenging projects. An enthusiastic Agile methodologist skilled at bringing together development teammates and clients to support business growth. Design and document moderately complex technical requirements for business applications.    Essential Responsibilities:  • A JavaScript Developer that is eager for exposure to development of browser extensions, React/Angular, and backend modules based in NodeJS.  • In-depth UI development knowledge creating SVG/HTML/JavaScript/CSS dashboards vetted and validated by customers that offer high-availability and near-real time/real-time data.  • Experienced implementing new emerging Microsoft-related technologies like PowerApps, Flow, and Power BI.  • SharePoint App model experience with client-side scripting, REST/SharePoint Client Object Model knowledge and DOM manipulation.  • Trailblazer of the PowerApps team, building a family of applications that aim to dramatically simplify the creation and consumption of visually stunning, behavior-rich apps for the cloud and any device.  • Creates front- end user interfaces for Web-based or other software products, including mobile and web console devices.  • Collaborate with back- end development, visual design, product management, and customers.  • Loves experimenting with new and different Web API's to invent new and interesting ways to deliver data in visually intuitive packages. Application Developer Geosyntec Consultants - Boca Raton, FL June 2016 to January 2017 Design, develop, and maintain Web-based applications using the latest Web technologies such as BDC/BDLC/Power BI/SQL Server Management Studio/SharePoint Designer, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Brackets, and Notepad++. Office 365 evangelist. Missionary to the Principles behind the Agile Manifesto.    Essential Responsibilities:  • Experience building 3D models (SketchUp/3DS Max/Blender) in conjunction with Unity3D/Sketchfab and Visual Studio/SharePoint to provide clients with interactive engineering products and Panotour/VR experiences.  • Develop new user-facing features based on design specifications and requirements utilizing Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, React, Node.js and jQuery.  • Build reusable code and libraries for future use  • Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs, while optimizing the application for maximum speed and scalability  • Work closely with the Technology Team to develop detailed specification documents with clear project deliverables and timelines  • Produce project estimates during development process, including expertise required, total number of development hours required, etc.  • Research and recommend appropriate solutions or frameworks, helping the organization to make informed technical decisions  • Communicate project status to team, including progress or blocks, always working to ensure a timely completion of deliverables  • Discover and share emerging technologies or applications, identifying opportunities to integrate them into our software. Front- End Developer Department of Defense July 2010 to September 2015 FORSCOM, APG, Maryland Worked with product owners and colleagues to interpret feature requests and develop software in iterative design/build/test cycles using an Agile development process for responsive web applications. Developed front- end user interface components using JavaScript, HTML and CSS and back- end APIs to support the front- end application. Regularly check code into our continuous integration pipeline to incrementally build our overall system and get immediate feedback on build performance.    Essential Responsibilities:  • Work with UX designers to bring UI designs from concept to implementation through rapid prototyping and evaluation of design ideas.  • Work with the development teams to gather information about system APIs and help shape the data that is available for UI consumption.  • Participate in daily scrum standup meetings to discuss accomplishments, current tasks, and road blocks. SharePoint Developer/Administrator USSOUTHCOM - Miami, FL April 2006 to December 2009 Primary SharePoint Developer (80%) / Administrator (20%) responsible for the administration and development of United States Southern Command's on-premise SharePoint environment. Responsible for configuring SharePoint sites, pages, workflows, and lists. This included, but was not limited to, the development of custom sites, solutions dashboards, web parts, web apps and workflows using SharePoint Designer, Out of the box SharePoint, Visual Studio and Notepad++.    Essential Responsibilities:  • Creation of SharePoint Document Libraries, custom views, Web parts, lists, User Profiles, subsites and MySites in SharePoint 2010/2007.  • SharePoint site administration, creation, set-up, configuration, website layout, structure and content in SharePoint 2010/2007.  • Creation of SharePoint 2010 workflows in SharePoint Designer 2010.  • Creation and updating of custom forms using SharePoint designer, JavaScript and InfoPath in both SharePoint 2010. Education Master of Science in Science & Technology Intelligence National Intelligence University - Washington, DC 2014 BS in Liberal Arts Excelsior College - New York, NY 2010 Skills Angular, Front End, React, Javascript, UI, Front-End, Jquery, User Interface Links https://lumpypuppy.artstation.com