Freelance Front- End Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Front- End Developer - Story Worldwide Shelton, CT As a front- end developer with over 14 years of experience, I have used a wide range of development tools to create web content in various formats for name brands such as Delta, Arm & Hammer, American Express, NBC Sports, Rotoworld, and more. I am committed to maintaining cutting-edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge in order to provide the highest-quality web products for a company and its clients.    Core Qualifications  • Extensive experience with Internet/Intranet development, utilizing dynamic HTML, CSS (CSS-3), JavaScript, jQuery JSON /XML, within PHP and ASP .NET environments.    • Software: Microsoft Visual Studio, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft SharePoint Server (MOSS), WordPress, Various CMS tools, such as WCMS. Tortoise SVN, Bronto and StormPost email marketing tools    • Knowledge of web technologies, protocols, and tools, including GIT and GitHub    • Strong problem solving/troubleshooting skills    • Team player and motivator Work Experience Freelance Front- End Developer Story Worldwide - Norwalk, CT October 2013 to Present Development of client websites Popsicle Theater & Wish-Bone using Front end technologies HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and JSON. For the Popsicle Theatre, I used JSON for Video swapping and jQuery UI for the carousel, as well as a Modal window for the popup. I used GIT for source control. Wish-Bone was developed in WordPress. Freelance Front- End Developer NBC Sports Group - Stamford, CT April 2013 to September 2013 Creating, updating and maintaining all NBC Sports websites, using HTML, CSS-3, jQuery and JavaScript.  Most recent project was coding the Rotoworld Season Pass page. Created numerous video pages, and promo pages for various sporting events. Freelance Front- End Developer Osprey Communications - Stamford, CT January 2013 to March 2013 Front end development in a PHP environment for Pharma clients, such as BAYER, using HTML, CSS-3, jQuery and JavaScript. One project example is CRPC METS (Both US and International). Cut all assets in PhotoShop and coded entire site, which also included an interstitial warning. Used jQuery for expand and hide. Freelance Front- End Developer Colangelo Synergy Marketing - Darien, CT January 2012 to September 2012 Developed websites and email marketing for various brands, including Church & Dwight (Arm & Hammer, Trojan, Spinbrush, Orajel ), Diagio, and Don Julio Tequila, as well as developing a Facebook App for Arm & Hammer and Orajel Single Dose. Extensive HTML, CSS and jQuery, as well as PhotoShop, in both .NET and PHP environments. Freelance Front- End Developer The Taunton Press - Newtown, CT November 2011 to December 2011 Updated the web presence of several magazines, including Fine Woodworking (www.finewoodworking.com), Fine Gardening (www.finegardening.com), and Fine Cooking (www.finecooking.com). Front- End Developer Modem Media - Stamford, CT August 1999 to July 2011 Used object-oriented programming languages and software tools, analysis and design techniques to develop and perform unit testing on software applications. Some notable projects I worked on are detailed as follows:    • Created websites, landing pages and promotions and emails for Delta Airlines.  • Spearheaded four projects for Kraft Foods, Inc., with a focus on client-driven content, using MOSS. Sites include Kraft Recipes, Comida Kraft, Kraft Canada and Kraft Canada French. lead developer Modem Media 2002 to 2003 Developed web-based content for American Express, Citibank, ESPNU, FluMist, IBM, Oscar Meyer, Pfizer, Planters, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, Samsung, and many other brands.    These projects required various uses of several technologies. Heavy HTML, CSS and JavaScript, but also some  XML/XSL and JSON, as well as some SQL. Education Computer Processing Institute - Stratford, CT