Sr. Front- end Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- end Developer - eTouch Systems Corp Madison, WI • Over 9+ years of experience as a UI/ Front- end Developer in web Development using mainstream Web Technologies such as HTML5, HTML4, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS, XML that meets W3C Web Standards.  • Expertise in developing both static and dynamic user interfaces using JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Java Script, CSS and HTML 5.  • Knowledge in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate and Spring MVC.  • Knowledge in Bootstrap for layout and grid.  • Experience in Cross-browser HTML, CSS & JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers.  • Extensive experience with CSS3 and leveraging best practices, modifications of existing CSS files to enhance the user experience.  • Adept at application development, testing and optimization.  • Bringing superior design and debugging capabilities, innovative problem solving skills and dedication to quality.  • Extensive experience in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience with versioning tools like SVN and GIT.  • Experience in developing web service applications using SOAP and REST.  • Extensively used JUnit for writing automated Test Cases in Test Driven development during application development.  • Experience in using the open source tools Log4j, ANT build tool, Maven Build tool  • Worked on different OS UNIX (AIX), Linux, Windows NT, and Windows XP.  • Experience in writing SQL queries.  • Experience with databases such as Oracle8i/9i/10g & MySQL  • A Team Player with adherence to position at all levels and ability to perform under stress.  • Experience in Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front- end Developer eTouch Systems Corp - Fremont, CA July 2017 to Present Description: Developing Modules and maintaining the ETAAP application (eTouch.net) for Web,  Mobile and Desktop versions. Working on a complete agile environment using JIRA to drive  business. Working on technologies such as HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3,  PIE Charts, GIT, JIRA.    Responsibilities:  • Developed modules for Image Comparison, text comparison using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Developed modules for client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in generating reports of the test cases in the dashboard.  • Involved in creating PIE Charts based on the test case report.  • Used Agile software Methodology.  • Developed the application pages using AngularJS, JQuery, HTML5 and AJAX.  • Work with Business Analysts, Solutions Management, QA Analysts, and Application Support  Teams to understand all stakeholder requirements.  • Troubleshooting defects and made defect fixes.  • GITHUB for version controlling.    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, GIT, JIRA, PIE  Charts. Jr. Front- end Developer KOHLS, CALIFORNIA February 2016 to June 2017 Description: Developing and maintaining an E-commerce website (www.m.kohls.com,  www.mobile.kohls.com)for mobile and tablet versions. Working on a complete agile environment  using JIRA to drive business agility and technologies such as HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS,  REST Web Services, CSS3, GIT, JIRA.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Recommendations and MorelikeThis modules.  • Involved on performance optimization.  • Involved Registries development.  • Involved in support calls and production issue's  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the end users.  • Used Agile software Methodology  • Work with Business Analysts, Solutions Management, QA Analysts, and Application Support Teams to understand all stakeholder requirements  • Developed the application pages using Angular JS, JQuery, HTML5 and AJAX.  • Implemented client side validation using the JavaScript.  • Computed the client side validations using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked with business Subject Matter Experts (SME) to understand the business requirements.  • Troubleshooting defects and made defect fixes.  • SVN and GITHUB for version controlling.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, GIT, JIRA, CMS, Amazon  Cloud. Front- end Developer Florida Blue (BCBS-FL) April 2014 to January 2016 Description: Developing and maintaining an application software's for Florida Blue to meet  member and visitors need. Current application is Online Provider Directory (OPD), a tool to locate  providers. Working in a complete agile environment using Rally to drive business agility and technologies such as Java, J2EE, WebSphere, Hibernate, Spring, HTML5, JS libraries like Angular JS,  JQuery, REST Web Services, CSS3 and Apache Subversion (SVN).    Responsibilities / Accomplishments:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the end users.  • Used Agile software Methodology  • Work with Business Analysts, Solutions Management, QA Analysts, and Application Support Teams to understand all stakeholder requirements  • Used Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) to design the system.  • Implemented the application front end for Online Provider Directory (OPD) using Angular JS and Node JS.  • Extensively worked on Spring MVC framework, writing and managing JSPs.  • Developed the application pages using AngularJS, JQuery, HTML5 and AJAX.  • Implemented client side validation using the JavaScript.  • Implemented various controllers of the application and invocation of Restful Business Services.  • Computed the client side validations using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked with business Subject Matter Experts (SME) to understand the business requirements.  • Troubleshooting defects and made defect fixes.  • SVN for version control of the code.    Environment: Java, AngularJS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring MVC,  JQuery, IBM DB2 DB9.x, Apache Subversion (SVN), Rally, SharePoint, IBM WebSphere Application  Server8.5, Windows 8, and UNIX. Front- end Developer US BANK - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to March 2014 Description: Automated Enrollment Solution (AES) that connects and fully automates sales and enrollment processes in an effort to provide customers the best and most efficient level of service. This is a primary enrollment application in the Wholesale Banking domain. AES allows business partners to collaborate on common customers and provides a seamless enrollment flow across all lines of business.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement analysis, design, development, unit testing and deployment of the application.  • Developed and involved in designing the UI layer with Backbone JS, HTML5 along with JavaScript and AJAX as the Front- end validation layer.  • Developed UI templates using Handlebars JS.  • Used SVN for the version control.  • Responsible for creating Ant scripts and configuration plans to move the code between the various development, test and production environments as part of the development life cycle.  • Developed the test cases using JUnit for every java class.    Environment: Java, Backbone JS, node JS, HTML5, SVN, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, spring. Web Developer AT&T - San Ramon, CA October 2010 to October 2012 Description: Worked as a java developer on AT&T's web-based application accessed by potential customers. Every new customer has to register on the website using a User id and Password. A secure site process the log in information. Detailed information about their billing, services, new features, company information, due dates, minutes used, and payment information was provided to each customer.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the end users.  • Understanding requirements and preparing detailed design, coding, testing and documentation.  • Extensively worked on Spring MVC framework, writing and managing JSPs.  • Coded Business services using spring and also interacted with the database using Spring Hibernate, Spring DAO and Core java extensively.  • Developed complex reusable components using JSP custom tags and used the standard tags.  • Developed Servlets, JSP pages, HTML, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Implemented client side validation using the JavaScript and JQuery libraries.  • Prepared documentation of the project for future reference.  • Used Apache Maven to build projects, which assisted in testing, and produce reports on projects.  • Involved in the configuration management using Sub Version (SVN).  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, SVN, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Hibernate, UNIX, Maven, spring. Java Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ May 2008 to September 2010 Description: 4Front is an application provides a single point of access for teleconsultants for legacy systems (E.g.: CAPSIL, SALAS, OPAL and OB). It allows users in Customer Services and other areas of the business to Verify the identification of a caller, Maintain a history of a caller's contact, Make with enquiries, Perform alterations to a customer's policy, Investigate the New Business, Review the Direct Debit instructions, Produce outputs (fax, letter, etc.), Provide valuations, Pass the call to another 4Front user and Automate the call hand-off.    Responsibility:  • Day to day support activities.  • Meeting the Client SLA on the production tickets.  • Design and development of new change requests using Java, struts, JSP and EJB.  • Implemented integration between the BPEL worklist and Oracle eBusiness Suite.  Responsible for all the SDLC phases of a change request including testing and live support.  Environment: Core Java , J2ee, Oracle Fusion(BPEL), JSP, Eclipse, Servlet, XML, Struts, Tiles, AJAX, EJB, JUnit, JBoss, websphere Application Server , Ant, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, Junit, HTML, PL/SQL, CVS, MQ-Series, Mainframe(COBOL) and DB2 Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), JAVA (7 years), Subversion (6 years), SVN (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, SQL, C, C++  Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/NT, UNIX, Linux  WEB technologies: AJAX, JSP, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, XML, JDBC and JSON  Database: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, MySQL, IBM DB2 UDB  Case Tools: UML  Application Server: WebLogic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere Application Server 5, Apache Tomcat  Tools &Frameworks:  JQuery, Backbone JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Underscore JS, Handlebars JS, node JS, Jakarta, Hibernate, JSF, Spring, Web Services(SOA), RESTful Web Services, Clear Case, SVN, GIT, JIRA    IDE: Eclipse, Aptana Studio 3, Sublime, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, IBM RAD, IBM RSA, WSAD  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, Telnet, SMTP, SOAP, REST  Others: Junit, Swing, Dream weaver 3.0, CSS,DOM, and PhotoShop