Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH September 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities include working on bug fixes, small feature enhancements, and writing unit tests for Abercrombie.com and Hollisterco.com. Technologies used include HTML5, CSS3, SASS, javascript, jQuery, and Jasmine. Responsibilities also  include device testing using simulators and devices for desktop and mobile. Front- End Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH November 2014 to July 2017 Responsible for development of high and low fidelity web application prototypes used for User Acceptance Testing.  Technologies used include HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Angular, jQuery, and javascript and also responsible for browser and device  testing on desktop and mobile. Use User Acceptance Testing documentation to refine prototypes and front- end deliverables to the IT Build Teams, which include SASS/CSS and UI Components developed in Angular. Provide DEV support to IT during the  Build phase which includes development guidance and bug fixes. Front- End Developer Ammirati - Columbus, OH July 2014 to November 2014 Responsible for UI Development of a client's Responsive ecommerce Web site using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, jQuery, and javascript. Also, perform device and browser testing of UI layouts and components. Use User Acceptance Testing data to  develop solutions on proposed designs or existing Front- End challenges. Front- End Developer Sudden Impact Marketing, Inc - Columbus, OH March 2014 to July 2014 Responsible for UI Development of client Web sites and mini sites. Web sites are developed using Bootstrap and responsibilities include writing HTML, CSS, SASS, javascript and jQuery. Responsibilities also include cross browser testing for  Chrome, FireFox, Safari, and IE8 - IE11. Front- End Developer Znode, Inc - Columbus, OH November 2012 to February 2014 Responsible for UI Development of ecommerce Web site templates sold to businesses and the Administrative Web site the businesses use to create their ecommerce Web sites. All sites and templates are developed in .NET and responsibilities include  writing CSS, SASS, javascript, and jQuery to build the template designs provided by an ad agency. Responsibilities also included cross browser testing for IE 8, IE 9, FireFox, Google Chrome, and Safari. Web site Producer Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH May 2012 to November 2012 Columbus, Ohio    ? Manage email production for different email campaigns and newsletters using Exact Target and Photoshop CS5.    ? Update Huntington.com content and graphics using Rhythmyx CMS, CSS, Dreamweaver CS5, and Photoshop CS5. Web Developer AEP - Columbus, OH August 2011 to April 2012 Responsible for UI Development of internal and external Applications programmed in .NET using CSS, HTML, javascript, and jQuery. Also responsible for prototyping new applications for the AEP IT Department. Prototyping included meeting with  Business Units, Project Managers and End Users to discuss and view user needs and application usability. Responsibilities also include making the applications Section 508 compliant and cross browser testing for IE 8 Compatibility Mode, IE 8,  FireFox, and Google Chrome. Web Developer Altavox Communications Inc - Columbus, OH December 2010 to March 2011 Develop, update, and maintain Company Web sites using Photoshop, Drupal, CSS, HTML, javascript, and jQuery.  Responsibilities also included cross browser testing for IE 8 Compatibility Mode, IE 8, FireFox, and Google Chrome. Web Developer/Designer Ohio Department of Development - Columbus, OH March 2004 to October 2010 Ohio    ? Lead on branding of Department web and digital presence using Ohio Brand style guides developed by Landor and web  standardization guides developed by the State of Ohio Office of Information Technology.    ? Strong understanding of Brand management and maintaining corporate identity.    ? Develop, design, and maintain Department web site and web sites for Department Divisions using Dreamweaver, Photoshop,  Flash, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, javascript, jQuery, and CMS.    ? Meet with Department Divisions and Offices to plan site development, develop site structure, and wireframe.    ? Work with marketing staff and IT Office to coordinate site updates and major site changes.    ? Create emails using Photoshop, Microsoft Word, and Exact Target for different events and marketing campaigns. Work with IT  to ensure all RSVPs and forms associated with the email marketing campaigns adhere to the Department's style guide.    ? Developed and designed templates for all .NET applications developed by the IT Office.    ? Developed, designed and maintained Department intranet.    ? Photo edit and create slide shows of various Department events using Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flash and javascript. Freelance Web Developer Columbus, OH September 2002 to March 2007 Developed Web sites for various businesses.    ? Managed site development.    ? Site creation included use of Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Flash, CSS, HTML, and javascript. Education Associate of Science in design and multimedia development Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH December 2003 Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), PHOTOSHOP (8 years), Angular, Front End, Front-End, UI Links http://cdurbin.com Additional Information SKILLS  Proficient with the following software:    ? Adobe Photoshop CC ? Sublime Text 2  ? Atom ? Visual Studio Code  ? Brackets    Experienced in the following languages:    ? CSS ? JavaScript  ? LESS ? Typescript  ? SASS ? XML  ? HTML    Experienced in the following Frameworks, Libraries, Templating, and Build Systems:    ? Angular ? Gulp  ? Angular UI Bootstrap ? Handlebars  ? Bootstrap ? Initializr  ? Foundation ? Jasmine  ? Grunt ? jQuery    Working Knowledge of:    ? Codekit ? Jira  ? Cornerstone ? Prepros  ? Git ? Tortoise SVN