Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer North Bend, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Verus - Seattle, WA March 2015 to February 2017 Proprietary  financial  reporting  web  application  - Internal foundation for producing time-sensitive portfolio analysis dashboards and reports for clients.  Features included report publishing to client portal and report PDF production and publishing. Middle-tier contributions included publishing flow process and  modeling of report data for presentation. Front end responsibilities included  templating logic for numerous chart types and data tables, error-free iteration of complex data objects in templates, and deep branding of reports and report  PDFs.  https://rainier.verusinvestments.com  - Restricted access client portal for published reports viewing. Middle-tier development in Ruby on Rails including  role-based query filtering and view authorization, implemenation of Kaminari- based pagination, and various helper methods to facilitate presentation. Features  developed include a cross-model, form-based filtration tool, including session- based 'sticky' filter parameters for user convenience. Created a publish utility to  post updated PDFs to secure host. Additional front end duties including view  templating, asset pipeline, layout, and branding.  https://www.verusinvestments.com  - New public website in conjunction with company rebranding. Fully responsive informational site built to new brand  specifications and guidelines. Customized Wordpress PHP child theme including  an extensive, multi-category article archive. Implemented SendGrid SMTP API to send inquiry form data emails to targeted internal stakeholders. Created WYSISYG  marketing email builder as WP plugin for admin users. Front End Developer REI - Kent, WA December 2012 to March 2015 http://www.rei.com  - Ongoing features and enhancements development on major e-Commerce platform. Member of various teams including Search and  UserAccount. Achieved measurable success in search ranking for various targeted  pages and articles by utilizing SEO best practices and schema.org microdata  tagging. Integrated geolocation services for Classes and Events search and Store  Locator. Assisted in mobile site migration to single code base. Migration done in tandem with implemention of a front end build system using node.js, npm, and  gulp. Build system practices included an increased emphasis on unit testing.  Created page-based modules to export via front end build. Development cycles  based in Agile methodologies as part of a team. Introduced code to production in a continous-integration environment. Front End Developer Contractor REI - Bellevue, WA March 2012 to December 2012 WA  Contracted with REI to develop front end components on AEM platform for large  internal project. Worked as part of an Agile team to deliver requested features and functionality. Used a proprietary grid layout system to produce responsive site  behavior. Ascentium / Senior Web Developer T-Mobile, EA - Bellevue, WA July 2005 to March 2012 WA  Produced front end deliverables for clients including Microsoft, T-Mobile, EA  Sports, and McKesson. Worked as part of an Agile team to create requested  products to specification, on time. Skills PHP (3 years), Ruby (2 years), Ruby on Rails (2 years), Node.js (4 years), Webpack (1 year), Bootstrap Responsive Layout/UI/JS (5 years), React (1 year), Vue.js (Less than 1 year), Git (5 years), Wordpress (3 years), Google Charts API (3 years), Google Maps API (5 years), JSP (4 years) Additional Information Skills Ruby, Ruby on Rails, PHP, WordPress, PostgreSQL, Sinatra, Devise, Pundit,  HTTParty, Liquid, WKHTMLTOPDF, JSP, AEM, Node.js, NPM, Webpack, Gulp,  Vue.js, ReactJS, ES6, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Responsive/JS/UI,  Google Charts API, Google Maps API, Git.