Job Seeker Columbus, OH • Strong combined technical and business experience and knowledge  • Able to work closely with graphic designers, back- end developers, and product owners to create complex interfaces conforming to current W3C web standards and best practices in usability and Section 508 compliant accessibility Work Experience ALLIANCE DATA - Columbus, OH November 2014 to July 2015 COLUMBUS, OH)  Front End Dev, Accessibility Analysis, and UI Testing NOV 2014 To July 2015    Responsibilities:  Writing JavaScript to be ran by Selenium for testing of My Account application. Analyze HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for compliance with WCAG 2.0 standard, and utilized Chrome Developer Tools to analyze defects prior to passing them to front end team for completion.    Work with Front- End development team in Agile environment, doing manual testing as well as automated testing using Selenium and Ruby. Built RATTUS testing framework in Ruby for running Selenium tests defined in Json. Analysis of pages for compliance with Section 508 and WCAG 2.0 Standards.    Bugs found were entered into Jira, along with detailed information on HTML/SASS changes required to fix.    Authored documentation and training materials, including web accessibility analysis ands guidelines based on WCAG 2.0 Level A and AA. Authored technical documents targeted at developers detailing methods to update current code with ARIA roles and properties, modify JavaScript to accommodate keyboard-based browsing with assistive technology, and planning future compliant code.    Provide Leadership, setup process and guidelines for the UX Testing area.  Accessibility Testing  Analyze requirements  Recommend Tools and Best practices  Recommend development changes and guidelines.  Run Web Performance Analysis on continuous basis  Perform cross device and cross browser testing. Front End Developer COLUMBUS DISPATCH - Columbus, OH October 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  Front- end development on 20+ properties covering the news, entertainment, sports and more. Work with property stakeholders, back- end team, and with business analysts for system improvements, maintenance, new online properties, site re-builds, and native app development. Properties are responsive, compliant with ADA and Section 508 standards, built in HTML5, CSS3/SASS, and jQuery using the OpenCMS content management system and JSTL with Angular JS, Foundation, Grunt, and Require.js.    All CSS was written in the form of SASS.    Co- developer on columbuscrave.com, an responsive site that allows users to search local restaurants by location, price range, and cuisine. Lead developer on columbusceo.com responsive redesign, and Columbus Monthly responsive redesign. Front End Developer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH - Columbus, OH February 2012 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  Leadership, direction and implementation on technical projects that affect all A&F consumer brand e commerce sites ( www.abercrombie.com , www.abercrombiekids.com , www.hollisterco.com , www.gillyhicks.com ). I work within a team to implement new features and functions as well as maintain, support and upgrade existing functionality. Interface with business and technical leads to quickly and efficiently roll out new features for the consumer. Work as both part of a large team of developers and also function independently as necessary. Maintain high coding standards, including ADA and Section 508 compliance, and produce validated HTML, CSS and JS.  Skills include HTML, CSS, Javascript/jQuery, and Omniture tagging.    Typical workflow would be to work from a PSD design and a functional design. The backend was WebSphere eCommerce, and a new page would be stubbed out by the back end developers with all necessary includes and repeated elements like header and footer. There was a JavaScript Abercrombie object (ANF) that contained global properties and methods. Individual pages would each be an individual object extended from the ANF object. The id of the body tag of each page would be used as a part of page-specific path for individual JS and CSS files. Front End Developer VICTORIA'S SECRET - Columbus, OH September 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  Maintained and updated e commerce product display pages in HTML/CSS/JavaScript/jQuery using the Fatwire content management system. Also worked on internal Word Press site, modifying it to work on tablets. Front End Developer BLUE DIESEL/INVENTIV July 2011 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  Re-skinning existing pages for a pharmaceutical sales tool displayed on a tablet computer. The refresh was both visual and behavioral, requiring animations coded with jQuery. Front End Developer Ettain Group - Charlotte, NC March 2011 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  Troubleshooting the existing object-oriented Guiding Selling Tools javascript application, and extending it to function with other categories and shadow categories of appliances. Preparing packages of new code for the back end team to push to production servers. Online Prototype Developer Signature Consultants - Princeton, NJ January 2011 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Build prototype of My Merrill and Merrill Edge web pages in XHTML/CSS/JavaScript/jQuery. Deliver pages conforming to current best practices and standards, including ADA and Section 508 compliance. Mockup behavior to enable business analyst and product owner to sign off on final build. Mobile UI Developer NATIONWIDE INSURANCE - Columbus, OH July 2010 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Researched best mobile practices and capabilities of target devices. Delivered content balanced between cutting edge behavior and limitations of handheld devices. Helped build html based mobile version of Nationwide site. Senior User Interface Developer ROSETTA - Cleveland, OH January 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Played a critical communication and facilitation role between the designers and the programmers by enabling the designers to create pioneering user experiences, creating a user interface in html, css, and JavaScript, and then working with the programmers to implement this interface within the limitations of the backend technology  • Coded email templates for use with Exact Target marketing software.  • Adhered to current W3C web standards, and usability and accessibility guidelines, and helped ensure that these standards were maintained through the implementation process  • Clients included Coach, Nationwide Insurance, Jos. A. Bank, Insurance Dot Com, Citizen's Bank, Sallie Mae, Audiovox, Scholastic Bridge Worldwide - Cincinnati, OH September 2007 to December 2007 Responsibilities:  • Completed various projects for clients including Proctor & Gamble, ConAgra Foods, Doctors Dermatologic Formula, Metamucil, applying current best practices and standards, including ADA and Section 508 compliance.  • Coded XHTML/CSS, JavaScript, at times using jQuery JavaScript framework  • Worked with Drupal CMS Independent Consultant STUDIO BL - Columbus, OH January 2003 to 2007 specializing in customer-focused design services  • Projects demonstrated a wide range of specialized solutions to meet specific customer requirements, incorporating skills in programming, graphic design, and web services Education Associates in Summa Columbus State Community College Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: HTML5, CSS3/SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, JSTL, Ruby    Tools: Dreamweaver, Aptana, Eclipse, Photoshop, Fireworks, Flash, SVN, Atlassian tools Jira and Confluence.    Web Scripting Languages: HTML5/CSS3, SASS, Javascript/jQuery, PHP/MySQL, Ruby    Best Practices: Responsive layouts, object-oriented programming, web accessibility, ADA, Section 508,WCAG 2.0 standards, usability, page load, JavaScript best practices, mobile best practices, scalability, maintainable code, cross-browser compatibility. Email template coding.    CMS: Joomla, OpenCMS, WordPress    Backend Integration: SharePoint, IBM WebSphere eCommerce, GWT    Specialized Training: Attended WebAIM web accessibility training at Utah State Center for Disability Studies.    Software Applications: Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Aptana, Fireworks, Flash, Acrobat Pro, InDesign    Familiar With: Angular JS, Bootstrap, Foundation, Require JS    Accessibility: All my front end experience has involved accessibility. Typically, companies have not had much accessibility expertise, and certainly no accessibility specialists. Front end developers like myself took it upon ourselves to provide accessibility standards (based on Section 508 amendment to the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973). This typically consisted of things like skip links, logical information flow, alt tags, etc.) When I started at Alliance Data, I was told that I was the sole person responsible for web accessibility. I took this very seriously and began researching the current state of web accessibility, including WCAG 2.0, WAI-ARIA, and keyboard-only access. I performed a detailed analysis of Alliance Data's conformance with the WCAG 2.0 standard, along with technical details what needed to be done to bring it into compliance. As part of this research, I attended a 2-day training with WebAIM (webaim.org), a non-profit organization dedicated to web accessibility located on the campus of Utah State University in Logan, UT.