CONSULTANT AND FREELANCER FRONT CONSULTANT AND FREELANCER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> CONSULTANT AND FREELANCER FRONT - END DEV Fremont, CA Develop the best user experience for interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, css animations, Javascript (JS,  Jquery and React). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience CONSULTANT AND FREELANCER FRONT END DEV - Rio de Janeiro, BR June 2015 to Present debugninja.com.br | Rio de Janeiro - Brazil    Worked in transition of company primordia to Vtex, which almost 90% were migrated from    Primordia platform (magento customized) to Vtex platform, All migration processes were  accelerated when I created a default css for desktop and responsive, which decreased the time of production in 40%    ? Migrated online shoppings from magento platform to vtex platform (products and layouts).  ? Created and developed integration with wordpress blogs to magento using PHP or JS.  ? Reduced all bugs testing in multiples browsers to ensure the cross-browser compatibility.  ? Created a light and customized version of bootstrap css library increasing the load performance. FRONT- END DEVELOPER Primodia - Rio de Janeiro, BR September 2013 to October 2014 Rio de Janeiro - Brazil    Performed a production line in the company, I produced one online shopping a week creating  methodologies of production and standards. Increasing our speed in our development and decreasing the bugs and misunderstandings between company and clients.    ? Implemented photoshop layouts to HTML5, CSS3 and interactions using Javascript (jQuery).  ? Created a default version of responsive CSS for all versions of layouts.  ? Created a small php integration extension ( wordpress to magento ) using wordpress XML file.  ? Wrote and recorded the video tutorials about the primordia platform. FRONT- END DEVELOPER Brazil Navy - Rio de Janeiro, BR July 2011 to August 2013 Rio de Janeiro - Brazil    Researched and created wireframes (Balsamic Mockups) and prototypes (HTML + CSS + JS)  achieving the best results related to usability and user experience avoiding wasting of time and budget, and after starting the template views programming (HTML + CSS + JS) for Java 2EE.  Completing the cycle producing documentation in PDF files and videos and posted in a intranet  Wiki to keep all documentation related to the project saved for all team.    ? Researched and tested user experience using Balsamic Mockups and real UI prototypes.  ? Designed the system layouts using Dojo components reference and photoshop.  ? Developed views/templates using DojoJS and integrations with services (Json).  ? Created the wiki with all project documentation. FRONT- END DEVELOPER IBGE - Rio de Janeiro, BR March 2009 to March 2011 Rio de Janeiro - Brazil    Participated of IBGE CENSO 2010 (decade census of Brazilian population) as designer, front- end and tester, acting in all stages of project and reporting to the directors all goals reached, as designer researched and designed the layout for website and survey keeping the same visual  identity, usability and accessibility. Developed the back- end using php and mysql, and the front- end using XHTML, CSS 2.1 and JS (jQuery).    ? Designed layouts for IBGE Censo 2010 website and Censo 2010 Survey.  ? Developed the Censo 2010 website using php and mysql  ? Developed the Censo 2010 Survey using jQuery interactions and Ajax Requests.  ? Tested the website and survey to ensure a better experience and cross-browser compatibility. WEB DESIGNER Arte Digital - Rio de Janeiro, BR December 2006 to February 2009 Rio de Janeiro - Brazil    Created layouts using Fireworks and Photoshop working with clients in their companies, I  decided to use this methodology to avoid misunderstands and save time, and after implemented  XHTML and CSS using templatePower (php framework).    ? Designed layouts for clients using Fireworks and Photoshop  ? Designed printed arts.  ? Created logo and print layouts.  ? Designed and implemented HTML for Mail Marketing. Education Master in paused Pontifical Catholic University - Rio de Janeiro, BR 2014 Bachelor in Design visual communication Pontifical Catholic University - Rio de Janeiro, BR 2004 to 2008 Skills PHP (8 years), PHOTOSHOP (5 years), FRONT END (5 years), FRONT END DESIGN (5 years), FRONT-END (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tiagomarquesleite Additional Information SKILLS ? Team leader (Jira - Scrum)  ?  Designer UI and UX ( Layouts - Photoshop/Sketch/Figma / Prototypes - Balsamic Mockups )  ? Front- end Developer (HTML5 / CSS3 - SASS / JS - Jquery and React)  ? PHP Backend and Linux servers (Apache and Nginx)