Lead Front End Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Front End Web Developer - Quaza Solutions Queens, NY Flexible, responsive software engineer with 10 years+ experience as Front- End Developer of Web based applications.  Proficient in developing Web pages, on site and remotely, using 25+ programming languages, including HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, DOM, Angular, AJAX and JSON.  Experience with Bootstrap in developing the responsive front- end.  Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Jquery.  4 years of experience as a PHP/MySQL programmer Work Experience Lead Front End Web Developer Quaza Solutions January 2016 to Present Created Web pages with bootstrap, added dynamic elements with javascript, Angular, and jQuery.  Updated data form of the Web page by using PHP.  Installed and used Bootstrap Framework to support different browser and devices Front- end Developer Decor Island March 2015 to January 2016 Improved homepage properties using JavaScript, jQuery and PHP 5  Used JavaScript, CSS 3, and Bootstrap to help with the responsive web design, to support modern browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Opera, as well as mobile devices that use these browsers  Performed usability testing and cross-browser testing  Edited HTML5 templates, created a PHP contact form, communicated via email, and met deadlines  Collaborated with team manager, graphic designers and marketing staffs to optimize page load times Front- end Developer ScholarChip December 2014 to March 2015 Designed web pages in dotnetnuke using HTML and CSS  Developed web UI using HTML 5 and CSS 3 Front- end Developer Dealflow.com May 2014 to November 2014 Designed web pages using HTML. Styled pages with LESS/Sass and CSS. Committed changes using git.  Updated MySQL database.  Used git for version control Web Developer Mad Media Online February 2014 to May 2014 Created online photo gallery using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery  Designed layouts on the front- end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  Converted PSDs and wireframes to HTML pages  [Full Stack Developer]  917-480-6444, HYPERLINK "mailto:makamo66@hotmail.com"makamo66@hotmail.com  Based in Queens, New York  Experience continued Web Developer Open Temps September 2013 to January 2014 Generated feedback forms in front- end (HTML) and back- end (PHP/Laravel/MySQL)  Implemented website interface using HTML and CSS.  Created registration and authentication module using MySQL.  Implemented website form data using PHP and AJAX.  Implemented website selection and submit function with JavaScript.  Used Subversion for version control. Front- end Web Developer X-Equipped Corporation January 2013 to September 2013 Technologies used were HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Full Stack Developer New York Festivals February 2011 to December 2012 Designed front- end layouts using HTML, CSS/CSS3, and JavaScript  Created CMS, through front- end (HTML) and back- end (PHP/MySQL) development Web Developer Cerebel Corporation July 2010 to January 2011 Designed and formatted user interface using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS3  Used MySQL and PHP as the database backend Front- end Developer The Audubon Society January 2008 to July 2010 Developed user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, and JSON  Developed web pages with login, register, forget password, email, filtering functionalities using JavaScript and HTML5 Front- end Developer Cordsel Technologies July 2006 to February 2008 Reduced bandwidth usage and load time using JavaScript to update a user input and request portion of a web page  Added special effects to selectors using CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes  Developed web pages using HTML, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery, and AJAX.  Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box model and HTML    Page NUMPAGES \*Arabic 2 Education M.S. in Physics Technische Universität Berlin Goethe Institute - Berlin, DE Skills Javascript, Front End, UI Links http://maureenmoore.com