Front End UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UI Developer Oklahoma City, OK ? A self-driven and customer oriented professional with 2 years of experience in web design and development of high traffic websites.  ? Efficient and proper knowledge of HTML, CSS, Java Script, Jquery, Bootstrap, PHP best practices for SEO, UX, Social Networking, Content Sharing, Asynchronous JavaScript (AJAX through the use of jQuery), XML, RSS and JSON.  ? Efficient in planning and work, through highly iterative design phases.  ? Excellent problem solving and communication skills, both verbal and written.  ? Well organized, positive attitude and strong work ethics.  ? Proven team player to deliver challenging projects on time.  ? Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments.  ? Knowledge in BackBone.js and Angular.js.  ? Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation & Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  ? Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End UI Developer CYIENT October 2010 to November 2012 Description:  Infotech Enterprises Ltd. changed to CYIENT Limited. Cyient is a Global IT services company with over 7900 people specializing in Engineering Services, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), and IT services. It provides services to a wide range of industries - Aerospace, Automotive, Energy, Government, Hi Tech Consumer & Medical Devices, Marine, Rail, Retail, Telecom and Utilities.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  ? Used Java Script, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Experience with jQuery and knowledge in backbone.js  ? Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  ? Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Worked closely with QA team to fix the reported bugs/defects and checked cross platform compatibility.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used agile methodology for the software development.  ? Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  ? Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  Environment:  HTML 5, JavaScript, backbone.js, AJAX, CSS 2/3, JSON, Jquery, XML, Apache, JBoss Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh June 2009 Skills HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, MySql (2 years) Links https://www.facebook.com/sudha.swaroop.5 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages  • HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, SQL, CSS3  Software  • Database: MySql, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Sqlite  • Platforms: Windows  • Software Tools: Eclipse, Aptana Studio, CODA, Notepad++, IntelliJ IDEA, Adobe, Microsoft (Office, Excel, Word, PowerPoint)  • Website CMS Tools: Wordpress, Joomla, Mail Chimp, Typo3, Zurb Foundation, Twitter Bootstrap