Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer West Windsor, NJ • Over 2 Years of experience as UI developer in application and web development with emphasis on HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, XML, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in some phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Design/Architecture, Development and Implementation.  • Experience in creating the pages using CSS webpages layouts along with slight knowledge on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding and CSS Table.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Knowledge on Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Effective problem solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Nipun Net Solutions Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh October 2010 to April 2013 Description:  They provide application development services for web enabled and database applications for Client/Server, by maintaining high quality standards in terms of coding and quality with meeting timelines. Their Services never compromise on coding standards and quality of the product with skilled programmers who maintain the developed products and give on time support.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Wrote CSS code to provide table free layout to user interface screen.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code Java as server side technology.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript/AJAX, XML, jSON, JQuery, SQL server, Apache tomcat, Eclipse. Education Masters in Information Systems Virginia International University 2013 to 2015 Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2009 to 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, Apache, Java, GITHUB.    JavaScript Libraries  jQuery, AngularJS.    IDE's and Tools  Sublime Text2, Eclipse, NetBean, Dreamweaver, Chrome element inspectors, Adobe products.    Debugging Tools  Firebug, W3c Validator, IE tester, BugZilla.    Database  MySQL    Operating System  Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X