Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end developer (Vue.js) Denver, CO I moved to the US in February 2019, then in April, I moved to Denver.  My native language is Russian, I'm a green card holder and permitted to work in the US.    My skills:    * Javascript  I have a lot of experience in JS starting from long forgotten prototype.js to a modern Vue framework. I've worked with jQuery, underscore, backbone, angular 1.x, ExtJS, knockout and more.    * ES6  I love polyfills and Babel and prefer using new JS features.    * Vue.js and vuex.  I've started my first Vue.js based project in May 2017 and since then I prefer this framework for work and personal use. I'm very experienced with Vue.js, vuex, vue cli 3, router.    * Unit testing  I'm a huge fan of unit tests and good test coverage. My favorite at the moment is Jest. Used to write a lot of test with Jasmine + karma.    * Functional testing  I'm very experienced in functional testing: selenium, webdriver.io. Now I prefer cypress.io with cucumber.js.    * CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, responsive design  I'm quite familiar with the bootstrap grid, always trying to make page look "acceptable" for iPhone 5 resolution and good for bigger screens. Worked with SCSS, LESS.    * Webpack  I'm experienced with different aspects of webpack configuration, like babel and preprocessors, aliases, PWA, service worker (workbox), favicon generation, JSON generation, env variables. Some grunt experience in the past.    * Git and pull-requests  Git since 2013, git-flow. I prefer "rebase" over "merge". Used to work with Bitbucket, Gitlab, and mandatory code reviews.    * Issue trackers  JIRA, Redmine, GitLab    * Docker, vagrant  I like the idea of lightweight containers. I use docker to host VPN and a few web apps (nginx) on a single Digital Ocean instance. Also used to run selenium docker images via docker-compose.  But I can't say I'm very good at writing dockerfiles. I prefer Vagrantfile and virtual machines for development environment as it's easier for me to set it up.    * Continuous Integration  Can configure Jenkins jobs, minimal experience with Travis.    * SQL/NoSQL  Worked with MySQL, MongoDB.    * RESTful APIs  Used to query server data with fetch, ajax and axios    * Agile  Everyday stand-up meeting and two weeks sprints are not a problem.    * Python  Python is my second favorite language. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Neotech - Tallinn January 2018 to February 2019 1. Legacy mobile web UI for betting site: JQuery, lodash, backbone.  2. New web UI for the same site: ES6, VueJS  Cordova applications for Android and iOS Front End Developer Parallels, Inc - Tallinn September 2014 to January 2018 Projects:    1. New "Personal account" pages:  - Vue.js, ES6  - Pug (ex-Jade), Sass  - Webpack    2. Previous "Personal account" pages:  - Knockout.js, jQuery  - Pug (ex-Jade), Less, Bootstrap based grid  - Grunt, require.js  - some tests with QUnit  - some tests with Jasmine, Karma, PhantomJS  - some tests with jsdom and mocha    3. Legacy internal "Admin dashboard":  - Ext.js 3  - being a huge fan of unit testing, I've provided almost 100% test coverage for my code with Jasmine, Karma, PhantomJS    4. Webapp metrics - measure page open timings from different locations (US, EU, China)  - Webdriver.IO scenarios periodically (Jenkins) run on remote nodes (Selenium in Docker containers)  - Data is saved to InfluxDB and displayed in Grafana dashboard    Common skills:  - Git, Bitbucket  - Vagrant, some bash shell scripting Front End Developer Teleshkola - Moscow March 2014 to August 2014 Frontend components development for a remote education system. Angular.js 1.2, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt. Web Developer riotpixels.com - Moscow January 2013 to February 2014 Video games related media startup.  - Python 2 (flask, jinja2), MongoDB  - jQuery, Backbone Web Developer Absolute Games, ag.ru - Moscow May 2009 to December 2012 - Perl, mySQL  - JS and jQuery as an additional interactivity to statically generated markup Web Developer Inet Com - Moscow November 2007 to April 2009 The company is Internet Service Provider.  - PHP, MySQL, some Perl and Bash scripting, some scripts on JS (Prototype.js)  Projects:  1. "Personal Account" pages for customers, SMS notifications, payment gateways integrations  2. Trouble ticket system for Customer Support Service  3. Web interface for IPTV and video files streaming over PC and control interface for Amino Set-Top-Boxes Software Developer Navigator Electronics - Saransk August 2006 to October 2007 Delphi 2006, MSSQL Education Master's in Applied mathematics Mordovian state university - Saransk September 2002 to July 2007 Skills Javascript (9 years), JQuery (8 years), Git (6 years), Python (3 years), Vue.js (2 years), MySQL (5 years), Front End, HTML5, Front-End Links https://github.com/denego https://padl.pobelov.com Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u3l0ntgg-o0r6z-n Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n4pcl7p1ovz-bbfe Data Analysis — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5bl8zlkbeiri8jm3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.