Senior Front End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Developer - Express Scripts Inc Franklin Lakes, NJ • Over 9 years extensive experience in Web Analysis, Design, UI Development, Application Testing, Performance Tuning and Technical Support with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • On the job accomplishments include successfully design and developed large web 2.0 based enterprise solutions with emphasis on use of CSS Layout, various jQuery plug-in, OO JavaScript framework.  • Experience working across various industries including Banking, Health and Financial Institutes involving in all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), such as Analysis, Designing, Developing, Integrating, Implementing and testing of Client-Server and Web-based applications.  • Expertise in developing single page web applications JavaScript frameworks like React JS and Angular JS.  • Experience in using media queries, Twitter Bootstrap and CSS Flex Box to develop responsive web applications making them compatible for different screen sizes.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications with React JS using Redux, Flux, Babel+ES6 and Webpack.  • Knowledge in developing front end systems with Angular 2/4 framework.  • Extensive Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML. In-Depth knowledge/Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, W3C Standards.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Experience in using task runners Grunt JS and Gulp JS and different tracking tools like Jira and Rally.  • Experience in using Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins to build and test web applications continuously.  • Good web application debugging skills using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browsers compatibility issues and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Strong debugging skills using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools.  • Experience in working with version control tools such as GIT, CSV and SVN.  • Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML), Wireframes, Prototypes, Flow Chart, Class Diagrams, User Diagram, Activity and Sequence Diagrams.  • Experience working under Agile Development, Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Experience in using different testing frameworks like Jasmine, Protractor, Karma, Cucumber and Nightwatch.  • Experience using monitoring tools like Splunk, Log Insight and Watchmaker.  • Experience using code quality tools like ESLint and SonarQube.  • Experience using Checkmarx for Application Security Testing and Static Code Analysis.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages Using Web Standards.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Webstorm, NetBeans, EditPlus, Notepad++, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  • Ability to communicate effectively with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customer's and presented technical designs and strategies through daily operations meetings. Work Experience Senior Front End Developer Express Scripts Inc - Franklin Lakes, NJ May 2016 to Present Express Scripts Holding Company is an American Fortune 100 company. As of 2017, the company is the 22nd-largest in the United States as well as the largest pharmacy benefit management (PBM) organization in the United States. Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services including network-pharmacy claims processing; home delivery pharmacy services; specialty pharmacy benefit management, through its subsidiary Accredo; benefit-design consultation; drug-utilization review; formulary management; and medical and drug data analysis services to manage drug plans for health plans, self-insured employers and government agencies. One of its largest clients is the United States Department of Defense's Tricare program.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing secured single page web applications using HTML5, CSS3, ES6, JavaScript, React JS and Node JS.  • Responsible for developing high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface using React JS libraries with NPM and Yarn package management system.  • Used react-bootstrap library to make the web applications responsive to desktop, mobile and tablet modes.  • Used Redux architecture to handle the state of the application and used different middleware to make asynchronous API calls and create loggers.  • Developed real time chat component for the user interaction using a third-party extension.  • Responsible for developing reusable react components according to Master Design Language.  • Collaborated closely with UX design team to create beautiful, functional and fast interfaces and also responsible for converting prototypes developed by UX design team to React web pages.  • Consumed Spring boot web services to get the data from server and display on web pages.  • Used react-router library to switch the pages in a single shell based on the route.  • Resolved several browser compatibility issues across Internet Explorer and Safari.  • Used GitHub for the code management and Git as version control.  • Responsible for deploying the code to PCF using Jenkins and XLR tools.  • Responsible for scanning the application using Pen Test and App Scan Testing, to ensure the security compliance requirements are achieved.  • Responsible for implementing SSO (Single Sign On) for different client.  • Responsible for fixing the defects identified by testing (QA) team.  • Responsible for using Adobe Analytics to track and improve application performance.  • Used different log monitoring tools like Splunk, Log Insight and watchmaker.  • Worked closely with product owners to understand the requirements and timelines, to deliver the project in time following Agile methodology.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Responsible for Unit and Functional Testing the React components using Jasmine, Karma, Cucumber and Nightwatch.  • Used Jira and Rally for issue tracking and Confluence to organize the design documents.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Improvement and Continuous Development.  • Responsible for coordinating with different cross functional teams to develop and release the applications.  • Responsible for participating in Scrum sessions following AGILE environment.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, ES6, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Node JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, Spring Boot, Jasmine, Karma, Nightwatch, Cucumber, GIT, Jenkins, Gulp, Jira, XLR. Skills JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (7 years), XML (6 years), AJAX (9 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, XML, XHTML, DHTML, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, MVC, DOM, Web service, LESS, SASS, Atomic CSS, PHP  IDE: Webstorm, Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Sublime Text2.  Databases: My SQL, SQL Server Oracle, Teradata, MongoDB  Systems: Windows and Mac OS, Linux  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, Angular JS, React JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, D3 JS, EXT JS, Require JS, Bootstrap.  Defect Tracking Tools: JIRA, Rally, Test Director, Quality Center  SDLC: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum