Freelance Front- End Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hixson, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Front- End Developer Chattanooga, TN 2014 to Present Freelance front- end developer with accountability for marketing and selling services, managing client  relationships, meeting critical deadlines within budget constraints, and building websites for corporate  clients.    • Developed multiple WordPress sites for real-estate companies selling high- end apartments in New York  and San Francisco. Created custom solutions for various interactive elements to highlight the features of complex and surrounding neighborhoods.  • Built over 30 custom career sites to help connect potential employees to corporations in a variety of enterprises.  • Designed mobile and tablet secondary page views taking cues from mobile and tablet designs of homepage  and from secondary desktop view design on multiple projects.  • Built style guide for health care Web application to make it easier to onboard new developers to current  and future development. Senior Front- End Developer Easy Designs, LLC - Chattanooga, TN 2013 to 2014 Responsible for the front- end development for a small boutique Web agency. Focus of my work was  building mobile-first responsive Websites, for both new projects and existing sites.    • Revamped high profile site, webstandardssherpa.com, with a mobile-first approach to layout.  Implemented changes such as conditional loading and code refactoring to increase site performance.  • Retrofitted two large university Websites from static desktop to mobile-first responsive sites. Translated  fixed width static design into fluid layouts that worked across the device platform.  • Translated style tile into mobile-first responsive site built with ExpressionEngine. Designed the mobile  and desktop layouts in wireframes. Utilized best practices with responsive images and responsive content to insure great performance on devices and desktop. Front- End Developer Bonnier Corporation - Orlando, FL 2010 to 2013 Crafted custom Drupal sites for one of the largest consumer-publishing groups. It was a fast-paced  production environment filled with variety and challenges that sharpened my skills exponentially. Worked with award-winning brands Popular Photography, SAVEUR, Parenting, and Popular Science.    • Collaborated with a team to translate design solutions into award-winning interactive experiences for SAVEUR.com.  • Partnered with several backend developers to build a site under an extremely aggressive timeline of three weeks for American Photo Magazine. Web Designer and Front- End Developer Cru - Orlando, FL 1999 to 2010 Served as the sole Web designer/ front- end developer in national office that served over 800 campuses.  Position required me to be proactive in suggesting how my organization can better utilize the Internet,  managing multiple projects, and developing my professional skills to be current with latest technology and best practices. Broad range of duties: including design, front- end development, hosting, domain  registration, and maintaining 15 different sites. Education B.A. in Architecture UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS - Lawrence, KS 1993 Skills WordPress (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Craft CMS (2 years), jQuery (5 years) Links http://jeffbridgforth.com/portfolio