Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager - East County Economic Development Council San Diego, CA To work for a company in need of a Project Manager with hands on experience in the various aspects of web design, UI design, front end development, database, with programming familiarity in php and .net. Also proficient in creating and fulfilling RFP needs and requirements. Experienced online management tools include Basecamp and Jira. Work Experience Project Manager East County Economic Development Council - Santee, CA August 2017 to Present Project Manager for in house IT projects. Created Use Cases and project plans. Interviewed and managed external and internal staff programmers, DB administrators and front end developers. Developed a team to build a scalable online manufacturing search portal.  • Worked with East County EDC Senior Staff to create the development plan, schedule, and resource projections for the Connectory.com Network Technology Upgrade project  • Interfaced with, along with ECEDC senior staff, Connectory.com users in the Propel San Diego Regional Leadership Group (RLG), the associated Advisory Council, as well as industry, government, and economic/workforce development user community  • Reviewed and suggesting improvements to the Connectory.com Network harvester, parser, and interface developed under a related, but separately funded effort  • Worked with programmers to developed business logic for mining the company capabilities information collected for the Connectory.com Network  • Identified, recruited, and selected other software development talent required to implement the Connectory.com Technology Upgrade  • Managed the Connectory.com software development team along with resource load balancing and burn rate  • Identified the potential IT tools and applications that can most effectively address the Connectory.com Network's functional improvements, including cost and performance trade-offs Project Manager - Front end developer ListenChannel - Mooresville, NC January 2014 to April 2017 Interface design, programming. Database design and implementation. Daily music conversion processing sample files for music artists. Create user application flow and user application programming using dreamweaver.  • Architect sites and or Database schema for projects Using MyPHP Admin or MSSQL Enterprise Manager  • html programming using Dreamweaver  • PHP programming using Dreamweaver  • Bootstrap framework Implementation  • Application building Using Dreamweaver  • Built relational Database tables in MySQL or MSSQL with MyPHP Admin or Enterprise Manager  • Project Managed through Jira  • Implemented Bitbucket and Sourcesafe for versioning Project Manager - Sales - Front end developer Pyromedia - San Diego, CA October 2007 to January 2014 Interface design, programming. Create online solutions using html, flash and 3D, ASP, PHP, Photography, Video and project Management. Market and sell services offered by Pyromedia Studios. Generate RFP as required for project bidding and sales quotes for web design and or web development. Create a discovery doc that identifies client needs after meeting with client. Meet with production team to identity client needs and match technologies and resources to complete the project.  • Project managed large scale projects  • Designed comps for clients in Fireworks  • Architect sites and or Database schema for projects Using MyPHP Admin or MSSQL Enterprise Manager  • html programming using Dreamweaver, Expression or Homesite  • ASP programming using Dreamweaver  • PHP programming using Dreamweaver  • Flash Design and Action scripting  • Video work in Final Cut or Premier Pro  • Special Effects using Digital Fusion or After Effects  • 3D modeling and animation using Lightwave or Maya  • Application building Using Dreamweaver  • Built relational Database tables in MySQL or MSSQL with MyPHP Admin or Enterprise Manager  • Photographed products or models UI Design and Front end developer FREA - San Diego, CA January 2007 to October 2007 Analyze and Re-Design the UI Interface for one of the companies owned by FREA.  • Met weekly to review site design progress  • Met weekly to interview the client usage process  • Researched competing businesses  • Re-structured site usability, while maintaining a framework that would not alienate existing clients.  • Created Site Map to analyze data structure  • Wire framed several sites before sending it to .NET programmers UI Design - Vista, CA October 2006 to January 2007 Re-Design corporate websites. Make new websites more user - friendly, develop flash intros and 3D flash product demos.  • Met weekly to review site design progress  • Create up to 2-3 comps per week for review in Fireworks  • Texture, and render 3D-Graphics for website  • Storyboard and build Flash action scripting and animations  • Completed 3 full websites including the corporate website Project Manager - Sales - Front end developer Digital Spike - San Diego, CA January 2000 to October 2006 Founded Digital Spike. Sold and marketed services offered by Digital Spike. Bidded on projects with RFP's. Architected, designed, programmed, and tested websites for live web deployment  • Sales  • Project Manager  • Acted as technical advisor for clients on web related projects  • Designed websites that worked using web 1.0 technoloiges  • Optimized graphics for slower bandwidths  • Created animated or static banners for marketing  • Used Lightwave3D to create animated gifs for sites and banners  • Designed Comps for client approval  • Hand coded html for wesites  • Created UI wireframes for client approval  • Programmed online user management modules and CMS systems using php and Mysql Multimedia Director Lak Advertising - San Diego, CA January 2000 to January 2002 Interface design, programming. Create online solutions using html, flash and 3D.  • Acted as technical advisor for clients on web related projects  • Come up with technical solutions to clients internet needs  • Brought print designers up to speed on designing for the internet  • Created 3D Models for client projects using Lightwave Education Montgomery High School - San Diego, CA Southwestern College - San Diego, CA