Technical Lead ( Front End) Technical Lead (<span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>) Technical Lead ( Front End) Sunnyvale, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Lead ( Front End) ATT - Richardson, TX May 2016 to Present Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, it is the world's largest telecommunications company. Mobile Application Development from AT&T is a comprehensive suite of products and services that provides your organization a holistic way to build and execute your mobile strategy. This App is for the C-Level employees of ATT which enables them to check the product sale trend from time to time in graphical and tabular format.  Responsibilities:    • Effort estimation, Planning, Resource Loading and Defining the Timelines.  • Managing and implementing change requests from the client.  • Develop single-page mobile application using angular.js for iOS and android platforms.  • Maintain and enhance the existing module using JQuery mobile.  • Worked on creating responsive application for smart devices using responsive design.  • Synchronizing various parts of web applications using angular.js.  • Integrated the angular.js application with the RESTful web services.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Testing the website for iOS and android mobile phones and tablets with various resolutions.  • Packaging and Publishing application for android and iOS mobile devices.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging data back and forth from server.  • Used Agile methodology for the software development.  Environment: Angular JS, JQueryMobile, HTML5, CSS3, Cordova Technical Lead ( Front End) ACC/WCU - Los Angeles, CA June 2014 to May 2016 Senior Front End Developer Uni Ter Underwriting Management Corporation - Atlanta, GA June 2011 to May 2014 Description: RISKMASTER Accelerator, the world's most widely used risk and claims management software, provides a variety of powerful, scalable RMIS analysis and reporting capabilities available independently or as part of a comprehensive, integrated claims and risk management solution. It can help you evaluate injuries, control legal costs, identify potential fraud, automate policy administration and much more.  Riskmaster Adjuster app allows claims adjuster to manage assigned Claims, Event, Tasks, and financial information from mobile or tablet. While at onsite, adjusters can record claim related information as diaries or comments and can capture onsite evidences, such as pictures, videos, voice recordings, or scanned/ signed documents, for seamless upload to Riskmaster's document repository.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Claims module for mobile application development using Jquery, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Creating android, iOS and Blackberry compatible codebase.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Maintaining the existing web application using ASP.Net and C#.Net.  • Analyzing and fixing the issues in Production environment and identifying the technical intricacies.  • Logging, monitoring and tracking tasks in JIRA.  • Documentation of developed modules and publishing the solutions in collaboration with the team.  • Coordinating with team for accomplishment of tasks using Agile methodology.  Environment: Jquery, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, HTML5, CSS, C#, ASP.Net Web Developer Thomson Reuters - Dallas, TX February 2010 to June 2011 Description: Thomson Reuters is an organization with business widespread across multiple sectors. The Finance sectors of Thomson Reuters created many systems to automate their processes. ONESOURCE Income Tax is the complete tax management system that seamlessly integrates federal, state, local, and international tax compliance and management for multinational enterprises, insurance companies, and partnerships.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering and analyzing the given requirements from client.  • Developing and unit testing Modification and Apportionment modules in ASP.Net and Silverlight.  • Setting UI standards for the web applications for Thomson Reuters with UI Manager.  • Planning and executing the Sprint as per the requirement.  • Attending daily Stand Ups with all stakeholders.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS3 and appropriate HTML5 tags as per W3C standards.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Developed Architectural Design Documents and Block Diagrams.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Silverlight, SQL Server Web Developer ASPIRE - Doha, QA July 2007 to February 2010 Description: AIMS [ASPIRE Information Management System], was a comprehensive information system that models the core mission of ASPIRE, which is the athlete's entire life cycle in ASPIRE from the time of discovery to becoming a potential champion.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using C# and ASP.Net utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Student Registration, View Student information modules.  • Documentation for required modules.  • Environment: C#, ASP.Net Education history client West Coast University and American College in US Skills ASP.Net (7 years), C# (7 years), Angular JS (9 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (9 years), JQuery (9 years), Javascript (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), IOS (4 years), Android (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:    Web Technologies Angular JS, JQuery Mobile, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Cordova, C#, ASP.Net  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse, XCode, Aptana Studio  Database SQL Server 2008  Other Tools SVN, Jira, Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool, MS Office.