Operations Engineer Operations Engineer Front End Developer Brooklyn, NY I'm looking for a position as a front end developer. I want to work with JavaScript frameworks like React and Vue. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operations Engineer FCB HealthCare - New York, NY May 2015 to June 2017 • Configured development, staging, and production environments on Windows and Linux platforms.  • Generated certificate signing requests and installed SSL certificates for production websites.  • Resolved website security vulnerabilities on IIS and Apache.  • Created and managed repositories on GitLab and Subversion Edge.  • Managed user access permissions to web instances and version control systems.  • Managed website deployments. Front End Developer Draftfcb HealthCare - New York, NY May 2011 to April 2015 • Created interactive visual aids on the Veeva platform.  • Migrated and managed website from a proprietary CMS to Sitefinity CMS.  • Created a single page web application that promoted products based on user input.  • Created themes for a Drupal and WordPress websites.  • Coded HTML emails for e-marketing campaigns. Front End Developer Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia - New York, NY March 2010 to April 2011 • Managed content on proprietary CMS for the legacy website.  • Advised art directors on grid based layout for website redesign.  • Collaborated with backend developers to develop single page web application to facilitate data migration from proprietary CMS to Drupal.  • Created Drupal theme templates based on designs by art directors.  • Source file version control managed with GIT. Front End Developer (Contract) Wireless Generation - Brooklyn, NY September 2009 to December 2009 • Analyzed existing user interface (UI) implementation and simplified HTML code structure with CSS when possible.  • Resolved UI display inconsistencies between Firefox 3, IE7 and Safari.  • Provided maintenance and features creation using front- end web technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and JSON.  • Utilized CVS from within Eclipse and Cygwin for file version control.  • Worked with QA utilizing FogBugz for application bug tracking and resolution. Production Programmer Scholastic Inc - New York, NY February 2001 to February 2009 The job of the production programmer was to:   • Analyze website specs/wireframes/mockups from producers to determine if company standards are met.  • Collaborated with graphic designers and producers to determine if website can be built using flat HTML or if other web technologies are required.  • Used Photoshop to slice and optimize graphics from composite designs.  • Created websites in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript via hand-coding or with Dreamweaver, if necessary.  • Performed maintenance on websites as per directions of producers and business units.  • Worked with QA group to ensure websites display and function correctly across all supported browsers.    Universal Nav V2, 2009  The Universal Nav is Scholastic.com's sitewide navigation system. It appears at the top and/or bottom of each page of the website. For this iteration, the design was simplified, but included the drop shadow effect on the drop down menu items. Contents of the navigation were reorganized and two new items were added targeting specific users of the site.  • Updated global navigation HTML and CSS code to include new menu tabs.  • Utilized IE PNG Fix script to correctly display drop shadow effect in Internet Explorer 6.  • Packaged HTML and CSS code into a single JavaScript file for easy distribution.  • Utilized jQuery library to streamline the existing JavaScript code.    Chairperson's Toolkit, 2007-2009  Chairperson's Toolkit is a JSP-based web application that allows educators to create and manage Book Fairs for their school. The user inputs information into predefined fields and a webpage with a link is generated. The user can select different templates for webpage to display.  • Worked with developers to created HTML templates suitable for JSP development. Display templates have the ability to change skins by selecting different style sheets.  • Updated static assets, i.e., images, CSS, server-side includes, via Teamsite.  • Updated HTML code in JSP files via WinCVS, if required.    Ink Splot 26, 2008  Ink Splot 26 is a weblog for the Big Kids Site. It uses Typepad's blogging service. This weblog uses a custom template instead of the boilerplate templates that Typepad provide.  • Built custom templates for each visual element of the blog in HTML and CSS.  • Integrated custom templates with Typepad's tagging methods.  • Utilized ASP Classic to generate the Scholastic global navigation system to a non-Scholastic.com domain website to retain Scholastic look and feel.     Scholastic Reading Counts (SRC), 2008  The Scholastic Reading Counts eCatalog site allows educators to order books and quizzes for their school. The site design was refreshed to incorporate the new Scholastic look and feel while the underlying search and cart functionality remained the same. The application was built with ASP Classic. All pages were dynamically generated with ASP Classic.  • Created templates in HTML and CSS with the separation dynamic and static content in mind.  • Integrated existing code into new templates where only dynamic modules will call ASP Classic functions and static modules can easily be updated.     Little Kids Site Redesign, 2008  The Scholastic Kids Site was divided into two sections. The Little Kids Site was for children 6 and under.  • Created templates for site landing pages.  • Utilized XML and AJAX simplify content updates to the landing pages.  • Used cookies to track the state of the landing pages last visited by the user.  • Created wrapper template to encapsulate legacy pages.     Class Homepage Builder, 2007  Class Homepage Builder allows teachers build a class website to communicate with parents regarding school work. The user inputs information into predefined fields and a webpage with a link is generated. The user can select different templates for webpage to display.  • Worked with developers to create HTML templates suitable for JSP development. Display templates have the ability to change skins by selecting different style sheets.  • Updated static assets, i.e., images, CSS, server-side includes, via Teamsite.  • Updated HTML code in JSP files via WinCVS, if required.     Administrator Magazine, 2003 to 2006  The Administrator website is an extension of Administrator Magazine for educators in print.  First Redesign:  • Created templates for landing pages.  • Performed monthly updates.  Second Redesign:  • Created templates for landing pages with increased focus on style sheet usage.  • Added RSS feed to homepage.  • Performed monthly updates.     The Family Channel, 2002 to 2005  with articles written by child development experts. It was restructured from the Family Channel to the Parent Channel. As the Parent Channel was the first Scholastic.com website to utilize the content management system, Teamsite.  First Redesign:  • Created templates for landing pages and article pages.  • Performed data entry for article pages.  Second Redesign:  • Collaborated with graphic designers to create designed templates that can be content managed.  • Collaborated with producers to create Teamsite data capture templates for new content.  • Migrated existing content through the use of ASP/VBScript, MS Excel and MS Access to be entered into Teamsite. Education BS in Computer Science Skills HTML (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), CSS (10+ years), Linux Additional Information Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript;  Applications: Photoshop, Illustrator;  Browsers: Chrome, Firefox, IE, Safari;  Operating Systems: Windows Server, Windows, OSX, CentOS/Ubuntu;  Version Control: GitLab, SubversionEdge;  CMS: Wordpress, Drupal, Sitecore, Sitefinity;