Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Results-driven Software Developer with 2+ years of experience building web and mobile apps.  Specialization in front- end JavaScript frameworks, responsive design, and application architecture.  Passionate about deepening knowledge of emerging technology and trends.    Areas of professional expertise:    • CSS/JavaScript frameworks and libraries • Object Oriented Design and Programming.  (AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, • Experience in an Agile / SCRUM  ReactNative, Ionic) development environment, unit and  • Server-side JS and building RESTful API's integration testing, iterative development  using Node.js and releases  • Responsive design, web standards and UI/ • Experience translating static designs into  UX best practices Responsive HTML and CSS Work Experience Front- End Developer November 2015 to Present STUDIO 18 November 2015 - Present  An early-stage accelerator for startups that specializes in building mobile and web applications    Front- End Developer  Completed multiple client projects and delivered first iteration of product. Responsible for delivering Client-facing application and integration with Node.js API.  • Ability to build in JavaScript frameworks: Based on a project's need, able to deliver results with various frameworks including React, Angular and Ionic. Developed visually appealing and  consistent experiences across multiple browsers.  • Agile / SCRUM development environment: Work as part of a cross-functional, integrated  development team tracking accomplishments, participating in team meetings, and reporting  status.Responsible for making sure sprint goals were met  • Translate static designs into responsive webpages: Ability to translate Client's vision and  Graphic designers specifications to pixel-perfect completion while at the same time being  responsive across multiple browsers. Front End Developer CASTIFI August 2015 to October 2015 August 2015- October 2015  A startup in the entertainment industry whose app is meant to streamline the process of background actors finding work.    Front End Developer  Responsible for planning and building first iteration of web application using MEAN stack and utilizing Agile methodologies together with Test-Driven-Development  • Front End Development in AngularJS: Collaborated closely with UX Designer to build out responsive pages using a flat design using AngularJs.    • Agile / SCRUM development environment: Delivered results working with energetic and collaborative 7-person team under Sprint deadlines to bring quality tested product to market.  • App planning and architecting: Started at the initial formation of business Idea and worked with  Entrepreneurs using tools such as Agile's Business Model Canvas, to clearly formulate the goals of the application and worked with the engineering team to architect the minimum viable product. Front End Developer RHUBARB STUDIOS July 2015 to August 2015 July 2015- August 2015  Rhubarb Studios, a venture studio with over 30 employees, pairs early-stage startups with an Agile  development and design team to bring their business idea to market.    Front End Developer  Developed new features on Syrup, a real-time software application for Rhubarb Studios, written in  Ruby on Rails.  • Agile / SCRUM development environment: Participated in Rhubarb Studios' Bootcamp program which emphasized software development through Lean UX. Participated in daily standups, weekly  scrum meetings and setting goals for upcoming sprints.  • Pair Programming and Unit Testing: Daily pair-programming sessions, alternating between 'driver' and 'navigator' roles. All code written with unit testing.  • Programming in Ruby On Rails: Strengthened skills in Ruby Language and became well-versed in  Ruby On Rails framework Premier Banker/ Brokerage Associate WELLS FARGO BANK March 2005 to June 2013 March 2005- June 2013  San Fernando Valley district of Wells Fargo that represents one of the nations most competitive  markets.    Premier Banker/ Brokerage Associate  Responsible for managing a portfolio of clients with their lending and investment needs. Worked to deepen relationship and increase client base.  • Exceeded ambitious sales goals: Consistently exceeded rigorous quarterly sales goals, even through a  challenging economic environment.  • Recognized for delivering exceptional service and sales levels: Winner of Wells Fargo National  Sales and Service Conference comprising the top 1% of producers nationwide. Two-time winner of "Circle of  Stars", a regional sales award, two years in a row. 5-time winner of quarterly "Valley of The Stars", a San  Fernando Valley district sales award.  • Promoted to Brokerage Associate: Recognized for consistent high sales production by being promoted to take on additional role as a Brokerage Associate. Obtained both the coveted NASD Series 7 and 63 licenses.  Held position with distinction rom June 2006 thru March 2012.    RELEVANT PROJECTS  Yobs: Web app that matches employers with students to find part-time Jobs. Front- end built with  AngularJS and using Bootstrap Framework. Backend build with Express and SQL. App integrates  various APIs such as Google Places, Google Maps.    Trulo: Mobile app that connects a user's extended networks of friends around the world. Mobile  App built in Ionic framework for iOS platform. Front- end built with AngularJS. Back- end built with    Express and MongoDB. Neo4J database is used to maintain network of connections. The App  integrates various APIs such as Goole Places, Google Maps and Socket.io for messaging.    Pain Free Kids: Website for non-profit charity that provides user with an appealing site that  features user-friendly design with clear navigation that encourages donations. Front- end built with  AngularJS and using Bootstrap Framework. Backend built with Express and mongoDB.The website  integrates Braintree Payments to accept donations and NodeMailer which enables email  confirmations to be sent. Education Bachelor's in Business Economics History of Art. University of California - Santa Barbara, CA TECH STACK Links https://github.com/abe-m1 http://www.linkedin.com/in/abemenashy