Architect of Front- end Engineering, Lead Developer Architect of <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> Engineering, Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Architect of Front- end Engineering, Lead Developer - Hearst Digital News New York, NY Work Experience Architect of Front- end Engineering, Lead Developer Hearst Digital News - New York, NY July 2013 to Present • I am a front- end and middleware developer for Hearst Digital News. Lead developer for a platform of 20 newspaper websites and front- end system architect. I am responsible for standardization, optimization, overall client side experience and representing engineering in steering and planning committees.   • My job is to build a system that could serve responsive styles to modern browsers and devices. Keeping UI modules consistent and concise, to be shared as assets between sites.  • My users are my fellow developers; I support them by making it easy for them to style a new app with as little effort and research as possible. To have properly vetted the designs, wires and requirements to ensure that they can be built on our platform. All while trying to assign work based on individual strengths to maximize their performance.  • Currently I am leading the design and build out of a new responsive page template and modules. There is a stated end-goal of reducing our template clutter and to eliminate our need to serve and adapted mobile site to our visitors. Part of this larger project requires converting our core styles to use LESS preprocessing. The end-goal of this project is to build the design team a UI in our CMS to allow them to take ownership of a deployable style guide.  • I coordinate daily with the product and design teams in an agile work environment. Continuously working to plan and streamline projects.  • My last project was the redesign of our platform’s largest traffic site, SFGate. This included new designs and new functionality. This site is under continual amelioration based on A/B testing and stakeholder reviews.  • This project was built concurrently with the production site using various techniques on the server side as to not disrupt the consumer. This required a high level of planning and organization to ensure success.  • Upon completion we achieved consistency of UI and UX interactions across multiple domains, responsive and legacy support for various browsers, overcame performance and caching concerns, and finally standardized global versus local specific styles  • Previously I built the templates and UI for the new mobile platform on our CMS. This site is optimized to pull its information directly from the parent desktop site. This allows editorial personnel to curate one site, but automatically maintain both. The templates were written in such a manner that all of the members of our CMS could quickly roll out a mobile experience with minimal effort. These new templates were then skinned to deploy to each additional site. Built with the express purpose in mind to be quick and light to personalize per property. Front- end Developer SFGate / Hearst Digital News - San Francisco, CA March 2011 to July 2013 • Joined the San Francisco Chronicle (SFGate) development team and helped migrate their legacy CMS to a shared corporate (Hearst Digital News) infrastructure.  • I continued to support the front- end for SFGate and began working on many of the other sites on the new platform. I specialized in converting various legacy features of SFGate into widgets or modules that could then be used on the other sites.  • In 2013 I became the project lead on a new pay walled website. This required writing new middleware templates to produce clean HTML that can be styled according to designs and editorial requests. This project required strong collaboration between a designer, back- end engineer and myself. It was the first project that our department launched on time in over a year.  • Upon the success of the previous project I was invited to participate in steering committee meetings for a new mobile project that was being considered. Front End Developer / Designer The Omaha Newspapers Group - Omaha, NE August 2003 to December 2010 • Sole developer and designer for a small group of community newspapers.  • Published three monthly newspapers and managed their websites  • Developed a clean, simple PHP CMS to allow freelance writes to contribute their content. This same CMS was also used to build that month’s print edition. Education BS in Computer Science Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE December 2008 AA in Marketing and Design The Creative Institute - Omaha, NE June 2002 Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS:    I am a web-based software engineer with ten years of experience. I am an expert in architecting, developing, deploying, and maintaining web-based business and consumer applications. I have excellent communication skills having spent many years coordinating projects between design personnel and business management. I am also artistically driven with a keen eye for layout due to my graphic design background.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Extensive knowledge of HTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, LESS, LAMP, Wordpress and Git.  • Experience developing web applications in jQuery, Backbone and RequireJS  • Thorough grasp of cross-platform cross-browser compatibility issues and code optimization.  • Strong personal skills including focused listening, logical thinking, and working in a high-pressure team-oriented environment. Rapidly adapting to new technologies, standards, and ideas.