Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> "Integrating design with code" Bronson, FL - 17 years of web development experience  - Front- end & Back- end web development  - HTML5 Extraordinaire  - Specializing in integration design with code  - WordPress, Joomla, Drupal, and hand coding from scratch  - HubSpot Design Certified    I am a HTML5 web and mobile developer and been in the  development world since 1999. My exclusive focus is taking a design and  realizing the concept put forth by the designer. Slicing and dicing then  using HTML5 technology I create a vibrant and active website which is  viewable on the web or mobile device. Responsiveness is everything...  I consider myself to be an integrator, specializing in taking design  and integrating it with the code, implementing it into whatever platform I  am given whether it is applications such as WordPress, Joomla, Drupal or  a custom coded application. I do code and customize applications as  needed, but I do not believe in reinventing the wheel on every project so I  will use what is available in the Open Source community as needed. I am  a HTML5 developer and lately have focused my studies on developing  Mobile apps using HTML5, which allows for the apps to work on iPhone  and Android. If you need a front- end developer to get your design  implemented rapidly then perhaps I can be of service to your company.  I have recently stopped working with Mobiquity Inc, where I was  employed for the last 2 years. I went through their OnRamp program  which brought me up to speed on Angular development, the Agile  Process, and many tools which I’d never used before..that would include  the Mac OSX. I have worked on mobile apps for clients of Mobiquity Inc  including Liberty Mutual (CarZen) and CVS (Caremark).  For the last year and a half I took on responsibilities for the  corporate website which at the time was built with Drupal and the intranet  which is based on WordPress. I helped with the transition to HubSpot and  was the lead developer on the team creating the new face for the  company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Mobiquity, Inc - Gainesville, FL January 2015 to March 2017 Mobiquity Inc is a mobile app company. In my current job I have helped create web apps which are mobile friendly using HTML5 with a huge emphasis on Angular JS, Node, Bootstrap, jQuery using such tools as Grunt, bower, etc. I’m also responsible for building/developing the current corporate website which has a huge focus on responsiveness. The site is hosted on HubSpot meaning we take advantage of all of HubSpot’s marketing power. Web Developer McGarry Inc - Melbourne, FL May 2010 to December 2014 Over the years, and in between full-time jobs, I have worked Freelance. The following companies are a small sampling:  PineappleStreetStudios – Satellite Beach, FL  PinWheel Media, Inc - Vero Beach, Fl.  Mindkube Inc. - Melbourne, Fl.  SeaDrive Design.- Orlando, Fl.  Kaufman Design – Orlando, Fl. Front End Developer Oxidev Interactive, LLC - Miami, FL March 2008 to April 2009 At Oxidev Interactive I Primarily worked as a Front- End developer integrating design with use of CMS applications doing custom modifications. Joomla, Drupal, Expression Engine. Web Developer Field Solutions - Austin, TX April 2007 to March 2008 I telecommuted extensively with this company as a contractor and eventually as an employee doing web development. Everything we did was custom coding; essentially we built this site from the ground up using PHP, AJAX, SOAP, JavaScript and of course HTML and CSS. ColdFusion Developer Entry Form, Inc - Boca Raton, FL April 2001 to February 2002 Developing http://www.entryform.com using Cold Fusion. Entry Form was a lotto and sweepstakes portal. Although I was hired as a web developer in which I integrated design with Cold Fusion I was also responsible for setting up, maintaining, and repairing the network of Windows 2000 computers we had in the office. During my time with Entry Form I also developed the corporate intranet based on Cold Fusion Web Developer Domanet, Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 1998 to March 2001 Designed and developed various web projects over the years cutting my teeth on HTML and CSS as well as slicing PhotoShop PSD’s. I learned and used Cold Fusion, MySQL, Minivend (a perl Shopping cart), various Perl scripts. I haven’t touched Perl since leaving Domanet, Inc. Education School of life in - I am completely self-taught in the field of web development, mostly on the job but I'm always learning new web technologies. I am a self-learner, self-starter, self-motivated individual embracing the web and what the Internet brings to us. I started out in 1999 as an HTML coder at Domanet, Inc. a web design company in Ft. Lauderdale, FL and while there enhanced my skills by learning programming languages such as ColdFusion and Perl. After a couple years I was headhunted to an Internet startup Entry Form, Inc. in Boca Raton, FL. for my ColdFusion skills. Entry Form failed after 9-11 due to lack of investors. I floated for a few years doing contract work and eventually began work with Technician Bureau in Texas as a contractor and became an employee when we merged with another company later to be named Field Solutions. Here I honed my skills with PHP and JavaScript. I then relocated to Miami, Florida after a year, when my wife left the U.S. Army, for a job with Oxidev Interactive as a PHP developer primarily as a front- end coder and working with frameworks such as Joomla and Expression Engine. I then relocated to Melbourne, FL where I worked as a contractor for Oxidev Interactive and Field Solutions when they needed me. The majority of my work was as a freelance working for multiple design firms over a period of 6 years. In 2014 I was hired to work with Mobiquity, Inc out of Gainesville, FL. They paid to have me re-located and I’ve been working with them exclusively for the last 2 years. Self-taught developer January 1998 to June 2017 Electronics and Robotics, Programming of Industrial Robots Valencia Community College - Orlando, FL 1987 to 1988 Broward Community College - Fort Lauderdale, FL 1986 to 1987 Skills Bootstrap (5 years), GIT (3 years), PHP - Mid-level (9 years), Agile Methodology (3 years), Command line: SSH, Homebrew(Mac), NPM, Node,etc (2 years), Bower, Grunt, Webpack, etc (3 years), Photoshop CS6 (10+ years), Fireworks CS6 (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Joomla (8 years), Drupal (5 years), Expression Engine (1 year), HTML5 (5 years), CSS -Responsive design (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Angular (1 year), Mobile Hybrid app development (2 years) Certifications/Licenses HubSpot Design Certified October 2016 to October 2017 HubSpot is an inbound marketing and sales platform that helps companies attract visitors, convert leads, and close customers.  https://www.hubspot.com/ Additional Information Skills & Tools .    JavaScript:  Having worked with JavaScript since the onset of the web I am quite familiar with  it. I have worked with literally 100's of scripts or have hand coded what I needed.  Working with frameworks such as those listed here makes the whole process a lot  smoother    ? Angular  node.js  ? jQuery  ? Anything JavaScript  CSS3:  A few of the CSS3 frameworks I have worked with  ? Twitter bootstrap  ? Boilerplate  ? Flexbox  ? Foundation 4    Integrating design with:  The majority of my experience is with PHP or static HTML5 pages. In the past I  worked with Cold Fusion.    Web Applications:  Integrating a design into any platform is not a problem; I have worked with these  but can work with any platform or custom application.  Tools .    ? I come from MS Windows background but for the last two years  have worked on Mac OSX exclusively (laptop provided by Mobiquity,  Inc).  ? Linux based systems Red Hat, Ubunutu, etc.  ? Agile Methodology  ? GIT/Git Hub experience for repository.  ? Command line: SSH, Homebrew(Mac), NPM, Node, etc.  ? Cot Editor (mac), Atom, Web Storm, etc - for coding  ? Bower, Grunt, WebPack, etc.    Adobe Master Collection CS6 is my primary tool set for development  and image slicing/manipulation.    ? Fireworks for design and slicing  ? Photoshop for design and slicing    HubSpot Design Certified