Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Capital One New York, NY ? Over 11+ years of extensive professional experience in Design and Development of User Interface and Web based applications in Banking, Healthcare Domains using JavaScript framework, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3 and HTML5.  ? Worked with Javascript Frameworks like Angular.JS2&4, Node.JS, React.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap.JS, and Ext.JS.  ? Contributed to all levels of the user experience and in all phases of the product development lifecycle, from defining a product's overall architecture and structure, to iterating, specifying, and polishing the interaction details for specific features.  ? Extensive experience in Bootstrap.JS and Responsive Web design.  ? Created Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML, CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, SAML, jQuery, XAML and Javascript using W3C standards.  ? Adept in Product prototyping, mockups, demos and Web browser compatibility issues.  ? Strong in design and development of Webservices using WSDL, SOAP.  ? Developed various UI widgets using jQuery, worked with jQuery library.  ? Designed UI patterns and developing applications with the help of Eclipse, Sublime text, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver.  ? Specialized in RDBMS design using normalization techniques and expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  ? Experience in various software developments IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse.  ? Exposure and experienced in entire web development life cycle.  ? Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills.  ? Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Capital One - New York, NY January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  ? Re-architected, and enhanced an existing Angular.JS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance, 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease of developer spin up, enhanced performance and offline with client caching.  ? Utilized the features of Angular4 to present effective web design.  ? Optimized angular2 build package using Angular2 CLI libraries and hosted js/css libaraies  ? Improved UX and application performance by integrating Angular2 frontend framework  ? Developed angular2 modules, routers and services using typescript.  ? Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and developed application screens using Swing, HTML, jQuery, JSP, Node.JS, Ext JS, Angular.JS, Can.JS and CSS.  ? Created Node.JS middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  ? Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and Javascript.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.JS and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, WEBPACK(ES6).  ? Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  ? Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  ? Built applications using React JS with ES6 which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  ? Worked on Setting Data on PeopleSoft Enterprise Learning Management (ELM) to demonstrate the expected outcome.  ? Developed and maintained Enterprise Log Manager (ELM) software application Java-based Subscription module responsible for checking and installing ELM updates.  ? Worked on building jquery modules and vue.js apps.  ? Custom HTML markup was written in combination with Vue.js to stream-line JavaScript development.  ? Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Write dramatically LESS code with Ember's Handlebars integrated templates.  ? Worked on Javascript with ember.js to build a single-page app style front- end.  ? Worked on developement dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, Sancho Exit's, ember.js and JQuery.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Can.js, and Jquery.  ? Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, Require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  ? Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js, D3.js and MySql.  ? Built a reporting site to show customized dashboards of historical data processing rates, development tickets and more using Ember.js.  ? Involved in developing high performance web app by utilizing my knowledge on HTML5 technologies like Web Workers, Cache API & CSS3 features like prefetch, preconnect.  ? Built a series of code pipelines for testing multi-threaded application using JavaScript web workers.  ? The proctoring engine was built using web workers and supported Firefox and Chrome.  ? Employed various USB drivers such as CDC, MSC and HID which supports drag-n-drop programming and device enumeration.  ? Obtained permission to open source the drag-n-drop email template editor created for Springbot and currently working on that as well.  ? Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  ? Experienced in React.js and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Javascript, CSS and jQuery.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, Javascript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, and Ext JS.  ? Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Javascript, CSS and jQuery.  ? Fetched data from mongo DB using Mongoose/ monk of Node.JS.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in Javascript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  ? Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.    Environment: Javascript, Angular.JS, Angular2/4, React.JS, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, jQuery, Bootstrap.JS, JSP, Photoshop, ES6, Elm, Vue.js, Ember, Web Workers, Drag-n-Drop, illustrator, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, SVN, MongoDB, JBOSS, Eclipse, Log4j, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Apache CXF, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, Oracle ECM, JIRA, PL/ SQL, SOAP, Servlet, ILOG, JRules, EJB, Maven, XML Sr. Front End Developer Deutsche Bank - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed UI for the application's structure, navigation, appearance, interaction conventions, and business features. Created diagrams, wireframes, and HTML/CSS prototypes. Wrote use cases, UI specifications and a UI Style Guide.  ? Edited CSS and HTML/XML source code to customize product appearance to match customer web sites.  ? Created a demo website running on a Node.JS, using the Express framework, Jade, and Backbone.JS with Mustache.JS for front end MVC/ templating.  ? Implemented a Node.JS server to manage authentication.  ? Developed web pages using Ext JS, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  ? Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  ? Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.JS and jQuery.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Node.js and Ember.js  ? Designed and built admin dashboard for onboarding and editing advisors (Ember.js).  ? Used Ember.js to retrieve data and display rich reports to users.  ? Worked on creating RESTful API's using Ember.js to be consumed by backend.  ? Developed administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, Ember.js, backbone.js AJAX, JavaScript.  ? Developed rating and sharing single page application by using Angular.JS, Bootstrap, Ember.js, and data fetched by using AJAX and JSON.  ? Develop UI for web client using Ember JS, Handlebars, Node JS. Write unit tests using QUnit.  ? Engaged in research and prototyping of performance improvements using new technologies (Canvas, WebGL, Web Workers).  ? Revamped an existing single thread application that had heavy computational data in the UI to a light weight application using Web workers.  ? Developed an Angular.JS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  ? Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Used services to read data from remote server using React.JS.  ? Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  ? Used Javascript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Designed and implementing a Node.JS based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.JS.  ? Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and Javascript.  ? Developed Javascript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Used Javascript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Used Ext JS, Javascript for validating client-side validations.  ? Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development.  ? Developed internal application using Angular.JS, Backbone.js and Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.    Environment - Angular.JS, React.JS, Node.JS, Javascript, Backbone.JS, jQuery, Bootstrap.JS, JSP, HTML, CSS, WordPress, Ember, Web Workers, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, SVN, MongoDB, Coherence, JBOSS, Eclipse, Log4j, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Apache CXF, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, Oracle ECM, JIRA, PL/ SQL, SOAP, Servlet, ILOG, JRules, EJB, Maven, XML, Itext, Jasper report Web Developer Fidelity Federal Bank - Philadelphia, PA October 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked onSpring/HibernateApplications  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  ? Designed and developed new features for application using java, j2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java, EJB , JDBC, HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL.  ? Applying Ruby on Rails and JQuery debugged, enhanced, extended business-to-business SAP application. Provided extensive integration and functional mocks testing.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience  ? Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Created triggers for efficient access control of the ClearCase operations, to invoke operations before or after the execution of vital ClearCase events. Troubleshooting of database performance related issues in MySQL and Oracle  ? Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  ? Used tools like Toad, PL SQL Developer and Squirrel for performing database operations.  ? Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs.  ? Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework.  ? Used Oracle coherence to find POJO beans from the deployed WAR file.  ? Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Developed webservice using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and XML, and wrote scripts to deploy them on apache tomcat.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  ? Used JBoss MQ and JMS API and MDB's for developing integration layer.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Used C++, Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP and DAO for Coding/Implementation  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlet in the configuration file  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Design and develop GUI and back- end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  ? Worked on tickets from service-now and Jira on daily basis.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.    Environment- Spring, iBatis, Strust, JSF, EJB, Jquery, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJS, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Coherence, Apache Axis2, WSDL, NetBeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, selenium, Water Fall Model, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, GWT, Jira, Congos, jasper report J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Chicago, IL March 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  ? Designed Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the application.  ? Involved in enhancing Presentation layer, Business layer and DAO layer components.  ? Implemented JSP, HTML, CSS, Javascript and Ajax to design front end.  ? Client and Server side validations were done using Javascript and Ajax.  ? Extensive use of Ajax to update the part of webpage which improved the performance of the application.  ? Business logic layer was implemented using Servlets and EJBs.  ? Implemented XML parsers such as DOM.  ? Incorporated persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  ? Developed code for Java Multithreading.  ? Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  ? Created service component using EJB  ? Incorporated Mule for messaging.  ? Deployed the application on JBoss application server.  ? Used Oracle as relational databases.  ? Involved in Unit testing, bug fixing, QA and Production support.    Environments: Java, Jsp, Servlets , Ejb, Html, Javascript, Ajax, Log4j, Xml, Dom, Editplus, Mule, Jboss J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Chicago, IL March 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  ? Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  ? Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  ? Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  ? Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  ? Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  ? Used multi threading and socket programming.  ? Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Created connection pools and data sources.  ? Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  ? Used WinCVS as version Control system.  ? Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  ? Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  ? Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  ? Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments: Java, J2ee, Sybase, Bea Weblogic Server, Jstl, Sql Server, Struts, Frame Work, Servlets, Jsp, Ejb, Wincvs, Javabeans, Eclipse, Uml, Windows Xp/Linux. Java Developer IBM - Ashburn, VA September 2006 to February 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Many experience in system analysis, design and application development, flowcharting, unit and system testing, performance testing, test plan preparation, testing validations, program debugging  ? Result oriented team player with ability to learn and implement latest technologies with enthusiastic devotedness for the Organization/Institute/Company where belonged for.  ? Worked extensively as a front- end and back- end developer on Database and also have experience in many different environment with strong exposure in implementation stages Responsible for developing complex SQL queries for ICS Core  ? Cohesive team worker, having strong analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills.  ? Performance tuning of interfaces developed by other development teams  ? Solve many issues regarding development of programmer.  ? Outstanding Java Developer and talented Software Engineer with proven expertise in object-oriented analysis and design and exceptional record overseeing all facets of Software Development Life Cycle, from analysis and design to implementation and maintenance  ? Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, and client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), JavaServer Pages (JSP), Java Servlets (including JNDI), Struts, and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  ? Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, C#, JavaScript.  ? Knowledge of Eclipse tool for the development of Java projects. Education Master of Science in Computer Science St. John's University