Internet Investigations Internet Investigations Internet Researcher - IPCyberCrime LLC Plano, TX Actively seeking programming , I.T and QA opportunities.  However will consider CSR or Telemarketing or Technical Support or or Unique opportunities to help others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Internet Investigations IPCyberCrime LLC - Plano, TX 2016 to Present Actively and Proactively use OSINT methods to protect Business's and executives.  Assist with Internet Investigations.  Use of Data Analysis and OSINT to find digital content owned by clients. This includes source code or pieces of code from software, digital assets, graphics and IP trademarked / copy righted materials.  Assist in Social Media Monitoring, Background Checks and much more under the guidance of principals/management.  Use of Ipv4 an ipv6 knowledge to assist in investigations.  Adept Internet searcher.  Internet Researcher. Computer Programming Tutor III Collin College June 2015 to January 2018 • Tutor primarily C++ and Java projects.  • Tutored Vb.net, C#, webforms, Asp.net Webforms  • Tutored SQL Server and T-SQL  • Tutored Beginner to Advanced programming classes.  • Function based programs that used Dynamic Memory Allocation using References & Pointers*  • Object Oriented Based programs involving Dynamic Memory Allocation involving OOP  • Tutored on classes, Objects, Children-parent programs, Virtual, over-riding, overloaded constructors, container-classes and Java-Api/library usage.  • Data Structure programs which used OOP concepts to implement Linked Lists, Doubly Linked Lists, Ques, Deques, Trees and Graphs(Traveling sales man, shortest path etc).  • Used Primarily Visual Studios 2017 and Net Beans IDE Jr Front End Web Developer Sports Pilot, inc - Allen, TX September 2017 to 2018 • Used Dot Net Nuke to setup sites.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and some JS to create and modify sites.  • Used Bootstrap and some Jquery to enhance sites.  • Provided maintenance to websites.  • Helped users with support issues and questions.  • Created and modified graphics/images/logos using Photoshop.  • 2nd Tier Support for Websites. Independent Tutor Self Employeed - Dallas-Fort Worth, TX 2013 to 2014 Position - Tutor  • Provided reinforcement to students needing help.  • Provided help with Math and programming concepts  • Assisted students understand concepts they were weak in.  • Helped students obtain a high letter grade in each course they were tutored in.  • Provided excellent communication and examples so students could understand concepts. Intern Garland Power and Light 2012 to 2012 • Used Visual Studio 2010 and wrote in vb.net, asp.net, C#, xslt and xml.  • Wrote an application that transformed xml with xslt to show visual output.  • Helped produce graphs with real time data coming from real time databases.  • Developed winform and webform programs and used at times 3rd party dlls.  • Worked in an office space with project members to achieve weekly goals.  • Worked with CSS3, HTML5 and Asp.net.  • Assisted in development of dashboards for a data driven website. Pizza Maker Papa Johns - Sachse, TX 2012 to 2012 • Made pizzas and worked in a group to provide  • Answered phones and provided excellent customer service. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX December 2020 Associates of Science in Computer Science Collin College - Collin County, TX 2017 Skills ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP.NET (Less than 1 year), C# (1 year), C++ (2 years), Vb.Net (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio (3 years), Investigations, Operations, Security Certifications/Licenses Private Security License June 2016 to June 2018 Allows me to be apart of a private investigations company.   Also allows me to work as a private investigator Class C Drivers License August 2021 My Drivers License. Additional Information SKILLS / KNOWLEDGE  Excellent Communication skills  English  Java, C++  Knowledge of Javascript and Xml  HTML5, CSS3  OOP design and development    Asp.Net, WinForms, WebForms  MSSQL, T-SQL  SSRS, SQL Server 2012  C#, Vb  CRUD operations  BootStrap