Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - SUEZ Water Technologies & Solutions Philadelphia, PA I am a well-versed Front- End Web Developer with 2+ years of experience in building delightful and scalable web applications. Work Experience Front End Web Developer SUEZ Water Technologies & Solutions - Feasterville-Trevose, PA July 2018 to Present • Migrating existing site from Drupal 7 to Drupal 8. Work included custom content type creation, Views building, custom module development including Features, and importing of old site users and content.  • Working as part of a team on a series of Drupal 7 sites for water technologies group. Work included custom Panels, Blocks, content types, and Views to allow each station to customize the look of their site.  • Wrote module to import users and event content from old site into new Drupal 7 site. Front End Developer CVS Caremark - Florham Park, NJ January 2018 to July 2018 • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, SASS, TypeScript, Angular (V5), PrimeNG, and JSON.  • Extensively used Angular forms like Template Driven Forms and Reactive forms (Dynamic Forms) to perform form validation both on server side and client side.  • Implemented Angular Routers to enable navigation from one component to another.  • Implemented Guards like, canActivate, CanDeactivate when user tries to navigate from one route to a different route.  • Used @Input and @Output directives for transferring data between child and parent components.  • Implemented Pipes to filter the data before displaying it to user.  • Created and Consumed RESTFUL Web Services using Angular HTTP Module.  • Created unit test cases of Angular components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Worked in an Agile-driven environment to effectively maintain project timelines and utilize available resources. Front End Developer State Auto Insurance Companies - Columbus, OH January 2017 to December 2017 • Developed Guidewire Digital Agent Portal web applications platform (Quote and Buy, Agent Gateway, Claims Portal, Account Management) for the Guidewire web-based Insurance Suite Applications (PolicyCenter, ClaimCenter and BillingCenter) using the Edge architecture.  • Used Selectors, Events, and Angular Structural directives using components in Angular for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Used NgModel to achieve two-way binding and using NgIf to display the error messages.  • Created reusable services and used them in different component using Angular Dependency injection.  • Responsible to fetch the data by sending a request to Guidewire Policy center and display the response received in the Portal.  • Implemented JSON parsing for data handling on different applications.  • Used NPM module Grunt to run tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify etc.).  • Worked with source version control tool SVN to manage the code repository.  • Production support of this application which involves analyzing the issue and identifying the gap in the design or data and implementing the strategic fix.  • Established compatibility with third party software product (User Replay) by developing program for modification and integration. Front End Developer Johnson & Johnson IT Services - Raritan, NJ March 2016 to December 2016 • Produced websites compatible with multiple browsers.  • Developed highly responsive and interactive web applications using front- end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Developed the Responsive design to make the portal compatible with Mobile/Tablets/PCs/MAC by defining media queries.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Produced Controllers responsible for exchanging data between pages, routing and rendering views. Education Master of Science in Computer Science and Engineering New York Institute of Technology - Manhattan, NY 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2010 Skills DOM Manipulastion (2 years), Subversion (2 years), SVN (1 year), JavaScript (2 years), Git (1 year), Angular (2 years), Functional Programming in JavaScript (2 years), Modern design patterns in javascript (2 years), Responsive Web Design (2 years), Data Structures in JavaScript (2 years), Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript. (2 years), SASS (2 years), NodeJS (2 years), Debugging & Testing (chrome/firefox developer tools & firebug) (2 years), TypeScript (2 years), ES6 Coding Standards. (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/raghu-chagarlamudi-8283a1133 https://github.com/Raghu-Ch Additional Information Skills  • Responsive Web Designing.  • Modern design patterns in JavaScript.  • Functional Programming in JavaScript.  • Debugging & Testing (Chrome/Firefox Developer tools & Firebug).  • Coding in ES6 standards for readability, maintainability.    • Strong understanding of object-oriented JavaScript. (Prototypes & Classes).  • DOM Manipulation.  • Data Structures in JavaScript.  • Familiar with Grunt and Gulp task runner.  • Angular, NodeJS, GIT, SVN.  • Knowledge on various databases MySQL & MongoDB.