Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Bensalem, PA Professional Skills     • Front- end developing in AngularJS with Bootstrap  • Over 2.5+ years of experience as a Front- End UI Developer with solid understanding of  • UI designing, Development and installation of different modules.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using  AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Expert in developing Responsive web applications with HTML5/CSS3/Bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing Restful APIs using NodeJS Express Framework.  • Experience in using Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Experienced working with AngularJS frameworks to build Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Experience with features of AngularJS such as directives, dependency injection, modules and routing.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.   • Experience with front- end development with back- end system integration.  • Good Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA.  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML and JavaScript.  • Website testing with the given requirement by client manually as well as on QA.  • Migration to convert large excel sheets data to software to reduce mistakes done by employees.  • Skilled in operating JetBrains Webstrom, My SQL Workbench, Microsoft Visio 2013.   • Ability to speak in bilingual languages.   • Strong experiences using Strong skills in planning events and coordinating with different department.   • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Work Experience Front End Developer Registered Office: HD INFOSERVICES LLC, Anand, Gujarat, 388315 - India & Global Headquarters: Anridh, Laurel, MD, 20707 - USA. May 2016 to November 2018 Project 1: Company Website    HD Infoservices company's demo website contain all the information including what kind of core services, abstract strengths, company, leadership, vision, career etc. they provide.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed whole requirement of project given by company manager for company's website.  • Gathered details about the content need to put in the website.  • Made detailed documentation which contain all the required content of the website.  • Developing and designing user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API using Angular.js $http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript  and AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, rootScope, scope, modal, template, state,  navigateState etc.  • Design responsive webpages which are supportable in Computer, iPad and Mobile.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Responsible for front- end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and bootstrap.  • Used Grunt server as task runner to test designed webpages.  • Test designed webpages manually with the given requirements.  • Environment: Angular.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Nodejs, Grunt.    Project 2: Referral Answer    This software Referral Answer is based on healthcare billing system. In this healthcare billing system, facilities use the revenue cycle management (RCM) process to track patient care for billing purposes. The cycle begins with a patient's admission to a facility and lasts through the final payment. HD Infoservices' full stack of RCM services meets the needs of any medical practice, group or hospital. Our customized RCM solutions cut through complexity with expertise, excellence and sophistication. Our customers can choose between a la carte services or the entire stack. This coding software "Referral Answer, " built on Angular JS and Spring Java platform, to enter and process all patient data. With quick turnaround, customers are assured of timely and accurate results. Our customers have complete access and transparency on our platform.    Responsibilities:  • Developing and designing user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API using Angular.js $http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript  and AngularJS.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented  through HTML5.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, rootScope, scope, modal, template, state,  navigateState etc.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Responsible for front- end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and bootstrap.  • Used Grunt server as task runner to test designed webpages.  • Test designed webpages manually with the given requirements locally.  • Test whole website on every new built on QA with the detailed requirement as discussed.  • Migration to covert large excel sheets data to the website by converting spread sheet in required  format to reduce mistakes done by the employees.  • Compliance testing which contain patient's data of used CPAP, BiPAP etc machine including it's  Usage, Leakage, AHI etc.  • Environment: Angular.js, JavaScript, GIT, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL Server,  Spring, Nodejs, Grunt.    Project 3: Docs Answer    This software Docs Answer is designed to take patient's medical information including various diseases, allergies, medications information etc. which is needed by physician when patient visit physician's clinic. We are unyielding in our effort to develop superior software that remain relevant and diversify the way healthcare is delivered beyond the office. We strive to maximize productivity and live to invent a new age of healthcare where technology fuels better quality of care for patients.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed whole requirement of project given by client.  • Made detailed documentation which contain all the requirements of project.  • Developing and designing user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular.js for connecting the API using Angular.js $http service.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript  and AngularJS.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented  through HTML5.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, rootScope, scope, modal, template, state,  navigateState etc.  • Developer responsive interface using Bootstrap.  • Design responsive webpages which are supportable in iPads.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Responsible for front- end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and bootstrap.  • Used Grunt server as task runner to test designed webpages.  • Test designed webpages manually with the given requirements.  • Test generated reports manually with its calculations and values by comparing with the manual.  • Test whole website on every new built on QA with the detailed requirement as discussed.  • Environment: Angular.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL Server, Spring,  Nodejs, Grunt. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Information and Communication Technology Gujarat Technological University, Ahmedabad, India - 382424 May 2015 Skills AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, User Interface Design, QA, MySQL Server, Bug Tracking tool Jira, Migration to load too large excel sheets into system, Microsoft Visio Additional Information Reference:    Devaraj Atit  CEO at Anridh, Laurel, MD, 20707 – USA  Contact: +1 (703) 982-0557