Front- End Developer - Contractor, (React.JS) <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Contractor, (React.JS) Front- End Developer - Contractor, (React.JS) - Express Scripts, New Jersey Newark, NJ A blockchain enthusiast with one and a half year of experience in front end with strong presentation skills, and critical analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer - Contractor, (React.JS) Express Scripts, New Jersey December 2018 to Present • Developed responsive SPA using React.js libraries majorly dealing with data visualization (D3 Hierarchy and Echarts) for the largest project of ESI with 1.5 billion of revenue generations.  • Intricately used CSS3, HTML5, React and Redux and libraries like Material UI and React Bootstrap to enhance the look and feel.  • Collaborated with UX/DX team for the wireframes and the Mid-Tier team for service endpoints, and participated actively in PI planning events, to establish a smooth work flow amongst different teams.  • Followed agile methodology (SCRUM) and TDD development ecosystem, and used JENKINS for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Created reusable React components and implemented Redux into each component for state management and optimization of the application.  • Used Middleware like Redux-thunk to consume RESTful API and integrated those APIs and web services with application.  • Wrote unit test cases using Enzyme and Jest with coverage of 80 percent, and used GULP, GRUNT for minifying the libraries.  • Worked with version control tool, GIT. Also, used Fetch and Axios for making AJAX calls in the application. Blockchain Engineer, Volunteer ASI October 2018 to December 2018 • Researched on building strategies on the workflow of the Etherscan network through data mining.  • Using Ethereum, Solidity, and smart contracts for the development of the strategies and building up database schema for the ERC20 token.  • Volunteering on the token review on the token which could sustainable environmentally. Software developer Mahesh Industries - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2016 to September 2018 • Developed the responsive UI web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 4, JavaScript, node JS that enhanced product definition that raised the sale by 30% of the products.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain history of bugs/issues.  • Lead the team implementing my prototype for software to measure water wastage in the field during irrigation.  • Resolved technical issues and mentored Social Media Team with tactics that raised the User Engagement by 50%.  • Followed agile methodology, and used JENKINS for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Used XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server-side interaction.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify Angular JS4 modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Used Github for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code.  • Consumed RESTful API and integrated those APIs and web services with UI.  • Participated in the testing phase in accordance with QA team, to help them to come up with best testing scenarios.  • Used CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts, and speed page loading.  • Worked closely to create middleware for implementing design patterns for maintenance and performance. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University May 2018 B.E in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University May 2016 Skills C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, Node, UI, React, Angularjs, User Interface, Java, Jquery Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/aastha-maheshwari-09175127 Additional Information SKILL SET:  C++, Python, Javascript, ES6, Babel, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React.Js, Redux, node.js, Oracle, MySQL, Solidity, Smart Contracts, Google Analytics, AdWords, MS Visio, Adobe Illustrator, Jira, Unity3D, Wordpress, Postman, Webpack, Jenkins, Material UI, React Bootstrap, GIT, D3, Enzyme, Jest, Jenkins