Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Morf3D Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Front- End Developer Morf3D July 2019 to Present • Designing a client facing platform which conveys a visual story highlighting the strengths and core values of a company in collaboration with company CEO.  • Iteratively creating story boards to ensure client needs are met before and during design process. Residential Advisor University of Southern California July 2017 to July 2019 • Connecting to students from a variety of different cultures, countries, and socioeconomic backgrounds to create an environment in which student differences are not only accepted but encouraged.  • Designing and creating both digital and print media for program event flyers. Lead Producer CSCI January 2019 to May 2019 • Readjusted priority of art pipeline to better meet faculty expectations at stand-up meetings. Prioritized visual material as opposed to presenting abstract, backend architecture progress.  • Onboarding new engineers and artists as team composition changed throughout year-long course. Recording outgoing  member knowledge for production continuity and acclimating new team members. Program Assistant University of Southern California August 2017 to May 2019 • Assisted USC students in the creation of computer science curriculum which they taught in local classrooms.  • Conducted several outreach activities to engage with local non-profits, the USC alumni network, and USC donors. Lead Engineer CSCI August 2018 to December 2018 Creation of a JSON-based animation system which enabled our writing team to create a cinematic-like effect in-game.  Architecture done collaboratively with team, built in an organized and scalable manner.  • Creating and managing project source control for engineers, artists, writers, and designers to ensure up to date builds for weekly standup meetings, providing an accurate assessment of project progress. Front- End Developer Intern University of Southern California July 2018 to November 2018 Designed the layout of a new website for USC Dornsife's Department of Experiential Learning in collaboration  with a full-time faculty member.  • Developed a prototype website through the university's Content Management System. The prototype was  positively received by the Dean of Dornsife and the creative direction continued forward. Self Project The Cube February 2018 to February 2018 • Developed an audio visualizer using a web-based graphics library to create a 3D representation of audio files.  • Hosting of code on a public domain using File Transfer Protocol to allow for public access of project. Environmental Health and Safety Engineer Intern Castwell Products Inc June 2016 to August 2016 Coordinated with Lead Manufacturing Engineer and OHSA representative to improve FIT test program and address OHSA violations. I found that we lacked medical records for 60 employees, I brought this to the attention  of leadership and personally oversaw the recovery, or recreation, of lost documents.  • Lead intern in the updating of safety documentation to better meet OHSA and EPA requirements. We had gaps in electronic documentation of fire, electrical, and mechanical safety reviews. I moved unrecorded paper documents  to an electronic format. Operations Engineer Intern Castwell Products Inc June 2015 to August 2015 • Handled logistics of FIT testing, an OHSA required document, and administered test to over 180 employees.  • Debugged MAGMA modeling program to retain legacy software, saving company money by preventing a reacquisition of MAGMA licensing. Software failed to work due to an erroneous .meta file. I read MAGMA  documentation and corrected the .meta file. Education University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA May 2019 BS in Computer Science Viterbi School of Engineering Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Python, Jquery, Front End Links http://vincentzane.com Additional Information Technical Skills: Python; C++; C; C#; Java; JavaScript; HTML/CSS; SQL; Maya; Unity; GIMP; FTP  Source Control: Perforce; GitHub; SourceTree Foreign Language: Spanish