President / Digital Experience Technologist President / Digital Experience Technologist Digital Experience Technologist Beltsville, MD My name is Lexus Drumgold, but most people call me Lex. As both a UI designer and JavaScript developer, I'm dedicated to crafting superior digital experiences. I got started in 2012 by teaching myself both UI design and development, and now have four years of professional experience designing client sites and applications, building custom user interfaces, as well as building and consuming backend services using cloud technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience President / Digital Experience Technologist Flex Development, LLC - Beltsville, MD February 2019 to Present In February of 2019, I launched my own design and development company that specializes in web and mobile projects. I use industry standard techniques and practices to implement creative web and mobile solutions. Using Github and Notion for project management and communication, my workflow typically includes a requirements gathering session, UI design using Adobe XD, and development with (P)React, React Native, and/or FeathersJS. I host my web projects with Google Firebase. Additionally, I have experience working with Sass, Next.js, WordPress, Google Analytics, and Zeit Now. Lab Director / Lead Front End Developer The Diamondback - College Park, MD February 2017 to Present Since 2017, I've worked for The Diamondback, the University of Maryland's student newspaper. I am currently the Lab Director and Lead Front End Developer. On a typical day at The Diamondback, I collaborate not only with the news, marketing, and advertising teams, but the three other developers on my team as well. While following a Scrum development framework, I also utilize several web technologies to convert wireframes to beautiful, responsive web projects that have been viewed by thousands. I’m also in charge of feature sites for the news room’s most prevalent stories. Recently, my team and I launched “DBK Redux,” our transformation project for the old website. The newly designed site can be viewed at https://dbknews.com. Digital Design Intern American Chemical Society (ACS) - Washington, DC May 2018 to August 2018 During my time with ACS, I worked on several projects. Working in Adobe Experience Manager, I developed components for the company's Green Chemistry redesign site, as well as assisted in content migration. I also worked on other projects within my department, which included creating graphics and developing a search bar for online community spaces. Of the projects I completed, the largest was developing a redesigned version of ACS' Chemical Landmarks timeline, which was debuted to the ACS business unit and will be put into production. Freelance Designer/ Developer Deli Bagel Cafe - Ossining, NY May 2017 to August 2017 While back from school over the summer, I worked with a local deli owner in my hometown to launch his business’ website. One of the goals for his site was maintainability, so using Wix, I developed a site that would be easy for him and his wife to edit, and also assisted in content creation. During this time, I also used Adobe Illustrator to create graphics and other deliverables for the deli and the snack bar he was managing in the town over. Yearbook Editor Ossining High School - Ossining, NY September 2015 to June 2016 Created the yearbook cover as well as additional pages in the yearbook and promotional materials for the yearbook. Oversaw other students’ pages and resolved any issues that the team and I faced. During my time as yearbook editor, every single copy of the yearbook was sold - a feat that hadn't been accomplished in years. Education None in Digital Experience Design & Technology (in progress) University of Maryland-College Park - College Park, MD August 2016 to December 2018 Skills Adobe XD (2 years), Sketch (1 year), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), Sass (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), JQuery (6 years), React (1 year), Git (6 years), Responsive web design (6 years), HTML5, Google Firebase (2 years), Express.js (2 years), Photoshop (7 years) Links https://lexusdrumgold.design https://lexusdrumgold.design/github https://lexusdrumgold.design/linkedin Additional Information At the University of Maryland, I’ve taken an alternative approach to my education. My passion for design and development dates back to the beginning of high school, where I began teaching myself front end design and development.    During my summer 2018 internship with the American Chemical Society, my passion was reaffirmed — I realized that I learned more in the field than in class. In light of this, I knew I had to amend my educational path to reflect this new understanding.    Since then, I’ve started my own company and have had several projects, which have not only proved useful to my skills as a designer and developer, but ultimately as an entrepreneur and client friendly solutionist.    While I’m working on building my business, in the next few months I’ll also be pursuing two nanodegrees from Udacity: one in Full Stack Web Development and the other in Cloud Development.    In the future, I hope to return to the University to create my own major, Digital Experience Design & Technology, via the independent study program. I intend to incorporate design, development, advertising, and communication courses.