Visual Merchandiser Visual Merchandiser Web Developer | Web Designer Katy, TX Detail-oriented Web developer with 2 years of experience focused on front- end development. Exceptional relationship building and problem solving skills targeted at ensuring teamwork environment. Competent in several programming languages including JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and SQL. Have a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Engineering. Fluent in English and Spanish. Authorized to work in the U.S. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Visual Merchandiser Buc-ee's - Katy, TX June 2018 to Present • Designing product displays and floor plans, or following plans from head office  • Drawing designs and plans by hand  • Using space and lighting creatively  • Sourcing materials like props, signs and equipment  • Arranging displays and dressing dummies  • Teaching sales staff how to display goods Manager of Jewelry and Wearable Art Departments Hobby Lobby - Houston, TX October 2016 to June 2018 • Recommend, select and help locate merchandise based on customer needs   • Responsible for maintaining inventory levels by writing weekly order  • Process shipments and maintain organized stock shelves  • Maintain visually appealing and effective displays for the entire store Software Developer ATOS - MSL Technology - Madrid, Spain March 2015 to September 2015 Worked to provide real-time computerized results, information systems and services for the Asian and Pan -American major sports events.   • Added new functionality to web applications   • Changed user interface elements to enhance user experience   • Created and modified SQL statements and stored procedures   • Added client side functionality using Extjs framework   • Development of web services using Spring and Hibernate   • Created, updated and manipulated database, table, views, stored procedures and functions for web application using SQL Server Front End Developer Buongiorno NTT DOCOMO Group - Madrid, Spain July 2014 to January 2015 • Maintained and enhanced existing internal Web applications to meet new requirements and fix existing issues   • Refactoring internal Tools to Backbone.js structure   • Created new client subscription based web application using Extjs framework   • Worked in Agile environment, attended daily scrum meeting to updating work status Education Associate in Graphic Design Lone Star College System - Cypress, TX 2018 to Present Master's in Computer Engineering Complutense University of Madrid - Madrid 2013 to 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Complutense University of Madrid 2009 to 2013 Skills Software development methodology: Scrum (2 years), Version control systems: GIT, SVN (2 years), Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB (2 years), Frameworks: EXTJS 5, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate (1 year), Design Tool: GIMP (1 year), Web: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Node.js, RESTful Web Services (2 years), Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, XQuery, C++, C (3 years) Links https://es.linkedin.com/in/yuleskaperez Publications Final Year Project 2015: "WAP Madrid. Red Social Walking People" http://www.proyectowap.tk European project aimed at the promotion of walking activities through the design of social network WAP Madrid developed in HTML5, JavaScript, Node.js, MongoDB. Software Engineering Project 2014: "WHERE2NIGHT" http://www.where2night.es Social network for party people and clubs. Now you can know where your friends are going out tonight. Developed in HTML5, PHP, MySQL.