UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Master Card Saint Peters, MO • Around 9 years of extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery MeetingW3C standards.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, ExtJS 4.0, and Require.js, Handlebars, React js and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES).  • Experience in Developing Web services Using JAVA SPRING.  • Experience with Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap.  • Expert in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, and Flow of Future Pages.  • Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash.  • Highlevel of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Architecting and automating the build process for production, using task runners or scripts  • Documenting the code inline using JSDoc or other convention.  • Developed a responsive webpage using media queries with the latest version CSS3  • Expert in working with cutting edge front- end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, (X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX.  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator.  • Well versed W3C standards.  • Used Wireframes as required by the client.  • Used CSS Sprites.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Protractor and QUnit.  • Used JIRA in order to test and track the project status.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Worked with Agile waterfall and scrum methodology.  • Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL web services Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Experience with iOS design, Android design, front- end design, OSX design, interaction design, Mobile app GUI design or usability.  • An energetic individual, able to communicate effectively, to work collaboratively to resolve problems and to motivate team members as well.  • An experienced software developer passionate about delivering quality software products with thorough & rigorous testing and ample documentation.  • Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level and possess excellent presentation, interpersonal skills with a strong desire to achieve specified goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Master Card - Saint Peters, MO March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js 1.x, Angular 2.0 and AJAX.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed UI screens using CSS, Angular JS Framework and HTML.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML.  • Built different modules , controllers , templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS.  • Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js 1.x, Angular 2.0 and AJAX.  • Contributed as key resource of the Angular 2 Framework Team in conversion of existing UI screens of the application.  • Involved in development of commonly used Angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web design, UI using HTML5 Grid Layouts, CSS3 Media queries where its an expression and can be used to either True or false.  • Used React JS for search engine optimization and worked with Visual studio.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and Angular resources.  • Used python programming  • Consumed REST web service and displayed the data to user in screen as suggested in wireframes.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Used CSS pre-processors (SASS and LESS).  • Grunt is used to create UI builds and run UI tasks like compiling less files to generate a CSS file. Grunt is also used to run multiple tasks like merging small icons into a single image to use sprites. Grunt also helped to maintain the code and check code quality and also used the Grunt Task runner in order to manage the Project.  • The application was developed by agile development with Scrum methodology.  • Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting.  • Developed UI tests with Protractor and Java tests in jUnit.  • Worked closely with other senior developers, product managers, system architects, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations following MVC architecture.  • Designed and Developed automation script using Selenium Web Driver in Eclipse.  • Developed Mobile Application which is compatible to all the APPLE devices like iphone ,IPad. Based on the size of the Screen and the features of the device developed the application  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI. Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Created GET/PUT/UPDATE request and response using RESTFUL web services  • Used UNIX Operating system for developing the software to run on multiple platforms. Used command line interpreter to manage the files ,create directories manipulating the data ,compressing the files.    Environment:HTML5,CSS3,AngularJS,AJAX,ResponsiveWebDesign,Node.js,JQueryUI,JSON,Atom,Photoshop,Flax,JavaScript, JSP,SASS, LESS, Agile methodology, GIT, JBoss, Eclipse ,Mac OS UNIX commands Front End/UI Developer Icl Performance Products - St. Louis, MO July 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:    • Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, DHTML,CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript  • Applied advance HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and JQuery/ JQuery UI.  • Used Angular.js and Node.js for developing single page web applications.  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front- end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, Typescript & CSS to the requirements of the client. Followed Agile & Scrum Methodology for development of the product.  • Used Ext.js for building rich internet applications, backbone.js, & Require.js to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries.  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive Web design principles.  • Creating interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript front end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end development such as graphics and multimedia's.  • Converted existing websites to Responsive websites.  • Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  • Designed and developed of UI using HTML/DHTML, CSS, Dojo, & JavaScript.  • Used JQuery mainly for adding several functionalities to the application (calendar, tooltips, popover, hiding elements validation, making Ajax calls, etc.).  • Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the JSP page.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Used Test-Driven Development with Agile SCRUM methodology and involved in all the business meetings and status update meetings as a part of SCRUM.  • Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure code coverage.  • Pure MVC pattern has been incorporated for more robust coding and enhance unit testing.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues.    Environment: HTML5,CSS3,JQuery,AJAX,ResponsiveWebDesign,Angular.js,Angular 2, Typescript, Node.js, JQuery UI, JSON, React.js, Jasmine, karma, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS ,MVC. UI Developer American Insurance Group - Charlotte, NC January 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:    • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Used the functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • The project is build upon the Single Page Application (SPA) criteria.  • Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • For new website features wrote Angular.js controllers, views and services.  • Involved in developing a new business application to the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing J Query, Node. Js.  • Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass. Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js.  • Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to the server side code and also implemented a callback function to handle the results.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Developed the JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  • Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development.  • Involved in Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls.  • Designed user friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery.  • Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  • Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application.  • Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make the web pages more.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Developed server side REST style web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Frequently met with the project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking and Hands on experience in Python for the automation of some tasks.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5,CSS,JQuery,Bootstrap,Angular.js, Require.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery UI, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex, MVC, Rest Web Services, JSON, XML, SEO, MySQL Server, Eclipse and Windows. Front End/UI Developer First Command -Forth Worth, TX November 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery and Ajax.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Made the web pages responsive using bootstrap.  • Defined text alignment, borders, positioning and many other typographic characteristics  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets in order to separate presentation from the structure.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript 1.8, JQUERY 1.3, AJAX, JSON, XML, TOMCAT APACHE. Front End/UI Developer Wellsfargo - Minneapolis, MN November 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:    • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using JQuery AJAX framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Generated UI mock-ups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash.  • Involved in implementing java rendering framework which manages the pages on the server side.  • Experience with Front- end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node.js And with the creation of RESTful Web service.  • Involved in developing the Validations across the application using JQuery Validator plug in.  • Participated in defect review meetings with the team members using Bugzilla, Firebug, and Google's element inspector.  • Involved in implementing the UI to support all the major browsers.  • Worked with partners and clients at every stage of implementation of the integration, for instance to gather requirements, finalize analysis, review completed implementation, UAT and sign-off.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, agile and Windows. UI Developer WellPoint Inc - Hopkins, MN October 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  WellPoint is one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States. Through its affiliated health plans, Anthem companies deliver a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance and flexible spending accounts.  Responsibilities:  • Developed an internal web application's front end using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON and AngularJS.  • Worked on the Login Authentication module using AngularJS and the local authentication module.  • Created Single Page Application by developing various AngularJS templates and rendered the nexted view using the Angular "UI-Router".  • Worked on custom directives in AngularJS in order to display different types of information on the website.  • Developed navigation bar and dropdown functionality using AngularJS. Results would get updated based on what was inputted in the search bar.  • Created and implemented the functionality of a custom filter and ng-options to display the data according to various options that could be selected from the drop-down list.  • Developed and improved applications using MVC Framework Angular and Bootstrap.  • Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery as well as making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  • Developed UI components using Angular.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Utilized Sass as a preprocessor to optimize the CSS.  • Used Karma and Jasmine for unit testing.  • Utilized Chrome Inspector to debug the code for errors and corrected them.  • Involved in requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle: Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Attended daily scrum meetings to discuss the progress of the project.  Environment: AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, Karma, Jasmine, JSON, Dreamweaver, and SDLC. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX. (9 years), CSS (9 years), JavaScript. (9 years), JQuery (9 years), UI (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, Core Java, GUI, Responsive Web design, JSON , jasmine, Gradle ,Gulp ,Grunt , SASS ,LESS ,Media queries    IDE & Tools  Web Storm, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Eclipse, Atom, Edit Plus.    Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT  JavaScript Libraries JQuery UI, Ext JS 4.0,Require.js,Angular.js, Node.js, Angular 2,Typescrit Bootstrap, React.js.  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, PHP, XML,GRADLE ,GULP,GRUNT ,SASS, LESS ,Jasmine, JIRA  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools Adobe Illustrator CS3  Data Access MY SQL, Oracle,  Operating System Windows , Mac OS ,Linux