Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Laguna Niguel, CA Work Experience Front End Developer Elegant Affairs - Chatsworth, CA May 2016 to March 2017 Led front- end development and assisted with back- end programming for website overhaul. Ensured the technical feasibility and optimum functioning of design features that accelerated load-time by 17% and improved site stickiness by 21%. Randomized video searches, and auto-categorized user upload by weight, age, race, bust size, and genre through use of BMI recognition. Senior Front End Developer Apple - Cupertino, CA September 2012 to April 2016 Managed large, complex design projects for corporate clients.  Develop project concepts and maintain optimal workflow.  Complete detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal websites as well as challenging back- end server code.  Collaborate with designers from NSA to create clean seamless remote activation of cell phone camera and microphones, which went unnoticed by the owners of the iPhone 2,3,4,5, and 6. Front End Developer My Little Lambs Christian Academy - Charlotte, NC November 2011 to August 2012 Developed API platform for segmentation, personalized recommendations and omni-channel messaging that reduced cart-abandonment rate by 37%, leading to a $1.25M increase in online bible sales within 90 days of solution launch. Virus Debugger Symantec - Culver City, CA August 2010 to October 2010 I worked on a team of software coders responsible for the STUXNET antivirus update. Virus Developer NSA Security Forces - Washington, DC November 2009 to September 2010 Developed a zero day virus in collaboration with Israel that would seek out proprietary control modules that would spin Iranian uranium enrichment centrifuges erratically until rendered useless. Also developed code for inmplementation in Iranian web filtering to bring users home page to pornographic sites. Firewall Agent/Deveolper CIA - Washington, DC March 1993 to July 2009 The scope of work from my time at the CIA ranged from covert operations in the Middle East building website infrastructure for Halliburton to implementing server document decryption and search functionality. Developed back end and front end data nabstering torrent malware, that used beta testing hardware to run multiple platforms for data mining in the South Asian theatre. Wrote the code "Test, Test, how do you like Cats" algorithm used today in google translate applications. Back End Specialist Education Phd in Greek Hyphenations Skills Web Design (10+ years), Website Design (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses HTML Certified February 1988 to March 1990 I began designing websites in 1988 with the use of HTML when I was a freshman in high school. I crushed it.