Sr. Front End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Medius Software Inc Raleigh, NC ? Over 8 years hands on experience in IT industry, worked in all phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects with responsibilities as developer at different locations.  ? Around 6 Years of experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using Angular JS, JQuery HTML, CSS, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible, XML, XML Elements.  ? Extensive Experience with Web technologies using Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts Spring, JSF/Ice faces, Hibernate Java Beans, Java Swing, JDBC, JNDI, Collections, XML(DTD and Schema), HTML, AJAX and Web Service(SOAP, JAX-RPC, AXIS) on Unix and Windows environment.  ? Experience on RUP, Agile/Scrum and Extreme Programming (Test Driven development, Pair Programming, Code Reviews).  ? Experience in writing test-cases in Java environment using JUnit.  ? Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool.  ? Experience of Databases that involve writing SQL queries, Views, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  ? Experience in Client Side Web Designing and Validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  ? Expertise in designing and developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB,MQ Series, JDBC, XML,JMS, AJAX, and web services.  ? Used to update User Interface based on changing needs and requirements.  ? Experience as a Web Developer using JavaScript, HTML/DHTML, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, and Ajax.  ? Experience in Managing build files using ANT and logging using Log4j.  ? Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and Weblogic  ? Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application and Mobile Application and extensively developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI widgets using jQuery.  ? Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML & CSS.  ? Extensive knowledge in Javascript and VB Script jQuery, jQuery plugins, AJAX, dynamic HTML, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap and node.js.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows/XP/Vista and UNIX.    CERTIFICATE    ? SCJP Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Medius Software Inc - Raleigh, NC January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing  ? Extensively used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval  ? Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front- end development.  ? Wrote Perl programs to archive the log files on a daily basis to enable faster troubleshooting  ? Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL and Perl.  ? Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget based application using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular.js, Node.Js Bootstrap.  ? Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  ? Wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  ? Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP.  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Spring data, JPA.  ? Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations  ? Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  ? Comprehensive experience in designing and developing applications using UML with Rational Rose.  ? Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server  ? Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  ? Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  ? Mentoring of junior members for Agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing  ? Use of multiple tools, including Apache POI, iText and JFreeChart to create reports and charts  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty  ? Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues  ? Integrated with Apache Tomcat.  ? Involved in creating user interfaces using JQuery.  ? Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases  ? Wrote various queries for data verification and manipulations  ? Resolved issues pertaining to Autosys job failures  ? Used SVN to keep track of source code versioning.  ? Made SDLC recommendations and implemented Flex, xml development best practices.  ? Accessed and manipulated the Oracle 10g database environment by writing SQL queries in the oracle sql developer for testing purpose.  ? Used Maven for building and deployment purpose  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Generated PDF reports using ECF and iText.  ? Used CSS media queries and bootstrap to support for Responsive development.  ? Used jQuery plugins autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  ? Developed a dynamic and secure front- end that consumes our API using Angular.js.  ? Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS, Node.Js, JSF and Spring Controller.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, JavaScript, JSP, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Servlet, UNIX, Linux, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Struts, Tomcat, CRUD, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile (Scrum). Sr. Front End Developer Medius Software Inc - Raleigh, NC October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Object Oriented Design/Object Oriented Analysis with usage of UML Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams with Rational Rose.  ? Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, designing of the enterprise applications, co-ordination with client and offshore team, meetings with business users, functional and technical guide to the offshore team, project management  ? Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer  ? Used AJAX, DOJO, Java script, Spring and GWT to create interactive user interface.  ? Experience in dimensionally modeling relational data sources (DMR) using Cognos 8 Framework  ? Wrote Action classes, Business Objects and Service classes.  ? Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, MySQL and Perl  ? Configured Struts-config.xml with all the mappings required by the architecture.  ? Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back endsystems).  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  ? JSP interfaces were developed. Custom tags were used.  ? Worked with various version control tools like CVS, Clear Case and Subversion (SVN).  ? Core developer of the application infrastructure using GWT as the front- end  ? Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with DB2.  ? Developed EJB components (Session Beans, Entity beans) using EJB design patterns to business and data process.  ? Use of multiple tools, including Apache POI, iText and JFreeChart.  ? Designed UI using JSP and HTML, and validated with JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.  ? Implemented MVC architecture by developing struts framework.  ? Struts Validator framework is used to do client side validation.  ? Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  ? Responsible for modifying existing DB2 stored procedures and writing SQL queries as per requirement.  ? Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  ? Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server  ? Used Dojo for the client side development and validations  ? Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations  ? Used Hibernate annotations to avoid writing a mapping file.  ? Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF.  ? Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using Adobe Flex.  ? Used Subversion for version control and created automated build scripts.  ? Used Apache to build projects, which assisted in testing, and produce reports on projects.  ? Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  ? Deployed and configured portlets in WebSphere Portal Server 6    Environment:  HTML, AJAX, JSON, JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, Struts, JMS, EJB, DOJO, Cognos, Hibernate, HTML, XML, Apache, DB2, Spring, Apache CXF, CRUD, SVN, Web services, Java, Servlets, GWT, Subversion, Maven, UML, IBM Websphere, Websphere Portal, Junit, Flex. Front End Developer Wincorp Software - Jacksonville, FL August 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and deployed the applications with huge customer base of more than a million users.  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  ? Use of multiple tools, including Apache POI, iText and JFreeChart  ? Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages  ? Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  ? Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection..  ? Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions. Using JPA for designing and creating the entities and establishing the relation between the entities in a persisted way for EJB.  ? Involved in developing EJB'S for the business logic using Session facade pattern and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Wrote complex Database PL/SQL Statement and Did PL/SQL tuning for the performance of the Database.  ? Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  ? Configured the struts-config.xml.  ? Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  ? Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session façade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  ? Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  ? Worked extensively on the Oracle database.  ? Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP.  ? Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Architect and design for new Application as J2EE Web application and Oracle ADF.  ? Generated PDF reports using iText.  ? Developed web-based customer management software using JSF.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML  ? Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities  ? Setting the development environment on eclipse.  ? Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  ? Used Apache to build projects, which assisted in testing, and produce reports on projects  ? Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using Weblogic 9.0.  ? Used Web 2.0 to scrape the event data from various web sites  ? Integrated with Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  ? Expert in the enterprise implementation of Oracle Enterprise Content Management solutions. Specialized in UCM, Portal and SOA implementation  ? Page design and development using Oracle BPM.  ? Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  ? Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators  ? Participated in the offshore development team meeting.  ? Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  ? Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.    Environment:  JAVA, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, Agile, HTML, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Itext, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Rational Rose, Junit. UI Developer Identity Software - Durham, NC June 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed and designed the system.  ? Created Various UML Diagrams e.g. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for the design and development of the framework. The system is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture. The Views are programmed using struts, JSP pages, Model is a combination of EJB's and Java classes and Controllers are Servlets.  ? Developed user interface using JSP JQuery, and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Writing the java script and designing the JSP GUI frame work.  ? Involved in developing EJB's for the business logic and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  ? Responsible for creating of Action classes, JSPs, Model classes.  ? Used business delegate to call EJB from struts action class.  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  ? Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate  ? Used Java Messaging Services for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  ? Deployed Application to BEA weblogic server.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Extensively worked on spring's framework.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend MS SQL server.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data  ? Used Clear Case for source Version Control.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Tested with the Junit Test Cases for both Professional and Institutional Claims.  ? Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  Environment:  Java, Servlet, EJB, Struts. JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Java Script, AJAX, UML, Eclipse, Weblogic, SOAP, Selenium, JBoss, ANT, JQuery, NetBeans, JSP, EJB, WSDL, Toad, Water Fall Model, iBatis, EMC Documentum, web services, HTML, XML, MS SQL server2005, My SQL, CVS, JIRA, ClearQuest, Swing, Clearcase, Junit. Application Developer Apollo Group Global Services March 2008 to May 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment:  Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Java Web Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY February 2006 to March 2008 Responsibilities:  ? The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  ? Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  ? Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  ? Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  ? Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  ? Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  ? Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  ? Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  ? AJAX forms are created for update operations.  ? Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  ? Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  ? Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  ? Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  ? Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  ? Created new tables in DB2 database.  ? Used ClearCase version control system.  ? Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment:  JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Education Masters University of Phoenix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Core Java and front end  Collection, Javascript, Jquery, HTML, Javascript, Sencha Ext, CSS, Bootstrap, Backbone, Node, D3, Angular, Multithreading, Applets, Swing.    J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC.  Web Servers/application servers Apache tomcat Server, IBM Web Sphere server, pramati server, Bea Weblogic server.  Web tools and languages HTML, XML, CSS, DHTML, AJAX, ANT, Java Script  Framework Design Patterns, SOAP, Struts, Hibernate, Spring.  Databases Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Languages C, C++ with OOPS, Java, J2EE.    Operating Systems Windows 8/XP/Vista, Unix.  Tools Eclipse, Rational Rose, Dreamweaver, RAD, Net Beans.    Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM), UML.  Version Control Visual SourceSafe (VSS), ClearCase, ClearQuest, CVS.  Testing Junit