Senior Front End Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Web Developer Glendale, CA Front End Web Developer with 15+ years of progressive front end experience. Highly experienced with creating consistent, reliable, and highly interactive public facing websites for fortune 100 companies and finance companies. Strengths include problem solving, time management, working with back end developers and keeping up with emerging technologies.    • Front End Coding • SEO • Content Management  • Landing Pages • Accessibility • Mockups  • Internet Marketing  • Troubleshooting    • Image Cropping  • Data Solutions    • W3C Compliance  • Responsive Code Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front End Web Developer TRANSAMERICA - Los Angeles, CA 2011 to 2016 Responsible for front end web development and maintenance of corporate websites, internet marketing web strategies and content management.    Corporate Websites  • Worked closely with back end Developers, BA's, QA, web producers, content creators, and designers to create and maintain the front end code for our corporate websites.  • Developed front end code in Visual Studio in an ASPX environment.  • Built web pages and mockups using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed ADA compliant webpages to comply with Level AA of the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  • Updated and streamlined existing code to improve website performance.  • Delivered front end projects and maintenance items in an agile environment, with daily scrums and sprints.  • Delivered maintainable, scalable, responsive, and cross-browser code.  • Enhanced SEO to improve rankings for targeted keywords.    Internet Marketing  • Built responsive templates and landing pages using HubSpot to funnel leads for the marketing team.  • Created a responsive mini-site for Edward Jones, which was an important partnership for our company.    Content Management  • Delivered content updates using the content management systems TeamSite and SDL Tridion. UI Developer INFONOW - Denver, CO 1997 to 2010 Responsible for front end development of location based websites.  • User Interface Developer for world-wide location based websites for InfoNow clients such as Visa and Bank of America.  • Developed web applications from PSD mock-ups, style guides and templates, using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked with back- end Java code to set up SQL queries and other information needed for the front- end.  • Implemented applications on a wide range of architectures including CGI, Servlet Exec, and Tomcat.  • Provided dynamic SEO to improve rankings for targeted location based keywords. Education BA in Mathematics University of Colorado at Denver - Denver, CO Skills CSS (9 years), HTML (10+ years), JQuery (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tonigodwin1