Senior Front End Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front End Web Developer Laurel, MD Work Experience Senior Front End Web Developer Dot CMS - Laurel, MD April 2009 to March 2017 Developed front- end solutions utilizing current trends in Velocity coding, HTML, CSS, javaScript, jQuery, XML, and APIs (google map, facebook, twitter)  Managed and development for clients dynamic sites within Universities and Health Services (HCA - Hospital Corporation of America and Baptist Health Service), build widgets, templates and bundles. Created mockups, wireframes, graphics and final templates using HTML and HTML 5, Velocity, CSS, SASS/LESS, dojo and jQuery. Integrated final templates into the java based dotCMS Content Management System.  Worked closely with clients to narrow down their requirements and assist with content creation. Flash Developer Nortel - Cary, NC April 2005 to March 2009 Action Script)  Developed internal product demo application.  Projects    dotCMS - dotCMS content management system  Front End with bootstrap framework and Back End development and demo sites for dotCMS.  Dynamic data pull and custom applications.  Dynamic forms using AngularJS and Bootstrap Form Basics and dojo.  Managed Clients:  HCA - Hospital Corporation of America, Health One, Baptist Healthcare, Studer Group, City of Miami Beach, Clozapine Registry, CoreNet Global, Daily Business Review, Florida Bar Business Law, Majestic Properties Bucknell University, Taylor University, College of Saint Elizabeth, Marywood University, Pittsburg State University, SUNY Cortland, University of Texas, University of Akron, Colorado State University.  dotCMS demo  - As Front end developer - Entire demo site, Bootstrap Temple (velocity) with combination of dojo and jQuery  HCA  - As Front end developer - Built physician search, specialty listing, and dynamic navigation based on hospital location and physician specialty (AngularJS, google map API)  Baptist Healthcare  - As Front end developer/Project manager - Bootstrap Temples (velocity), physician's directory  Universities (Bucknell, Marywood, Pittsburg State, .. etc)  - As Front end developer - Bootstrap Temple within dotCMS and Department directory (jQuery, CSS (LESS), HTML5, velocity)  eLanguage Service  - As Front end developer - Entire site, Dynamic contents and forms for freelancers (jQuery, CSS (LESS), HTML5, velocity) Education Computer Science Engineering University of Toledo - Toledo, OH 2000 to 2004 Additional Information Skills    * Precisely converting Photoshop files into code using modern front end developer tools.  * Integrating front end code into template driven CMS system.  * Strong HTML5 and CSS3 hand-coding experience  * Strong velocity coding experience  * Has a minimal experience with JavaScript based MV tools such as angularjs.  * Creating dynamic and engaging interactions with frameworks such as dojo and jQuery.  * Has a flash Action script experience  * Working with software engineers to integrate data and backend services to the front end.  * Creating and presenting project case studies and talks on new technical trends and ideas.  High level of proficiency in current web programming languages, specifically Velocity coding, HTML5, CSS3, SASS/LESS, XML, dojo, jQuery, JavaScript, and also some experience with angular.js. Responsive design. Comfortable working within dotCMS and modern html frameworks. Experience in Flash (AS) and Photoshop. Front End Web development with velocity templates and dynamic contents/sites for dotCMS.