Architect Architect Jersey City, NJ • Senior Frontend / Web UI Developer with 9+ years of experience in Web Designing and User Interface Development using Web Technologies.  • Experience on web technologies HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, AngularJS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Hands on Experience in Enterprise JAVA/J2EE applications, and in web technologies involving JSP, Spring JDBC, Hibernate and iBatis Frameworks.  • Strong Work Experience in JavaScript Framework Dojo1.8 and jQuery 2.x. Strong web development experience using REST APIs.  • Built consumer facing fast, reliable, completely responsive websites using ReactJS, Bootstrap, PHP, and MySQL. Experience building UI to support cross browsers.  • Developed HTML/Javascript/CSS codes supporting older browsers with Polyfills such as Modernizer. Solid knowledge on implementing Component Based UI views using single way data binding approach.  • Good understanding of Browser Document Object Model (DOM). Experience in OO JavaScript and JavaScript MVC libraries like ReactJS & AngularJS. Strong experience in building Responsive Web Design (RWD) websites using Twitter Bootstrap 3 & 4.  • Keeping up-to-date design trends in UI development and actively subscribed to various JavaScript weekly newsletters. Strong experience using dev environments using Sublime Text Editor & Visual Studio Code.  • Experience in Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN, VSS and TFS. Quick in understanding new technologies and can work independently or as a team.  • Have been working for CITI Bank and worked for Bank of America for the past 8+ years and got good knowledge about Investment banking processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Architect CITI Bank - Jersey City, NJ March 2011 to Present Jersey City, NJ  Duration: March 2011 - Present  Role: Project: Data Quality Platform (DQP)  Description: The Data Quality Platform is a framework to define metrics used to monitor and resolve data quality issues.  Responsibilities:  • Powerful Dashboard UI built in Dojo, AngularJS, HTML5 and CSS3. Developed a Cross Browser UI using CSS3, HTML5 and JavaScript which was built to support IE6-11, Firefox, Chrome, and Opera browsers. Architect for the whole front- end design coded using Dojo and AngularJS.  • Carried out stake holder meeting with the product owners to meet the need of clients and business. Strong experience in optimizing web performance. All the UI screens were made completely responsive using Bootstrap to support any device resolution.  • Created various API's to communicate for accessing web services to store data into database. Presented the view layer with responsive Dojo grid layouts such as dgrid and tree grid. Ajax calls were made to RESTFUL service and bind the JSON with the UI Screens.  • Created high level representation of data using Charts with Dojo. Integrated the UI code with backend, used JSON for data exchange between the client and server. Provided data grids with import and export as Excel spreadsheets using Apache POI framework.  • Participated in complete development life cycle activities like design, coding, testing and production release. Built webservice to consume and communicate with Ab Initio products. Involved in fixing front- end issues with layouts. AngularJS Interceptors were used for monitoring, logging incoming response from service.  • Create custom AngularJS filters to handle complex business logic. Responsible for design and coding the framework using J2EE on WebSphere 8 using J2EE, Struts, Spring JDBC, iBatis, and Web Services. Created Business Objects reports and built an interactive UI to view and download reports.  • Involved in writing WebSphere deployment Scripts using UNIX Shell Scripting and JACL. Handled JMS and Scheduler Codes. Implemented DB query caching using iBatis LRU cache implementation. Developed stored procedures, triggers, and database tables in Oracle 11g database.  • Participated in project planning session with team members to analyze development requirements. Used web inspector tools like Chrome, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility issues.  Environment: JavaScript(ES5/ES6), Dojo 1.6, AngularJS 1.6, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, AJAX, Web Fonts, REST API, Java 5, Struts 2.3, Spring JDBC, iBatis, IBM WAS 8, Apache AXIS, Apache POI, Oracle 11g, Log4j, IBM RAD 8, Soap UI. Front- End / Web UI Developer CITI Bank - IN April 2008 to February 2011 Project: Global Concentration Engine (GCE)  Description: GCE is a market-leading liquidity platform automated liquidity pooling solution that will connect all Citibank branches across all regions to execute intra-day and end-of-day target balancing transactions. It allows Citi group to deliver a consistent and comprehensive set of cash-concentration capabilities across several locations, and has already been rolled out across over 40 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Coded various modules independently. Developed JSP screens to support file uploads. Hands on experience in developing Web Pages using JSP/jQuery.  • Hands on experience in Ajax and JSON Object handling with jQuery 1.3. Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUNIT test cases.  • Migrated the UI code to support IE7/IE8. Created WSDLs to support webservice with .Net frontend and Java backend.  • Automating modules to run at every End of the Day, Start of the Day and Intraday transactions. Responsible for coding a primary module used for Citi Liquidity Management.  • Primary resource to implement IBM ObjectGrid in all WebSphere servers. Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions, and database tables in Oracle database.  • Participated in daily meeting with onsite for enhancing the platform. Participated in Code review and Quality Assurance.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  • Fixed bugs raised as part of SIT and UAT testing. One of the primary resource to support EMEA and APAC installations and testing.  Environment: Java 5, jQuery 1.3, Hibernate, IBM WAS 7, IBM ObjectGrid, Oracle 11g, Log4j, JMS, Eclipse. Developer Bank of America - IN March 2007 to March 2008 Project: Valuation Services Information Management System (VSIMS)  Description: VSIMS was developed as an intranet web application to replace 3 different platforms, creating a stable integrated platform using the Bank's internal technology resources.  Responsibilities:  • Developed User Interface screens in Struts 1.3. Created stored procedures, triggers, and tables in Oracle database.  • Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work. Fixed UI defects across modules.  Environment: Java 5 Struts 1.3, Hibernate, BEA Weblogic, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Log4j, and Eclipse Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology K S Rangasamy College April 2005 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), AJAX (9 years), JMS (9 years) Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/1035651/vinoth https://www.linkedin.com/in/digivino Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Java 7, PHP 5.5  Java: Core, Struts MVC, spring, iBatis, JMS, WebService, Scheduler  Web Technologies: jQuery 2.x, AngularJS 2, ReactJS, Dojo, D3 JS, HTML5, AJAX, JSP, CSS3, JSON, XML, Responsive Web Design(RWD), Twitter Bootstrap 3 & 4, Modernizr, SVG, Web Fonts, SEO, Microdata (schema.org)  Servers: Apache, Tomcat, Weblogic and WebSphere  IDEs & Text Editors: Sublime Text Editor, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Notepad++  Image Tools: Adobe Photoshop  Package Manager: NPM  Database: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL  Version Control: GIT, SVN, TFS & VSS