Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Garden Grove, CA I am a passionate web developer that specialize in front end development. I have experiences with all stages of the development cycle for dynamic web projects. I am very resourceful with skills including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, C# and ASP.NET MVC, SQL and NoSQL. I also have experiences in customer relations and the ability to thrive in a fast-paced agile environment. Work Experience Front End Developer OPSAP October 2015 to April 2016 Front end developing with angular.js for a diver web application. Create user interface to log information about each scuba diver session, such as time of diving, oxygen level, how deep is the diving, etc. The OPSAP will eventually save time and man power to keep all information on MongoDB, and eliminating all paper works. Administrators and client users can access real time instantly about their progress anywhere.    Front End Skills  HTML5 CSS JavaScript jQuery FTP SSH git Github REST Client/Server  CSS tools: SASS, LESS, Stylus  CSS Frameworks: Bootstrap, Foundation, Responsive Design  Build Tools: Gulp, Grunt, Browserify, Webpack, Require.js, Bower, Yeoman  MVC Javacript Frameworks: Angular.js, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, React.js/Flux  Unit Testing: Mocha, Jasmine, Karma    Back End Skills  Node.js (Express.js), C# (.NET), Ruby (RoR), Python(Django), Go, Scala  Database: MongoDB, NoSQL, SQL, MySQL  Caching: Nginx(Server), Apache(Server)  Web Platforms: Heroku, Digital Ocean, AWS, Rackspace  Dev Ops Workflows: Vagrant, Capistrano, Flightplan  Configuration Management: Docker, Linus, Salt, Puppet, Chef    Projects include Creative Nails website using HTML CSS jQuery Bootstrap Responsive Design; Shopping List App utilizes jQuery and javascript and animation; Contact list app consists of anjular.js node.js express.js mongoose and mongoDB; Food delivery app applies all the concept about with build tools Yeoman and bower package management for rapid development. All these projects initialize with git commands repository and push remotely to github for source control and collaboration. NET developer Creative Nails of Gahanna November 2014 to September 2015 Create a log in page for an EMR (Electronic Medical Records) web application. Doctors, nurses, and administrators can save a great amount of time by using EMR application to analyse patient records for diagnosis, insurance, bill payments, etc. Working with Visual Studio 2008 with ASP.NET and ADO.NET as front end and C# and Microsoft SQL 2008 as the backend. Manager Creative Nails and Regal Nails August 1999 to September 2014 Oversee all operations of the business: Create my own website with SEO, keywords, Google AdWords, offline marketing, bookkeeping, financial planning, and marketing. Juggle all tasks to ensure satisfied customers, happy employees and improvise ways to up sell other services. Responsible for hiring, maintaining and staff if necessary, and training employees to be successful to provide great customer service by providing related information about the benefits of each service. Education Certificate of Completion in HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js Thinkful.com (IT Bootcamp) - New York, NY 2015 to 2016 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology DeVry University - Columbus, OH March 2002 to March 2003 Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration California State University of Fullerton - Fullerton, CA September 1990 to June 1994 Skills Python Django Ruby Rails PHP Laravel (Less than 1 year), Heroku AWS Digital Ocean Firebase (Less than 1 year), Mocha Jasmine Framework Karma (Less than 1 year), Node.js Express.js MongoDB (1 year), SASS LESS Bootstrap Gulp.js GruntJS Bower Yeoman React.js Flux (1 year), Angular.js (1 year), AJAX (2 years), .NET C# Agile MSSQL ASP.NET MVC (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rick-thoi-45231049 https://github.com/mobiproducts?tab=repositories