Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Freelance - Los Angeles, CA February 2015 to Present I build websites using Wordpress, but with my own highly customized themes and plugins. I code in PHP, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3. I'm very adept with jQuery and SASS. I'm also expert at working in Photoshop. Videographer Christmas Barrel - Los Angeles, CA August 2013 to Present This is a YouTube channel that runs 24 Christmas-themed videos every December 1st through the 24th. We are just now ramping up for our fourth season. Front End Web Developer Pixoto - Los Angeles, CA August 2012 to Present Pixoto is an online photography contest. I was brought in to take over as the front end developer. I coded a full redesign of the site, then added numerous features. Pixoto is built in Groovy (as a scripting language inside of a Java Platform). We used jQuery for our JavaScript and LESS for our CSS compiler. Videographer/Editor Freelance - Los Angeles, CA June 2006 to Present I first got a Sony FX1 HD Mini-DV cam back around this time. I would shoot little shorts for people to enter into film festivals. I also had Adobe Creative Suite Master Collection, so I would sometimes edit as well using Premier. Over time I updated to a Canon 7D, and then finally up to my current rig, a Sony FS700 with Odyssey 7Q+.     My lighting kit has advanced over the years as well. It started as a Lowel "Solo" kit, which contained Omnis and Totas. I added some crazy Russian soft boxes, some Lowel DP lights, and a Pro light. These days I have gone all LED, with 10 fresnels and 4 panels. My grip package has been growing all along, too. I now shoot web series and short films, and do editing and compositing in After Effects when the need arises. Front End Web Developer The Green PolkaDot Box January 2012 to June 2012 I was the front end developer for this online food store that was built in the PHP-based Magento. Front End Web Developer Pictage - Torrance, CA November 2009 to January 2012 I was one of a team of developers for Pictage's rather complex customer gateway. Pictage (now out of business) provided services for professional photographers. Our website let photographers upload and edit their photos, then have them printed on all sorts of products, from leather bound albums to just plain photo paper. We had to build interfaces for them to be able to lay out these products, market them to their clients, and then have them printed and delivered. The site was built in Groovy in a Java platform.    Occassionally I would be called upon to build a microsite in Wordpress. Front End Web Developer Threshold Interactive - Culver City, CA May 2008 to October 2009 This was my first development job. We were a technology agency, so the sites we built were generally for client companies, not for our own business. I started out working in Drupal, a content management system written in PHP, building sites for Sony Pictures. After that I moved over to working on the Honda Powersports website, which was built in .NET and had a lot of Flash integration. Content Manager - Music Amp'd Mobile - Los Angeles, CA October 2005 to July 2007 My responsibility was to manage the massive catalog of music that was available for purchase through Amp'd Mobile's online store direct to their phones. This was before the iTunes store existed, but it was basically the same concept. Education BA in Media Arts/Film Brigham Young University-Provo - Provo, UT 1992 to 1999 Skills Videography (10+ years), CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JQuery (7 years), Photoshop (10+ years), Premiere (10+ years), PHP (6 years), Wordpress (6 years) Links http://www.gurustump.com