Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> A developer with a strong design skill set and a passion for user experience Hattiesburg, MS 3 years professional experience with Front- end technologies and a passion for design set me apart from my peers. I currently working on my last semester of schooling at the University of Southern Mississippi to earn my bachelor's degree in Computer Science. At the same time I am working at a startup creating a web app for the medical industry. I am excited to see what opportunities are out there and looking forward to learning more about the industry to one day create my own startup.     I'm self-taught in Visual Basic from middle school and spent high school working on various web projects including a failed startup (LazyReef) with some friends. After taking a break for a year in college I spent the next summer working IT at my grade school district and upon returning to Hattiesburg for college the next semester I started at the web development company dbVantage. My main project at dbVantage spun off the pharmaceutical sales app Pharmedio which later turned into it's own company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- end Developer Present JSON January 2015 to April 2016 Extensive use of RESTful APIs  Helped build Pharmedio from the ground up through several major and the asynchronous request model  revisions and contributed immense value to the overall application through several extensive projects.  Comprehensive understanding of  advanced regular expressions  - -  Established a brand design Authored the sitewide styling built on top of the popular Bootstrap framework that lead to a unique brand  identity established for the Pharmedio product.  LINKS  - -  Expanded product scope Developed many of the most popular  LinkedIn  pages on the site that has been accessed over 100,000 times in all 50  www.linkedin.com/in/nduvieilh  states and over 40 countries.  - Trained new employees Taught a front- end  - development  seminar stackoverflow to a group of five summer interns which resulted in expanding the stackoverflow.com/cv/nduvieilh  team from 12 to 16. theNicky  - - Created  Created developer tools AJAX  tools such as safe logging, www.thenicky.com  analytics  error verification, and loading that saved developers time and helped the company to track potential bottlenecks.  LANGUAGES / FRAMEWORKS  H Front- end Developer  dbVantage, attiesburg - - JavaScript AngularJS August 2013 to February 2015 Started Pharmedio Made many of the initial contributions to the - Underscore.js  design, planning, and development of Pharmedio. - Handlebars  - -  Set up analytics software Set up Google Analytics and Inspectlet to - Backbone  improve our knowledge of how our users interact with Pharmedio. - jQuery  - -  Found synchronization software Established a relationship with a - Node.js  software vendor that provides the synchronization software that has - CSS  been used on the Pharmedio project since its inception. - Bootstrap  - -Photography and edits for various dbVantage  Capture and edit shots - LESS/Sass  clients such as Stark Aerospace and Postal Pro Mailboxes. - PHP  - CakePHP   Bay Computer Bay Waveland School District, St May 2013 to July 2013 - Intercom  - -  Rewired and documented Rewired each switch in the district and - Inspectlet  documented each port's location for the migration of ports. - C++, C#, C  - -  Inventoried and surplussed Inventoried all machines in the district, replaced dozens of computers, and decommissioned older  machines for surplussed.  - -  Imaged all workstations Helped imaged over 1,000 computers to facilitate the change of the district from Novell to Windows Server. Education Bay High School, St. Louis May 2016 Computer Science University of Southern Mississippi 2012 to 2016 car OBD A school 2009 to 2012