Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jersey City, NJ • Over 10 years corporate and freelance experience in creating, updating and maintaining multiple web sites.  • Expert skills in Javascript/HTML5/CSS3, , working knowledge D3.JS / SVG., AngularJS / ES6.  • Quality controlled all work against past versions of IE, Firefox, Chrome and Safari to ensure cross browser compatibility.  • Ensuring web site performance, quality and reliability.  • Ability to produce content quickly and accurately under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Merrill Lynch - New York, NY June 2016 to August 2016 Developed AngularJS 1.5 web application using ES6 classes.  Developed unit tests to test different services, controllers and directives.  Used d3.js tree layout to visualize different routes in web application using angular directive.  Collaborated with team players on backlog grooming, spring planning and review. Data Visualization Developer Urban Pixels - New York, NY November 2015 to April 2016 Developed a data visualization component for IBM innovation platform using force hexagon layout of D3.js JavaScript library  Customized and integrated different svg files for data visualization component  Worked on data integration for data visualization component  Developed different Javascript components using ES6 and Angular.js  Tested web pages for cross browser differences.  Fixed bugs, which were provided from QA team (JIRA). Senior Creative Technologist FCB Health - New York, NY September 2015 to October 2015 Developed responsive templates using HTML5, CSS3 animation, JavaScript and SASS.  Developed jQuery AJAX POST/GET requests using JSON/JSONP and JavaScript.  Integrated Google Analytics for tracking different events on a site.  Investigated and resolved cross-browser issues in mobile, tablet and desktop browsers. SharePoint Front End Developer FastTask - New York, NY February 2015 to August 2015 Developed and integrated UI templates for SharePoint application 2013/2010.  Developed responsive UI templates using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3 animation, JavaScript and jQuery.  Created and customized design of different icons in Photoshop and Illustrator.  Investigated and resolved cross-browser issues in mobile and desktop browsers. Sr Front End Developer Andrei Kashcheyeu Corp - New York, NY April 2014 to December 2014 Developed option trading application using TOS/TWS APIs, RealTimeToDB, MS SQL and C#/Java.  Hired and managed backend C#/Java developers.  Developed front end architecture & UI templates for this app using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript and D3.js.  Developed a force layout component using JavaScript and D3.js for manipulating elements based on data.  Customized design of elements in Adobe Illustrator, saved them in SVG format, made customizations of SVG code in text editor, manipulated and customized them using JavaScript and D3.js code on a fly.   Worked on data integration for this component.  Managed QA process and assigned bugs. Senior Front End Developer Sapient April 2012 to February 2014 Client: Goldman Sachs  • Developed UI templates based on html5boilerplate and CQ5 using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript with Angular.js.  • Built from scratch a force layout component, over 2000 lines of code, using JavaScript and D3.js library for manipulating documents based on data.  • Customized design of elements in Adobe Illustrator, saved them in SVG format, made customizations of SVG code in text editor, manipulated and customized them using JavaScript and D3.js code on a fly.  • Developed and customized a video player using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and video.js plug-in into CQ5 template, integrated additional JavaScript functions for SiteCatalyst.  • Worked with American and Indian QA teams to implement fixes and change. Senior Front End Developer Macy's February 2012 to April 2012 Client: macys.com  • Developed mini-sites using Web 2.0 standards using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Investigated and resolved cross-browser issues in iPad and different versions of desktop browsers.  • Tested web pages for cross browser differences.  • Collaborated and recommended best coding practice for XHTML and CSS  • Worked with QA team to implement fixes and change. Senior Presentation Layer Developer Razorfish July 2011 to December 2011 Clients: Smart, ShopAutoWeek, PNC  • Developed UI templates based on HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript.  • Developed Javascript components for different parts of shopautoweek.com  • Investigated and resolved cross-browser issues in iPad, iPhone, Android and different browsers.  • Developed code under CMS CQ5 using Eclipse.  • Tested web pages for cross browser differences.  • Worked with QA team to implement fixes and change. Sr. Front End Web Developer MRM Worldwide April 2010 to June 2011 Clients: Nikon, Home Depot, Diageo  • Developed facebook application, Rumpedia, for Captain Morgan.  • Managed front end team for Nikon project.  • Developed JavaScript components for Nikon.  • Developed iPad's version of site for Nikon.  • Developed mini-sites based on XHTML, CSS 2.0, and jQuery for Diageo.  • Developed email blast campaigns for Home Depot using Exact Target and Litmus App.  • Tested web pages for cross browser differences.  • Added tracking code for different tracking engines.  • Worked with QA team to implement fixes and change. Sr. Front End Web Developer Vault February 2010 to April 2010 Clients: vaull.com  • Built emails for different email campains.  • XHTML validates and is cross browser compliant (IE 6 - 8, Firefox 2-3.5, Chrome, Safari 2-4).  • Implemented cross browser friendly XHTML which successfully validates.  • Constructed well structured and validating XHTML as well as using an appropriate doctype.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • Used CSS Archetype to properly structure CSS files, either for multiple or individual pages.  • Developed mobile version of site for iPhones and Android phones.  • JavaScript library jQuery was used to create animations and slide show.  • Integrated twitters modules.  • Collaborated and recommended best coding practice for XHTML and CSS Sr. Front End Web Developer BBDO Atmosphere Proximity December 2009 to December 2009 Clients: Fedex  • Built templates and UI pages using Web 2.0 standards (XHTML, CSS, JavaScript).  • XHTML validates and is cross browser compliant (IE 6 - 8, Firefox 2-3.5, Safari 2-4).  • Implemented cross browser friendly XHTML which successfully validates.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • JavaScript library jQuery was used to create animations and slide show. Front End Web Developer Clear Channel September 2009 to November 2009 Clients: clearchannel.com  • Built templates and UI pages using Web 2.0 standards (XHTML, CSS, JavaScript).  • XHTML validates and is cross browser compliant (IE 6 - 8, Firefox 2-3.5, Google Chrome, Safari 2-4).  • Implemented cross browser friendly XHTML which successfully validates.  • Constructed well structured and validating XHTML as well as using an appropriate doctype.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • Used CSS Archetype to properly structure CSS files, either for multiple or individual pages.  • Worked with XML and JSON using jQuery and Javascript  • JavaScript library jQuery was used to create animations and slide show.  • Collaborated and recommended best coding practice for XHTML and CSS Front End Web Developer Interbrand, NY October 2007 to August 2009 Clients: ACDelco, Apollo, AT&T, Barclays, Covidien, Delta Dental, Exxon Mobil, GMAC, Gridpoint, Hyatt, Interbrand, HSBC, Luminant, McKesson, Mercedes-Benz, OLG, Rio Tinto, RSA, Stiefel, TD Bank, Thomson Reuters and Tyco Electronics  • Built templates and UI pages using Web 2.0 standards (XHTML, CSS, JavaScript).  • XHTML validates and is cross browser compliant (IE 6 - 8, Firefox 2-3.5, Google Chrome, Safari 2-4). Maintains consistent look and feel.  • Implemented cross browser friendly XHTML which successfully validates.  • Constructed well structured and validating XHTML as well as using an appropriate doctype.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • Used CSS Archetype to properly structure CSS files, either for multiple or individual pages.  • Used tools such as firebug, meazure, nightly webkit, web developer for debugging and correcting errors.  • JavaScript library jQuery was used to create animations and slide show.  • Popular ASP.NET Telerik Rad Control Ajax library was used to add animations.  • YUI library was used to create carousel slide show.  • Provided support and maintenance for existing website based on the requirements from project managers and production team  • Collaborated and recommended best coding practice for XHTML and CSS Front End Web Developer Ogilvy Interactive August 2007 to October 2007 Clients: Aflac, Allergan and Wyeth  • Developed pages for mini-sites using Web 2.0 standards (XHTML, CSS, JavaScript).  • Implemented cross browser friendly XHTML which successfully validates.  • Constructed well structured and validating XHTML as well as using an appropriate doctype.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • Used CSS Archetype to properly structure CSS files, either for multiple or individual pages.  • Used tools such as firebug, meazure, nightly webkit, web developer for debugging and correcting errors.  • Developed JavaScript for flash widgets which were used for mini-sites  • Tested web pages for cross browser differences  • Worked with QA team to implement fixes and changes Web Developer Trusa, NY February 2006 to July 2007 Clients: turkishny.com  • Built templates and pages using Web 2.0 standards (XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, CMS Joomla).  • XHTML validates and is cross browser compliant (IE 6 - 7, Firefox 2). Maintains consistent look and feel.  • CSS Archetype was implemented to allow for easy update and maintenance of CSS files.  • Used tools such as firebug, meazure, web developer for debugging and correcting errors. Education B.S. in Computer Science State University May 2004 Skills Javascript (10+ years), Angular (2 years), D3.js (4 years), HTML5 (7 years), CSS3 (7 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), jQuery (8 years), LESS (2 years), SASS (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:  Internet: JavaScript, Angular.js/Jasmine Unit Test/Karma, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, D3.js, DOM Manipulation, Bootstrap, SVG, JSON, Angular 2, Ionic 2, Typescript, LESS/SASS, XML, MVC, JSP, .NET, PHP, SharePoint  Development Tools: Firebug, Nightly Webkit, IE Developer, Meazure, Web Developer  HTML Editors: Eclipse, Intellij Idea, VS, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Homesite   Servers: CMS CQ5, Apache, IIS, MySQL, MSSQL, CMS Sitefinity, CMS Joomla   Email: exacttarget.com, emailonacid.com, litmusapp.com, createsend.com  Tracking: Google Analytics, SiteCatalyst, Charles, Omnibug