Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - NATHAM ABRAHAM ENTERPRISE Pembroke Pines, FL A conscientious, fast learner offering the ability to assess an organization's needs and create a complementary, robust web presence. Extremely positive, focused self-starter with 9 years experience in the fields of web design and graphic design with an emphasis on helping companies improve designs, sales, and increase website traffic by 60% through effective meta-tagging and search engine submissions. Experienced in all 5 stages of the web development process including: information gathering, planning, design, development, testing, delivery and maintenance. Perform continual quality checks of all the web sites and make recommendations for revisions as needed, proficient with a wide array of scripting languages and multimedia web tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer NATHAM ABRAHAM ENTERPRISE - Pembroke Pines, FL April 2015 to Present www.nathanabrahame.com    • Edited content, debugging code and re-designed web pages  • Met relevant legal requirements such as accessibility standards, freedom of information and privacy  • Proofreader content and grammar and making changes where necessary  • Worked with clients and Project Managers to build and refine graphic designs for websites.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS, HTML/XHTML themes.  • Solved HTML, CSS and JavaScript code problems  • Created web applications for a wide range of platforms such as Netsuite and Magento Enterprise.  • Created electronic form in Netsuite and created an automatic timeout or log out session  • Worked as part of a multi-disciplinary team  • Tested the site under construction to find and fix any problems - or 'bugs' - before it goes live.  • Wrote the programming code, either from scratch or by adapting existing website software and graphics packages to meet business requirements  • Customized and styled the Magento eCommerce design  • Researched, installed, and configured various Magento Extensions.  • Imported and exported eCommerce data (customer data, order data, product data, reviews, etc.) from one Magento installation to another, or from a custom cart to Magento.  • Built a Magento site from an approved design to a functional storefront.  • Extended Magento functionality through custom programming to meet client requirements.  • Configured basic and advanced Magento settings. Front- End Web Developer SEMINOLE HARD ROCK HOTELS & CASINOS - Hollywood, FL June 2014 to March 2015 www.seminolehardrockhollywood.com    • Designed and developed HTML responsive emails marketing for the Seminole Hard Rock Hotels & Casinos Hollywood, Tampa, Coconut Creek and Immokalee.  • Ensured marketing message is conveyed clearly and delivered properly to prospects.  • Proofread emails for clarity, grammar, and spelling.  • Developed a personalization strategy and included specific graphics, incentives, and detailed descriptions  • Ensured messages are mobile-friendly.  • Purged non-deliverable email addresses and opt-outs  • Worked with marketing team to implement dynamic emails and automated emails  • Monitored customer segments and performance data to determine the focus of sales efforts and marketing  • Implemented email marketing best practices around deliverability, frequency, measurement and content  • Setup and deploy A/B and multivariate testing initiatives and report results to key decision makers  • Monitor campaigns to ensure consistency across all major email providers (AOL, Gmail, Outlook, etc.)  • Primary role as Web Developer in Flash, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, and AJAX.  • Edited text, images, banners, flash animations, and layout in the main web site, these changes were done almost every day.  • Worked efficiently and met project deadlines with minimal supervision FREELANCE Pembroke Pines, FL January 2014 to June 2014 Front- End Web Developer    • Designed and developed HTML/CSS responsive websites in Wordpress for different clients  • Created site layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices  • Gathered and refined specifications and requirements based on technical needs  • Stayed plug into emerging technologies/industry trends and apply them into operations and activities  • Designed graphics, animations and manipulated digital photographs  • Registered web domain names and organizing the hosting of the website Front- End Web Developer RISO LATIN AMERICA - Sunrise, FL April 2012 to December 2013 www.risolatin.com    • Freelance contractor brought in when needed to assist in the completion of RISO's main website.  • Web Development and graphic integration in JavaScript, PHP and Jquery  • Used NetSuite Content Management System to develop the main website.  • Testing including error checking, browser compatibility and accessibility testing. Collaborating with application developers to ensure UI designs are implemented and tested correctly.  • Developed and implemented promotional, sponsorships and community relations events.  • Directed the development of online advertising campaign  • Maintained SEO campaigns & post on social media  • Created and executed e-blast campaign (email campaign), Search Engine optimization (SEO) & Pay-per-Click or PPC marketing  • Monitored, responded and tracked reviews on Google Local, yelp, yellow pages on risolatin.com and its leading competitors.  • Created electronic forms in HTML, JavaScript and PDF format. Front- End Web Developer NIPROWEB CORP - Hollywood, FL July 2008 to March 2012 www.niproweb.com    • Created websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Tutorial CD's using Macromedia Flash  • Developed and managed online marketing campaigns for NAE  • Posted and monitored to all profiles for each store including but not limited to: Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.  • Primarily created custom CMS and E-Commerce solutions for small to medium sized businesses  • Created and designed E-commerce, flash web design, Professional Corporate websites, email design, E-blast, custom web design, consulting. Optimized 10 websites averaging about 50 pages  • Created and designed logos, stationary, corporate identity, business cards, brochures an flyers, Increased website traffic by 60% through effective meta-tagging and search engine submissions.  • Experience with Pay Per Click advertising in Ask, Google Adwords, Yahoo Search Marketing, and MSN Ad center. I have written ads, created reports, made suggestions to clients about campaigns, keyword suggestions, geo-targeting settings, and managed budgets. Front- End Web Developer ATNETS, INC - Davie, FL March 2002 to June 2008 www.atnets.com  • Used my strong knowledge of Photoshop CS5, illustrator and fireworks to create great & impact marketing projects. Answered multi-line phone system, screening phone calls, ordering supplies, filing various administrative duties, distributing mail and greeting visitors.  • Assisted other staff with overflow work, including word processing, data entry, Internet research tasks and front desk duties  • Responsible for obtaining and entering of client supply orders into the management software system.    PORTFOLIO  Technologies Used: CSS, JavaScript, PHP, HTML5, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS3  http://www.nickproano.com Education A.A. in Design SHERIDAN TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Hollywood, FL December 2006 Graphic Design MIAMI DADE COLLEGE - Miami, FL May 2002 Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (9 years), jQuery (8 years), PHP (8 years) Additional Information • Experience with UI,UX, XHTML 4, HTML 5, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, CSS3, PHP and JQuery  • Experience with WordPress, Vertical Responsive, Magento Enterprise and NetSuite business management software.  • Experience with Backbone, Qooxdoo and Spine JavaScript framework  • Exceptional proficiency with Adobe Creative Suite: Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign  • Ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously and follow through to successful completion.  • Experience using Mac, Windows operating systems and Parallels Desktop ® 11 for Mac  • Proficiency on Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013 Excel, Word, Power Point, outlook, Visio  • Collaborated with application developers to ensure UI designs are implemented and tested correctly.  • Experience with video & sound editing specialist  • Solid working knowledge of html and table-based layouts as well as responsive design  • Experience with Icloud and Sugar Sync cloud computing service  • Ability to create and execute e-blast campaign (email campaign)  • Setup and deployed A/B and multivariate testing initiatives and report results to key decision makers  • Understanding of email coding best practices  • Ability to take a Photoshop or Fireworks file and create or convert it in HTML/CSS  • Experience with Search engine optimization (SEO)  • Created, optimized and managed Google Adword and Goggle Pay-Per-Click Campaign  • Experience with Google and Bing's services, including Analytics, conversion tracking, and Webmaster Tools  • Experience with Google's Keyword Tool  • Managed the day-to-day search marketing activities across multiple search engines (Google, Bing/Yahoo) including the keyword research, campaign planning, implementation, budget management, performance review, and optimization of paid search campaigns.  • Experience with new advances in search engine marketing, and a competitive landscape.  • Increased website traffic by 60% through effective organic keywords, meta-tagging and search engine submissions.  • Ability to work with back- end SEO elements such as .htaccess, robots.txt, metadata, site speed optimization, and related skills  • Strong multi-tasking skills with excellent attention to detail  • 6 years' experience as a general office clerk and prior receptionist experience  • Able to work as IT Support (set up computers, fix network problems)  • Ability to handle all major or minor PC repair issues from virus and spyware removal  • Website inventory management and ability to learn other software programs.  • Experience with e-commerce, shopping carts in 1and1 and jushost    SKILLS  Wordpress, Magento, XCart  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, JQuery  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 1 years 9 months at Seminole Classic Casino  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise  Audio-/Video Editing  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise  Search Engine optimization (SEO), Google Adword, Organic Keyword  • + 1 years 9 months at Seminole Classic Casino  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  Adobe Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Photoshop, Flash  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 1 years 9 months at Seminole Classic Casino  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise  ERP Softwares (Netsuite)  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise  Adobe InDesign, Illustrator  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013? Excel, Word, Power Point, Outlook, Visio  • + 5 years 10 months at ATNETS, INC  • + 1 years 9 months at Seminole Classic Casino  • + 1 years 8 months at Riso Latin  • + 3 years 8 months at Nipro Web Corporation  • + 5 months at Nathan Abraham Enterprise