Front- End developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front- End developer - Bank Of America Chicago, IL • Front- End developer (Angular 2/4/5) with 10+ years of experience in web and back- end development.  • Strong knowledge of software development life cycle, specifically Agile (scrum) methodology and adept in understanding user-requirements, code implementation, testing and code deployment in various environments.  • Has hands-on experience in conceptualizing, architecting, designing, prototyping, and building full-stack applications.  • Extensive experience in creating MVC based applications using various features like authentication, routing, exception-handling, unit testing and deployment.  • Strong experience in fetching/storing data using Web APIs and RESTful services.  • Experienced in using proper design pattern for code development in different scenarios.  • Extensive experience in front- end development using Angular, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • and Bootstrap. It's a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Client-side validation using custom directives and filters using Angular JS  • Experienced in using Java Script libraries like jQuery, Angular (2/4/5) and jQuery UI  • Knowledge of DOM and object-oriented JavaScript  • Has hands-on experience in managing data using SQL queries, views, stored procedures and functions.  • Experience in building user-centric products and applications, working with customers, users and development teams to reach the desired goals.  • Can proactively handle broad range of responsibilities, especially meeting deadlines and production support.  • Reliable team-player and can also work alone with minimum supervision. Strong desire to learn new technologies and implement new features. Work Experience Front- End developer Bank Of America - Chicago, IL March 2015 to Present Angular 2/4/5)  Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design, and development of the web application using ASP.NET and C#.  • Developed business use cases, sequential, collaborative, activity and class diagrams for the enterprise presentation and business and data access components of the system.  • Designed classes following OOP principles and implemented them for best code reuse using .Net framework 4.6.  • Designed a Web application using Web API with AngularJS, leveraged Entity framework (EF)  • Used API Controllers to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode.  • Used Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Implemented UI using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2, AJAX and Forms Controls to create responsive web pages.  • Implemented client-side validations for business logic for various html forms that essentially represent a business logic.  • Used AJAX to fetch data from controllers to update user data asynchronously.  • Created controllers and views for new features for new business features.  • Implemented user authentication and authorization for restrict access only to authenticated user to a section of website.  • Configured routing rules and exception/error handling.  • Developed Web services/Rest Services for building applications that send and receive messages over HTTP.  • Created new methods to store and retrieve data from SQL Server using Entity Framework and LINQ queries.  • Created new tables, wrote stored procedures, views for applications and some user defined functions.  • Wrote test cases and implemented unit testing to test new features and did unit testing as well as integration testing.  Environment: ASP.NET 4.6/4.5, Web Services, Angular 2/4/5, WCF, Web API, Visual studio 2015, SQL Server 2012, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Amazon Cloud (AWS) Bootstrap, Entity framework 6.0, C#, .NET MVC, Rest Services, AJAX, JSON, IIS, TFS. Net developer/ Front- End developer NV Energy - Las Vegas, NV August 2011 to March 2015 Angular JS)  Implemented new features for website development of NV Energy (Nevada Energy), a US based electricity supplier and a part of Berkshire Hathaway Energy in Nevada region. A large-scale web development that offered great opportunity to learn and develop technical as well as communication skills (frequent client and customer interactions) that served almost 1.3 million customers.  Responsibilities:  • Managed application development from offshore and coordinated smooth communication between onsite and offshore teams  • Helped and guided the clients with optimal solutions for the Change Requests for the existing application  • Presented application flow to the team members and resolved application/access related queries  • Leveraged Angular 2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Organized weekly team meetings, daily status calls, general access/authorization related issues and maintained on-time deliveries of new features/functionalities  • Created POCs for logging and tracking bugs, automat email-sending process  • Created tool in C# for generating reports for data from excel sheets  Environment:  .Net Framework 4.6, ASP.Net MVC, WCF, jQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Knockout JS, Tortoise SVN Net Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL April 2004 to August 2011 Web development project for United Airlines' official website to book and manage airline tickets and various other important features and products. As a developer, got chance to develop POCs for new features and provide production support to fix various types of bugs related to UI, web services, data and business logic implementation.  Responsibilities:  • Improved application performance by code restructuring and refactoring  • Prepared test-cases from end-user perspective, to analyze loopholes and edge cases in the application  • Provided production support by fixing bugs (resolved UI and coding bugs)  • Implemented client-side validations and authentication in jQuery for a new module  • Created login and user-registration pages using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  Environment:  .Net Framework 4.5, ASP.Net MVC, WCF, Angular JS, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, TFS Net Developer Citi - New York, NY March 2003 to April 2004 Scrum developer for website development for Citi, leading multi-national bank in UK. Excellent opportunity that helped me in learn and understand the basics of agile development and get adept in it. Also improved technical skills as each user story implementation required full-stack development (backend in SQL Server, business logic in C# and OOPs, and front- end in jQuery, HTML, CSS). Also learnt code deployment and configuration for different environment and providing production support.  Responsibilities:  • As a scrum developer, implemented user-stories in each sprint (2-3 week) for adding new features/functionalities in the application  • Created Razor views using HTML, CSS and C# syntaxes for razor  • Created JavaScript functions for handling user-events like form-validations, user-authentication, and data display or change data  • Implemented AJAX calls in jQuery to fetch data from MVC controllers  • Implemented custom action-filters in C# for user-validation and authentication to control the access to various modules of the application  • Created new methods in database layer to save/retrieve data from database (SQL Server) using Entity Framework and LINQ queries  • Configured and deployed code in different environments like dev and QA for proper testing and checking application performance  • Provided production support after every major/minor application release into the production, including resolving user queries and fixing technical bugs  Environment:  .Net Framework 4.5, ASP.Net MVC, WCF, Entity Framework, LINQ, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, TFS, HP Quality Center, Jazz Team Foundation Server Education Master of Science in Information Systems DePaul University - Chicago, IL Skills .NET (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), BOOTSTRAP (10+ years), CSS (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  SDLC Agile/ Scrum Development, Waterfall  .NET Technologies .NET Framework 4.5/4.6 Asp.Net Core, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, IIS  Languages C#, Java (basic), Swift(basic)  Web Services Web APIs, RESTful Services, WCF  Scripting & Markup Angular 2/4/5, TypeScript, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap  Databases SQL Server, Google Firebase, Oracle 11g  Mobile Development iOS Development, Swift 4, XCode 9.2, Android App Development, Android Studio, Java  IDE Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, Android Studio, XCode    Operating Systems Windows, Linux(mac)  Version Control TFS, Github  Cloud AWS    Programming Skills OOPs, Data Structures and Design Patterns  Tools Fiddler, Postman, HP Quality Center