Freelance Website Developer Freelance Website <span class="hl">Developer</span> WordPress Developer, Front- end Developer Bayside, NY I have been a professional front- end and WordPress developer for over a decade (10 years prior as a hobby). I have worked for both small startups and semi-corporate offices, and I apply my same outlook and teamwork culture wherever I am. Communication is very important to me, and I naturally bring team members together. I'm also great with multi-tasking and tight deadlines.    I prefer and enjoy working in a WordPress environment, but I am comfortable with any PHP templating systems and I am open to learning other CMSs. I have had professional experience working with HTML/XHTML, CSS, working in PHP environments, jQuery, some MySQL experience and using Adobe Photoshop/CS. Most recently within my CafeMedia position, I have gained experience with SVN, Git/GitHub, Sass, Trello, some AMP and the Smarty templating system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Website Developer LoudEgg.com - Manhasset, NY February 2018 to Present Over at LoudEgg.com, whenever needed, I'm currently freelancing my WordPress skills. This is a more flexible role where I'm handed over projects sporadically. Owner/Independent Freelance Developer S2UDIO.com 2005 to Present After Edit.com started closing down and refusing any new work in February of 2011, I was asked to freelance to complete any remaining open projects. I was working for both Nylon and completing the open projects at the same time.    S2UDIO.com (Owner/Independent Freelance Developer) . 2005 to Present  My design/development freelance work is based around fun, vibrant, fresh and playful design. I work mainly for artists (general art/musicians and bands), and build personal sites. Often times, I integrate basic PayPal e-shops. I have never discriminated against any types of clients, and have developed/designed for other types of businesses, organizations and individuals (attorneys, hair salons, major medical and LGBT conferences). Although only officially launched since 2005, I have been creating and maintaining websites (as a hobby) since 1999. Front- end Developer CafeMedia - New York, NY July 2013 to February 2018 My most recent position has called for the maintenance of eight high-traffic websites over time. My role has evolved into taking on different responsibilities as the industry has changed. I was formerly in charge of implementing direct sales, client-sponsored assets and tracking codes. Additionally, I'd often implement various custom sponsored modules to campaigns, and I would also build custom microsites. I would often refactor, standardize and minimize existing elements/code and stylesheets.    Over time, I had ended up building previously non-existent company Wiki featuring step-by-step documentation and tutorials, explaining how to implement all sales/sponsored components, how to build microsites and other various tasks. I had worked closely with five project managers, and additionally created documentation for them to use during the QA process and for speaking with clients (mainly technical definitions and URL parameter information). That information wasn't previously or readily available upon my hiring, and was frequently referenced by several departments.    In addition to my duties as a front- end developer, I was also highly regarded as a cultural/social bridge between different departments throughout the company. I've helped plan daily and weekly lunches and other various social events. I wanted my co-workers to be more comfortable with each other. CafeMedia is a larger scale company, so I wanted people to gain understanding as to what other departments do for the company. I am a huge advocate of communication, and this company seemed to be lacking just that within cross-department/teams. I also belong to various social "clubs" that my co-workers and I have started and maintain (run club, book club, wine club, etc.). Front- end Developer Nylon Technology - New York, NY July 2012 to June 2013 General front- end development on several projects (analyzing, editing, developing, refactoring markup), working with Nylon-built internal systems and CMS's. Data entry, organization, reporting, and maintaining the company website. In addition, I built out and maintained the company client portfolio. Website Developer Edit.com May 2008 to December 2012 Initially I was only implementing our custom website editor tags into existing websites, but over time, I maintained hundreds of tickets that additionally included implementing custom web features to existing and new customers, handling various support cases, cleaning over-styled and problematic code, cross-browser issues and JS errors. As the company evolved, I started building static and dynamic website builds, converting static websites to custom WordPress websites, handled many PSD to website/WordPress builds, Google Analytics implementation and management, SEO implementation/redirects, and other various web work. Education High school or equivalent Skills WordPress (10+ years), HTML/CSS (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Versioning Systems (SVN, Git) (5 years), Slack (3 years), jQuery (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jessica-herde-12b38a14 https://www.s2udio.com