Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - CCI • 11 years of Experience in IT Industry with knowledge of Web Development and Design with  HTML/HTML5, AngularJS 1.4, Require JS, Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, Lodash, D3  JS, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS/LESS, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Flash, Adobe Flex, Adobe  Photoshop etc.  • Having experience of Microsoft Silverlight and Adobe Flex based RIA web application  development.  • 3+ years' work experience with AngularJS, Require JS, Object Oriented JavaScript, Bootstrap  3, CSS3, SASS/LESS. Familiar with third party ready to use customized UI components  library (e.g. kendo UI)  • Majorly use AngularJS custom directives to develop UI custom component  • Use of Bootstrap 3 for responsive web app design to support multiple screens and devices  • Expertise in Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Information flow diagram, Visual & Graphic  Design, multi-screen RIA/RUI design and development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Expertise in Content Management System for both Presales public interfacing site as well as  Post sale customer site.  • Able to generate effective and concise requirements artifacts to facilitate the transfer of  stakeholder needs to application development staff  • Experienced in the process of product analysis, comparison and recommendation using  internal and external resources as well as making cases for off the shelf solutions versus  custom built applications  • Proficient in reengineering the process and improving it to make the business effective and  efficient. Have also involved and contributed a lot in converting the requirements into effective  business design.  • Experience in different phases of system implementation such as Requirements / Usability  Analysis, Information Architecture, Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Visual & Graphic  Design, Front- End Development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Capable to lead the User Interface Development team.  Area of Competency:  • Enterprise Level Web Application Front- End Design and Development  • Ability to provide solution to Front- End challenges  • Web Application configuration and Automation  • Web Application Architecture  • Responsive Web Application Design & Development  • Visual Design, UI/UX Design and Development  • RIA Application Development  • Customized UI components development  • Usability Analysis Work Experience Sr. UI Developer CCI - Chicago, IL June 2015 to Present Project: CCI Greenheart Systems Portal Development  Project Brief: CCI Greenheart has created global leaders by facilitating cultural exchange and service learning opportunities for international students and professionals coming to the United  States.  CCI Greenheart Systems portal providing great tool to manage CCI Greenheart exchange business  efficiently. Systems portal has entities like: Partner, Participants, Host Families, Field Staff, Schools and Employers.    Responsibilities:  • Front End design and development with Angular JS framework and HTML5  • Custom UI component development with AngularJS directives  • Web Development task configuration and automation with Gulp  • Responsive web app design to support multiple devices with Bootstrap 3  • SASS as CSS pre-compiler  • Use of JS framework like JQuery, lodash, D3 JS to get facilitate with built in framework  features  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Front- End Research and  Development, Integration, Bug Fixing.  • Leading the User Interface Development team in the current project.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the stack holders to identify the user requirements and the user experience to achieve the consistency in the proposed  application.  • Analyzing and demonstrating the user centric design and customer experience to the stack  holder with the newly proposed application design  • Estimating the effort for implementing the changes  • Developing / Integrating static pages into the existing and proposed system  • Performing code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application    Environment: HTML/HTML5, Angular JS 1.4, Require JS, JQuery, Gulp, GIT Hub, CSS 3, SASS,  Lodash, Microsoft SQL, D3 UI Developer Century Link - Denver, CO October 2010 to June 2015 Project: Control Center Self Service Program  Control Center is a free, secure, self-service Web portal that provides access to critical tools enabling  easy, safe and fast management of invoices, network configuration and statistics and trouble  reporting. Control Center is a robust online reporting tool that can help improve your operation by delivering useful knowledge and greater insight into your business. The portal's simple navigation and  business-friendly resources help users across your organization find the information they need quickly and easily -- at the level of detail needed. All without complicated training.  UI team responsibilities included Usability Analysis, Wireframe Prototyping, Visual Design, Front End  Development and Integration with backend data and services.    Responsibilities:  • HTML5, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, LESS, CSS 3 based front end UI design and development  • Front end development and architecture using Angular JS.  • Use of AngularJS custom directives to develop reusable UI custom component  • Use of bootstrap for responsive web app design to support multiple devices  • Use of LESS as CSS pre-compiler  • Converted Flex projects into HTML5 project by using Angular JS Framework  • Mapping business requirements to application features and the most suited technology to provide business value  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Front- End Research and  Development, Integration, Bug Fixing and Launch & Maintenance.  • Leading the User Interface Development team in the current project.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the stack holders to identify the user requirements and the user experience to achieve the consistency in the proposed  application.  • Analyzing and demonstrating the user centric design and customer experience to the stack  holder with the newly proposed application design  • Estimating the effort for the implementing the changes.  • Researching and identifying the well versed open source tool to implementing the cross  browser application to achieve the web standards.  • Developing / Integrating static pages into the existing and proposed system  • Performing code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support  • Fixing the post production issues in the application    Environment: HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Grunt, CSS 3, LESS, Action Script  3.0, Serena Dimensions, Caliber, HP Quality Center, MySQL, SharePoint portal. Front- End Developer AT&T September 2009 to September 2010 Project: R2D2  The R2-D2 tool will serve the day-to-day diverse needs of users supporting, monitoring and managing the suite of Retail applications as a centralized, integrated, multi functional "Go To" application. The  tool will allow for a secure and controlled access to a variety of features while minimizing dependency on resources and unnecessary maintenance of other tools or ad hoc scripts.    Responsibilities:  • Front end UI development using Microsoft Silverlight, HTML, JavaScript, CSS 3.  • Involved in different phases of system implementation such as Requirements Review,  Usability Analysis, Information Architecture, Wireframe Mockups / Prototyping, Visual /  Graphic Design, Front- End Development, Integration and Launch & Maintenance.  • Creating wireframe prototype and visual design for the multi-application screen.  • Involved in the scope discussions with the business analysts and the stack holders to identify the user requirements and the user experience  • Analyzing and demonstrating the user centric design and customer experience to the stack  holder with the newly proposed application design  • Preparing / Reviewing the high level and low level design and UTP documents  • Estimating the effort for the implementing the changes.  • Researching and identifying the well versed open source tool to implementing the multi  screen application to achieve the web standards.  • Develop / Integrating static pages into the existing and proposed system  • Leading the user interface development team in the current application  • Performing code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the browser/performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support  • Fixing the post production issues in the application    Environment: HTML/HTML 5, JavaScript, AJAX, Action Script 3.0, CSS 3, Adobe Flex, Microsoft  Silverlight, Microsoft Expression Blend Web Developer Mutants Technologies Pvt. Ltd September 2006 to September 2009 Mutants Technologies is a website Design & Development Company offer services like Website  Designing, Website Maintenance, Website Redesigning, Website Development, Hosting, Graphic  design for the web and print, Database Development, Branding and Logo Development, Flash,  Multimedia Development and SEO.    Responsibilities:  • Created wireframe prototype and visual design for the proposed application.  • Wireframe Prototyping, Visual Design and Front End Development  • Analyzed and demonstrated the user centric design and customer experience to the stack  holder with the newly proposed application design  • Analyzed the requirement documents and get the design concerns clarified with the stack  holders  • Prepared / Reviewed the high level and low level design and UTP documents  • Developed / Integrated static pages into the existing and proposed system with the W3C Web  standards  • Played senior role in the user interface design / development team  • Performed code review and unit testing  • Identifying and fixing the cross browser / performance related issues in the application  • Production deployment and validation support    Environment: Adobe Collections, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Photoshop Front End Developer Aptara Inc January 2005 to September 2006 Aptara, Inc. is a US-based media company specializing in digital content development. It is  headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia. Aptara's services include content production, digital  publishing, data conversion, editorial services, eLearning and technology development, legal content  solutions, and business process outsourcing (BPO). Its customers include publishers, information  aggregators, professional societies, universities and corporations worldwide    Responsibilities:  • Visual Design and Front End Development  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts  • Front End Development    Environment: Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  Action Script 3.0, XML Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Information Technology IGNOU - New Delhi, Delhi 2001 to 2004 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, Object Oriented JavaScript, Angular JS, Require  JS, JQuery, Lodash, D3 JS, Gulp/Grunt, AJAX, CSS 3,  Bootstrap 3, LESS/SASS, GIT Hub, Action Script 3.0, Adobe  Flex, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, Java, JSON, J2EE, MySQL,  SQL.  Scripting Language JavaScript, Action Script 3.0  Wireframe / Prototyping Tools Adobe Collections