Senior Front- End Developer Senior <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front- End Developer Oak Creek, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Front- End Developer DCi Artform - Milwaukee, WI July 2018 to April 2019 Help build and maintain their LiveGuide 2.0 application. Using HTML5, CSS3, JS, JSON, VueJS, Swagger, Azure. Worked closely with UX team to ensure our application can perform in a sensible and easy to understand UI. Senior Interface Developer Alere Health Management / Optum Inc April 2014 to June 2018 Build and maintain company's existing Web applications. Using HTML5 CSS3 JS and JSP. Also work with a team to ensure the right technologies are being used to help mobility, scalability and performance. Worked closely with Design and UX team to also ensure right technologies are available for application needs. Even though it was not required, I am able to help with any Sketch/Adobe CC related UX designs when requirements change.    I've introduced Angular.js to my team as a web application solution. Our team consists of UX, Designers, Java Developers and Front End Developers. In the attempt to organize our UI components, we've split things up into two parts. The HTML and CSS components, which visually show a real world scenario of what the designs looks like and a JavaScript pattern that host everything JS to run certain components that requires it. Angular helped us organized these components from a template stand point and re-usability. Angular also gave us the opportunity to run certain parts of the web application into Single Page App (SPA).  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Material, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery, ADA Compliance, Sketch, OmniGraffle, Pega7 UI Design, Struts, Bitbucket, Node, ES6+ Sr. Front End Developer Alere Health Management / Optum Inc 2015 to 2016 Build a front- end application for multi-loans. Design UX and coded UI for order bank brands  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery, Angular, ASP.NET integration, salesforce Sr. Front End Developer Harmonic Consulting, Wisconsin 2009 to 2015 Build web applications for companies, such as, Perrigo, Stanley Black & Decker, ADS Environmental Services.  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery, Share Point, ASP.NET integration. Sr. Front End Developer Harmonic Consulting, Wisconsin 2013 to 2014 Worked closely with UX and Designers to help build and maintain the Tervis.com ecommerce site.  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery, Knockout.js Sr. Front End Developer Harmonic Consulting, Wisconsin - Chicago, IL 2011 to 2013 Build websites and Mobile applications. Worked on projects such as shop.li.ning.com, minesafety.com, pamida.com, and Amex  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery, Knockout.js, PhoneGap Front End Developer / UX / Designer Lakeshore Interactive LLC 2011 to 2011 Help develop features for existing verticals from a user prospective. Work with analytical data from Google Analytics to get the most accurate flow to insure the most suitable user experience. Build wires to illustrate flow and functionality to site's features and user ability. Design and Code these features using Photoshop and XHTML. Wired, Design and Code web app sites for Mobile devices, iPhone, iPad and android, using Sencha and SASS.  Skills used: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Bootstrap.js, JQuery Front End Developer Sears Holdings - Chicago, IL 2010 to 2011 Worked in collaboration with interactive architects and visual designers to develop new interactions and user experiences across the Sears family of e-commerce websites. Developed client side code using the latest XHTML/CSS and JavaScript standards. Debugged layout and JavaScript issues to ensure visual and functional consistency across all modern web browsers. Worked with back end developers to ensure proper integration.  Skills used: HTML, CSS, JQuery Presentation Developer NIKE.com - New York, NY 2008 to 2009 Build and maintain sites for the NIKE.com client using XML, CSS, JavaScript (jQuery) and Freemarker. Maintain the smallbusiness section of the verizon.com website using wordpress, asp and JavaScript (mootools)  Skills used: HTML, CSS, JQuery, Mootools, Wordpress, Freemarker. Sr. Front End Developer Community Connect/Interactive One - New York, NY 2006 to 2008 Community Connect, Inc. (CCI) Build and maintain widgets and modules using XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, for 10+ social networking sites under one code base. Admin various sites to provide optimum user satisfaction. Often trusted to produce solid and stable code for marketing and production development during tight deadlines. Quickly adapted knowledge of Morpheus, an application created by CCI, used to build modules and templates in XML, XSL, XSLT, for prototyping front- end designs before initial PHP integration. Morpheus is the core front- end framework for building a variety of social networking sites under one code base. Invented a parser called switch. Using switch, authors can use "special functionality not available in CSS" that functionality is written in a syntax that is similar to CSS. Features such as Math, Variables and short hand are all complied into this language.  Skills used: HTML, CSS, YUI, Word press, XML, XSL, Agile and XSLT. Lead Front End Developer / UI Designer Fareportal - New York, NY 2005 to 2006 Front End developer for a air traveling company, Fareportal. Design UI for a travel agent web application using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Built front end using XHTML, CSS and JavaScript and integrated the front end in ASP.NET. Lead the team in building re-usable core components for the travel agent web application.  Skills used: HTML, CSS, XHTML, ASP.NET, and JavaScript. Site Manager and Interface Developer Travelocity - New York, NY 2001 to 2001 I managed and built custom websites for leading travel industry portal. Responsibilities included project management, Q/A testing and meeting aggressive delivery schedules.  Skills used: HTML, CSS, XHTML, PHP, and JavaScript Senior Front End Developer Context Integration - New York, NY 1999 to 2001 Executed code and light design for a wide array of Consumer and B2B clients including Epson, JH Whitney, Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Nick.com, CNNSI, Fortune City, Cigna, Metropolitan West Financial and Logistics.com. Consulted clients to learn their business needs through facilitated sessions. Involved in learning program that extended my understanding of leading development methodologies including the Rational Unified Process. Worked closely with senior staff and project management teams to execute award winning interfaces and technology solutions.  Skills used: HTML, CSS, Flash, PHP, and JavaScript. Education Web and Business Chubb Institute - New York, NY 2003 Supplemental Business Management Berkeley College - New York, NY 2002 Skills fast learner (Less than 1 year), Front-end (10+ years), Front-end developer (10+ years), Web based (Less than 1 year), web-based (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills Summary  Motivated and efficient Senior Front End Developer with 18+ years experience designing, developing and maintaining content-driven web sites and highly functional web-based software applications. Earned reputation for fast development of strong code with limited direction and supervision. Trusted to produce solid and stable code under very tight deadlines. An intuitive and fast learner dedicated to constant evolution of skill set.