Sr. Front- End Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End Developer - Ally Financial Charlotte, NC Over 9+ years of extensive experience in Software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML,XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Meeting W3C standards. Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script. Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework. Perform web optimization on websites and web services for improved functionality over cross browsers and platforms. Working knowledge with server side framework Node Js. Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved. Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the document and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Good experience working with High Traffic Websites. Good understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.Experience using open source testing frameworks like Jasmine, Karma and task runners like Grunt.  • Experience in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.  • Designed the web layouts using Adobe Photoshop.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Used JQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like JQuery and AngularJS.  • Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  • Involved in Bootstrap framework to Design single page application.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug.  • Experienced in client side design and validation using HTML and JavaScript.  • Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's.  • Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development.  • Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic.  • Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images. Well versed W3C standards.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design. Experience working with JSP templates & Angular js.  • Experience with Web 2.0 and related sources.  • Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup.  • Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front- End Developer Ally Financial - Charlotte, NC December 2013 to Present Responsibilities:-  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Used Hibernate as data mapping and persistence framework to implement data access abstraction.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created frontend using EXTJS framework.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  • Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh results from Ajax page.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, JSON, JQuery and CSS  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Worked on front- end validation through JavaScript and back- end validation using Spring Validation Classes  • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from font- end JavaScript, SenchaExtJS to server-side Java methods (ExtDirect).  • Developed Web tier by using Struts, JSP, Ajax and Html.  • Implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap Front- End Framework.  • Developed drag and drop functionality using AJAX and Tile framework in Struts.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Developed internal application using Angular.js and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.JS  • Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery& Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap.  • Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval  • Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and MongoDB (NoSQL) as back end database.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache CXF.  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Designed and developed SOA based enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite and WebLogic  • Responsible for build and release the code from Subversion and Perforce.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using Spring framework and iText  • Created web GUI: pages, tables and charts using GWT (Google Web Toolkit), java Freechart library using MVC pattern  • Worked with ILogJrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application  • Designing & implementing BPEL processes, business rules, web services using IBM SOA technologies stack.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, SenchaExtjs, Javascript, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, ApacheCxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), Mongo DB, Coherence, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pages standard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa. Sr. Front End Developer Aon Hewitt - Charlotte, NC January 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:-  • Participated in development of all project layers including Data Providers, Business Components, User Interface;  • Acted as Team Lead, Business Analyst and the primary Developer;  • Implemented the mapping between RBSS (Reuters Business Sector Schema) and TRBC (Thomson Reuters Business Classification);  • Involved in Requirement Scoping and identifying high priority requirement for implementation;  • Communicated and interacted on a regular basis with the project manager, development and offshore QA teams during different stages of the project;  • Managed schedules and collaborated with different teams working on the project;  • Used Siebel CRM to report, track, monitor and resolve problems and client requests;  • Prepared project progress reports and status reports and submitted to the management on an ongoing basis;  • Assisted with required data analysis, interpretation, correction and document presentation for various assignments;  • Assisted the QA team in designing the Test Plan and Test Cases for User Acceptance testing;  • Handled regular deployment issues across Dev, Test and Prod environments;  • Implemented and support software installation packaging and distribution;  • Deployed UNIX packages to test servers;  • Scheduled production deployments;  • Participated in troubleshoot of development and production failed packages and communicating offline end-points to appropriate support teams and developers;  • Added features and fixed defects to all project layers.  Environment: XSLT, XML/XSD/XPath, HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL. Sr. Front- End Developer Aon Hewitt - Reston, VA January 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:-  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework,  • Designed and Developed persistence layer with Hibernate, jQuery.  • Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  • Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented JSF framework in the application which is based on MVC design architecture.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, Javascript, ExtJs.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) to implement user friendly and efficient client interfaces (frontend).  • Used DOJO to create interactive user interface.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience,  • Designed Front- end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed the web user interfaces for all the above use cases using JSP, Struts, HTML5, jQuery, XML and Ajax.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework and control set.  • Design software applications using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, XML.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Worked on DB2 data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Developed the CRUD API for the POS Engine using Restful Webservices.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using TOAD.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Test the API responses for the WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate the GreenBox response data and MongoDB data.  • Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF  • Developed Web service components using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, JAX-RPC with java.  • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information  • Extensively used Eclipse as the IDE tool for creating the code.  • Deployed the application under WebSphere application server and involved in resolving deployment issues.  • Design and implementation of web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, Swing, GWT, JPA frameworks; and GIT maven source code environments.  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Agile and scrum process is used for tracking and developing the application.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Extensively worked with Servlets and Struts based multi tier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Hooked up the JSP plugins with spring bind and JSTL tags in the HTML pages.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in WebSphere server  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowageiText and jasper report.  • Involved in publishing the web content in the portal site by using the Oracle ECM  • Created the dynamic application prototype and implemented application UI utilizing Google Web Toolkit (GWT).  • Used JIRA and Green Hopper for tracking and assigning issues  • Integrated Jasper Report with Struts web based application.  • Worked on Securing WebSphere Portal with LDAP and DB2, WebSphere with LDAP.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Designed and implemented Rules infrastructure by wrapping up core JRules API.  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  • Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Application Servers, Services Bus, Server Domains.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Apache Tomcat Server was used to deploy the application.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Built a website using Amazon Web Services(AWS) with PHP, MySQL    Environment: Java. J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.Js, SenchaExtjs, Javascript, CSS, Ajax, Html5, DB2, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Mongo DB, Coherence, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Git, Github, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Full Stack Developer Amazon.com - New York, NY September 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:-  • Successfully built websites from scratch using Wireframes, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery mobile and some Java to enhance user satisfaction and retention.  • Developing various design patterns and other functionalities include diagnostic, debugging, troubleshooting, as well as business processes concentrated around E-Commerce applications.  • Developed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Wrote extensive HTML/ HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Responsible for developing web pages quickly and effectively using Dot CMS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Object Oriented jQuery , angular.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using native JS and jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on web pages.  • Experienced with single page architecture and coding.  • Experienced with directives, controllers, filters and services in Angular js.  • Involved in Wireframe creation and converted the wireframes into HTML and CSS based prototypes.  • Used OpenLayer 3.0 to render GeoSpatial Geographical views, which will be used to analyze Data. Extensively used D3 JS for visualizing bar chart (horizontal, vertical), nvd3 for single axis and multi axis line chart, Dimple JS for bubble chart, ng-tables.  • Developed responsive design with Media Queries and achieved responsiveness on different screen sizes, tablet and mobile.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using SOAP and WSDL.  • Coded JS for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model. Integrated canvas api to integrate style guides in all the views.  • Worked in full stack environment, familiar with Artifactory, Jenkins.  • Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Implemented single page apps by using angular views and routes to take the user to various views.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Using JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions.  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for this project.  • Used Karma to run the unit tests in a web browser.  • Performed Unit Testing and wrote unit tests using Karma-Jasmine Javascript testing Framework.  • Experience working with Twitter Bootstrap 2.2.3/3 Framework.  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SVN, Eclipse, Jenkins, Bootstrap, Angular Js, JSON, Agile, Jira, Karma, SOAP, Oracle, JSP. Software Developer Intel Corporation September 2007 to August 2008 Responsibilities:-  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, AngularJS, XML, CSS3, JSP and AJAX making use of Bootstrap framework.  • Expertize in using Bootstrap and was responsible for porting a big portion of the application, using SASS/LESS to manage CSS consistency and reuse. Used custom LESS files at module and page level while also maintaining general styles for the whole site.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end/user interface features in the application.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  • Implemented REST messages for communication between web service client and service provider. Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL, UDDI, XML and JAXP. Used GIT Subversion to implement version control System.  • Integrated the Java code (APIs) in JSP Pages.  • Experienced in implementation of SPA frameworks like AngularJS and testing the frameworks like Jasmine and karma test runner.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used Spring framework as middle tier component and integrated with Hibernate for back- end development.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, AngularJS.  • Used TestNG for backend test cases and Jasmine for AngularJS test cases.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Responsive Design, MVC, Grunt, Bower, Agile methodology. Education MS Virginia International University Additional Information Core Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, JavaScript    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, JSON, REST, CMS  Coding Editors: Eclipse, Sublime, Komodo, WebStorm, Notepad++  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, UML, Design Patterns  Web/ Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss  Build Tools: Apache Ant, Maven  Version Controls: SVN, GIT