Web Developer - Consultant Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Consultant Web Developer - Consultant - Webpro Guyton, GA Work Experience Web Developer - Consultant Webpro - Savannah, GA April 2014 to Present Consulting for Webpro.  Developing and maintaining existing websites on multiple Platforms. Including Windows IIS and Linux Apache Web Servers. Programming in C#.net on IIS Servers and PHP for Apache Servers.  Using CSS3 and HTML5 to build/update responsive websites.    Accomplishments  ? Developed and launched a unique in house Admin system in PHP for client websites.  ? Organized existing development team into a more productive unit.  ? Updates several existing client websites from static to dynamic websites. PHP/ Front End Developer TK Processing - Savannah, GA 2012 to March 2014 Develop and maintain websites using an in house MVC framework and various CMS systems such as, WordPress, Drupal, and Joomla.    Accomplishments  ? Developed and launched over 50 niche sites for TitleMax  ? Solely developed a Lead Reporting tool for TitleMax in which takes exported data from Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Leads360 parses them all and compares the data. The front end included filtering using JSON and AJAX calls through JQuery. The product was over 8k lines of PHP and 2k lines of JavaScript. PHP/ Front End Developer eMarketSouth - Savannah, GA 2009 to 2012 Developed and maintained websites using the Expression Engine CMS system. With my heavy knowledge of Codeigniter (the MVC Expression Engine was built on), it made me a valuable member of the team.    Accomplishments  ? Developed the backend of keytosavannah.com  ? Programmed Paula Dean's Recipe Gallery on her website in pure JavaScript in which fed off data from a XML file. PHP/ Front End Developer Trader Publishing Co - Virginia Beach, VA 2004 to 2009 Developed and maintained three exclusive websites within the company. These sites include: jobalot.com, employmentguide.com and autotrader.com.    Accomplishments  ? Successfully launched jobalot.com 3 months before required launch date from client. Received Certificate of Appreciation.  ? Developed an extensive Boolean search engine for jobalot.com and employmentguide.com that resembles closely to googles search engine. This was done by a two-man team including myself.  ? Created a updated version of the companies already existing in house MVC framework that is still used to this day. Developer/Owner TitanWebStudios Inc - Miami, FL 2000 to 2002 Created a company that wrote PHP Gaming Ladder scripts for various PHP CMS systems. All scripts sold were encrypted using Ioncube.    Accomplishments  ? Developed a unique ladder system for most PHP CMS systems that allowed gamers to run their own competition websites for their games of choice.  ? Still in high school I could comfortably save what I made with this business for further Education.  ? Sold the scripts for an undisclosed amount. Education Associates Savannah Technical Institute 2002 to 2004 Diploma in Networking Specialists South Effingham High School 1998 to 2002 Skills PHP (10+ years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (10+ years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (10+ years), MVC (10+ years), CMS (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS  ? Web application programming for over 14 years including PHP, ASP.NET, C#, VB, ColdFusion,  HTML, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, YML, UML, CSS and more.  ? 10+ years using MVC frameworks and building in house frameworks. Codeigniter, Yii, Symfony, Zend, CakePHP, and others.  ? 10+ years using the JQuery library for JavaScript  ? Developed and maintained several ERD's  ? Experience with MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, and others.  ? Familiar with all PHP CMS Systems including WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, Mambo, etc.  ? 6+ years in a Linux environment including shell, terminal, and other OS tools and utilities  ? Software IDE experience includes:  ? Zend Developer  ? PHPStorm  ? Dreamweaver  ? Aptana  ? Eclipse  ? Visual Studio  ? and many others