Development Consultant Development Consultant Development Consultant Chicago, IL Work Experience Development Consultant Self Employed December 2017 to Present Technology: Javascript, CSS, PHP, Cinema 4D, Custom CMS, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator    ? Design, mock up, prototype, branded, developed and delivered several small business  web sites, from cryptocurrency to a therapist office. Provide support throughout the life  cycle of sites from development to deployment  ? Create 3D models to scaled dimension for fabricating custom designs for production environments    Capital One Chicago, IL Senior Front End Developer AngularJS October 2015 to June 2017 Technology: Javascript ES5 and ES6, CSS3, Sass, HTML5, AngularJS, React    ? Worked on a dynamic stateless Angular application for customers to apply for credit cards through Capital One partners.    ? Implemented a peer review process, coding best practices and standards for front end  developers, lead weekly front end developer SCRUMS, implemented a Trunk gitflow that  enabled a CICD pipeline.    ? Used gulp and node to customize a front end build process, including running unit tests,  compiling Sass, minimizing the javascript files, created git hooks to pull in external repos at build time.  Cars.com Chicago, IL Lead Front End Developer AngularJS October 2014 to July 2015 Technology: Javascript, JQuery, CSS3, AngularJS, Backbone.js, CanJS, JSP, IBM  WebSphere & WebCenter, Mustache    ? Modify, update and maintain the existing legacy pages of cars.com in CanJS, Backbone as well as the JSP backend code    ? Writing sustainable code, implementing unit testing, delivered valued products on an Agile  2 week release schedule    ? Created new cars.com homepage in AngularJS Lead Front End Developer Shiftgig.com - Chicago, IL January 2014 to August 2014 Technology: Javascript, JQuery, CSS3, Backbone.js, Handlebars    ? Lead front end developer at Shiftgig.com, using Backbone.js to create staffing software  interfacing a custom Flask RESTless API backend. The software managed user base, and implemented business logic that allowed recruiters to assign open jobs to a worker pool.  Creative Circle Chicago, IL Lead front end developer Shiftgig.com December 2012 to February 2014 Dates: 12/2012 - 02/2014  Role/Responsibility: Development Consultant    Technology: ASP.NET, C#, MVC, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js,  SQL Server 2008, LAMP, REST, SOAP    ? Lead front end developer at Shiftgig.com, using Backbone.js to create staffing software  interfacing a custom Flask RESTless API backend    ? Front end development for Accenture using jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Backbone.js and  AJAX to create a searchable employee profile system without using SQL    ? Front end development on Sharepoint .NET platform for Regal Cinema homepage    ? Developed on a back and front- end Facebook app development using C# .NET in the MVC  framework for a Capital One contest.    ? Served as lead web designer and developer of an interactive medical career planning tool for the American Osteopathic Association using a CMS in PHP environment.    ? Built an application for Discover Chicago, a contract PDF generating script implementing  SQL, LAMP, and other APIs in .NET    ? Created JQuery components, video conversion and compression, and browser  compatibility troubleshooting through for a U.S. Cellular microsite.    Urban Transportation Center at UIC Chicago, IL Senior Web Developer August 2011 to November 2012 Technology: ASP.NET, VB.NET, MVC, XML, HTML, CSS,  Visual Studio 2010, T-SQL, SQL 2008.    ? Assisted in the design and development of an interactive web-based information  management system for the Urban Transportation Center at UIC to collect and deliver  information on transportation providers and funding programs in support of support human  service transportation planning in Illinois funded by the Illinois Department of  Transportation.  Voorhees Research Center at UIC Chicago, IL Senior Web Developer February 2010 to August 2012 Technology: ASP.NET, VB.NET, MVC, XML, HTML, CSS,  Visual Studio 2010, T-SQL, SQL 2008.    ? Designed and developed the web site for the United States Office of Economic Adjustment with the  University of Illinois at Chicago Voorhees Research Center. Web site features include  interactive downloadable dynamic data tables and maps of economic and housing data for the entire country.    ? Installed and set up the file server and map server that the web site runs on.    ? Created a sustainable system by which the web site can be modified and updated in the future. Web Developer UIC Nursing School - Chicago, IL August 2008 to February 2010 Role/Responsibility:  ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#,  Technology: HTML, CSS, Visual  Studio 2003, SQL Server    ? Designed and developed an online software application for clinical application. The online  application utilizes a diverse range of internet based technologies and languages to aid in the assessment and rehabilitation of children with chronic pain diseases.    ? The results of the online assessment would be stored in a database and used to measure the effectiveness of rehabilitation treatment.  UIC Low Vision Research Lab Chicago, IL Network Specialist August 2005 to August 2008 Role/Responsibility: Developer  Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript    ? As a Network Specialist, constructed a Reading Rehabilitation program comprised of 13  individual programs designed to aid and train low vision patients to read with eccentric  vision.    ? Designed programs to test visual acuity as well as interpret, organize, and statistically  analyze data.    ? Networked eye tracking hardware to a computer running experimental stimuli to synchronize eye tracking data points to stimulus events.    ? Created innovative ways to present eye tracking data by visually representing a subject's  eye movements during experimental sessions.    ? Develop the Lab's website:  o http://www.uic.edu/com/eye/Research/Labs/lowvision/LowVisionLab.shtml Education Bachelor of Sciences in Cognitive Science The University of Georgia University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL