Freelance Creative Technologist Freelance Creative Technologist Freelance Creative Technologist Chicago, IL Work Experience Freelance Creative Technologist Motorola UX & Design - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2016 Develop and deploy A/B user research tests for Motorola.com CXDR and Publishing departments; in Optimizely using jQuery, Pure Javascript and custom CSS. Tests ranged between multi-page and multivariate combinations to single-page apps to tests centered around specific components of the site. Front- End Technologist Razorfish 2000 to 2014 Developed large-scale applications, corporate websites, intranets, brand and marketing activation sites, social microsites (Facebook) for fortune 500 financial institutions, CPG, media, and marketing industries. Clients included, but not limited to: Aetna Insurance, AMWAY, AT&T, Bosch, The Coca-Cola Company, Crain’s Chicago Business, Discover Card, FedEx, JCPenney, Kraft Foods, Nabisco, National City, Samsung, State Farm, and SmartCar.     Client: Caterpillar Worldwide    Goals:   ? Determine which fonts work best for which Asian-Pacific markets.   ? Build a global language sector page highlighting their global presence.   ? Expand client’s presence with Asian-Pacific.    Technology:   ? GRUNT, foundation, bootstrap.  ? Targeted CSS definitions for the various regions.   ? @media queries used to target breakpoints between devices.    Role: Senior Front- End Technologist. Working with the Creative Director and QA (Quality Assurance) Team to test the suggested fonts across all mobile and desktop devices for the various countries.     Client: Kellog’s Special K    Goals:   ? This fully responsive platform was designed and developed specifically for Kellogg’s Special K® global branding teams to manage products, promotions, programs and content advertised across individual international markets.   ? The goal of this project was to synchronize the classic cereal brand’s identity world-wide while allowing each market the flexibility to display or disable content as needed and in their own language. As of today Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Greece, Guatemala, India, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States have successfully transitioned to the new platform.    Role: Front- End Technologist. Maintaining the United State and both the English and French versions of the Canada site.     Technology:   ? GRUNT, and LESS for code development.  ? Responsive/Mobile First approach to the CSS stylesheets.   ? Three CSS stylesheets (mobile | tablet | desktop) that all built upon the previous.   ? Cross browser and device testing.    Client: Glasses.com    Goals:   ? Migrated client’s current e-commerce site from current platform to Demandware.   ? Simply client’s marketing managers and engagement teams ability to make changes to their site.    Technology:   ? Demandware  ? Eclipse IDE  ? Version Control  ? Git    Role: Front- End Developer. Worked alongside Back- End Developer, Senior technical Architect and off-shore developers to build out templates.    Client: Kellog’s Special K    Goals: Taking cues from successful Special K programs around the world, Razorfish helped create a shared platform suiting multiple markets and demands. This platform enables the brand to provide best-in-class tools as well as a cost effective implementation for every market helping women everywhere achieve and maintain a healthy weight. For her, choosing a plan is quick and easy and the plans are fully customizable. These plans allow her a completely unique experience in which she can track her progress and access a day-by-day view of personalized meal and exercise plans based on her diet and level of activity. My Special K was specifically designed as a global solution to help promote a strong relationship between the brand and its consumer while giving women guidance to succeed at a healthy lifestyle.    Technology:  ? GRUNT and LESS for code development.  ? Responsive/Mobile First approach to the CSS stylesheets.   ? Three CSS stylesheets (mobile | tablet | desktop) that all built upon the previous.   ? Cross browser and mobile device testing.    Role: Lead Front- End Technologist. Worked with Technical Architect, Creative Director and Project Manager to update the site templates for various sections of the site. Prepared templates to be migrated from .NET into CQ. Front End Developer Freelance - Chicago, IL PERSONAL PROJECTS  In my spare time have been spending it getting a strong understanding of Ruby on Rails, Modular Javascript, Node.js, React, Flux, Redux and most recently Angular2. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design and Photography The School of the Art Institute of Chicago 1996 to 2000 Drawing and Design Michigan State University 1994 to 1995 Psychology, Music University of Michigan 1985 to 1990 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (6 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Git (10+ years), SVN (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Website Design (10+ years), Sharepoint (8 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nayrjm https://github.com/mjryan/ClientWork