Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - JPMorgan Chase & Co New York, NY Overall experience of 6 years in Software development life cycle SDLC in developing and designing user experience of internet/intranet applications using HTML5 HTML XHTML XML CSS CSS3 JavaScript AngularJS Ionic JQuery meeting W3C standards  • Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC and, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, DHTML, AngularJS and React JS.  • Developed, Configured and Deployed different Portals and UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, React JS, Ionic and JQuery.  • Solid experience of style sheet language CSS3, CSS framework Bootstrap and Angular Material Design.  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles using media queries and libraries like bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing web-applications using various design patterns, including session facade, MVC, Data Access Object, Transfer Object, and Business Delegate.  • Experience using AngularJS and Angular-UI.  • Used AngularJS and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML 5 and REACT JS  • Profound Knowledge in developing HTML pages using DIV layout, Web Accessibility and Web Usability.  • Highly proficient in formulating and refining product requirements.  • Experience inversion control using GIT.  • Experience in package manager of NPM and bower for projects and set grunt tasks under Node.js environment.  • Familiar with knowledge of database and MySQL.  • Experience in multiple IDEs and Text Editors like Eclipse, Sublime, Notepad++ and NetBeans.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personas, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting.  • Excellent written, verbal and personal communication skills.  • Strong drives to learn and apply new technologies in real-world situations. Work Experience Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co - New York, NY December 2014 to Present JPMorgan Chase & Co. is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company. It is the largest bank in the United States, The project involved creating a hybrid express kiosk banking web and tablet application that provides customers to access the banking kiosk machines for money deposit, cheque deposit and for accessing various transactions with Quotes, Account Management capabilities and helps the customer to track/submit a transaction online.    • Work collaboratively with the development team to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Developed applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React JS, JavaScript, AngularJS, and Ionic framework.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop and tablets using Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and AngularJS).  • Angularized the HTML delivered by the HTML team and integrated it with the backend services  • Responsible to fix any kind of bugs in CSS and HTML in order to meet the exact functionality requirement.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Implemented API calls using Long-polling to a REST server  • Written many reusable directives, for project purpose  • Developed graphs to display the ATM money status using D3 JavaScript library.  • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and Ionic to make the pages dynamic.  • Used Bootstrap, angular.js, React JS for developing modules on front- end.  • Implemented RWD in the application to make it compatible for tablets and Desktop of different screen sizes.  • Used NPM and Bower for dependency management.  • Used Jenkins to automate the build process from JIRA  • Managed the version control for the deliverables by streamlining and re-basing the development streams of the SVN and GIT.  • Tracking & updating project development status and issues in JIRA.  • Implementing the client side functionality as per requirements.  • Optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug, Chrome Dev tools, Fiddler, Android debug bridge (ADB).  • Used Jasmine to write behavioral tests.  • Co-ordinated with QA for testing, production releases, Application deployment and integration.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Js, Angular Js, React JS, Node JS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, SVN, JSP, Ionic JS, D3 JS, Grunt, Bower, GIT, Adobe Photoshop, REST, SOAP and Eclipse. Front End Developer Mercury Insurance - Oklahoma City, OK February 2013 to November 2014 Mercury Insurance has been one of the fastest growing automobile insurers in the nation. It is ranked as the third largest private passenger automobile insurer in California. The project involved creating web application that provides Insurance Quotes, Account Management capabilities and helps the customer to track/submit a claim online. Heavily involved in developing the UI for Quotes and Claims Module.  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap, angular.js, node.js for developing modules on front- end.  • Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, and CSS3.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Responsible to fix any kind of bugs in CSS and HTML inorder to meet the exact functionality requirement  • Worked on SPA using UI-Router.  • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and Jquery to make the pages dynamic  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using Angulat ($http, $resource)  • Optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Worked on Twitter Bootstrap JS, to create Responsive Web Design.  • Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Js, Angular Js, Node JS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, SVN, JSP, and Adobe Photoshop, REST, SOAP, Eclipse. Graduate Assistant/Web Developer West Virginia University - Morgantown, WV January 2011 to December 2012 Description: Worked in the office of information Technology for building the WVU student portal application. Worked actively in re-skinning the existing student portal using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery..  Responsibilities:  • Part of the team which transformed the UI look and feel of the Student portal.  • Involved in all phase's of Portal development.  • Actively worked on re-skinning the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Worked on resolving the cross-Browser compatible issue, Specific IE issues. Made extensive use of Browser developer tools.  • Worked on re-usable components style guide development, these components are accessibility compliant and color contrast analyzed. Made use of Jaws tools.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JAWS. UI Developer Persistent System Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra August 2006 to October 2010 Description: Persistent is a global company specializing in software product development and technology services. Developed and designed user interface for an internal application for a local bank where the Managers are able to monitor customer accounts, approve loans, and in cases pass information to debts recovery team.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Office. Skills UI Developer (7 years), Angularjs (7 years), Web Developer (7 years), JSP (7 years), CSS3 (7 years), JQuery (7 years), Bootstrap (7 years), Reactjs (7 years), HTML 5 (7 years), Nodejs (7 years), Apache Tomcat (7 years), Java Script (7 years), PL/SQL (7 years), REST (7 years), Eclipse (7 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows XP/7, UNIX  Java Technologies Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSTL, JSP  Web Languages/Tools  HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, OOPs concepts of JavaScript, JSP tag library, AJAX, Angular JS, Ionic JS, Bootstrap JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Node JS    IDE Web Storm, Notepad++, Sublime  Databases Oracle 9/10g, My-SQL, PL/SQL, SQL  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 5/6/7, JBoss  Version Control Git