Front end Vue.js Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> Vue.js <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Vue.js Developer - CenturyLink San Jose, CA • Around 9+ Years of progressive experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis, applications design, development, Integration, maintenance and testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Worked with User Interface applications and highly transactional and scalable applications using HTML 4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS, JSON and BackboneJS.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section.  • Experience in User Experience (UX) design and development, User Interactive (UI) Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces using HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Vue.js, Angular.js, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Node.js and React.js.  • Excellent knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Experience in writing AngularJS code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using AngularJS.  • Designed front- end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules. Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  • Experience in NodeJS modules like grunt, bower, express, mongoose and integrate with design and requirements to implement modules.  • Extensive experience in developing single-page applications using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using web design tools like Bootstrap. Overcame challenges like data migration from NoSQL or MongoDB.  • Implemented test driven development using Testing tools like Grunt/Gulp.  • Used WebStorm for client-side and server-side development with NodeJS.  • Used GIT, SVN for Version controlling, error reporting and project management tools JIRA.  • Worked on Unit test by Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application with Angular 4&5 and JavaScript.  • Used Jasmine as testing framework and Karma as test runner to perform unit testing and it is written entirely in Typescript and meets the ES6 specification.  • Experience in complete software SDLC which includes requirement, coding, design, analysis, testing, using Agile, Test Driven methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end Vue.js Developer CenturyLink - Dallas, TX November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with VUE JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Components, directives, controllers and HTTP Request  • Experience in Vue.JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication  • Manipulated DOM, handled events and applied animation effects with Vue.js.  • Built single page application using Vue.js components.  • Solved data issue using DOM update cycle with Vue.js.  • Resolved form validation with Vue Validate.  • Automatically updated table data with Vue data binding.  • Used GIT for version control, JIRA for bug tracking and Confluence for project management  • Created custom directives for re-usable components.  • Used Photoshop for creating wire frames.  • Developed Single page applications (SPAs) using AngularJS.  • Developed page animations using CSS, jQuery and AngularJS.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Vue.JS, Agile, Jira, Vuetify.JS, Nuxt.JS, Angular4, Quasar, Node.JS, Mongo. DB, GIT, Web Storm. UI Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX August 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux SAGA, AJAX and JSON.  • Built client side with web development techniques including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery mobile upon cross platform mobile development.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Used jQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Used Dynamic HTML for Web documents to look and act like desktop applications or multimedia productions.  • Extensively worked on applications using JSON, XML Objects with MySQL. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Used ReactJS to abstracts away from the DOM function, giving a simpler programming model and better performance.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Created reusable components with well-defined interfaces by using ReactJS.  • Worked with ReactJS keys, while dynamically created components on lists which are altered by the users and set the key value to keep your components uniquely, identified after the change.  • Used test cases like Jasmine, Karma, Enzyme to provide and setup teardown code for before each function and after each function specifications.  • Worked with BA's to discuss technical requirements based upon business requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, SASS, REST, SVN, GIT, Gulp, DOM, ReactJS, Redux Saga, XML, Sublime, Bitbucket, WebStorm, ES6, jQuery, Webpack, GIT, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Jasmine, Grunt, Agile & SCRUM. UI Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA December 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developing the front end using JS framework front- end web technologies including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and templating engines.  • Working in Photoshop design comps developing HTML/JS/CSS based web sites, including testing and debugging cross-browser.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server  • Developed a completely new Greenfield web app for a high-profile project Using Angular2.0, D3 JS and Web pack, Angular CLI.  • Created/Modified Angular 2 components, by using Typescript we create the bigger projects and converts to JS files to modify or creating new JS  • Using web scripting languages like NodeJS and Yarn for interaction between client side and server-side technologies.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4like new if else syntax, ng-templates, and form validators.  • Used Rest-Client and Rest-Template proxy setting for connection outside AMEX systems  • Followed SCRUM Agile methodology that includes iterative application development, weekly sprints, daily stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.    Environment: Dust JS, Angular 2,4, Node JS, D3 JS, Typescript JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Agile, Responsive web design, Gulp, Bower, NPM and Web Services Web Developer Choices Counseling Services - Valparaiso, IN January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Created package.json for Bower and NPM and extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Developed and performed test cases using jasmine and Karma in the unit test, and used protractor and Http-server for the End2End testing  • Extensive experience using Bootstrap for layout and involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Developed server-side JavaScript using NodeJS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Linux/Unix, JavaScript, jasmine and Karma, jQuery, AJAX JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Responsive design, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, NPM. UI Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX February 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and using JavaScript frameworks such as Ext JS, Angular 2 and bootstrap.js.  • Designed the Front- end applications, And Mobile Application As well for user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Es6 JavaScript, React JS and React-Native/Redux Saga.  • Developed React JS pages, and Mobile Application Using React-Native Using Expo and Android Studio Web services calls, AJAX calls for the application.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Worked on Front end by using React.js For Web Application and React-Native for Mobile with Redux.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Worked with React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front- end application using React JS and REDUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Redux architecture for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Bespoke and Node.JS frameworks and environments structures for deployment to development, staging, and production servers.  • Instructed/orchestrated Node.JS/Socket.IO project in relation to real-time data parsing.  • Constructed restful API's in collaboration with backend Node.JS server and SQL database.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and for element styling.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance.  • Experience in working with Adobe Experience Manager (AEM 6.3), WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite used for rendering the Content on the pages.  • Involved in writing the Front- end Code for the application using ReactJs, also in prospective of the AEM (Content Management System).  • Created different Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, Workflows and Layouts in the AEM Site Admin to obtain the exact look of the Front- End Screens.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Responsive design, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Frond End Developer AETNA - Hartford, CT June 2008 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on HTML, CSS, and basic JavaScript to develop web pages.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, Custom Tags, Struts-Html tag library, and Apache Tiles. Designed and development of web pages using PHP, HTML, and CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated using JavaScript.  • Worked in each step of the SDLC.  • Worked on cross-browser compatibility issues and integration.  • Developed CSS templates.  • Used SQL Server to get the data.  • Modified designs and templates for better user interaction and understanding.  • Communicated and worked in testing which involved cross browser testing, loading, and performance checking.  • Designed training materials utilizing UX design principles and provided training using Photoshop, CS4, and Flash.  • Enhanced website by creating presenting new static models pages.  • Presented to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users.  • Created graphics including icons, images, and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and added modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Setup Community Server Social Network member and SharePoint sites.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JSON (8 years), CSS (9 years), jQuery (9 years), Front End, Angular, UI, Front-End, React Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies-HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, D3 JS, Angular JS/2.0, Vue.js, Backbone JS. Typescript, Node JS  Methodologies-Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Application/Web server-Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere(8.0), J Boss  IDE's-Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Web Storm, Note pad ++  Version Controls-SVN, Visual SourceSafe(VSS), GIT, Tortoise GIT  Data Base-MongoDB, MYSQL  Tools & Utilities -ICM, DDCT, Jenkins, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, NPM