Sr. Web Developer Sr. Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer Rancho Santa Margarita, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer EXPERIAN - Costa Mesa, CA 2007 to 2017 • Served as a technical lead and team lead in multiple projects including overseeing the development across multiple teams, as well as acting reference point of the web development team.  • Helped build web applications allowing consumers to purchase a variety of Experian's products and services.  • Turned requirements such as wireframes, prototypes and interactive user interfaces into fully functional and highly performing web components.  • Collaborated with Business, UX, QA and back end teams to deliver superior functionalities.  • Integrated RESTful web services utilizing JSON from multi-tiered web applications.  • Optimized existing code with engineering best practices.  • Participated in the full SDLC/Agile cycle engagements, including meetings, iterative development, estimations and design sessions  • Assisted in the integration and development of the back end code using C# and SQL Web Developer, Front- End Developer Tix.com - Long Beach, CA March 2007 to June 2007 Integrate custom online ticketing program into each new customer web-site  • Create custom reports using ASP.net and SQL Web Developer Webxtar.com - Bellflower, CA 1999 to 2007 • Designed online shopping carts and user interaction with websites using JavaScript.  • Developed websites from the ground up using HTML, and CSS for cross browser functionality Education B.S. in Computer Science Texas A&M University 2006 A.A. in Programming Cerritos College 2003 Skills JavaScript (9 years), HTML5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), ASP (2 years), SQL (1 year), AngularJS (2 years), MVC (3 years), NodeJS (1 year), gulp (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (3 years), knockoutJS (1 year) Additional Information Accomplished Web Developer with over 15 years of experience contributing to complex programming projects in diverse consumer based systems. Proven track record for designing creative, dynamic web solutions and achieving high quality standards. Offer a solid understanding of responsive design, web standards and UI/UX best practices. Established record of cross browser development on a large scale public facing application    TECHNOLOGY PROFILE    JavaScript HTML5 CSS3 C++ ASP SQL Programming AngularJS MVC  NodeJS gulp TypeScript DOM Less jQuery Bootstrap Mobile Web knockoutJS  Adobe Illustrator Adobe Photoshop Flash Jasmine DreamWeaver MySQL  Mac and PC Systems Agile/Scrum