Sr. Front End UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End UI Developer - Revlon Research Center Edison, NJ • Over 10 years of extensive experience as a Front End UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle SDLC as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Expert in developing User Interface UI applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, XUL, HTML5 /DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, CSS3, Ajax and JSON.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface YUI Framework, Dojo, JQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries like angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Ext.js, and Node.js and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Ext.js, Responsive design.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Espresso, Komodo,Text Mate, Sublime Text2 ,AptanaStudio,and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Experience in creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating back- end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front- end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption. JAX-RS and JAX-WS  • Experience with Performance tuning tools like IE8 JS Profiler, Fiddler and Debugging tools like ULS viewer.  • Experience in database design and writing complex queries, using Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Knowledge in HTML5/CSS3, SASS/SCSS, LESS, YAML.  • Experience with versioning tools like Clear case, Subversion and CVS.  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie. Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact wit  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Experienced in monitoring the Production Environments under 24/7 under on-call rotation to meet the Service Level Agreements set by the management.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Work Experience Sr. Front End UI Developer Revlon Research Center August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used 'TestNG' for backend test cases and 'Jasmine' for AngularJS test cases.  • Using Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Writing front- end code like HTML, CSS, JQuery for assigned User requirements using BackboneJS, AngularJS , RequireJS and various other JavaScript frameworks.  • Code enhancement and bug fixes.  • Created wireframes, storyboards, user flows, and documentation and site maps to effectively communicate design ideas. Uses multiple UI UX tools and software to complete tasks  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular js directives.  • Developed controllers, view/partials and directives for application.  • Used Jquery, JQlite and JavaScript for DOM manipulations.  • Widely resolved angular scope issues.  • Developed Angular factories, and used angular promise api for making async calls.  • Used angular Ui-bootstrap and CSS 3.  • Used karma-test-runner and Jasmine for JavaScript Unit testing.  • Worked on development of Java Web Services.  • Using Eclipse Juno, Adobe Bracket, SVN, Angular debugger and ng-inspector tools.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, SQL/PLSQL, ATG, Web Services, WebLogic 10.x, Oracle 11g, HTML, LESS, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbones.JS, Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma-test-runner, AdobeBracket, XML, SVN, Windows 7, Photoshop, IE, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, PL/ SQL, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Sr. Front End UI Developer New York State Department Of Health - Albany, NY September 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX and MySQL.  • Expert Knowledge of Javascript. Aware of but not reliant on Object Oriented Javascript frameworks Prototype JS, MooTools, Dojo, jQuery etc.  • Experience with unit testing frameworks e.g Jasmine Protractor Proficient in OOD and Implementation Design Patterns Proficient in Bootstrap or Foundation works.  • Designed Frontend with an object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js and Ext.js.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and Node.js.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 JavaScript using Dreamweaver.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts table less layout  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application RIA to make it look more intuitive.  • Created CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS3 Border, CSS3 Background, CSS3 Transitions.  • Developed Presentation tier as HTML, Java Server Pages using Struts MVC Framework implementing Struts validator, Tiles and Struts Internationalization  • Used JSON for data interchange, as it's faster and can be parsed using JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with JavaScript cookies.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Setting up Angular JS framework for development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Used SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Object-oriented JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MVC, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, XML, JSON, DOM, SOAP, RDBMS, Struts Mvc, Windows. Sr. Front End /UI Developer AllState Insurance Corporation - Chicago, IL November 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Added HTML5 charts including bar chart, line chart and multiple series chart for comprehensive data visualization  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, Angular.JS, Ext.js, Couch DB, and Socket Stream.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js and Require.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Created and tested scripts using JQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE, etc  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Performed layout of web pages using HTML 4/5 , CSS 2/3 , JavaScript libraries , SASS/SCSS Compass  • Created XML files according XSD schema and used XSL, HTML5 and CSS3 for XML rendering. Developed Web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery. Owned the design, development and maintenance of ongoing metrics, reports, analyses, dashboards, etc., to drive key business decisions and communicate key concepts to readers.  • Used data visualization Library named JQuery Visualize Plugin for charting using HTML5 canvas.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Used detailed wireframes and developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox Firebug and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Validated all the HTML/XHTML and CSS code according to W3C and made it complaint.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SAAS, Data visualization JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, MVC, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ext.js, XML, JSON, DOM, Firebug, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Front End UI Developer The Hartford - Hartford, CT April 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application both consumer facing as well as internal application  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Experience in other programming languages such as JSP, Ruby on Rails or .Net.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN.Q, QC. Web Developer T-Mobile - Phoenix, AZ October 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Extensively used JQuery plug-ins, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service.  • Wrote extensive HTML, CSS and JavaScript code to build dynamic pages using Eclipse.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Implemented XML parsing code for different application.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MYSQL.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  Environment: Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, SOAP, Shell, XML, CSS3, Junit, IDE - Eclipse, Source Control SVN, SQL, MYSQL, UNIX. UI Developer Cyient - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2006 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Integrated the Java code API in JSP Pages.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, PHP, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Office. Education Bachelors in Computer Science JNTU Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), XML (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery.PHP  Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional, Eclipse.photoshop,Balsamiq, Gimp 2 Photoshop  Version Control Perforce, CVS,SVN,Clear Case  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Angular js, Node.js, backbone.js, Require.js,  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office.  Wire Frame Tools Adobe Illustrator CS3.  Data Base Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  Operating Systems Windows, Linux.