Lead Technical Architect Lead Technical Architect Lead Technical Architect Reno, NV I am a front end developer passionate about the mobile web. I've create frameworks for mobile web and  hybrid development used by other developers. I'm interested in using my skills to create amazing  experiences for users on desktop and mobile.    Websites: http://chocolatechip-ui.github.io  Blog: http://wobbabits.tumblr.com  Github: https://github.com/rbiggs Work Experience Lead Technical Architect July Systems - Burlingame, CA April 2016 to October 2016 Prototyped the front end for a developer platform for creating WiFi access portals for retail locations (malls,  airports, stadiums, etc.)    • Created visual grid system to enable people without layout experience to take advantage of modern CSS  grid spec with polyfill for older browsers.    • Created ability to edit properties of modules, change layouts based on device targets and orientation,  create new layouts, etc.    • Created editor for modifying html, css, javascript and exposed properties of modules. This same interface  provides developers with a comfortable environment for creating new modules, complete with code  completion, intellisense and linting. Product Manager Sourcebits Inc - San Francisco, CA December 2012 to November 2015 As product director, I maintained, developed and promoted the ChocolateChip-UI, an open source  framework for creating mobile Web apps that look and feel like native apps on iOS 7, Android 4.x and  Windows Phone 8. Senior Front End Developer Sourcebits Inc - San Francisco, CA May 2012 to December 2012 2015  Worked on projects for various clients such as:  • Fantasy Football - A desktop and mobile web app. Built with Angular and Code Ignitor.    • India Online - A music and video site in India. Built with Angular and Rails.  • Alloy - An internal Intel iPad web app to manage Intel's cloud services Senior Front End Developer Traction - San Francisco, CA April 2011 to March 2012 I was contracted to build the desktop and iPad front end for Apple's One to One consumer product. This  required quite a few special innovations to create the user experience Apple demanded. I also implemented  accessibility for the visual impaired. Lead UI Architect Isomorphic Software - San Francisco, CA September 2010 to February 2011 I created mobile versions of GWT widgets to mimic native iOS components using standard web  technologies. Senior Creative Developer Vertigo Software - Richmond, CA March 2005 to August 2010 I worked on numerous high-profile projects for our client, Microsoft:    • Build front end for WindowsMarketPlace.com for the launch of Vista    • Built site for corporate clients of Microsoft's Visual Studio Enterprise Edition    • Built sites such as Mix, PDC for Microsoft's conferences.    • Built demo apps for introduction of Microsoft hardware products, such as the multi-touch Surface Table and Windows Phone 7.    • Created front end and UI for Microsoft Silverlight products for March Madness, Winter Olympics in  Vancouver, Bondi, etc. Front End Developer International Consulting Group Inc - Santa Clara, CA 2003 to 2005 Was contracted to work on projects with Apple Inc in Cupertino. I worked on implementing cross-browser  support for Apple's support site, and built many internal sites, such as AGOS (AppleCare Global Online  Support), and AABA (Apple Authorized Business Agents), etc. Lead Front End Developer Federal Reserve Bank - San Francisco, CA 2001 to 2002 I was hired to help them transition their public website from an old legacy code base to a template-based  system. To do this I created automated conversion workflows with AppleScript, Perl, JavaScript, etc. This  allowed us to cut of several months from the delivery schedule. Web Developer Web MD - Santa Clara, CA 2000 to 2001 Was the main developer involved in converting 12 books from a standard course for training nurses into an online version for WebMD. Additional Information Skills  JavaScript, HTML, CSS, LESS, Gulp, NPM, Node/Express, TypeScript, PHP/Python