Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Seattle, WA Work Experience Web Developer DMI (formerly Pappas Group) - Arlington, VA September 2014 to July 2017 ? Worked on a full-stack javascript, large scale ecommerce site using node-based HapiJS server and handlebars templates with a remote team of developers in an agile, test-driven development process.    ? Built a responsive React/Redux web based quiz app, using static json files for initial data and localStorage to save the results.  ? Developing wordpress sites with reusable components and functionality based on wireframes and design comps.  ? Developing email campaigns, implementing through various services (mailchimp / contant contact) and thoroughly testing using litmus.  ? Built out wordpress vagrant environment based on VVV, Yoeman for scaffolding, Grunt for task running, Bower and npm for package management, Bourbon/Neat/Bitters/Refills SCSS framework and custom shell scripts for allowing easy migration between local and dev environments.  ? Built out email framework based on assemble.io for creating responsive emails with concise and managable code by hiding complex email workarounds into simplified helpers and data driven partials.  ? Worked on an interactive tabletop wine tasting experience. Using famous for a front- end coaster experience and slideshow, integrating orion.js CMS (meteor based) and creating templated emails using data collected from the coaster experience. The applications were set up and packaged on the tables using Electron (migrated from the original vagrant setup) and the data was cached on the application to allow for offline use.  ? Researching emerging frameworks and technologies and presenting to the development team for implementing into upcoming and future projects. Creative Developer AKQA January 2011 to September 2014 Provide detailed task estimates on upcoming projects.  ? Serve in a consultant role for a technical perspective on projects with 3rd party technical implementation.  ? Precisely converting a design to code using modern front- end developer tools (grunt, assemble, compass).  ? Integrating front- end code into template driven CMS systems like drupal and wordpress.  ? Developing web applications based on javascript based MV* tools such as backbone and angular.  ? Creating dynamic and engaging interactions with frameworks such as dojo and jQuery.  ? Working with software engineers to integrate data and backend services to the front- end.  ? Create technical documentation to ramp up incoming developers to the project or for code handoff in cases where a third party will be integrating or hosting.  ? Using git workflows and providing peer code reviews via merge requests.  ? Working in tandem with designers to build and troubleshoot responsive layouts.  ? Coding with accessibility concerns in mind to ensure compatibility with assistive software.  ? Optimizing performance by implementing DRY concepts and modularization, using code minification and image spriting tools.  ? Working with designers to flag design features that may hinder performance & compatibility.  ? Creating and presenting project case studies and talks on new technical trends and ideas. Front- End Developer / Web Designer Kaplan University April 2008 to December 2010 Working with members of the web design team on content changes to the student portal site. Using wireframes to create mock-up designs for various projects.  ? Working alongside back- end programmers on skinning the front end of ASP based sites.  ? Creating and updating style guides.  ? Researching and implementing the Kaplan styles guides within the confines of several third party sites. Senior Front- End Developer Dotmarketing July 2003 to March 2008 Keeping up to date with latest trends in web development, accessibility and usability.  ? Trained new front- end developers on our content managements system, dotCMS.  ? Developed code standards of output html/css for front- end and back- end developers.  ? Assisted project managers with wireframing layouts, information architecture and content plans for projects.  ? Implemented psd templates into html/css and velocity code.  ? Worked extensively with back- end Java programmers on extending dotCMS functionality to meet project requirements.  ? Tested front- end code on various browsers and platforms to ensure a consistent user experience. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design Maryland Institute College of Art Links http://www.sammyhendrick.com