Sr Front- End Lead Developer Sr <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Front- End Lead Developer - Cognizant Technology Solutions Township of Randolph, NJ ? Sr. Front- End Developer with 11+ years of experience with demonstrated success in the design, development and deployment of large-scale Front- End and Java/J2EE enterprise applications.  ? Experience with JavaScript, ES6, React JS, Redux JS, D3js, Babel, Node JS, Lodash, Enzyme, Mocha-chai, Backbone-Marionette JS, Angular JS, Underscore JS, JQuery, Require JS, JSP, JSF, HTML5, Dojo to develop rich and interactive web applications.  ? Experience in module systems like Common JS, AMD and ES6 Modules.  ? Experience in build tools like Grunt.  ? Experience in design technologies using CSS, CSS3, Sass and less.  ? Expert in design and development of enterprise applications involving J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Web Services.  ? Experience in source code management using SVN, CVS and Accurev Version Managers.  ? Experience in implementing and integration of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based web services (SOAP/Rest).  ? Proficient knowledge in RDBMS like DB2, ORACLE, My SQL and communication methods like JDBC, ODBC, Connection pooling and related features.  ? Experience in leading J2EE based applications, especially on WebSphere, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat servers.  ? Experience working in collaboration with development teams using Agile/Scrum methodologies.  ? Enthusiastic learner who quickly grasps new concepts and technical skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr Front- End Lead Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Township of Randolph, NJ May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application screens and functionalities using React JS, Redux JS, Webpack2, Grunt, D3 JS, Babel, Lodash, Common JS, Node JS, Less frameworks.  • Implemented application using React JS to build user interfaces and also used JSX syntax.  • Implemented using Redux JS due to predictable state container and uni-directional architecture.  • Utilized Redux-thunk for async middleware functionality.  • Leveraged D3 JS in our application to display in graphical views for Revenues, Margin Profits and Wallet share data.  • Converted JSX to ES5 JavaScript code using the Babel transpiler.  • Implemented the module system using Common JS.  • Leveraged lodash for utility methods like _.find, _.filer, _.forEach etc.  • Authored UI test cases using Enzyme, Mocha- Chai framework. Sr Front- End Developer Verizon Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ April 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using HTML5, Backbone-Marionette JS, Angular JS, Underscore JS, JQuery, Require JS, Sass.  • Experience in developing web application using Model View JavaScript frameworks like Backbone-Marionette, primarily focusing on the user interface.  • Generated CSS file using SCSS files and Node JS server.  • Underscore JS is a JavaScript utility library which provides lot of functionalities with-out extending any built-in objects.  • Require JS is a JavaScript file and modular loader which is optimize for in-browse use. Also improve the speed and quality of the code.  • Managed the development of distributed server side components and deployed in the Web logic Application Server.  • To ensure cross-browser compatibility including IE 8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Chrome 4.0.  • Experience working with XML and JSON data formats.  Environment: Backbone-Marionette JS, Angular JS, Underscore JS, Require JS, JQuery, HTML5, Sass, Grunt, Accurev, Web logic, ATG Framework, Eclipse. Sr Front- End Developer Verizon Wireless - Parsippany, NJ July 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using HTML5, JQuery, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Participated in the requirements analysis and technical assessments.  • Designed class diagrams/sequence diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Experience in developing web application, primarily focusing on the user interface.  • Implemented Application using Spring MVC and JQuery frameworks.  • Managed the development of distributed server side components and deployed in the Web logic Application Server.  • Experience in implementation of web applications in Performance, Scalability, Security, and Enterprise System Architecture using Spring framework.  • Spring security mechanism applied for user authentication and authorization.  • To ensure cross-browser compatibility including IE 8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Chrome 4.0.  • Experience working with XML and JSON data formats.  • Created Web Services using SOAP, WSDL to provide services to other systems within the company.  • Managed designing & coding of business logic using Spring IOC and Web Services.  • Designed and developed Session beans to implement business logic.  • Developed a robust administration and security system for access control and restrictions at application and user level.  • Develop Web pages using Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML that interact based on events.  Environment: JQuery, J2EE, JDBC, XML, MVC, Oracle, HTML5, Accurev, PL/SQL, Web logic, WSDL, SOAP Webservices, Spring Framework, Eclipse. Sr Front- End Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chicago, IL July 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented for the Presentation layer using HTML5, Jquery, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing web application, primarily focusing on the user interface.  • Implemented Application using Spring MVC framework and Core Java.  • Experience in implementation of web applications in Performance, Scalability, Security, and Enterprise System Architecture using Spring framework.  • Spring security mechanism applied for user authentication and authorization.  • Transform the XML documents into other formats using XSLT (XSL transformations).  • Managed the development of distributed server side components and deployed the various Session and Entity Bean Components in the IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using XML, SOAP.  • Experience working with XML and JSON data formats.  • Created Web Services using REST Web services to provide services to other systems within the company.  • Conducted Testing and Evaluation of projects at established integration points to assess progress and identify key functionality issues.  • Managed Query tuning to improve the performance.  Environment: J2EE, JDBC, JMS, Jquery, Java Servlets, EJBs, Oracle, HTML, Rational Rose, CVS, PL/SQL, REST Webservices, Eclipse, Bootstrap. UI and Java/J2EE Web Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Saint Paul, MN January 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented for the Presentation layer using JSP, HTML4.  • Participated in the requirements analysis and technical assessments.  • Experience in developing web application, primarily focusing on the user interface.  • Used Struts2 framework and J2EE components to develop Action classes, backend processes, complex reports and database interaction.  • Configured and worked with Apache Server.  • To ensure cross-browser compatibility including IE 8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Chrome 4.0.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Struts, Java Beans, iBATIS Data mapper.  • Managed designing components with design patterns like Factory, Singleton, Front Controller, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO, and Façade.  • Managed designing & coding of business logic using Spring IOC, Pure MVC & AOP features.  • Installed, configured, and maintained a continuous integration (build) server.  • Designed and developed Session beans to implement business logic.  • Designed and developed data persistence mechanism using Hibernate in Struts2 applications.  • Created SQL's from views and queries to interact with multiple systems for data.  • Developed a robust administration and security system for access control and restrictions at application and user level.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using IBM WebSphere Application Server on Windows.  • Transform the XML documents into other formats using XSLT (XSL transformations).  • Developed deployment descriptors and scripts.  • Used PL/SQL for writing stored procedures.  • Developed Junit test cases to unit test the business logic.  • Managed Query tuning to improve the performance.  Environment: J2EE, JDBC, JMS,XML, JSF,MVC, iBATIS, java beans, java Servlets, EJBs, Oracle, HTML4, CVS, PL/SQL, Websphere,WSDL, SOAP, Spring Frameworks, Eclipse. Java/J2EE Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions August 2007 to December 2009 • Managed translating functional requirements into technical requirements.  • Managed document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Managed all stages of Software Development Life Cycle of workflow and support using AGILE Methodology.  • Used java script to link the web page with social websites with feedback features for the Bank and also develop feature for voting by the customers.  • Managed developing front end screens using JSP, Dojo, JSTL, DHTML, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.  • Used WebSphere Application server.  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common queries  • Used SAX Parser for parsing the xml document  • Used Eclipse as the Java IDE in the development of the application.  • Used version control systems SVN.  • Managed Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  Environment: HTML, Dojo, Java Script, CSS, JNDI, WebSphere 6.0, SVN, Ant, Log4j, AJAX, Eclipse. Education Electrical Eng Bengal Engineering & Science University 2007 BE in Electrical Eng in Electrical Eng Nagarjuna Institute of Technology 2005 Skills APPLICATION SERVER (8 years), XML (8 years), ECLIPSE (8 years), JDBC (6 years), ORACLE (6 years), Front End, UI, React, Javascript, Angular Additional Information SKILLS:  Languages / Technologies  React JS, Redux JS, D3 JS, Lodash, Babel, Underscore JS, Node JS, Backbone-Marionette, AngularJS, Webpack2, Grunt, AJAX, JQuery, Dojo, Java Script, JSP, JSF, JSON, HTML5, EJB 2.0/3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, XML, SOA components like Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, CSS.    Frameworks React JS, Redux JS, D3 JS, Node JS, Webpack2, Grunt, Backbone, AngularJS, Spring Framework 3.0 and Hibernate 3.0.  Application Servers IBM Web sphere App. Server 6/8, Oracle Web logic 12, Apache Tomcat Server 7.  Web Servers JavaWebServer2.0, Apache Tomcat Server.  Special Software / Tools IBM WebSphere Application Server 6.0/8.0, RAD 7x/8x, Eclipse 3.6, DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, IBM HATS, SVN, CVS, Accurev.  Build Tools Webpack2, Grunt, Maven.