Sr. UI developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. UI developer - Chevron Trumbull, CT • Strong experience in working with Stakeholders, Product Owners and Business Analysts to collect requirements.  • Expertise in conducting user research, Analyze and come up with best practices and best experience methods.  • Expertise in software development as a UI Developer in various environments.  • Experienced as a User Interface/ Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks like Backbone.js, AngularJS, Require JS and node JS.  • Experienced in designing, developing, delivering and implementing data-driven desktop and Web applications for clients and assisting in the development and maintenance of company Web applications (Internet and Intranet)  • Used wireframes to get an understanding of the solution's functionality and technical requirements.  • Strong experience in SEO (Search Engine Optimization) and Progressive Enhancement.  • Exposure in Responsive Web Designing, Strong experience in Unit Testing, Integration Testing.  • Expertise in effective interactive design solutions that meet business, project, and design goals, based on standards and guidelines.  • Strong experience in designing annotated wireframes with the help of MS Visio, Axure, Balsamiq, OmniGraffle, Pencil, and MS PowerPoint.  • Experience in designing visual comps/mockups, images, graphic objects, banner, and presentations by using Adobe tools such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, and Adobe Illustrator.  • Experience in UX design with a strong background working in Wireframes (low fidelity and high fidelity) Prototypes, Mock-ups, Storyboard and User Flows.  • Translate business requirements into wireframes, screen mock-up and prototype.  • Experienced in breaking up layered PSD into HTML using CSS.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Skilled in conceptual development of Web-based Projects, including Project Strategy, Functionality, Information Architecture, Navigation Systems.  • Worked with BA to develop and iterate design mock-ups, user stories and other design doc.  • Handled multiple projects and had a review with whole project at the end of the course. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI developer Chevron - Houston, TX June 2014 to Present Description: with more than 94 million active users globally, eBay is the world's largest online marketplace, where practically anyone can buy and sell practically anything. Founded in 1995, eBay connects a diverse and passionate community of individual buyers and sellers, as well as small businesses.  Projects: QA Crawler, Experiment Platform, Tire Finder, Wheel Finder, Heat Map, Greenbox,  Mini Cart, C2C Lister, Registration Too, Datahub, Buyer Protection etc.    Responsibilities:  • Interacting with product owners, stakeholder to gather requirements, and prepare documentation on the same.  • Research and Analyze on the collected requirements and come up with best User Experience solutions.  • Designed annotated wireframes by using Balsamiq and OmniGraffle.  • Designed the front- end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js and JavaScript.  • Followed agile methodology.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI layout and front- end programming for web application.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, JQ Validator, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular.JS, Backbone JS and JavaScript, Require JS.  • Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features.  • Working in custom created framework and creating custom Widgets and plugins and writing code in a modularized and reusable manner.  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Angular Java Script.  • Used behavior-driven development framework (Jasmine) for testing java script code.  • Followed implicit flow to obtain authorization code for security purpose.  • Proceeding over code review meetings, understanding the cross framework impact across the organization and defining controls / plugins accordingly.  • Preparing Unit test cases for all the application & fixing defects if any.  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible.  • Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques  • Developed code to call the Restful web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Developed UI library functions to increase the code reusability and support standard coding practices.  Environment: MS Visio, Axure, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Mootools, Adobe Dreamweaver, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Rally, JIRA, Quality Center, SharePoint, CMS, and Putty. Front End Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN August 2013 to June 2014 Herbalife International is an American multinational multi-level marketing corporation that develops, markets and sells nutrition supplements, weight management, sports nutrition and personal-care products.  Responsibilities:  • Working closely with product managers to receive UI requirements.  • Designed hi level wires by using MS Visio and Axure.  • Prototyping web, Intranet and Mobile applications with the help of HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developing front end web applications, and Intranet applications with the help of web tools and technologies such as HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Mootools, and Dojo.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Require.js, and Responsive Design.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Require.js, and JQuery.  • Expertise in developing front- end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS, Backbone JS.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, VSS and SVN for Source Code version management and merging Source code after intermittent Project releases.  • Worked on agile development in order to develop web applications on time, and designed sandboxes and maintained checkout and check-ins by using SVN version control software.  • Developed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) by using Ajax.  • Designed Sitetree.xml for entire architecture using with XML.  • Worked with JSON data and migrated to another view. Developed highly secured web applications and Intranet applications.  Environment: CSS, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, PHP, Zend, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, AJAX, SVN, MS Visio, Axure, Photoshop CS3, JQuery, Node JS, CMS, and JIRA. Front End Developer Cerner Corporation - Overland Park, KS January 2012 to August 2013 Cerner Corporation is a supplier of health information technology (HIT) solutions, services, devices and hardware. As of April 2015 its products were in use in approximately 18,000 facilities around the worldand the company had about 22,000 employees globally.  Projects: UCern, CernaNet, UCern App  Responsibilities:  • Designed the wireframes for various intranet and internet based web applications and projects with the help of Axure, MS Visio, and Balsamiq.  • Converted wireframes into comps by using Adobe Fireworks CS3.  • Prototyping web, Intranet and Mobile applications with the help of HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developing front end web applications by using web tools and technologies such as HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Mootools, and Dojo.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Backbone.js.  • Construction of UIs using JQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing web Page Applications using AngularJS. Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Used backbone.js for connecting the API's which enforces the communication to the server.  • Developed web applications which will work with all popular browsers like IE, Chrome, Firefox, and Safari.  • Optimized Ext JS themes and prepared performance applications.  • Worked with eBay own content management server to add, update, remove the content when required.  • Worked closely with QA team to make sue on each and every ticket even though if it is Sev 5.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Prepared good looking presentations to present the developed product to the clients.  • Participated active role in Usability Testing to receive end client's feedback.    Environment: CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, PHP, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Ant, API, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, AJAX, SVN, MS Visio, Axure, Photoshop CS3, JQuery, CMS, and JIRA. UI Developer & Designer The Vanguard Group - Malvern, PA August 2009 to November 2011 is an American investment management company based in Malvern, Pennsylvania, that manages approximately $3.0 trillionin assets.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed front end web applications by using UI tools and technologies.  • Developed highly secured web applications by using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Developed Sitemap by using XML.  • Worked with SOAP calls to call existing data from the existing applications.  • Worked with other team members to deliver UI artifacts successfully & on time.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.    • Involved in developing test plan and procedures.  • Migrating legacy applications to multi-tiered web applications.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using Java Script, jQuery and HTML.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, Dreamweaver, Flash, Notepad++, Eclipse, and SVN. Associate ICICI Bank Ltd January 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked on multiple projects starting from collecting requirements and till production support.  • Designed UI applications by using Photoshop, MS Visio, and Fireworks.  • Developed eCommerce websites to different clients.  • Worked with other team members to deliver UI artifacts successfully & on time.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Debugging webpages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues.  • Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Maintaining documents and source code in CVS.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Visual Basic, Visual C++, COBOL, Flash, JavaScript, Visual Basic, Dreamweaver, XML, Photoshop, Fireworks, Notepad++, and Eclipse, Skills DREAMWEAVER (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), UI (10+ years), USER INTERFACE (10+ years) Additional Information AREA OF EXPERTISE:    * Requirements Gathering  * UI / Web Development  * JavaScript  * Sitemaps    * Wireframe Design  * Client Relations  * JavaScript Frameworks  * Leadership    * Prototyping  * Usability  * JS Libraries  * Team Building    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating System: MS Windows, UNIX, and LINUX.  UI Technologies: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Adobe Dreamweaver  and Web Services  JS Libraries: JQuery, Mootools, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.JS, Require JS, and Dojo  UX Tools: MS Visio, Axure, Balsamiq, Pencil, Adobe Photoshop CS3,  Adobe Illustrator CS3, Adobe Fireworks CS3, Adobe InDesign, and GIF Animator.  Other Tools: Rally, Jira, Quality Center, RRC, RTC, Eclipse, SVN, GIT, Quality Center, Rally,  Jenkins, SharePoint, Microsoft Office Suite, and FTP.