Front end developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Front end developer - DwInteractive AB Work Experience Front end developer DwInteractive AB February 2012 to Present Senior IT professional, proficiency include web development and graphics.  Responsible for developing user flows, visual design, user interaction and wire  framing, front end development including HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, bootstrap and backend implemented in Wordpress. GIT is used for version control and scrum as  development methodology Front end developer Hittabesiktning AB November 2009 to December 2011 We successfully made web application for searching of nearest auto workshop  using CakePHP, Google Api, Jquery JSON and SVN Full stack web developer FJ March 2009 to October 2009 Worked as part time web developer. Expertise area include Joomla, PHP/Mysql,  CSS, HTML, Jquery, Pair programming Web developer Digitalspinners - PK April 2007 to July 2008 Expertise include developing and maintaining websites. I contributed in different  project as web developer, skill learned and improved are PHP, Jquery, CMS,  Joomla, web 2.0 standards, and SEO techniques. IT worker March 2005 to November 2006 Visual basic and SQL used to develop and maintain stock management system. Education Master in programming and software method Linköping university Sweden - Houston, TX 2008 to 2010 Links http://linkedin.com/in/mansoormunib Additional Information SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE    UI/UX Development Proficiency in mostly used UI design patterns. Fully aware of common UX  mistakes and their solution    HTML5 Extensive knowledge of HTML5 elements, multimedia, form manipulation, local  data and web storage. Expert in converting any layout to webpage layout.    Javascript / Jquery 5+ years of Jquery and Javascript expertise, especially for making ajax call, single  page application, communication through web sockets, web workers, geolocation  of browser, drawing on Canvas, creating REST client that consume RESTful web  service    AngularJS Grip on AngularJs directive, method, scope, UI routes. Started working with  AngularJS for SPA application and REST client    Bootstrap - Responsive Expertise in bootstrap (http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/) to make website fully  responsive. Responsive site is crafted to provide an optimal viewing experience  design across a wide range of devices.    Less, Sass, CSS3 Used LessCSS (lesscss.org) techniques to write style sheet in much faster way  then the old conventional way. Also used media queries    WordPress 4 years working experience of Wordpress themes and plugins. Wordpress and  Joomla was mainly used but I also did some project of Magento, Codeigniter and  CakePHP    Android SKD Good knowledge of JAVA and android SDK    Designing Tools Expert in Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver    Development process Mainly SCRUM methodology is used, I also worked in pair programming  environment.    Version control Comfortable while using GIT as version handling. Also used SVN system