Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - U.S. Department of Labor OPA Federal Government Centreville, VA Versatile Front- end Developer with 10+ years of experience designing, developing, and managing complex websites and internal frameworks. Specializes in Drupal, CSS and responsive design.  Accomplished Web developer & Front- end developer with extensive experience building Drupal 7, Drupal 8, Joomla, WordPress driven websites, HTML5, CSS(3), various web scripting technologies, Federal Government Web Standards, Section 508 requirements and project management. Experience working directly with customers and stakeholders. Projects have included multiple web sites, portals, intranet, and content management systems development with PHP, XML, XHTML, SHTM, FLEX, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Foundation, 18F Federal Government Web Standards etc.  Work directly with customers and collaborate with project team leads and developers. Assist with requirements gathering to identify site audiences, key tasks and end user goals. Create site architecture and wireframes to communicate structure and functionality. Ensure all creative is Section 508 compliance and properly implemented during development phases. Work Experience Front- End Developer U.S. Department of Labor OPA Federal Government October 2016 to Present Combine user interface know-how with CSS, HTML, JS and Drupal, using Bootstrap, Foundation and other web technologies, to code features for U.S. DOL official Website and LaborNet intranet website. Create HTML templates and cascading style sheets (CSS) that are consistent across all browsers and platforms. Develop functional and appealing web- and mobile-based applications based on usability. Provide several U.S. DOL agencies websites (ODEP, VETS, ETA and OASAM) maintenance and enhancements. Produce U.S. DOL agencies (VETS and ODEP) newsletters for the newsletter subscribers.  https://www.dol.gov/, https://www.dol.gov/apprenticeship/ http://www.labornet.dol.gov/ (DOL LaborNet - Intranet), https://www.veterans.gov etc. Front- End Developer U.S. Department of Labor OPA Federal Government October 2015 to September 2016 Web Developer/Designer Web Developer/Designer AGM - Annandale, VA March 2014 to October 2015 College Planning.  Annandale, VA  March 1, 2014 - October 16, 2015    Responsible for leading and managing all facets of web design and development projects including project prioritization, strategic planning, conceptual design, development, execution, implementation and testing. http://www.agmcollege.com and http://www.agminstitute.org    Web Developer/Designer  Research Foundation, Distance Education SUNY at Buffalo August 2006 to December 2013 Oversee all web projects and services including dynamic website design, site architecture, front- end development and programming using PHP, MySQL, HTML(5)/XHTML, CSS(3), JavaScript and various CMS tools. Responsible for server configuration and administration, acquisition of domain names, SEO, brand development and social media engagement. https://www.rfsuny.org/ Web Developer/Ecommerce Specialist Elim International Inc - Buffalo, NY June 2005 to July 2006 Design & Development of Website  Custom Flash application development  Maintained E-commerce site and E-bay store  Logo Design, Branding    Language Fluent in English and Korean, U.S. Citizen Education Master of Fine Arts in (MFA), Web Design, Media Arts Production State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo 2005 Bachelor of Arts in (BA), Web Design, Media Study State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo 2001 Skills Bootstrap (4 years), CMS (10+ years), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Web development  •Expert at hand coding clean HTML and advanced CSS and CSS3 to Web standards.  •Knowledgeable in jQuery and other libraries.  •Advanced CSS, CSS3 - media queries, animations, transitions, transforms.  •Highly experienced in testing and developing Responsive Design Framework.  •Frontend code optimization for best performance with Bootstrap, Foundation, Federal Government Web Standards (18F).  •Using template systems, content editing and  Contents Management with CMS such as Drupal7, Drupal8, Joomla, and WordPress.  •Section 508 accessibility compliance implementation - HiSoftware Compliance Sheriff.  •Google Analytics reporting, content experiments, GovDelivery and AKAMAI system control.    •Create HTML emails for Federal Government Newsletter and manage distribution lists through the GovDelivery service.  •Highly experience in Adobe Creative Suites; Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Premiere, AfterEffect, Flash, Dreamweaver.    General  •Highly experienced in development under OSX /  Windows and Unix environments.  •Use of version control systems, adhering to coding style guides.  •HTML Email design / coding / testing.  •Drupal, Joomla, WordPress setup and customization.  •Knowledge of streaming technologies for audio and video delivery, video and audio editing skills.