Independent Front End Developer Independent <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Agoura Hills, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent Front End Developer Self Employed - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present I use a combination of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build websites. I make storyboards, UI/UX mockups, and abstract design concepts and turn them into functioning front- end features. I code and deploy applications in cross-platform, cross-browser environments using web standards and best practices. I manage and administrate sites in several CMS environments. Currently I am working with projects using REACT, javascript, PHP, Liquid, C# and Go. Web Developer Quantum Solutions - Calabasas, CA June 2016 to November 2017 I'm responsible for the development, implementation, design and maintenance of various web presences in a large online  affiliate marketing company. I designed, implemented, coded, created new sites, features, UI/UX elements, landing pages and addressed legacy issues. I implemented and maintained site performance features and analysis tools for internal use. Worked  with product managers to successfully develop landing pages that convert visitors into paying customers. Worked with backend engineers and QA to see projects through to completion. I created email templates that were device friendly and  supported all email clients. I prioritized and managed multiple tasks & multiple projects across various channels, under tight  deadlines. Front- end Developer Planet Art - Calabasas, CA September 2011 to April 2016 Developed, implemented and maintained design of various web presences in a large online retail web-services company.  Worked within an Agile Development environment, I was responsible for design, implementation and coding. I created new  sites, features, UI/UX elements, marketing focused landing pages and addressed legacy issues within the framework. I  developed, monitored and maintained site performance features and analysis tools for internal usage and direct response  marketing. Worked directly with marketing associates to successfully implement and evaluate holistic marketing strategies. Web Designer/ Developer Topco Sales - Chatsworth, CA June 2009 to September 2011 I was responsible for the development, design and maintenance of the web presence of a large manufacturer/distributor. I  designed and created landing pages built in conjunction with marketing initiatives. Implemented SEO & SEM best practices to achieve company goals and objectives. I maintained and update large inventory of products, including their assets, images and video content. I created social media presences for the company's main site and various sub-brands. I also integrated  them into their corresponding sites using the appropriate APIs. Art Director C&M Communiqué - Laguna Niguel, CA February 2006 to March 2009 I was responsible for executing the implementation of all creative deliverables; including print advertisements, brochures,  stationery, billboards, logos, web sites, landing pages and marketing collateral. I handled numerous projects for various clients on multiple timelines, following style guides to ensure consistent identity. I utilized Adobe CS Suite, PHP, HTML, CSS, jQuery,  Flash, Action Script and other technologies to produce and deliver content. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Science Saddleback College - Mission Viejo, CA Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), PHP (5 years), Javascript (3 years), Git (3 years), Angular (2 years), Wordpress (8 years), Web Design (10+ years), Front End (8 years), Front-End (6 years), UI (5 years), React (1 year), Angularjs (1 year), Shopify/Liquid (2 years) Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/mattmcgraw Additional Information I work well within a team and independently, have the ability to communicate well with non-technical users. I possess  excellent written and oral communications skills. I have a strong attention to detail, the ability to multi-task on various projects  and am willing to work additional hours as needed. I am able to handle various technical and IT issues as they arise; including  setting-up workstations, networking and various other technical matters.