JavaScript Developer JavaScript <span class="hl">Developer</span> Van Nuys, CA My passions are Web Application Development. Machine Learning, and Data Science. I have worked with Design Patterns, Rapid Machine Learning Modeling, Client-Server Communications, Web Services, REST API’s, Database Integration, Source Code Control, Tech Specs, and Bug Tracking Software. My skills are in:    • JavaScript ES5/6 • npm • XML  • Machine Learning • NodeJS • MYSQL  • ETL/Classification/Prediction • Webpack • MongoDB  • Sentiment Analysis/Clustering • Gulp • XML  • RapidMinder / Python • HTML 5 • Git/SVN/CVS/Jira  • ReactJS • CSS 3 • Linux Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JavaScript Developer DirecTV - El Segundo, CA March 2017 to Present Development and maintenance of JavaScript, ReactJS, and NodeJS interactive applications for home satellite TV.    • Implement new features and fixes for next generation interactive software that provide program guides, UI, and navigation for consumers to use on their home satellite receivers.    • Maintenance and bug fixing of software that monitor interactive apps running in production.    • Use GitHub and BitBucket for Source Code Control as well as other Atlassian products such as Confluence for documentation control and tech specs. Sr. Front- End Developer Docler Media, Inc. - Los Angeles, CA 2016 to 2016 Development and maintenance of live streaming websites dedicated to promoting musicians, singers, comedians and artists through free streams, chat windows, and monetized private sessions.    • Added new features to existing products that use AS3, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, and Flash Media Server/Wowsa.    • Maintenance and bug fixing of new and existing features on various web based products.    • Used Agile Methodology with Scrum and Jira for bug tracking and new feature development.    • Maintained code with existing teams on large scale projects using GitHub for Source Code Control as well as other Atlassian products such as Confluence for documentation control and tech specs. Sr. Front- End Developer FaceCake Marketing Technologies, Inc. - Calabasas, CA 2012 to 2016 Developed web and pc applications that let users “try” consumer products virtually using patented real-time Augmented Reality and Face Tracking techniques to place clothing and cosmetics on a user image or webcam video. Used by companies such as Bloomingdales, Microsoft, NFL, MAC Cosmetics, Clinique, etc. to increase time spent using ads, boost sales, and maintain brand recognition.    • Created Try-On framework and web applications using Flash AS3, JavaScript, C#, PHP, and MySQL allowing for the development of 21 Augmented Reality based applications and ads.    • Created applications that let users try on clothing, makeup, sunglasses, and remove blemishes.    • Worked with applications which used Microsoft Kinect for Windows to achieve full body motion capture allowing clothing to be applied to a full body image.    • Developed processes that allowed for quick and easy server deployment of interactive content. Sr. Flash Developer Independent Contractor - Los Angeles, CA 2010 to 2012 Programmer for Facebook games, online games, and microsites created by Liquid Entertainment, 42 Entertainment, and Inhance Digital. iOS Developer for App Store apps.    Responsible for object-oriented programming, design, UI layout, and animation for:    • Strategy games and social media games for Facebook and national campaigns by major brands.    • A corporate microsite using Papervision 3D and ActionScript 3.0 for an interactive 3D interface.    • Developer of apps for the App Store using xCode and Objective-C. Lead Flash Programmer SmartEquip, Inc - Agoura Hills, CA 2005 to 2010 Mid-size company that develops B2B software solutions for manufacturers, dealers, and rental companies to improve the speed/accuracy of business transactions and reduce the overall costs of doing business.    Clients include many Fortune 500 companies such as Caterpillar, JLG, Hertz, Doosan, Multiquip, United Rentals, Sunbelt Rentals, and Nations Rents.    Lead Flash Developer  Designed, programmed, and led team members on the development of large-scale Rich Internet Applications, UI design, front- end logic, design patterns, client-server communications, database integration, and legacy code maintenance.     * Designed and developed RIA’s using Flash/Flex/ActionScript, OOP, custom frameworks, custom components, shared libraries, and AMF messaging resulting in an easy to maintain code base.    * Programmed and designed applications for large corporations that improved the speed and accuracy of their online parts ordering processes by up to 97%.    * Implemented automated software testing tools that improved testing cycle times by up to 80%. Education B.S. in Physics UCLA - Los Angeles, CA Masters Coursework Completed in Physics California State University - Northridge, CA Skills JavaScript ES5/6, Machine Learning, ETL, Classification, Prediction, Sentiment Analysis, Clustering, RapidMiner, Python, ReactJS, npm, NodeJS, Webpack, Gulp, HTML 5, CSS 3, XML, MYSQL, MongoDB, Git, SVN, CVS, Jira, Linux (10+ years) Links http://www.lorinwiener.com https://github.com/lorinwiener/source-code-samples Additional Information COPYRIGHTS    CardTrick v 1.0 for the iPhone SDK  SpiritWriter v 1.0 for the iPhone SDK  ESP Trick v 1.0 for the iPhone SDK