Sr. Front- End/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front- End/UI Developer - Transwestern Dallas, TX Have 10+ Years of development experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirement analysis, Debugging, Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications. Experienced UI developer with the experience of developing web applications using all the latest and greatest web technologies like HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT , ANGULAR, JQUERY, REQUIREJS, NODE.JS, GRUNT, BOOTSTRAP, LESS, BOWER, JASMINE, KARMA MOCHA CHAI, PROTRACTOR & CUCUMBER, JSON, RESTful Services and JAVA.Proficient in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS3.Proficient in Angular, Javascript and jquery.Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects. Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and also consumed web services.Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.Strong knowledge in Tableau Data visualization & D3.Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Pre-processors (SASS, LESS), CSS Animations. Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.Good understanding of developing application from scratch and also migration of projects.Good experience in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.Experienced in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance. Extensive experience with Agile (SCRUM).Experience in Jasmine, Karma, Mocha & Chai frameworks for testing JavaScript code.Designed the table less web applications using CSS (2.1/3) and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.Excellent understanding of GIT.Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects.Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and trouble-shooter with strong attention to detail.Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments.Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.Possess good team-management and leadership qualities.Experience with IDE's like Eclipse, webstorm and Intellij.    ? Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, JQuery, AJAX.  ? Designed the front- end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Used AngularJS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS.  ? Extensively worked on form validations, form formatting. Created custom directives for form input validations.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Require JS, Node JS, Angular JS React JS and Ext JS.  ? Developed Front End Components, created Handlebar Templates using React JS.  ? Used Knockout and Backbone JavaScript Libraries for Structured Web Application.  ? Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  ? Used High charts and D3.js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and also implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  ? Built multiple web pages with the help of Event-driven programming offered by Node JS.  ? Used JSON and AJAX for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Involved in localization and internationalization of web pages using JSON, XSL, XML, and Angular JS.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Used Oracle SQL Developer tool to create tables, modify packages, store procedures.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  ? Used My Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application.  ? Involved in Rally workflows for the bug tracking and project management  ? Involved in AGILE process, two week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver in time.  ? Involved in Agile/ full software development lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  ? Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  ? Created and tested different front- end forms using AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, and CSS.  ? Designed and developed React JS component required for the project.  ? Development involved technologies like Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, WebSphere, and Maven 3.0.4.  ? Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  ? Developed date time picker using JavaScript extensively.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Design and development of Web pages using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 and XML including AJAX controls.  ? Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS/SASS pre-processors.  ? Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  ? Has worked on Jasmine that is especially used for testing java scripts.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Worked using D3.js for producing dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers and used SVN for version controls.  ? Experience in making Responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap and media queries.  ? Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  ? Worked closely with business analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared use cases for different features and designs.    CERTIFICATE    ? SCWCD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front- End/UI Developer Transwestern - Dallas, TX November 2014 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Working as a senior frontend developer for developing the components which are used by several teams across GE.  ? Core technology stack used in projects are: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, REQUIREJS, NODE.JS, BACKBONE.JS, GRUNT, GULP, BOWER, JASMINE, KARMA MOCHA CHAI, PROTRACTOR & CUCUMBER.  ? Involved in discussions with the Business Analysts to identify the technical requirements. Heavy interaction with UX/UI teams in various geo locations.  ? Agile Story research/grooming/tasking/interacting with other teams/developing.  ? Implemented application using Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) guidelines; Working on complete SDLC including creating design documentation, development (with browser compatibility), unit testing (in multiple browsers) of application and deployment on Web Logic server (Java Portal Environment).  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Handled Payments and transactions, Credit Card/Bank Account Validations on the Client side.  ? Developed ecommerce shopping cart and checkout functionality that requires complex rules and logic and integration with backend systems.  ? Worked CSS Preprocessors (SASS, LESS)  ? Development the whole application module using front- end frame works such as JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS.  ? Designed & implemented web pages that are compatible in mobile devices with cross browser compatibility across several browsers.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Analyzed and optimized pages and page design for maximum performance.  ? Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Designed the table less web applications using CSS, Less CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  ? Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  ? Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  ? Worked as a senior frontend developer using technology stack: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, REQUIREJS, NODE.JS, BACKBONE.JS,  GRUNT& BOWER.  ? Worked extensively in Agile (srcum) based environment for all biweekly sprint deliverables.  ? Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON.  ? Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  ? Performance optimization using front- end best practices like JS/CSS magnification aggregation, and modular resource load on demand.  ? Converted wire frames to web pages with behavioral design development (BDD).  ? Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  ? Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  ? Real time integration with JSP using Struts/Tiles/Spring web flows/frameworks.  ? Defined text alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic characteristics.  ? Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  ? Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  ? Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  ? Managed and implemented all code changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintaining code integrity.  ? Extensively used jquery in conjunction with angular, angular lite to create components.  ? Used angular ui to develop the page level components and customized (Angular directives, services & factories) the out of box directives for additional functionalities.  ? Created LESS files and used grunt to preprocess and generate the CSS files.  ? Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  ? Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  ? Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  ? Created several distribution packages which are shipped for the reusability.  ? Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  ? Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals.  ? Used MongoDB along with Node.js, as a database to store JSON.  ? Used phonegap partially to debug the issues in the hybrid applications.  ? Worked in packaging and shipping the components for the deliverables.  ? Worked on several grunt tasks for automating the tasks.  ? Worked on Bower to resolve dependencies.  ? Good knowledge of java and middle tier services, especially with the REST end points.  ? Good knowledge of databases like MongoDB, oracle, mysql&postgre SQL.  Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Less, Sass, JavaScript, Angular, Angular UI, jQuery, bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, requirejs, node.js, Backbone.js, grunt, gulp, bower, MAVEN, Jenkins, J2EE, JSON, PhoneGap, SVN, Mongo db, Agile, Rally, Java, mysql, pl/sql, & oracle. Sr. Front- End/UI Developer Brinker International - Dallas, TX July 2012 to October 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for creating the Detailed Design and Technical documents based on the requirements given.  ? Played as a team for the 4 - 6 members ( Onsite )  ? Created Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams for the tasks.  ? Analyzed system specifications and business requirements of end clients and used agile Methodology.  ? Created detailed Test plans to check the functionality of Application.  ? Responsible for creating test case templates to facilitate mapping of manual test cases to automation test scripts.  ? Developed Tractability Matrix which is a proof of document to ensure that all the specifications are been tested and has no defect.  ? Planning and reviewing the Test cases for Functionality, Security, Performance, Database and User Acceptance testing.  ? Performed manual testing on different Modules of the Application by executing the Test Cases.  ? Perform cross-browser testing using different browsers like IE, Firefox Mozilla and Chrome.  ? Extensively used SQL to validate the data in the SQL-Server database by writing Procedures & SQL Queries.  ? Involved in Black box testing, Functional testing, Integration testing, ad-hoc testing, Backend testing, User acceptance testing, Smoke Testing, Security testing, Regression testing.  ? Worked with Struts 2 frame work - creating Action classes and coding JSP's using Struts 2 tags for the presentation layer.  ? Developed MVC design pattern based User Interface using JSP, XML, HTML, CSS and Struts.  ? Used Struts validator framework to validate user input.  ? Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  ? Developed business layer using Spring, Hibernate and DAO s.  ? Participated in Change Requirements and Bug fixing.  ? Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, and AJAX.  ? Designed and implemented the UI components using EXTJS for file storage and maps using Open layers. Implemented charting using High Charts and jQuery.  ? Involved in design and development of server side layer using XML, XSD, SOAP, JAXB, JDBC, JMS, JDK, JNDI, EJB and DAO patterns using Eclipse IDE  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Defined Action Forms, Model Components using Struts MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Developed the user interface for the thick client using Swing.  ? Involved in Iterative development using Agile Process.  ? Developed code for iBatis supporting classes, Sql mapping for Oracle Stored Procedures  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQLstored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Involved in creating UNIX shell Scripting. Defragmentation of tables, partitioning, compressing and indexes for improved performance and efficiency. Involved in table redesigning with implementation of Partitions Table and Partition Indexes to make Database Faster and easier to maintain.  ? Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues.  ? Used Eclipse to develop and debug application code.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  ? SVN and Tortoise SVN were used for project management and version management.  ? Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  ? Resolved production issues and increased application availability. Reviewed the architecture and WebLogic configuration.  ? Developed the JAVA application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  ? Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Documentation.  ? Participated in Change Requirements and Bug fixing.  ? Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Generated Report Forms by using XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO transformations.  ? Used IBM Web Sphere Application Server to deploy the application.Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  ? Created session EJBs that retrieved information from Oracle database using Hibernate.  ? Defined Action Forms, Model Components using Struts MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  ? Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  ? Used DOM parser for validating the XML files against their respective XML schemas.  ? XPATH expressions are used to extract data from XML files  ? Used HTTP Request and SOAP Web service to post XML Data to the End Client.  ? Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  ? Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQLstored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Involved in data loading using PL/SQL and SQL*Loader calling UNIX scripts to download and manipulate files.  ? Prepared Test cases, procedures, Bug Tracking, Logging and reporting bugs using Quality center.  ? Experience developing a Comprehensive Test Strategy inclusive of all testing activities.  ? Updating status report daily basis and weekly basis by conducting meetings with QA team.  ? Involved in writing of modification reports for errors identified in testing and clearly communicated with development via defect tracking system using Quality Center.  ? Conducted system testing for applications to ensure requirements are meet and defects are managed under insurance plans and annuities.  ? Involved in Database testing to verify data integrity tests.  ? Extensively interacted with developers to analyze and resolve the issues that were encountered while testing the application.  ? Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  ? Develop web application using Struts 2 Framework.  ? Used JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  ? Used Eclipse, JDeveloper to develop and debug application code.  ? Used Ant and Maven based scripts to build and deploy the applications on the Server.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  ? SVN and Tortoise SVN were used for project management and version management.  ? Deployed the application on WebSphere 7.0 application server.  ? Developed Functional Requirement Document like Unit Test case Doc, Analysis Doc, Technical Design Doc, based on users' requirement for the business modules for future references and updates.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Swing, Servlets, JSP, Struts 2, AJAX, EXTJS, UNIX, java Beans, JQuery, JavaScript, Spring 3 , Oracle 10g, Design Patterns, SVN, iBatis2.2, PL/SQL , Tortoise SVN, ANT, Windows XP, JUnit, Html, XML, JDK 1.6, HTML/DHTML, WebLogic, Agile Methodology. Sr. UI Developer Prime Internet Group - New York, NY January 2010 to June 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:-  ? Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  ? Designed and developed the software module using J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC under the MVC Architecture.  ? Implemented EXT-JS framework for front end designing.  ? Involved in developing DAO layer with Spring JDBC's features such as SimpleJDBCDaoSupport, JDBCTemplate and DriverManagerDataSource.  ? Extensively used Dependency Injection and AOP features of Spring framework.  ? Data retrieval using Hibernate, Spring framework with Oracle 11g as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  ? Responsible for Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of the project.  ? Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach. Involved in Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration of Use Cases.  ? Involved in tracking and resolving Production issues.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions, monitored error logs and fixed the problems.  ? Used MAVEN for project management and build automation.  ? Used Subversion as a version control for implementing the application.  ? Code Deployment on to DEV, QA, UAT and PROD environment Servers.  ? Supported the deployment process of the applications to production environment with the release management team.  ? Involved in development of major enhancements.  ? Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  ? Developed Web Services (SOA) using SOAP to communicate with various external systems to get the details. Tested Webservices using SOA PUI.  ? Involved in code reviews and also developed guidelines for coding standards for the application.  ? Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development.  ? Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JSF, Dojo, CSS and AJAX.  ? Implemented JavaScript and Swing based functionality in front end designing and rich user interface.  ? Involved in the presentation tier design as well as services layer, and prepared the class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  ? Involved in development of major enhancements.  ? Involved in writing web services to connect to other applications.  ? Involved in the development of the presentation tier using Spring framework.  ? Involved in the design of the Presentation Tier, Services Layer etc for all the initiatives.  ? Prepared the Technical Design Document for both Presentation Tier, as well as Middle Layer.  ? Enabled web security and protect different URL patterns within the application.  ? Involved in using the business logic integration platform- Drools.  ? Used Spring Tag Libraries, JSTL, and other in-house tag libraries.  ? Involved in working with EXT-JS framework  ? Communicated with external applications JMS messages using MQ Series.  ? Participated in the test case reviews, and manual testing of the enhancements during Release 1.4, 1.5, 1.6.  ? Used perforce for defect tracking as well as activity tracking.  ? Involved in fixing the defects during integration testing.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures  ? Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security.    Environment: Java 7, EXT-JS 4.2, Hibernate 3.0, HTML5, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring-web Services Axis, Spring AOP, Servlets, JAX-WS, Flex, Eclipse, JDK 1.7, Maven 3.2, Oracle Client 11g, Oracle SQL Developer 3.2.1, PuTTy 0.6.3, Tomcat 7.0, SOAP, SOAP UI. Sr. Software Engineer CA Technologies - Chicago, IL July 2007 to December 2009 Roles & Responsibilities:-  ? Analysed different xml and flat files that are generated from different banks and ecommerce departments.  ? Involved in UML Design (Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams etc.) Using Enterprise Architect.  ? Used AFPJ eclipse as IDE in the development and worked on java 1.6 on the current project.  ? Creating Maven Projects with AFPJ guidelines and configuring dependency projects in the pom.xml.  ? Used Spring MVC for front - end.  ? Used Spring JDBC Templates for accessing the database.  ? Used Spring JMS Templates for writing messages into queues.  ? Extensively used EJB 3.0 with incorporating EJB timers.  ? Produced & consumed RESTFUL Web services with JSON objects.  ? Created secured Web Services by adding Filters.  ? OEM (Oracle Enterprise Monitoring) tool for monitoring the coherence cache data and to check the node performance in higher environments (Production, Per, QA)  ? Used JConsole for monitoring the coherence Cache data in the local.  ? Implemented Oracle Data base Change Notification to trigger on any changes on the database.  ? Used Grails for most of the descriptive development.  ? Developing GSP and views.  ? Coding groovydomain class to handle the business logic.  ? Built pages using GSP templates and used dynamic tag libraries in Grails.  ? Developed a Grails plugin that allows developers to create and reuse custom domain constraints.  ? Generating Maven builds using Jenkins for Release Builds and Candidate Builds. Continuous Integration (CI server)  ? Changed Log levels dynamically using Spring JMX M Beans.  ? Created Web Services using JAX-RS.  ? Built Class Specific Paths using JAX-RS.  ? Adding dependency projects with respective artefacts and version in pom.xml.  ? Good understanding and work experience on Middleware technologies like coherence.  ? Worked on WebLogic for server configurations in challenging times.  ? Version control using SVN and tracking changes in Clear Case tracker.  ? Experienced working on Agile (Scrum) methodologies    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP for UI as front end representations, Spring-MVC, Spring JDBC, AFPJ- Eclipse as IDE for developing the application, Hibernate 3.5, Web logic 10.3. RESTFUL web services, Tango sol coherence, DCN (DATA CHANGE NOTIFICATION), Grails 2.0/2.5, JavaBeans for getting the values from the screens. JSTL, Enterprise Architect tool for drawing UML diagrams, EJB 3.0, JMS, spring, Web Services, Crystal Reports. JENKINS, Maven. Front End Developer Productive Edge - Chicago, IL January 2006 to June 2007 Roles & Responsibilities:-  ? Actively involved in various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle and the project was developed by using the Agile (SCRUM, SPRINT) methodologies.  ? Involved in High Level Application Design for an effective and configurable module coupling, while reducing dependencies, documented the HLD, Technical Specifications, Unit Test cases.  ? Application is developed using Spring MVC, which are based on Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.  ? Worked on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 style sheets, JavaScript and JQuery to tie together a diverse range of sites with an easily understandable structure.  ? Developed screens using AngularJs, CSS3 and html5.  ? Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJs.  ? Using AJAX to request JSON data through third party REST APIs to acquire products data from server and display it in sorted order.  ? Used AJAX based DOJO for faster frond end  ? Used JSP, JSTL, and Spring tag library in creating the Presentation/Web tier.  ? Used Apache XMLBeans 2.4 to compile the xml schemas (xsd) and generated java objects.  ? Implemented AJAX using JQuery/JSON to fetch the data asynchronously to populate the UI.  ? Developed Restful APIs for accessing Smart Data using Spring/Jersey frameworks  ? Worked with WebSphere application server that handles various requests from Client.  ? Used Spring JDBC template with hibernates to access the data from the database.  ? Involved in database Schema design and developed entities by using hibernate annotations.  ? Linked web page with social websites with feedback features by using JavaScript.  ? Developed database views, Functions, Triggers, Procedures and Packages using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Test cases were written using Junit & executed for verifying code correctness.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.6, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript 1.7, JSP 2.1, Spring 2.5, Spring Batch, Spring web services, RESTFUL, Jersey, XML 1.0, UML 2.0, JUNIT, Spring Tc, Server, Spring STS, Maven 2.0, Clear Case, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, Spring JMS, IBM MQ.    Skills  HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Axure, Visio, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Indesign, UI/UX Design, Information Architecture, Agile/Scrum methodology, Waterfall methodology, Wireframing, Story-Based Development, functional prototyping, Compass    Software: Adobe CS {Dreamweaver, Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator} Axure, Visio  Languages/Abilities: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, SASS, Compass, JavaScript, jQuery, UI/UX Design, Information Architecture, Agile/Scrum and Waterfall methodologies, Story-Based Development, wireframing, functional prototyping    Programming Languages C, C++ , Java, C#.Net  Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery, complete understanding on Angular JS  UI Web Technologies. HTML/HTML5, XHTML, XML, AJAX JSON, CSS/CSS3, UI Concept Modelling/Wire Framing.  Web/App Servers IIS , Apache Tomcat, Exposure on Web logic  IDE's Visual Studio, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor  RDBMS SQL Server , Derby    Operating Systems Windows , Ubuntu , Linux (Red Hat)  Version Control SVN and TFS    Methodologies Agile, Water Fall  Others Software Skills MS Office, Visio, Adobe Photoshop Education MS in Computer Science Dallas Baptist University