Sr. Front- End Developer (Freelance) Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Freelance) Creative and tech-savvy development leader with 14 years of progressive experience across a broad range of coding languages and varied industry segments. Proven ability to combine vision, ingenuity, and strong business acumen with well-developed project management and leadership qualities to support go-to-market efforts, product launches, branding/rebranding initiatives while positioning companies and products for success. Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front- End Developer (Freelance) Astadia, Inc. - Houston, TX 2014 to Present I provided UI development for key client projects while leveraging open-source and responsive frameworks like Foundation and Bootstrap. Integrated Eloqua marketing campaigns while delivering a personalized customer experience to various clients. I worked daily with account managers, user experience specialists, content editors and front- end developers. Sr. Front- End Developer FMC Technologies, Inc - Houston, TX 2012 to Present I am a product development leader who is responsible for strategic planning, in-depth user research, creative direction, design and front- end development of global intranet. I work daily with internal stakeholders to define functionality and plan execution of projects. Sr. Front- End Developer AutoZone, Inc - Memphis, TN 2008 to 2012 I was part of global team that was comprised of visual designers, UI designers and front- end developers. I was tasked with creating high-level task flows, storyboards, wireframes, prototypes and design specifications for a broad range of automotive applications. I worked daily with scrum masters, business analysts, subject matter experts and architects. UI Designer (Freelance) Prosper Media - Sacramento, CA 2007 to 2008 I provided consultation for UI architecture and front- end development to product managers and backend development team for various B2B projects. I worked daily with product managers and subject matter experts. Junior Developer United Way - Sacramento, CA 2002 to 2008 I assisted in the development of the corporate website that adhered to strict 508 compliance guidelines. As a junior developer I was responsible for maintaining partner state websites. I worked daily with marketing, copy editors and information technology. Education Bachelor of Science Sacramento State University Skills User Experience Design (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years), HTML 5 (8 years), CSS3 (8 years), Sass (5 years), Less (5 years), OOP / Object-Oriented Programming (8 years), jQuery (8 years), Javascript (10+ years), Node.js (6 years), Angular.js (4 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Grunt (4 years), Sharepoint (6 years), Sharepoint Designer (6 years), Drupal (8 years), Django (4 years), Foundation (4 years), MODX (4 years), Eloqua (8 years), Salesforce (6 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dbrandusa http://www.dorinbrandusa.com Additional Information Volunteer Work: I am the Assistant Cub Master for Pack 1178 in Magnolia, TX. I am in charge of conducting monthly den chief planning meetings for all den leaders, assistant den leaders and den chiefs of the pack. I am a leader and mentor to over 30 young boys aging from 6-11.