Front End Engineer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Engineer Front End Engineer - Yandy, LLC Scottsdale, AZ ? Front End Engineer with experience working in Agile/Scrum teams building production applications for the web.  ? Experience developing cross-browser compatible and mobile-friendly front- end code using RESTful APIs, Node and Express.  ? Specializes in JavaScript development and continues to stay abreast to the modern Javascript trends.  ? Passion for solving challenging problems and creating products that are intuitive and useful. Work Experience Front End Engineer Yandy, LLC - Phoenix, AZ May 2018 to Present Building custom internal facing component based SPA tools for the Warehouse, Marketing, Merchandising, and Customer Service facets of Yandy.  ? Manage, optimize, test, and debug the Backbone.js environment.  ? Update existing, and add new features to customer facing Yandy.com website.  Environment: Backbone.js, Require.js, HandleBars.js, Javascript (ES2015+), jQuery, PHP, Postgres Front End Developer Golden Hippo Media - Woodland Hills, CA February 2017 to May 2018 Build custom websites with pixel-perfect attention to detail, cross-browser compatibility, mobile responsiveness, and adhering to UX/UI design patterns.  Custom plugin development, and feature additions to current plugins.  ? Take lead on special projects including building a MEAN stack web app that is hosted on an AWS instance with an S3 bucket for image/pdf uploads.  ? Test, debug, and code heavily-trafficked websites using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, and PHP.  Environment: Angular, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP Full Stack Developer Pop The Pixel - West Hollywood, CA September 2015 to December 2017 Primary engineer, responsible for building beautiful, mobile friendly sites from custom designs approved by the client.  ? Utilized WordPress for content management.  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, PHP, SQL, WordPress Front End Developer Scale Tech - Sherman Oaks, CA February 2016 to November 2016 Responsible for front end development for clients including hairlavie.com, 1md.org, sometypeofbeauty.com, essentialelementsnutrition.com, smarter- reviews.com, consumerssurvery.org and livewell-labs.com.  ? As part of a multi-faceted team, developed cross-browser compatible, mobile-friendly, extensively tested and highly scalable front- end code.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery to manipulate the DOM, AJAX to make http requests to API's and PHP to pull data from databases and server-side  processing.  ? Optimized code and looked for ways to incorporate the newest technologies into the stack.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, PHP, WordPress, SQL Front End Developer Simi Valley, CA August 2015 to September 2015 Front- End Developer on six different sites responsible for development and deployment.  ? Successfully delivered pixel perfect, mobile-friendly sites from designs approved by the clients.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, Css3 Education Bachelor of Arts in (B.A), Communication and Media Studies AZUSA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY Azusa 2001 to 2005 Links http://wesrodgers.io Additional Information SKILLSET  Front- End: JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Backbone, Require, Handlebars, PHP, Node.js, SASS  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Mongoose  Version Control: Git, GitHub, Bitbucket  Other: JSON, AuthO, AWS, Test-Driven Development (TDD), Heroku, Responsive Design, REST API's, Adobe Photoshop, Invision, Jira