Founder, Full-Stack Web Developer Founder, Full-Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> I'm a Front- End Developer with 5+ years of experience. Executed projects with various levels of complexity including responsive web design, development, and optimization of websites, Wordpress sites and e-commerce using WooCommerce. Have extensive experience working with JavaScript including jQuery as well as back- end skills working with React, PHP, and MySQL. Highly proficient in HTML5, CSS3, and mobile optimization. Worked well with marketing teams executing multiple projects, managing contents, and SEO strategies. Kendall, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Founder, Full-Stack Web Developer Profiter - Miami, FL April 2016 to Present ? Design and maintain websites for small and medium-sized businesses.  ? Designed UI Sketching and wireframes using photoshop or balsamiq.  ? Implemented the front- end designs in development and in production using HTML/CSS and JavaScript/jQuery.  ? Completed project on time and within budget.  ? Prepare content using proper User Experience design process.    Technologies: Photoshop, Craft, HTML/CSS, Javascript, Atom, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Amazon AWS, and more. Front End Developer Tropic survival advertising and marketing July 2017 to December 2017 ? Build landing pages, eBlast, newsletter, and client pages with banners, print ads, social media, and videos.  ? Test eBlast using Acid On Email.  ? Create new web pages using CDK platform.  ? Add HTML metadata and URL analytic tracking events.  ? Update new post for Carl's Patio with new content on the website.    Technologies: HTML/CSS, Photoshop, Javascript, Atom, Coda2, CDK, Wordpress, and Bootstrap. Premise Technician AT&T - Palm Bay, FL February 2015 to March 2016 ? Residential and business installation and repair of IP based Television, internet, phone (VOIP) services and Directv while providing extraordinary customer service and salesmanship, where applicable, to promote customer retention and generate company revenue. Real Estate Agent Florida capital realty - Miami, FL January 2013 to January 2015 ? Worked for buyers and sellers of residential properties in the Miami area. Front End Developer / Ecommerce Electric & Electronic Power Tech - Miami, FL April 2012 to January 2013 ? Design and build the company website using Wordpress and DIVI Framework.  ? Transfer Wordpress site to another hosting and change the domain.  ? Translate the website from English to Spanish.  ? Responsible for purchasing and negotiating materials, electronic test equipment, and supplies from vendors.   ? Evaluates vendor quotes and services to determine most desirable suppliers.  ? Manage inventory and shipping cost.  ? Create and manage Excel spreadsheets to administrate the purchase operation, shipping cost, and other expenses.    Technologies: Photoshop, HTML/CSS, Wordpress, Bluehost server, and Microsoft Office. Front End Developer VENEVISION INTERNATIONAL - Coral Gables, FL January 2007 to March 2012 ? Responsible for all the graphic aspects of the website using Photoshop, visual design, HTML, CSS, WordPress, and responsive web design.  ? Photoshop CS5 expert working with thousands of pictures and responsible for planning and generating automatic graphics formatting scripts to deliver pictures to multiple mobile devices.  ? Handle the tasks of editing and encoding videos and audio using Sony Vegas Pro.  ? Create and organize content meta-data including unique codes, titles, description, and keywords in Excel and XML files.  ? Redesigns and manage the e-commerce websites using Dreamweaver, writing, editing, proofreading new contents, and design online banners for promoting content.  ? Project and content coordinator handle the tasks of managing television content like videos, ringtones, and images on multiple platforms.  ? Responsible for testing mobile games on android and apple IOS devices for quality control.    Technologies: Photoshop, HTML/CSS, Wordpress, Bluehost server, Sony Vegas, XML, and Microsoft Office. Education Bootcamp in Web developer Wyncode Academy - Miami, FL April 2017 to June 2017 Bachelor's in Electronic Engineering Urbe - Maracaibo September 1994 to January 2000 Skills Javascript, React, PHP Links https://rmachin.co https://www.linkedin.com/in/remachin/ https://github.com/rmachin Additional Information I'm an entrepreneurial Full-Stack Web Developer who loves to build and fix things that solve problems and make people happy. In my spare time, I like to read about new technologies on the web and internet marketing, music is my passion, I used to play drums and Latin percussion with different bands for several years.