Manager/Senior Application Developer Manager/Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Manager/Senior Application Developer - Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc Columbus, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager/Senior Application Developer Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc - Stamford, CT 2012 to Present Stamford, CT  One of the world's largest hotel & leisure companies with ~1,300 properties in 100 countries.  Manager/Senior Application Developer 2012 - Present  • Work closely with business and creative teams to develop mobile and desktop versions of all Starwood  Hotels & Resorts branded websites using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript (jQuery), JSP and JSTL. These  brands include but not limited to Four Points, Sheraton, Aloft, W Hotels, Le Méridien, Luxury Collection,  Element, Westin, St. Regis, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG).  • Collaborate with developers to ensure code is optimized for site performance.  • Train and mentor front- end developers in programming methodologies and best practices adapted from attending conferences, workshops and reading industry publications.  • Re-architected brand sites using modern technologies such as HTML5, jQuery, CSS3, SASS, Modernizr,  Bootstrap.  • Wrote Javascript APIs and Classes for company products including survey, scheduling and validation  tools using jQuery Javascript Framework. Manager, Front- End Development Guidepoint Global - New York, NY 2010 to 2012 New York, NY  Primary market research network delivering critical insight to business and investment professionals via on- demand interactions with global network of 150,000+ industry and subject matter experts.  Manager, Front- End Development 2010 - 2012  • Manage front- end development for company's internal Client Relation Management (CRM) system,  external advisor and client websites.  • Lead a team of front- end developers including distributing and tracking daily tasks using TRAC (an  enhanced wiki and issue tracking system for software development projects), while mentoring developers  (on/offshore) on current front- end technologies to enhance their growth.  • Maintained and manage all current front- end files including email and site templates, HTML, CSS and  Javascript files. Lead Front- End Developer 2008 to 2010 Assisted with design and development of internal and external applications utilizing standard compliant  XHTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Javascript, Mootools, AJAX, PHP and MySQL including graphical user  interfaces, testing and documentation.  • Wrote Javascript APIs and Classes for company products including survey, scheduling and validation  tools using Mootools Javascript Framework.  • Mentored junior front- end developers in programming methodologies and best practices. Front- End Developer Guidepoint Global - New York, NY 2007 to 2008 Technology company that supports clients effectively manage communication, marketing and data across all  media channels. Web Developer LiveTechnology - Purchase, NY 2004 to 2007 Designed and developed websites for various Fortune 500 clients including AARP, AIG, Bank of  America, Cingular, Motorola and Washington Mutual using various technologies including XHTML,  CSS and Javascript (Prototype and Scriptaculous) and LiveServer (an in-house programming language).  • Developed business solutions and technologies to manage advertising, marketing and communications, while maintaining the integrity of corporate brand control and delivering local marketing flexibility.  • Ad hoc tasks include the creation of web page mockups provided by client or design team.  • Created and maintained web graphics. Education B.A. in Economics University at Albany A.A. in Business Morrisville State College Skills JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), HTML5 (7 years), jQuery (5 years), JSP (5 years), MVC Additional Information Skills:  • Scripting Languages: Javascript, PHP, SASS, LESS  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSP, JSTL  • Databases: MySQL  • Applications: Photoshop, Illustrator, Subversion (SVN), Git,  • Frameworks/Libraries: jQuery, Mootools, Modernizr, Bootstrap, AngularJS  • Build Tools: Gulp, Grunt, NPM (Node Package Manager)