UI Engineer UI Engineer Front- End Web Developer Jersey City, NJ I am an enthusiastic and professional UI/Frontend developer that has enjoyed being part of successful productive teams. I am quick to grasp new concepts and ideas and develop innovative and creative solutions to problems.    I work well on my own initiatives, consistently demonstrating the high levels of motivation and dedication that are required to meet multiple deadlines. Even in significantly pressurized situations I possess the strength and ability to perform effectively.    Technical Stack: Angular 4, Typescript, Node, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Github, BitBucket, JIRA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Engineer Sotheby’s - New York, NY February 2017 to Present Technical Stack: Angular 4, Typescript, Node, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Github, BitBucket, JIRA Front End Developer Wyndham Worldwide - Parsippany, NJ February 2016 to February 2017 Front- End Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2015 to February 2016 * Participated in all stages of the product life cycle.  * Delivering new features for the dedicated mobile website and app.  * Using CSS3 Media Queries and LESS CSS with OOJS to build a responsive framework to be served across desktop and a range of tablet and mobile devices (iOS and Android).  * 508-compliant/accessible web application.  * Coordinating with various teams (business, UX, QA, and back- end).  * Agile development. Front- End Developer eBay Inc 2014 to 2015 * UI Developer, working on the new 'eBay Fashion, Home & Garden' responsive websites.  * Designing responsive, accessible web pages supporting mobile device, desktop browsers.  * Executing and contributing to the project with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser compatibility.  * Working closely with designers and product owners to reflect a clean interface that matched the brand guidelines. Front- End Developer Western Union - San Francisco, CA 2013 to 2014 * Developing the front- end of Western Union's fraud detection web application.  * Using modern front- end stack for designing, developing and unit-testing.  * Working with Java developers within an agile environment, including daily scrums, retrospectives and sprint planning sessions. Front- End Developer Baxter - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2013 * Front- End Developer creating numerous microsites.  * Utilizing strong HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery skills to build responsive websites to be accessible across desktop and mobile devices. Front- End Developer AJF - Bike Ride for Autism 2012 to 2012 - 2012    * Responsible for creating the fund raising website for AJF, where participants could register and raise funds for Autism.  * Using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and 508 compliance. Automation Test Engineer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH 2011 to 2011 - 2011    * Oversaw web-based application testing.  * Supervising test estimation and approval process.  * Providing regression updates and software defect tracking reports to stakeholders.  * Developing automation testing suites and engines. Automation Test Engineer Elsevier - Dayton, OH 2009 to 2011 * Descriptive programming using QTP.  * End-to- end execution of automated scripts, analysis of test reports.  * Documenting test plans, test cases, and test scripts.  * Maintaining defect reports, test logs in Quality Center.  * Closely interacting with web developers for bug fixes. NET Developer, Test Engineer Nationwide Building Society - Swindon 2005 to 2009 * Developing ASP.NET web applications.  * Creating SQL stored procedures.  * Responsible for automated, manual testing. Education Masters in Software Engineering Bharathiyar University 2000 to 2005 Skills Javascript (5 years), JQuery (5 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), SVN (2 years), Eclipse (1 year), Clearquest (1 year), Mobile (2 years), Web Development (5 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), React (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML5, CSS3/LESS/SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, Angular, React, Agile/Scrum Development, SVN/Git, Adobe Suite.