Front <span class="hl">Front</span> System Administrator Palm Beach Gardens, FL Accomplished systems administrator with 10 years of experience managing server infrastructures and data-center operations across multiple platforms (Linux, Windows). Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance. Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/network optimization. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS  Technical Support  Windows Server 2008, 2012  System Installation  DNS  DHCP  Active Directory  VMWare  HTML  CSS  Wordpress  Woocommerce Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front Front End Web Developer - Palm Beach Gardens, FL May 2016 to Present Boca Raton, FLDeveloped front ends for Wordpress, Shopify and custom coded websites usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Front End Web Developer WebDevelop.com February 2016 to May 2016 Boca Raton, FLDeveloped front ends for Wordpress, Shopify and custom coded websites usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. System Admin, Front End Web Developer Med-Care Diabetic & Medical Supplies, Inc August 2011 to February 2016 Boca Raton, FLDeveloped the corporate  website (Medcareinc.com), as well as all digital marketing materials (i.e. landing  pages, email blasts, banner ads, etc ).Administered the Windows environment of more then 600 employees and managed a team for tech support, on site and  remote. Monitored, deployed administered, and repaired multiple servers at Teremark (Windows, Linux, PBX). System Admin, Front End Web Developer July 2009 to August 2011 Elink Media - West Palm Beach, FLAdministered Linux servers around the globe.  Developed landing pages and email campaigns. System Admin, Front End Web Developer March 2006 to July 2009 Mayhem Management - Boca Raton, FLDeveloped and deployed custom PBX  servers for VOIP clients. Built web sites using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Education Other Skills PC Technician (10+ years), Computer Repair (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Wordpress (5 years), HTML 5 (4 years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified May 2002 to Present