Sr. Front- End Web developer Sr. <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Front- End Web developer Piscataway, NJ ? Over 9 years of solid experience in various fields of Web development primarily focusing on design, development and testing.    ? Experience in software/Web development and designing with HTML, DHTML, CSS, Flash, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Express, jQuery, DOJO toolkit etc.    ? Experience working in different industries like, Financial services, media and insurance.    ? Experience using other javascript frameworks, like, NodeJS, Prototype, YUI, Ext-JS    ? Working knowledge of advanced technologies, like HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, NodeJS.  ? Experience of developing, publishing, running and maintaining websites from scratch till production level.  ? Working knowledge of JavaFX8/2.0 with FXML as user interface.  ? Experience working with both WAMP and LAMP environments.  ? Worked with various Web 2.0 applications involving blog maintenance, Video Library Management, Survey Systems using Advanced AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Extensively worked with flash and flash media server.    ? Experience working on different CMSs like, Interwoven CCPro, Drupal, Joomla and XOOPS,  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Netbeans, editplus, Notepad++, Atom, eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, STS, JavaFX Scene Builder.  ? Experience implementing dynamic web applications using apache and tomcat.  ? Experience in developing websites using Dreamweaver CS3 and Netbeans 6.  ? Worked in Adobe Photoshop and Fireworks CS3.  ? Sound knowledge of HTML5 using canvas, video and drag/drop.    ? Solid experience in object oriented Javascript.  ? Expertise in Maintaining websites, software and understating and modifying existing code.  ? Experience using toolbars and Add-ons like, firebug, firebug lite, IE developer toolbar, Web development toolbar, color zilla etc.  ? Sound knowledge in SEO, making the websites SEO Friendly and ranking in search engines.  ? Excellent knowledge of JavaScript and their behavior on different browsers.  ? Expertise in working with Browsers compatibility issues for IE 6-11/ Firefox/ Chrome/ Opera/ Safari.  ? Good knowledge in SQL, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server, MySQL 5.0.  ? Good knowledge in PHP, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET.    ? Worked with JSP, Servlets, and Struts Framework on Apache Tomcat.    ? Participation in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Good Project Management and Inter-personal skills gained through interaction with technical and functional teams.  ? Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  ? A well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated effective team member with excellent analytical, troubleshooting, and problem solving skills.  ? Ability to learn new tools, concepts and environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front- End Web developer Verizon Wireless - Piscataway, NJ November 2015 to Present Verizon Wireless is a leading company in Telecommunications Industry in the United States and wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications that offers wireless telecommunications products and services. My Verizon lets users manage their Verizon wireless account online. It allows users to pay bills, check usages, view order status, check upgrade eligibilities etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Working on different projects as a lead developer in My Verizon team.  ? Created web pages and forms using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSP, XML and JSON.  ? Actively involved in requirement gathering, analysis, development and testing of single page application.  ? Worked on structuring AngularJS app, defining custom services/factories, filters and directives and implementing controllers with business logic.  ? Wrote advanced AngularJS code, following best practices in the industry.  ? Worked on integrating static HTML pages with backend data using JSP, used JSON data store for Angularjs pages.  ? Worked on creating reusable custom directives for many components and templates wherever applicable.  ? Worked on implementing grunt for JS/CSS minifications.  ? Wrote test cases in Jasmine for angularjs unit-testing.  ? Worked on setting up localhost using both Microservices and ATG.  ? Also worked on web accessibility on existing My Verizon pages.  ? Using Accurev and GIT for code management.  ? Communicating with offshore team on daily bases.  ? Working on cross browser compatibility, validated code to W3C standards.  Environment:  HTML5, JSP, CSS, CSS3, Java Script, NodeJS, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, Jasmine, Grunt, Eclipse, STS, NodeJs, NPM, Apache TOMCAT, JBOSS, Accurev, GIT UI Developer/CSD-Consultant TD Ameritrade - Jersey City, NJ April 2012 to October 2015 The Intelligent Rebalancer, iRebal, is a rule-based program that automates the generation of trading tickets for Rebalancing, Cash Management, Tax Loss Harvesting, Gains Distribution Management, Fund Replacement.  Responsibilities:  ? Working as a lead developer on intelligent Rebalancer application, web-based version used for Portfolio rebalancing.  ? Created complex web pages which provide Traders/Advisors an ability to create various rebalances using portfolios, securities and models.  ? Worked on creating web pages for end to end trading application from setting an environment till placing orders.  ? Depending on user's accounts and rights provided ability to create complex rebalances, including Full Rebalance, Generate and/or invest cash, Harvest Tax loss, Single Security adjustment etc.  ? Creating web pages using DOJO toolkit, HTML, JSP from mock-ups / wireframes and translated business requirements into working software.  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed Web based application as per the requirement.  ? Using HTML DOM, DHTML, CSS/3, SASS, JavaScript, DOJO toolkit, JSON and AJAX got rich GUI.  ? Using Twitter bootstrap for responsive web design to support various devices.  ? Extensive use of DOJO widgets like, Enhanced Grid, Tree Grid etc, implemented virtual pagination for better performance using DOJO's data store, e.g. JsonRestStore  ? Worked on creating custom DOJO widgets to match the business requirements. Exa. Multiple selections in dropdown, Column grouping and reordering in DOJO data grid.  ? Also worked on designing and developing a dashboard UI application, called Monitoring & Trending tool, to monitor the performance of system using JavaFx.  ? Used FXML to interact create and improve the layout for rich GUI.  ? Used Scene builder to create UI by dragging and dropping controls from a palette.  ? Used Netbeans as editor for easy development with MVC pattern  ? Worked on animating different charts using MVC through JavaFX and FXML to reflect established look and feel.  ? Used jFreeChart library to create various charts that well represent the system performance.  ? Currently working on integration of iRebal Blotter to VEO next gen.  ? Using AngularJS framework for building single page application  ? URL routing handled by UI state router, helping to divide the application into logical modules (templates and controllers), each of which would be instantiated when its route was invoked  ? Created custom AngularJS directives for re-usable components  ? Created responsive layout to support different devices, using Twitter Bootstrap  ? On MVC platform using a Node Js, Angular JS, ExpressJS, Grunt Server for iRebal integration  ? Participates in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyse business IT Requirements.  ? Worked on preparation of DEMO to business and investors.  ? Communicating with offshore team on daily bases.  ? Working on cross browser compatibility, validated code to W3C standards.  ? Using firebug, IE Developer toolbar for development and testing.  Environment:  HTML, DHTML, JSP, CSS, CSS3, SASS, Twitter Bootstrap, Java Script, DOJO, DIJIT, DOJOX, HTML DOM, NodeJS, AngularJS, Express, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse, STS, ClearCase, Apache TOMCAT, JBOSS, JavaFX 8, FXML, JavaFx scene builder, jFreeChart, NetBeans, SVN Front End Web developer Direct Brands Inc - New York, NY September 2010 to March 2012 Direct Brands Inc is a home to market-leading DVD and book club brands as Columbia House, Doubleday Book Club, Book-Of-The-month club, James Patterson Library and Black Expressions club as well as a number of interest and lifestyle book clubs serving millions of members in U.S.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on revamping existing ecommerce website with Adobe's Omniture Test & Target tool.  ? Created A/B/../N test pages using HTML, JSP, JSTL from mock-ups / wireframes.  ? Analyzed, Designed and developed Web based application as per the requirement.  ? Using HTML DOM, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, YUI and AJAX got rich GUI.  ? Worked with object oriented javascript, using custom and core javascript objects  ? Worked on styling layout site wide with use of CSS3.  ? Using flash video and audio for rich internet application.  ? Used HTML5 drag/drop facility for a new testing and used video/audio.  ? Using Interwoven CCPro for content management.  ? Extensive use of jQuery for creating test pages for Test & Target.  ? Used Photoshop for designing and creation of backgrounds, header etc.  ? Working everyday on creating campaigns and offers with Test & Target and generating reports  ? Meetings with business and marketing to discuss their needs and possible solutions.  ? Working with team and individual on different projects.  ? Working on cyclic updates for new offers and sales/discounts Performed manual/unit testing for application and Fixed bugs.  ? Working on cross browser compatibility, validated code to W3C standards.  ? Using firebug, IE Developer toolbar for development and testing.  URLs:  http://www.columbiahouse.com  http://www.yourmovies.com/  http://www.jamespattersonlibrary.com/  Environment:  JSP, JSTL, ATG Dynamo, HTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, YUI, HTML DOM, AJAX, XML, JSON, Adobe Test & Target, Flash CS3/5, Photoshop CS5 and Illustrator, WebSphere, WAMP, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Tortoise SVN, CCPro. Front End Developer Stonebridge Life Insurance Company - Plano, TX July 2009 to August 2010 This was a web based and user-friendly system, which allowed users to navigate the forms and web pages with ease and order, required articles on-line. A secured payment verification system was developed to ensure online payment.  Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements from the client. Developed the Software Requirements Specifications.  ? Configured Apache Server and PHP Scripting Engine and MySQL Database Server.  ? Analyzed and Developed objects as per Client requirements.  ? Designed, Developed, and Maintained Web sites with PHP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, DOM, JQuery and object oriented JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed in W3C standards and Web 2.0.  ? Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, DOM, JavaScript to produce high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface.  ? Designed different front- end forms using Drupal and CSS.  ? Developed SOAP interface to the billing system.  ? Developed web applications and e-commerce web sites within a LAMP environment that includes distributed web servers and a MySQL database cluster.  ? Implemented e-commerce systems including shopping cart applications in Joomla1.0, PHP and MySQL.  ? Developed all transaction screens using JavaScript and HTML  ? Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  ? Integrated security into applications.  ? Designed User Interface, Coded Functionality and performed Unit Testing.  Environment:  HTML, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, DOM, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Drupal, Joomla, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache, WAMP. Web Developer Respironis INC - Murrysville, PA January 2009 to June 2009 Respironis provides business and technical services and solutions to the Tourism and Travel industry together with associates and partners providing and specializing in a complementary range of Internet based distribution and marketing technologies and services. The system had to be continually upgraded to maximize its potential as a premier travel and tourism Portal booking engine.  Responsibilities:  ? Generated and published the serialized reports using JavaScript, CSS, HTML, i.e. property valuation and appraisal reports, financial balance sheets, profit & loss accounts and other inner small application for representing all reporting structure.  ? Converted designs to live websites using XHTML, Flash, and table less CSS layout techniques with Cygnus' custom Content Management System.  ? Used Ajax to send or get minor data (XML) from server to generate reports.  ? Ajax Grid Pagination for user and story listing.  ? Created HTML pages from Mock ups.  ? Tracking of each and every user activity including sale and clicks.  ? Actively involved and contributed in Tourism Product management and support.  ? Performed manual/unit testing for application and Fixed bugs.  ? Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Designed front end screens using PHP, Java Script, CSS and Ajax.  ? Setup and Maintain Windows and Linux Servers.  ? Contribute to scrum/agile team developing online tools for the travel & tourism industry using the Symphony PHP/MySQL web application framework and Prototype JavaScript library  ? Designed and developed Reports using CSS.  ? Fixed bugs and enhanced application  Environment:  HTML, CSS, DOM, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Windows, Dreamweaver, PHP, MySQL, LAMP, Social Engine. Web Developer InterExpress LLC - Laredo, TX June 2008 to December 2008 Worked on a web-based e-commerce application that is running as an ASP.Net application. Our aim was to rewrite the whole application using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML. In this website, the customer can buy the Ink cartridges or Toners of a mixture of manufactures through the Internet.  The consumers can login to the site and they can add the product to the shopping cart which product they need. In site there is facility of coupon discount methods. Fully user-friendly web site. Any time the customer can view the cart. There is a facility to search the product by model wise and manufacturer wise.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Portal application design and modeled the application in MVC.  ? Designed all pages using HTML4, CSS, DOM, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Involved in the design and development of User Profile planning for those accessing the system  ? Active coder in building the comprehensive solution model (Interfaces and Business Logic) dealing with the work flow and transportation issues.  ? Developed client side validation of the pages using custom JavaScript functions and AJAX  ? Implemented personalization based on roles.  ? Communicated with the test teams for the successful Test Cases.  ? Designed and developed XHTML and CSS involving advanced class and tableless layout.  ? Involved in sessions with the business team and analysts for knowledge appraisal and information exchange.  Environment:  HTML4, XHTML, CSS2, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Windows, Apache Web Server. Web Developer Dish TV India - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2008 to April 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Designing and developing the front end screens using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Developed XHTML / JavaScript / CSS / DOM based microsites.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues.  ? Involved in the design and development of User Profile planning for those accessing the system  ? Communicated with the test teams for the successful Test Cases  ? Designed whole project by Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  ? Created table less layout with HTML and DOM.  Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML DOM, XHTML, Adobe Dreamweaver Web Developer SAR Consultancy - Surat, Gujarat January 2007 to December 2007 This was a front end design/interface position. The nature of my work was 50% design and 50% coding. I was also employed as Support person for bug fixing and daily maintenance and data base upload tasks.  Responsibilities:  ? I served as the key role in visually designed microsite interfaces.  ? Developed XHTML / JavaScript / CSS / DOM based microsites.  ? Validated all code to W3C standards, worked on cross browser compatibility issues.  ? Designed and built flash based multimedia CD ROMs with flv video for sales teams.  ? Produced printed materials such as brochures, marketing materials and CD casings (Indesign CS).  ? Created original illustrations (Illustrator CS2) for a web based series.  ? Constructed Articulate Presenter based presentations for company communications.  ? Maintain existing web sites/portals, bug fixing, Batch data processing, Data base uploads from excel sheet provided by different departments.  ? Maintenance, support and new development for Employee Portal.  ? Created a User Management Application for the Different User Administrators Such as Admin, and Employee.  ? Migrated existing web projects to content management system (CMS).  Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML DOM, AJAX, XHTML, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe flash player. Education Bachelors in Electronics & Communication C.K.P.C.E.T. in Gujarat Computer Science New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY Skills AJAX (9 years), DHTML (6 years), DOM (8 years), HTML (9 years), JavaScript (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Operating Systems: Windows 9x /NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista/7/8, OSX, Android  Languages: PHP 4/5, PERL, Java, C, C++, C#, PL/SQL, Ruby  Web Technologies: HTML5, HTML DOM, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, XSD, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO, YUI, JQuery, NodeJS, AngularJS, JSON, FXML  Server: Apache 2, Weblogic Application Server 8.1, Tomcat, NodeJS  Tools: Net Beans, Adobe CS3(Photoshop, Flash, Dreamweaver, Test & Target), Visual Studio, Eclipse 3.2.1, JBuilder, Atom, Editplus, Notepad++, ZEND Studio, STS, JavaFX Scene Builder  Protocols: Http, Ftp and TCP/IP, LDAP  Version Control: VSS, PVCS, Clear Case, CVS, Tortoise SVN, GitHub, Accurev  Content Managed Systems: Nucleus CMS 2.0, Joomla CMS, Drupal, Xoops, Interwoven CCPro