QA Analyst QA Analyst Developer | QA Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QA Analyst Mercury Insurance Group - Brea, CA February 2019 to June 2019 Contracted to Mercury Insurance as a QA analyst via APEX Systems. Responsible for overseeing automated regression framework scripted test plans. Implement changes to the database using SQL to resolve test failures. Report defects and script improvements. Upload and maintain results of test scenarios after each build for tracking, involving 3 applications. Upload test results to Quality Center weekly. Developer / QA SIMPLEPART, LLC 2015 to 2018 Implemented designs, ensuring cross-browser  functionality, responsiveness, SEO optimization, and WCAG 2.0 AA compliance. LinkedIn:  Improved performance by implementing minification of linkedin.com/in/donovangasque  CSS / JS inclusions.  Implemented localization to support  internationalization in language and currency using  ASP.NET global resource files. SKILLS  Developed SQL objects to support service-type  operations and ETL-type functionality to continually  expand the data catalog. C#  Worked with analytics team to create / tune queries to determine (and subsequently implement) adjustments  to pricing and metadata in catalog, ensuring .NET  competitive offerings in the marketplace.  Created / executed test plans for manual regression SQL  testing. Introduced and piloted automated UI testing  initiative.  Reported, tracked, and prioritized defects in the CSS  overall project backlog.  Maintained development and UAT environments by JQUERY  building and releasing project code using an automated release pipeline with configuration-  specific files, "hosts" file entries, and execution Adobe of delta SQL scripts.  Completed training and achieved certification in  Secure Coding Practices in Development through JD-SPECIFIC KEYWORDS  forty-three (43) Veracode e-Learning courses.  Used C# in code behind to adjust dynamic data HTML. CSS3. JavaScript. Front- end  returning on the front end. Web Design. SaSS. HTML5. Computer  Implement front end ASP.NET logic to respect logged in Science. Visual Design. Collaborate.  and logged out user controls, and repeaters. Responsive. Minimal Supervision.  Created custom .aspx landing pages to meet brand TSA Bash. Testing. GIT. ASP.NET  requirements. Branding Manager Intern IVY STATE 2013 to 2013 2013  Supported the vision of the recording artists by producing graphics, analyzing pricing and market  trends, social media promotion, and the use of e- commerce channels. Front End Designer HM WALLACE 2012 to 2013 Curated and edited graphics; replicated brand  identities on 250+ landing pages, creating a unique e-commerce experience.  Collaborated with teams to optimize UX / UI and quality reviews. Education PUBLIC RELATIONS University of West Georgia 2014 to 2015 General Assembly Kennesaw State University 2015 Skills QA, Selenium, Quality Assurance, HTML 5, CSS3, CSS, SQL, Asp.Net, C#, Javascript, Git, Graphic Design, SEO, HTML, Programming, SQA, Bootstrap, Front End, HTML5, UI Links http://www.noisyecho.com Certifications/Licenses PCI certified September 2018