Job Seeker • Professional experience in developing front end using .Net technologies which includes C#, XAML, VB.NET  • Expertise in design and development with emphasis on HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, Node.JS, REACT.JS  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support. Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in JavaScript.  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript, prototype and various MVC JavaScript frameworks  • Developed front end tool for Displays, Merlin Software  • Proficiency in programming languages C, C++, C#, JavaScript, Python and web-based languages HTML, XML, CSS, REACT JS, Node JS  • Extensive knowledge in software development methodologies Agile and Waterfall  • Knowledge on LAN, WAN, Web Sockets, Socket.io, CAT ET tool, J1939 protocols, FTP, SSH, Putty  • Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Work Experience CaterPillar March 2018 to August 2018 Location:Raleigh, nc  Front end Devoloper    Mini Hex Software Devolopment  Mini Hex Ui Development  Responsibilities:    • The role is to provide the user interface solution to the end user, including the final look, feel and behaviour of the interface in different contexts.  • The code is already developed globally, i need to understamd the code and need to create more features according to the requirement.  • The project involves different layers in the front end we have used HTM5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY.backend technolgies involved C, C++, PHP  • we have used python for the automation.  • After Creating the features i have to connect the data flow in the backend after that i need to test it on the display  • the complete project is about mini excavator display i have created the screens for the mini exacavtor  • the components which we used for the display. we have gauges, widgets- we have different type of widgets.  • For the icoons we used images we have imported images for the icons of each widget  • we have created full screen radio and bluetooth for the display. we can use bluetooth to select the device and we can play what the user needs  • we have the shortcut buttons for each menu and submenu's, if the user want to select the shortcut he can select what he wants.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, PHP, C, C++, Python, Linux, Git, Xamp server Front end Developer CaterPillar - Peoria, IL January 2017 to February 2018 D6 Display Development  D6 UI DEVELOPMENT:  Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages and components using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, React.JS  • Designed UI with single page application with multiple tabs for marine displays  • Designed page using multiple widgets such as gauges, bar graphs, tables, semicircles for different engine parameters using REACT JS  • Designed front end and back end by python automated scripts which updates parameter names, Minimum and maximum values, low and high error warnings, units from the given excel  • Used web sockets for front end and back end integration  • Tested the Html Page using V-Bench Simulator.  • Used GIT as a version control tool.  • By using Web sockets, we can able to communicate with multiple clients using IP Address.  • We used Q unit testing to test this socket for fetching the URL from current location.  • We used Auto script for using Linux commands and for building for verities.    CANARI TOOL DEVELOPMENT:  Responsibilities:  • Created prototype and production-level object-oriented applications throughout software development lifecycle, including design, coding, testing, and documentation  • Developed WinForms user interface projects with initial layout and base controls  • Web Form design in Asp.Net using CSS, JavaScript and coding using C#.net  • Used database connections for sending data from User Interface to MS access and then converting that data to.cpp and .h file  • Used dataset, data reader, data view to read data using ADO.Net objects  • Developed ten screens for the display and tested it manually  • Troubleshot and resolved bugs in .NET applications to ensure optimal development environment  • In the data link layer, developed test plans for MAP and J1939 protocols  • Used Tortoise GIT as a Version Control Tool    Merlin Software Development  Responsibilities:  • Developed XAML Front end for three different user interfaces which includes  i) Developed test plan for roles specified based up on the calibration information configured using database template.  ii)Run test on different HIL testing setup (DSPACE, NI)  Iii)Automatic set up to publish results into the server  • Designed a common UI to invoke different user interfaces i.e., into one configurable tool  • Added animations using storyboard for three user interfaces using XAML, triggers for On Click operation  • XAML Programming is done in blend for visual studio IDE and integrated at backend with the C#  • Used Tortoise GIT as a Version Control Tool Bank of america October 2014 to March 2015 Project Name: Auto BOM (Bill of Materials)  Tools & Skill Used: node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, bootstrap HTML5, CSS3,  Project Details: It's a portal to allow users to generate the BOM, Track the status of BOM that goes through various approvals and notify the users regarding status update of the BOM.    Responsibilities  • Developed web pages and components using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked in form validation using JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server.    • To Implement MVC design pattern using Node.js backend and exposing the micro-services to client (Frontend)  • To write Unit Test Case for APIs in Node.js  • Fetched data in JSON from server path.  • application optimization & scaling Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used JSON for data transfer between front end and back end. Education Bachelor of technology in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University August 2011 to May 2015 Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), LINUX (2 years), DATABASE (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, C, C++, C#, Python, Core Java  Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, QT, .NET, SOAP, VB Script, REACT JS, NodeJS  Version Controls: Tortoise GIT, GIT BASH, Clear Case    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Embedded Linux  Methodologies: Waterfall Model, Agile  Database: Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, SQL, PostgreSQL  Developer Tools: Visual Studio, PyCharm, Atom, Sublime, Visual code