UX UI Designer/ front End Development UX UI Designer/ <span class="hl">front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Development UX UI Designer/ Front- End Developer San Diego, CA I am a UX UI Designer/ Front- End Developer with more than 6 years’ experience. I love creating aesthetically pleasing and functional web products using a user-centered design approach, turning complex problems into a simple beautiful interface. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX UI Designer/ front End Development Clarocity - San Diego, CA 2017 to Present -Identify and troubleshooting UX problems in a complex management system, complicated Data tables, and Developer tools.   -Redesigning and dramatically simplified an overly-complex user interface, while preserving all functionality.   -Designed and Developed a progressive web app using React. UX UI Designer / CMS Specialist GIA (Gemological Institute of America) - Carlsbad, CA 2017 to 2017 -Worked with business and design requirements to develop web pages that adhered to company, industry and usability standards.   -Managing Oracle web center CMS and Improving UX issues.   -Creating wireframes, process flows and site maps to communicate interaction and design ideas. UX UI Designer/ Front- End Developer ATMI JR - New York, NY 2015 to 2016 -Designed UI, UX and marketing materials for 6 apps 3 websites.   -Designing and creating effective online assets to drive messaging to prospective customers and existing customers.   -Participating and supporting creative ideations and generate new concepts. UI Designer/ Developer Story Worldwide - New York, NY 2013 to 2015 -Consulting with clients to understand their goals and explain research results.   -Conducting usability testing and creating wireframes, storyboards, sitemaps, and screen flows.   -Participate in product design and discussions that take concepts through to production using ( HTML, CSS, JS ). UI Designer/ Developer Katz Media Group - New York, NY March 2014 to May 2014 Creating Email marketing content for Vitafusion campaign.  •Interpreting graphic visual or interaction designs in HTML, CSS, JavaScript (jQuery). Education Master's in Web - Multimedia Design and Education Touro College NYC - New York, NY 2015 to 2016 B.A. in Business Administration University of Tripoli Skills HTML, (6 years), CSS (6 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Photoshop (5 years), Illustrator (5 years), Wordpress (6 years), PHP (3 years), React.Js (2 years), Adobe XD (2 years), Node.js (1 year), Adobe XD (3 years), Wireframe (6 years), User Experience, UX (5 years), User Interface, Sketch, UI, Adobe, Axure, Omnigraffle Links http://www.marwangrada.com Certifications/Licenses New York Code and Design Academy March 2016 to Present Additional Information Soft Skills  Critical observation  Adaptability  Negotiation  Communication skills  Problem solving  Emotional Intelligence