Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Development Engineer Seattle, WA Application developer with 7+ years of software and web development experience. My passion lies in ASP.NET application development, Android application development and automation scripting. Work Experience Software Engineer Providence Healthcare Network - Renton, WA April 2019 to Present • Constructed aspects of the user interface for the Providence Health risk arrangement database: designing views, coding user interface and backend ASP.NET MVC services.  • SCRUM meeting scheduled daily with team on two-week sprints with assigned story points.  • Coded Model, View, Controller and backend service files for an ASP.NET MVC source application on dedicated GIT project branch.  • Utilized Kendo UI as a front- end framework for design and consistency of application widgets. Software Development Engineer / Project Manager Randstad Technologies Vendor - Redmond, WA November 2017 to December 2018 • Optimized 1CS (Compliance Extension for Azure DevOps) installation time and mitigated manual configuration workflow when onboarding to new Azure DevOps instances through the use of PowerShell scripts.  • Onboarded 1CS extension onto new Azure DevOps accounts through PowerShell scripting.  • Composed User Guide and Self-Service Authoring documentation on Microsoft's Compliance Tooling website.  • Assembled PM specifications to reduce the need for external support during 1CS (Azure DevOps Compliance Tool) extension onboarding. Front- End Application Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA January 2016 to October 2017 • Implemented new UI requirements, functionality, reporting and chat information for projects involving AT&T's acquisition of DIRECTV.  • Merged several projects to their corresponding release branch while keeping them updated with trunk during development phase.  • Gave analysis and committed code for approximately 1,500 front- end user impacting defects on att.com's consumer buyflow. Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics University of Washington June 2010 Skills Javascript, Android, Git, HTML 5, Jquery, Asp.Net, C#, Entity Framework, Agile, React Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chrisclaiborne http://www.github.com/cclaiborne Certifications/Licenses Certificate in Android Application Development June 2016 to Present University of Washington Software Development and Testing: Ruby on Rails March 2014 to Present Code Fellows