Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Work Experience Software Engineer APINation - San Diego, CA November 2018 to June 2019 Developed back- end services in Node.js to query various APIs in order to retrieve and process data  ? Developed workflows in JSON structure that would retrieve data from one service and send  it to another  ? Customized workflows to fit customer needs  ? Maintained the web platform utilizing Django, React, jQuery, AJAX, HTML, and CSS/LESS  ? Utilized various tools in AWS such as Lambdas, Cloudwatch, and S3  ? Github for version control  ? Jira and Confluence for task tracking and team collaboration Front- End Developer Pro Spot International - Carlsbad, CA March 2017 to November 2018 Developed a UI utilizing AngularJS, Node, Express, Socket.io, and MySQL  ? Downloaded software update files from an ftp server based on information from a JSON file  ? Built an API with socket.io and MySQL  ? Collaborated with lower-level engineers to communicate with the welder  ? Implemented user/administrator access control within interface  ? Assisted in maintaining website with PHP and SugarCRM  ? Git/Gitlab for version control, Redmine for tracking progress Front- End Developer Gap Intelligence - San Diego, CA October 2016 to January 2017 Collaborate with the design and development team to create well-crafted internal/external  web/mobile apps and websites in a Rails shop  ? Add new features, improvements and developing ideas for new and existing tools  ? Use HTML5/Slim, CSS3/Sass/BEM and JavaScript/CoffeeScript/jQuery skills and stay on top  of current trends and technologies  ? Write modular, scalable, semantic front- end code  ? Use Git for version control, Codeship for testing, and Cloud 66 for deployment Web Development Intern Portfolium Inc - San Diego, CA April 2016 to May 2016 Redesigned over 40 email templates using HTML, CSS, and PHP  ? Worked on CodeIgniter framework fixing various bugs in PHP, Angular.JS, and SQL queries  ? Added features to the admin site that displayed statistical charts with Chart.JS based on PHP  MySQL queries  ? Version control using Github Education B.S. in Information Management and Technology Syracuse University May 2014 Skills Aws (Less than 1 year), databases (Less than 1 year), encryption (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Lamp (Less than 1 year), Lamp stack (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Rails (Less than 1 year), Rspec (Less than 1 year), Ruby (Less than 1 year), Ruby on rails (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), testing (Less than 1 year), unit testing (Less than 1 year), version control (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/aedelson http://portfolium.com/AndrewEdelson/portfolio http://github.com/aredelso Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Full-stack development in Ruby on Rails, RSpec for unit testing  ? LAMP and XAMPP stacks with CodeIgniter and CakePHP  ? Node, Angular, Angular2, Express, Mongo, Socket.io  ? Some experience with Python, Java, React, and AWS  ? Using Photoshop to design webpages and slicing up PSD files  ? SQL and Oracle languages, securing databases using triggers, views, encryption, and VPDs  ? Version control using Github