Web Developer Intern Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Web Developer Intern Cottondale, AL Work Experience Web Developer Intern NASA Glenn Research Center - Cleveland, OH June 2019 to August 2019 Supervisor: Richard Kurak, (216)978-8691   Beginner's Guild to Aeronautics Relaunch (BGA) is a subproject under a bigger Project call Glenn Web Improvement Project (GWIP). GWIP goal is to consolidate Glenn's Public website onto a single website. My role in GWIP is to contribute to our WordPress theme, Design Standards, and migration of public web content.  • Contribute to a WordPress Plugin  • Collaborated with supervisors on how to fix server an issue  • Researched Various documentation on theme, WordPress, PHP and JavaScript  • Edited And complied SCSS code Front End - Web Developer Lyons Computer - Birmingham, AL November 2018 to June 2019 Supervisor: Chris White, 205-258-0489 Project Base Work  Collaborated with Supervisor on how he wanted the website to look. On this website the uses of HTML, CSS and JavaScript was needed. This website also used Bootstrap for its web design and layout. The purpose of the website was to manage how many companies needed our service and to sale packages to these companies.  • Wrote three Pages of HTML code for the website.  • Administer Back End work to the website using MYSQL and JavaScript.  • Utilize Bootstrap to bring style to the website. IT Technician Lyons Computers - Birmingham, AL July 2017 to June 2019 Supervisor: Chris White, 205-258-0489   Conducted Repairs on Microsoft and Macintosh Devices. Repair everything from Broken screens to corrupt hard drive. At this job I have Conducted Software updates and Remove viruses using several Programs. I have Resolved issued cause by Blue Screen of Death (BSOD) using a window OS administrative tool. I have Communicated with customer about their computer via phone and in person.  • Written support tickets on the issues of a customer computer.  • Googled parts number for Parts to fix customer computer.  • Installed MacOS, Windows and Linux operating system to perform tasks needed.  • Diagnoses non- working computer to implement repairs REU Intern Lyons Computers - Auburn, AL May 2018 to July 2018 Supervisor: Dr. Biaz, 334-844-6307   Engaged in research to solve the problem of Flying in a GPS-less environment in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). This research contains written work and use of a few programming languages. A Poster presentation and a verbal presentation with PowerPoint was an outcome of this research, Along with the production of a research paper and the Modification to existing code with additional homing feature.  • Assist in implementation of homing feature to the UAV  • Participated in team activity for testing the new implementation of homing feature.  • Recorded and Documented Finding of the homing feature to produce a result.  • Formulate a hypothesis on why the drone result was what they were. Volunteer AmeriCorps NCCC - Vicksburg, MS July 2016 to April 2017 Supervisor: Alex Tubridy, 716-799-7442   AmeriCorps is a ten-month volunteer program that engage AmeriCorps member in Service projects around specific regions of the united states. in my service project I have Responded to the flood in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the fire in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. I have build trails to Bring back stability in the City of Norton's economy, since there coal mines are depleting. I Have help Virginia put a end to rural homelessness Coordinating volunteers to the nearest homeless shelters.  • Managed and Coordinating volunteers during the Gatlinburg fire.  • Communicated to Donator via Phone during the Gatlinburg fire.  • Organized the quantifiable for debris pick ups during the Flood in Baton Rouge. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL June 2019 to Present Associate in Computer Information Systems Lawson State Community College - Birmingham, AL August 2017 to Present Skills Javascript, Wordpress, PHP, Front End, HTML5, Bootstrap, HTML Certifications/Licenses IC3 March 2016 to Present A+ Certified March 2016 to March 2019