OWNER/CTO OWNER/CTO Frisco, TX Adaptable professional with 7+ years of experience and proven knowledge of application development, capacity  planning, and project lifecycle. Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the Sr. Front- End Engineer role at your  company. Work Experience OWNER/CTO Relative Studios - Plano, TX March 2017 to Present Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management  tools, and digital media.  Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education,  reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups.  Develop or validate test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external interfaces and address all  browser and device types.  Develop databases that support web applications and web sites.  Communicate with network personnel or web site hosting agencies to address hardware or software issues  affecting web sites.  Provide clear, detailed descriptions of web site specifications such as product features, activities, software,  communication protocols, programming languages, and operating systems software and hardware. LEAD FRONT- END ENGINEER InspoNetwork - Dallas, TX May 2017 to February 2018 Supervise the work of programmers, technologists and technicians and other engineering and scientific personnel.  Perform or direct web site updates.  Back up files from web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case of problems.  Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction.  Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education,  reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups. SR. FRONT- END DEVELOPER Funimation - Flower Mound, TX March 2015 to April 2017 Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions.  Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction.  Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  browsers, devices, or operating systems.  Maintain understanding of current web technologies or programming practices through continuing education,  reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups. Education B.S. in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT DALLAS - Dallas, TX January 2014 Skills Javascript, UI, Front End, React, HTML 5 (7 years), CSS3 (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-sanchez-b95763113/ Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 April 2011 to July 2014 Additional Information Marketing - I was in charge of all marketing campaigns, including paid advertisements and SEO to ensure the  agency receives a sustainable amount of contracts during my time with Relative Studios