Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - IRISS-Inc Professional with more than 2 years of Experience in Web Development by using HTML/HTML5,  SASS/Less/CSS3, JavaScript/ jQuery/ Angular JS, Bootstrap and Ajax. Well versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS). Hands on Experience on Web Applications Development and have good understandings about SDLC and Agile Methodology. Effective Communication Skills and strong Analytics and Problem-solving skills. Work Experience Web Developer IRISS-Inc April 2019 to Present • Writing reusable, testable, and efficient code.  • Design and implementation of low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications.  • Managing webstore functionality, services, and tools to support sales and marketing teams.  • Conceptualize and code online experiences based on business and user requirements, best practices, standards, and guidelines.  • Managing AWS applications and cloud server operation  • Assist in the design of responsive, cross browser-compatible, performant websites and landing pages and working knowledge of SEO, PPC, and display ad/infographic optimizations.  • Responsive web design for mobile and desktop.  • Worked with WordPress Development, Webstore Management and SEO Optimization.  • Skilled in front end and back- end web languages like HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, SQL.  • Handling responsibilities of in Production Support, Development & Maintenance environment.  • Work independently and in fast-paced environment with tight deadlines, with minimal supervision. UI Developer Telnet-Inc April 2018 to February 2019 • Work with a wide range of clients in industries like financial services, healthcare, airlines and so on.  • Write code as part of a team of front- end HTML, XHTML, XSL, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, ASP, Rest API's, Bootstrap, WordPress and developing a medium-large public facing web application.  • Participate in all phases of an Agile development lifecycle starting from requirements analysis and design through deployment  • Perform as part of a cross-functional development team  • Work on with JavaScript build tools such as Web-pack, Gulp, Grunt etc.  • Handling responsibilities of in Production Support, Development & Maintenance environment  • Work independently and in fast-paced environment with tight deadlines, with minimal supervision. Front- End Developer Texperts-Inc November 2017 to March 2018 • Create web content based on client standards.  • Accuracy in the HTML markup and CSS stylesheets.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for rapid development and styling of HTML components.  • Responsive web design for mobile and desktop.  • Using Angular.JS, created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Build responsive application using Angular js, Drupal Application compatible with mobile devices and different web platforms and browser. Consumed different plugins and angular modules and providers.  • Track projects by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing data.  • Act as a liaison between internal staff and the Front- End Development Team by appropriately directing questions. Ensure follow-up after answers have been determined.  • Accessed functions in web server using Restful web-services.  • Used APIs design pattern for data access through service calls and used spring framework in the application. Jr. Software Engineer MAT Software Solutions Pvt Ltd November 2014 to December 2015 • Facilitated customization of systems by encouraging software engineering team to adopt emerging standards for software application development architecture and tools.  • Used Agile Methodology for developing a Java based application.  •Provided user requirements analysis, design and programming support for enhancement for Web application.  •Design, build, and maintain efficient, reusable, and reliable code.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forgot password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures. Education Master's in computer information sciences in computer information sciences California University of Management and Sciences - Arlington, VA Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), AJAX (1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), Applications Development (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Control Systems (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), Database Design (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Documentation (Less than 1 year), Dreamweaver (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), GIT (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (2 years), Rest (Less than 1 year), SQL. (1 year), Wordpress, Front End, Angularjs, PHP, Wordpress, Front End, Angularjs, HTML5, PHP Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:    • Website Development • API Development  • Web Applications Development • Domain Registration and Web hosting.  • Database Design and development • Basic SEO Techniques  • AWS • Oral and Written Communication. • Version Control Systems • Project Documentation    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: JavaScript, C, C++, SQL  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, XML, Rest API. PHP, WordPress, Drupal. Web/Applications Servers: Apache, AWS, Azure  Version Controls: GIT, GITHUB, SVN, Bitbucket.  Tools & IDE: MS Visual studio, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Flex, MS Visual Studio, Sublime text 3, Brackets, Notepad++.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OS.  Databases: SQL Server 2016/2012 (T-SQL, Store Procedures, Triggers), ORCALE, PHPMYADMIN.