Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer / React / HTML / CSS / Javascript / Front End Utah County, UT Ever since I was in kindergarten I knew I wanted to be President of Toys R Us. Since that is no longer an option, I decided to become an entrepreneur. I have been thinking of business ideas and tech solutions ever since I thought of my childhood dream. In order to make my dream possible I have since then taken the initiative to educate myself in Web Development. I now have the skills needed to take initiative and build out my own ideas.     I can now build full-stack web sites that use databases, React frameworks, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.     GitHub: https://github.com/Race428  Portfolio: https://acheson.co Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack Developer SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED - Provo, UT June 2019 to Present Technologies Used:   React, Redux, HTML, CSS, Node, Express, PostgreSQL, Sessions , Heroku DB, JavaScript, APIs    Created website for Social Media Content producers. Used authentication for security and redux to keep track of podcasts posted by admins. Implemented dynamic RESTFUL API calls to database to retrieve video links and render them in iFrames. Future plans to add forums, chat, and front- end manipulation to moderate content.  Full-Stack Developer SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED - Provo, UT February 2019 to Present Technologies Used:   React, Redux, HTML, CSS, Node, Express, PostgreSQL, Sessions, AWS S3, Heroku DB    Implemented RESTFUl API's, NPM packages, and AWS S3 buckets to make a functional full-stack application for dating. Used React, Javascript and JSX to build both back and front end. Managed state through Redux, and used SQL database files in React to manage data flow. Used the Socket.io to implement a successful chat feature that saves all conversations to the database.     www.Tenderconnections.net Front End Developer DevMountain Student Developers - Lehi, UT March 2019 to June 2019 Technologies Used:   React, Redux, HTML, CSS, SASS, Node, Express, PostgreSQL, Sessions, AWS S3, Heroku DB     Implemented a Webcam API to take a video blob and upload it to AWS S3 to view at a later time.   Used conditional rendering of JSX to hide components and blocks of code until needed. Worked in an agile environment with daily stand ups to track progress of development.     PitchVivid is an application that allows hiring managers to view 30 second videos provided by potential applicants. Hiring managers can add, edit, or delete jobs. All applicants for each posting are viewable with their videos and resumes if they uploaded one.    www.Pitchvivid.com Life Coach Daniels Academy - Heber, UT February 2018 to February 2019 -Worked with youth on the autism spectrum  -Troubleshooted and provided solutions to problems clients had with other clients.   - Communicated with an ex-google executive and current Microsoft Executive about their child's progress.   - Used digital communication to keep contact with other staff  -Managed Data entry for personal client progress via google products and windows OS.  Team Leader - On-campus Internship Klos Guitars - Provo, UT August 2018 to December 2018 at Brigham Young University  • Organized and lead a team of four students to increase sales for a local guitar company that  made specialty guitars to global customers.  • As a team created social media campaigns and worked closely with the CEO to develop  strategic goals.  • Met on a bi-weekly basis to constantly re-evaluate and prioritize objectives. Marketing Launch Specialist Micro Focus International - Provo, UT August 2017 to November 2017 -Utilized complex spreadsheets to keep track of major updates for enterprise software.   -Coordinated product releases with developers, product managers, and content managers.   -Wrote and sent weekly emails documenting progress on several product releases.   -Wrote technical blogs for the products I managed. BYU Office of First-Year Experience - Student Assistant Brigham Young University - Provo, UT January 2017 to August 2017 -Using Windows Enterprise OS and softwares, managed and sent thousands of emails to multiple contact lists via Microsoft Outlook.   -Created and maintained a mobile Guidebook App that thousands of new students used over a 3 day orientation.   -Used graphic editing software to create newsletters sent out each week.  Education B.S. in Communication Studies in Communication Studies Brigham Young University - Provo, UT January 2016 to Present Certificate in Web Development DevMountain - Lehi, UT March 2019 to June 2019 Skills Javascript, Node.js, Html5, Sql, Front End, Web Design, Web Development, Web developer, full-stack development, React, React.js, CSS3 Links http://github.com/race428 http://Acheson.co http://PITCHVIVID.COM Certifications/Licenses Javascript Web Development June 2019 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/4183dc26-1980-4ef1-b832-2c5ebea7a868/linked_in_profile    Students who receive this badge are comfortable working with Javascript to perform basic logic and algorithmic tasks. They can build full-stack applications using React, Node, Express, and SQL. Within React they learn components, state, props, Redux, and more. They know REST and how to build APIs that interact with an SQL database. They have created and hosted live a personal project. They have worked on a team to create a project as a group and host it live. Publications Protect Your Employees From Phishing & Email Based Attacks https://blog.microfocus.com/protect-employees-phishing-email-attacks/ 2017-09 A blog I wrote for Micro Focus during my job. Top 3 Considerations for Disaster Recovery https://blog.microfocus.com/top-3-disaster-recovery-considerations/ 2017-10 A blog about disaster recovery I wrote for Micro Focus.