Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Charlottesville, VA • Around 5 years of work experience as a Java front- end developer, developing applications using Angular6, TypeScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, JavaScript, Java/J2EE, Spring Framework, Struts, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Servlets.  • Working experience in implementing Single Page Applications using Angular6 with TypeScript concepts like Components, Directives, Routing, Services, Data, and Event Binding, Pipes, Forms, Animations, CLI and Materials.  • Experienced in producing visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX, cross-browser compatibility and SEO / web standards.  • Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Margin, Table, Sprites, Behaviors, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements, and CSS Box Model.  • Knowledge of Core Java technologies multithreading, exception handling, collection, functional programming, lambdas, streams, I/O, etc.  • Experience with jQuery UI in building more responsive and interactive web pages using Widgets, Interactions, Effects, and Utilities.  • Consumed and Exposed both REST and SOAP-based web services, good experience with SOA model.  • Working experience in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Boot.  • Decent experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Transactions, Constraints, Indexes and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven and Version Controls tools like TFS, GIT, and TortoiseSVN.  • Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, UAT, JUnit Testing Framework and debugging tools like Fiddler.  • Good knowledge in Waterfall and Agile methodologies of the development process such as requirement analysis & definition, designing, coding, implementation and testing  • Strengths include good team player, self-motivated, quick learner, open to working with new technologies in a dynamic, fast-paced and deadline drove environment, excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Developer Commonwealth Computer Research, Inc - Charlottesville, VA June 2018 to Present Charlottesville, VA - - - - - - - - - - June 2018 to Present  Description: ARPEGGIO tool suite is a rich library of intuitive visualization and analytic components. View and analyze temporal, spatial, and multi-dimensional data. Overlay data series to find patterns, discover relationships, and identify outliers. Investigate user data from multiple perspectives and determine the key performance drivers for an organization. In Arpeggio, virtually every chart element is interactive, so each data point can tell a story. Hover over an item to show a summary pop-up or click to open one of Arpeggio's many drill-down panels that complement the on-screen data with related information or supplemental charts. It helps users to forecast and visualize data into the future. Run multiple predictions, test different scenarios, and uncover the key performance drivers through an intuitive graphical interface. It provides a flexible backend that allows quick integration with both modern and legacy data sources. Incorporate data from databases, flat files, spreadsheets, and web services. Arpeggio includes adapters to handle virtually any data format.  Responsibilities:  Responsible for creating an efficient design and developing Single Page Application according to the client requirements using Angular6, Java, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSON.  Developed the SPA with Angular6 concepts like Components, Pipes, Services, Directives, Router Guards, Routing, Animation, and Materials.  Created re-useable Angular6 custom components that include Filter text box, pipes, Dialog box or models and Custom directives as Sorting and Decimal masking.  Written Angular Material driven JSON consuming Angular6 functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  Defined new validations through Angular6 for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  Used Angular6 HTTP Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  Utilized Bootstrap for page functionality, popup screens and drop-down menus on the webpage  Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and TypeScript.  Parsed XML content getting from the content management system and created HTML tags with the content data.  Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  Worked on writing Unit Test cases for Angular with help of Mocha testing framework.  Performed GitHub as a version control tool for effectively managing the code changes and collaborate with the team.  Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings, Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Angular6, TypeScript, VS Code, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, Hibernate, Spring Framework, Mocha, GitHub. CoConstruct - Charlottesville, VA November 2017 to May 2018 Charlottesville, VA. - - - - - - - - - Nov 2017 to May 2018  Project: CoConstruct Portal  Description: CoConstruct is a web-based project, financial, and client management system for custom home builders and remodelers. It is the only single-entry estimating system that allows each user to enter a piece of information once, and have that data flow directly from the estimate, specifications, selections, bids, change orders, budgets, and to and from QuickBooks - with no double entry. Users can manage their projects from their tablet or desktop, in the field with our mobile app. In addition to the fully integrated financial system, CoConstruct streamlines scheduling, communication, client and subcontractor portals, files, photos, to-dos, time clock, job log, warranty, and more. CoConstruct provides builders unlimited, no-charge projects for use with prospects, estimating, and bidding.  Responsibilities  Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  Worked with NPM to set up the environment and install tools for AngularJS based Application.  Designed on AngularJS Grids and UI components to develop Views/Templates and Used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in a search box and integrator functionalities.  Captured the user events, rendered the appropriate action and UI based on user actions using AngularJS.  Designed Bootstrap Carousel, Accordion and other controls to build fluid and responsible web pages.  Utilized CSS to implement backgrounds, layouts, positioning, text, borders, margins, padding, tables, and behaviors.  Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  Worked with backend programmers to troubleshoot JavaScript related issues with front- end connectivity  Debugged and tracked using Fiddler for Web API service.  Responsible for Jasmine to unit test the AngularJS project in an isolated and automated manner.  Participated in daily Scrum meets and used AGILE methodologies with JIRA to manage the development process of the project.  Environment: C#, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Web API, ASP.NET, Jasmine, Fiddler, Visual Studio 2015, MS SQL Server 2014, AJAX, JSON, XML. Bank of Beijing - Beijing, CN January 2015 to July 2016 Project: Transaction Cost Analysis System  Description: Transaction Cost Analysis System is a reporting tool that tracks the quality of orders transaction prices versus market conditions either at the time the orders were submitted or after the trade executes. It measures the actual transaction price your broker achieves for you versus the national best bid and offer at the time you submit a market order (or limit order priced to immediately execute). It allows financial professionals to quantify brokers' performance on trade execution, optimize trading algorithms, and improve their investment decision process.  Responsibilities  Designed and developed Web Application with Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, Struts and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  Coded HTML pages using CSS for static content generation with JavaScript for validations.  JavaScript is used for the client-side validations and to provide the event-driven programming with HTML files.  Customized CSS files by adding new CSS features like media queries to ensure fluid/ responsive design for our web pages.  Consumed the Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle database.  Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  TortoiseSVN version control is used to track and maintain the different version of the project.  Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of the application in Tomcat Application Server.  Utilized MAVEN as build tool and developed a build file for compiling the code of creating WAR files.  Performed JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.  Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies, had sprint planning every two weeks and set up daily meetings to monitor the status.  Environment: Eclipse, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Oracle, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Maven, JIRA, Agile (Scrum), Apache Tomcat, TortoiseSVN, JSP, Oracle. Midea Group - Guangdong, CN January 2014 to December 2014 Project: Bill of Material Management System  Description: Midea Group is a Chinese electrical appliance manufacturer, headquartered in Guangdong, China. The firm employs approximately 100,000 people in China and overseas across 21 manufacturing plants and 260 logistics centers across 200 countries. Bill of Material Management System provides a solid base for production activity to be defined, tracked and reviewed. Designed to allow to start simple and build from there, the maintenance of the BOM provides advanced features such as detailed routing, multiple routing definition, a mixed unit of measure, cross-group costing, scrap tracking, and total visual documentation.  Responsibilities  Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework and developed the interface using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSP, and Java/J2EE.  Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Validator for server-side validation.  Performed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  Utilized Eclipse for coding the application and used SVN for change control.  Used ANT for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files and deployed the application.  Performed unit testing using JUnit and wrote Test Cases on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Eclipse, Spring Framework, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, Structs, ANT, UAT, SVN, JSTL, JUnit. Education Master's Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Javascript, Angular, Front-End, UI, Front End