Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Mobikasa LLC New York, NY Aiming to work as a UX/UI Designer and Front- End Developer/Web Developer.  Experienced professional creating prototypes, wireframes, websites, mockups, mobile application, and UI.  Open for relocation. Work Experience Front End Developer Mobikasa LLC - New York, NY December 2018 to Present • Utilize markup languages such as HTML, CSS Frameworks, JavaScript, and Media Queries for responsive web development.  • Update client's homepage and content pages using CMS tool (IBM Websphere) on a daily basis for enterprise teams (1800Flowers.com, FruitBouquets.com, PersonalizationUniverse.com).   • Actively manage and monitor projects with Jira, WorkFront and Slack.  • Setup A/B testing with Google Optimize and implement JavaScript logic for tracking data.  • Perform QA and code review methodology with other web developers.  • Validated site to meet W3C Standards and compliance.  • Attend scrum meetings on a daily basis with Web Production team and enterprise teams. Front- end Developer Intern DelaPlex Software - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to December 2018 • Designed wireframes and mockups for mobile applications using JustInMind software.  • Used Ionic framework to develop the mobile application.  • Coded and Developed web applications using HTML, CSS Frameworks, Angular 4, and JavaScript.  • Performed collaboration with multiple teams with Git, Bitbucket, Source Tree and Jira. Software Developer Intern Xtlytics LLC - Jericho, NY May 2017 to August 2017 • Designed the paper prototype for the mobile pharmacy application which was based on AI.  • Designed the wireframes and Mockups for the mobile application.  • Contributed to the Java codebase used in the automated deployment of software.  • Used AWS cloud-based platform to perform various changes and to fetch data from the cloud.  • Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications.  • Debugged and modified software components. Front- End Developer Ypsilon IT Solutions - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2015 to February 2016 • Developed beautiful web UI by using JSP and front- end technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Use Restful web service to exchange resources between client and server. Used AJAX call to send a request to get data from th e back- end and post  updated data back  • Used organizational skills to develop and enhance websites to their fullest potential.  • Worked with clients to analyze graphic and web design needs and design appropriate solutions within each organization's budget.  • Collaborated with project manager regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decision  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers using AngularJS.  • Used $http in AngularJS for consuming restful web services. Front- End Technical Instructor Universal Informatics - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2014 to June 2015 • Created boardroom and courtroom multimedia presentations including video and text- synced depositions for enhanced understanding.  • Researched and updated all required materials needed for firm and partners.  • Taught undergraduate students JAVA, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and SQL and helped them in developing their projects.  • In the class, there were 30 students and 8 teams working on their separate projects.  • Taught programming courses in HTML, CSS and web standards.  • Delivered learning-oriented instructions by establishing a classroom environment and student involvement, as well as effectively planning and preparing for classes and student success.    PROJECT  • Project: e-school for Jainism website- This project was part of the eschoolforjainism.com website, it aims to create the responsive login pages  and give users more options to log in to an application such as login with without password or forgot username and student ca n learn more about the availability of the courses and about Jainism religion more.  • Project: Trident computer corporation -This project was part of the www.tridentcomputer.com website, it aims to create the responsive login  pages For A Top Network and Infrastructure Equipment Supplier When it's time to choose the right Equipment for your co mpany. The responsibility of mine was to lead and direct front- end interface development throughout a group of applications. Create mockups and wireframes.  • Project: Essentials (Ionic mobile application) - Developed mobile based application on ionic which used camera plugin. And lets the user save  the important documents and files.  • Project: Delaplex mobile application (Ionic mobile application using Html, SCSS, Angular 4) - Developed mobile based application on ionic  which used a calendar plugin and also let the employees schedule their availability, view their profile.  • Project: Receipt Juggler (mobile application UX/UI designing)- Designed the UI using the tools like Invison, Azure. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science And Information Technology PACE University- Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Technology - New York, NY August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science RGPV University of Madhya Pradesh - Indore, Madhya Pradesh August 2010 to May 2014 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C++, FIREBASE, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Wireframe & Prototype tools: InVision, Axure, Sketch, Just in Mind. • Web Technologies: Bootstrap 3/4, jQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS2/3, XML, JavaScript, DOM, AJAX, Ionic Framework, AngularJs, Angular 2/4. Typescript, Angular CLI, Node Js, React Js, Azure cloud services. • Programming Languages: C, C++, Visual Basic, Java. • Database: SQL, Mongo DB, Firebase. • Operating Systems: Windows, Mac. • Applications Software's: Microsoft Office, Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual studio. • IDE, Editors: Sublime Text, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop, Visual Studio code. • Browser: All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari) • Debugging Tools: Firefox, Developer Tools. • Applications Software's: Microsoft Office, Eclipse, Net beans, Adobe Photoshop., UI, Angular, Front End, Front-End Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/devershi-rathore-8111a6132 http://github.com/devershirathore http://devershirathore.com Assessments Critical Thinking — Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yfhi4zps4ubjh3sw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Wireframe & Prototype tools: InVision, Axure, Sketch, Just in Mind.  • Web Technologies: Bootstrap 3/4, jQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS2/3, XML, JavaScript, DOM, AJAX, Ionic Framework, AngularJs, Angular 2/4.  Typescript, Angular CLI, Node Js, React Js, Azure cloud services.  • Programming Languages: C, C++, Visual Basic, Java.  • Database: SQL, Mongo DB, Firebase.  • Operating Systems: Windows, Mac.  • Applications Software's: Microsoft Office, Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual studio.  • IDE, Editors: Sublime Text, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop, Visual Studio code.  • Browser: All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari)  • Debugging Tools: Firefox, Developer Tools.  • Applications Software's: Microsoft Office, Eclipse, Net beans, Adobe Photoshop.