Salesforce Administrator Salesforce Administrator Salesforce Administrator - IQOR Irving, TX Work Experience Salesforce Administrator IQOR - Plano, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, workflow, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships  • Validation and formula fields to the custom objects and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Develop web Services and callouts to send and receive data from external applications.  • Created and maintained Users, Profiles, Permission Set and Roles to fit the security needs of user.  • Used SOQL&SOSL for data manipulation needs of the requests.  • Worked in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Involved in migrating the data from database to salesforce application using Data loader.  • Created various Reports, Report Folders and dashboards to assist managers to better utilize salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Worked in Agile environment and provided status updates in daily stand up call. Salesforce Developer AMERICAN EXPRESS - Phoenix, AZ August 2017 to December 2018 • Customized dashboards to monitor the usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Worked on Salesforce communities.  • Created Profiles and implemented Object-level, Field-level and Record-level security.  • Provided support ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including Custom Objects, Workflows and Triggers.  • Worked in different sandboxes for development and testing, and involved in migrating the code to production instance in installments using Change Set.  • Worked with External objects in Salesforce which is another feature introduced with lightning components.  • Experience of adding users, maintaining existing users, creating new profiles, cloning existing profiles, assigning roles to the users.  • Demonstrated experience in Salesforce Customization, Data Validation, Data Utilities, Analytics, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration. Jr Front end Developer Hargies solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to October 2015 • I design and build custom Wordpress sites and marketing collateral. I am also experienced in logo design, SEO & social media consulting  • Designed web pages in PSD editable for client approval, graphic design newspaper and flyer design for car dealers and create newsletters campaigns.  • Develop web. Pages from graphic editable to html most of the time through a CMS such as Wordpress/Joomla. Browser testing and compliance.  • • E-commerce (Open-cart, Woo-commerce) installation, configuration, content load and maintenance.  • Requirement analysis for the sales department Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Kakatiya University Masters in Information Technology in Information Technology Atlantis University Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, C++, HTML, XML, FORCE.COM, CSS, ECLIPSE, JAVA, JSP, APEX, LOADER, EXCEL, Salesforce, Visualforce, Salesforce Admin, COM Links http://Salesforce.com Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Salesforce Tools: Workflows, triggers, process builders, Approvals, Dashboard, Reports, SOQL, Visual force pages, Force.com Data Loader, Workbench, Excel Connector, Eclipse IDE plug in  • Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access  • Languages: C, C++, JAVA, Apex.  • Web: HTML, CSS, JSP, XML