Junior DevOps Engineer Junior DevOps Engineer Full Stack Developer El Cerrito, CA I am an ambitious individual looking to further my skills as a software/full-stack developer. During my time in college as an Astrophysics major, I realized I enjoyed solving problems. However, as graduation neared I also realized that the physics problems I were solving, while enjoyable, did not produce gratifying, real-world results. In other words, I was not creating anything. That is when I turned my head to software development. Each piece of code I write, whether it be a small function or a library of modules, brings me joy because it is something I created. What I look most for in a position is its capacity to for me to learn, to think differently, to see things I have never seen before, and above all, to create. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior DevOps Engineer Infosys - San Francisco, CA May 2019 to Present • Facilitated a migration effort from a retiring CI/CD pipeline to a new enterprise standard pipeline for one of the Big Four Banks of the United States.   • Duties included information gathering and coordination with app owners to ensure a smooth transition to the new DevOps tools. Associate Infosys LTD - Indianapolis, IN October 2017 to Present • Self-taught the MERN full-stack to develop a complete website connected to its own server and database.  • Completed three industry-level training programs for programming fundamentals in Python and SQL, usage of SAP technologies covering aspects from table creation and report generation to user-interface design, and DevOps practices in the creation of CI/CD pipelines. SAP Security Administrator Infosys - Indianapolis, IN March 2018 to December 2018 • Allocated, scheduled, and removed SAP system clearances of employees to both production-sensitive systems and non-production systems (development, testing, QA) for one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Front End Developer Infosys - Indianapolis, IN July 2018 to November 2018 • Tasked by Infosys’ Indianapolis hub’s Associate Vice President to develop an interactive website using React.JS with a SCRUM-led team to represent the ambition of our employees, achievements of Infosys, the accolades of our clients, and the future of the Indianapolis Innovation hub. Research Assistant Basic Plasma Science Facility – UCLA - UCLA, CA July 2016 to September 2017 • Simulated/CAD a graphite heater in ANSYS Workbench to be used in plasma production.  • Performed hands-on property tests on graphite to model its evaporation rate by routinely joule-heating it to temperatures over 1600 Celsius. Mission Operations - Flight Dynamics Python and SQL Developer ELFIN Cube Satellite - UCLA - UCLA, CA June 2015 to September 2017 • Utilized knowledge of physics and mathematics to create models of satellites and simulate their orbits using the program Systems Tool Kit (STK) by AGI.  • Developed custom data products for determining a satellite's orientation and trajectory from arbitrary states.  • Coded various modules in Python to create, access, and store simulated satellite data into SQL databases. Mentor ELFIN Cube Satellite - UCLA October 2015 to September 2016 • Tutored underprivileged 6th, 7th, and 8th grade students in Math, Science, and English while also providing a safe and dynamic environment for learning. Undergraduate Teaching Assistant UCLA Physics Department - UCLA, CA April 2016 to June 2016 • Selected to serve as a physics aide for a college-level physics course targeted towards hard-science majors consisting of 200+ students.  • Co-lead discussion sections by clarifying and expanding on physical concepts, problems, and questions.  • Facilitated student learning by holding weekly office hours and served as a peer-tutor. Education Bachelor's in Astrophysics UCLA - Los Angeles, CA September 2013 to June 2017 Skills Javascript (2 years), Git (2 years), CSS (2 years), MYSQL (3 years), Python (3 years), HTML 5 (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/herbert-su-697b24a7/ https://github.com/HerbertSu/ Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kwefjgtq-b-cjses Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.