Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Roc Search Inc • Strong background in Java/J2EE environments. Well experienced in MVC architecture of spring and Struts framework.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Java, JEE/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts1.2/2.0, Spring2.5/3.0.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and JqueryLight box.  • Expertise in implementation of automation framework using Selenium Webdrivers.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail. Experienced in working with databases, such as Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL and MS Access.  • Development and deployment experience with Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic and Web sphere servers.  • Expertise in analyzing business requirements and providing technical solutions, design and Coding  • Expertise in Web Page development using JavaScript (libraries such as Prototype and JQuery), Ajax, XML, XSLT, XPATH, HTML and CSS.  • Strong Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects. Work Experience Front End Developer Roc Search Inc - Austin, TX June 2013 to Present • Work on the project called Electronic Ticket Information Management System (eTIMS). This dynamic web application mainly helps Department of Motor Vehicles to search and analyze data through traffic tickets, customer detail and payment history on each vehicle plate, and also supports functions required to manage and collect all the parking and moving violations.  • Based on new client requirement to Redesign and Implement new responsive UI's on the platform, like designing pages, adding new features, theme colors and advanced module to improve performance.  • Use Bootstrap new features, like Buttons, Input, Form, Grid, Navigation Bar, Sidebar, Modal and others to build responsive web pages on desktops, tablets and phones.  • Utilize HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery UI and JSP to make the original web page more dynamic and also add more convenient features to improve customer experience.  • Created custom, reusable, and testable AngularJS 1.5 modules, controllers, directives, filters, factories and services to implement all functionalities and data binding on DMV ticket management module.  • Created AngularJS custom directives and custom filters for reusable components and search engine.  • Collaborate with UX team for UI design by using Mockplus and hands-on coding new DEMO web pages.  • Solve Cross-site scripting (XSS), Cross-site Request Forgery (CSRF) and other project securities issues.  • Fetching and updating the drivers' traffic records data for RESTful requests from Oracle.  • Create and consume RESTful API in Java, J2EE which used to get message through MQ and JMS.  • Build this project with Gradle Build Tool in IBM WebSphere, and control system by using SVN.  • Involved in Agile/ Scrum based approach to UI development.  • Worked on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standards with IT Department called my project it is an online client facing web application to help IEEE global scientist and members to create review and report different Events and Standards.  • Utilized HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap for creating responsive and modern web pages that increases user satisfaction for mobile, tablets and desktop devices.  • Created on creating Single Page Application using AngularJS 1.5 to create Modules, Controller, Service, Filters and Directives for Create PARs module and View PARs module.  • Worked with jQuery DataTables plugin, adding sorting, paging, and filtering abilities to plain HTML tables for PARs events information module.  • Created D3.js Calendar View visualization with yearly events and standard data provided to scientists.  • Consumed RESTful APIs using Spring MVC Framework that fetch data from the MySQL Database.  • Involved in creating and executing Unit test cases using Jasmine Karma.  • Worked on Maven Java project, using SVN to maintain different versions of source code and web pages.  • Developed the application using Agile/Scrum Methodology which involves daily stand ups.  • Responsible to work on Xfinity Customer Experience Visualization project, it is an online web application which aims to analyze customer behavior, and also help and guide any technology skill level customers to make their data ingestion and manipulate easily and quickly.  • Created efficient design and responsive UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and Bootstrap.  • Collaborate with UX engineers and designers to implement markup/designs.  • Used AngularJS framework to accomplish the Single Page Application in the project.  • Involved in building backend RESTful API to be consumed by the UI client using Node.js.  • Made enhancements using Bootstrap model and tested Ajax RESTful API calls using Postman.  • Made the Node.js server consolidated with Socket.IO to construct MVC framework for front- end AngularJS to back- end MongoDB to give chatting service to users.  • Implemented Node.js server side code along with Express.js framework to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose package.  • Used D3.js library to implement Comcast dynamic timeline visualization with Customer Service Data.  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Worked on Git to maintain current and historical versions of source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Used Agile Methodology and reported daily tasks to Scrum Master during Sprint meetings.  • Worked on a Healthcare Information Management System to support doctors and nurses to manage and observe customer daily physical condition, which provided better treatment and diagnose for customers.  • Designed and develop new user interface using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed a responsive mobile website using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Used AngularJS 1.x to create a SPA for the credit card promotion module along with routers, filters, custom directives and controllers.  • Used jQuery and JavaScript to select DOM elements, handle events and create animations.  • Consumed RESTful API and created back- end routing and data loading by using Node.js on Express.js.  • Used Express.js Framework to set up middleware to respond HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • Used D3.js to implement a dynamic of Timeseries Chart for consuming customer's health data module.  • Created customize SASS library to keep consistency for whole site style.  • Wrote Linux command used Git for monitoring and updating the regular changes in the project. Education M.S in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ Skills AJAX (4 years), ANGULARJS (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technology: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, Ajax, JSON, XML, SQL, JAVA, C++  Libraries and Frameworks: AngularJS 1.x, jQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, React, MongoDB, SASS, D3.js  IDE and Tools: Eclipse, IBM WebSphere, Maven, Gradle, NPM, Zeplin, Mockplus, Rally, Agile, Jira  Others: REST, Mocha, Jasmine, JUnit, JSP, MySQL, Oracle, Struts, Spring, Git, SVN, Postman