Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Washington, DC A goal-oriented recent Electrical Engineering graduate looking to work in the field of software development,  and software/hardware programming. A fast-learning and versatile programmer with nearly 2 years  experience with HTML, SQL, Javascript, and CSS; and with 3+ years experience with C++, Java and Matlab. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer O'Brien Garage Doors - Decatur, TX April 2019 to Present ? I participate in the design and development of the business CRM software  ? I use Javascript, HTML, and CSS to manipulate the layout and functionality, like VoIP interactions, user  chat, customer and business history lookup, etc. Desktop Support Engineer Consultant - United Therapeutics Robert Half - Silver Spring, MD February 2018 to Present Participated in planning presentations and meetings with the Project Management team of the IT  department.  ? Utilized Wrike and Teams to plan and launch IT department projects.  ? Used HTML, CSS, and Javascript to build two responsive Azure-hosted web pages; a landing page for the Operations team of the IT department, and a web invite page for a Company event using HTML,  CSS, and Javascript.  ? Designed and restructured the IT department's responsive ServiceNow Service Portal, using HTML,  CSS, Javascript, and AngularJS, and front- end development concepts. Intern IBM West Africa - Lagos, NG July 2017 to August 2017 Nigeria  ? Received training on the basics of IBM Watson Cloud Computing.  ? Built IoT and NODE-RED applications using IBM Bluemix.  ? Participated in technical sales meeting of IBM software products.  ? Assisted in gathering and extrapolating data for IBM Digital - Nation Africa initiative. Mathematics Tutor Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2015 to May 2016 Used previous knowledge studied in Calculus for Engineering, like Differentiation, Integration,  bivariate and multivariate functions, and Applications of Calculus concepts to Physics, to help other  students.  ? Assisted students in Calculus 1, 2, & 3 for Engineering and Life Sciences.  ? Ensured that students fully understood each topic presented. Physics Tutor Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2014 to December 2015 Used previous knowledge studied in Physics for Engineering, like Electronics and Electromagnetics  theory, to help other students  ? Assisted students in Physics for Engineering, and Physics for Life Sciences, with interpreting data from Mechanics and Electronics labs, and using it to determine results with MATLAB algorithms and  equations learned in class. Electrical Engineering Intern Jacobs Engineering - Cambridge, MA September 2013 to December 2013 Used AutoCAD and Revit to place electrical components on electrical designs for buildings.  ? Assisted with completing electrical plans for renovation of MASSPORT Logan Terminal.  ? Participated in information sessions for other companies' products. Education Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Northeastern University May 2016 Skills Desktop Support, C++ (1 year), Java (2 years), Javascript (1 year), Web Development (1 year), Application Development (1 year), CSS, HTML 5, Git, jQuery, MySQL Links http://github.com/suoemik