Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - TransCore Atlantic LLC Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer TransCore Atlantic LLC February 2019 to Present Added Immediate value to the organization by developing new features without any formal training.  ? Created elegant and pragmatic software solutions utilizing C#, JavaScript, AngularJS, and Typescript.  ? Wrote logical and readable code with clear naming conventions and informative comments.  ? Dissolved complicated architectural design problems into manageable functional modules.  ? Created fully functional UI based on SQL data structures, JSON data, and visual designs.  ? Used JSON Web Tokens for authentication and single sign-on between applications.  ? Utilized JavaScript Promises to consume Restful APIs and prevent runtime errors. Software Engineer Nurepublic INC April 2018 to January 2019 Translated design team's wireframes into responsive, interactive features, using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  ? Added new features using Node, Express, and Angular JS with an MVC approach to software architecture.  ? Tested applications using emulator technology to ensure it ran properly on all browsers and devices.  ? Fluidly managed multiple tasks in an agile, high pressure, and dynamic environment. Front- End Web Developer Club Essential LLC June 2017 to April 2018 Hit the floor running picking up Club Essential's methods, CMS, and team dynamic with no formal training.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery to convert client content into functional web pages.  ? Introduced innovative solutions to improve efficiency that is now used company-wide.  ? Proposed a new product and provided all steps for implementation. Front- End Web Developer Cingularity Design LLC November 2014 to June 2017 Crafted responsive and user-friendly web experiences from beginning to end, using RAD Methodologies.  ? Utilized SEO, analytics, Adwords, and social media marketing to drive site traffic and increase online presence. Education Bachelor of Science in Responsive Design Xavier University - Cincinnati, OH Skills MySQL, Javascript Links http://linkedin.com/in/chase-love http://github.com/LoveChase