UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> FRONT END UI DEVELOPER Chicago, IL • Good understanding in web solutions, mobile software development and desktop software development.  • Experienced as a User Interface/User Experience (UI/UX) Designer in developing applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax and JSON.  • Worked on Grunt, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON and Responsive design concepts.  • Deep understanding in development of view layers using React.js library.  • Experienced in developing single page application (SPA) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Node.js and Twitter Bootstrap with responsive design concept.  • Good understanding in applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework and complex event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experienced in developing frontend web pages for user interactions for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Worked on IDE's like Brackets, WebStorm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text and Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages.  • Worked on Software Development Life Cycle process which includes developing, testing, designing and implementation.  • Experienced in working with debugging tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome, Safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar and Worked on cross browser compatibility issues.  • Experienced in using Agile methodologies to deliver solutions with adaptability and high level flexibility.  • Can adapt to new environments, new technologies very quickly and able to face new challenges at workplace. Excellent communication skills and good interaction.  Web Technology HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Ionic, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, d3.js  Web/App Servers HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Node.JS.  IDE & Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, WebStorm, Brackets, Sublime Text Editor, Dreamweaver.  Version Control GitHub, SVN (tortoise SVN), Bitbucket, Perforce.  Debugging Tools Chrome Developer Toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Safari Web Developer.  Other Development Tools/Libraries Adobe Photoshop CS6, Microsoft Office 2010, Grunt, Jasmine, storybook.  Operating System Windows 7/8/10, MAC OS X, UNIX/LINUX. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience UI Developer Big Lots - Columbus, OH October 2017 to Present Big lots! Inc.., is an American retail company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Its department stores sell a wide variety of merchandise, including packaged food and beverages, toys, furniture, clothing, housewares, and small electronics, much of which is closed out or overstocked merchandise.  The current project is to develop an internal application for merch coordinators, vendors and sample coordinators to create samples for sale in distribution centers and also to request samples or products for delivery from DC and to search product information, create checkout requests and disposal requests, sending emails to people to be notified about the sample requests etc..,   Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed web Application using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Developed the frontend components using AngularJS framework to build up the Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed new web features using MVC Framework like Angular 2.0, Bootstrap, NodeJS.  • Created web templates using HTML5, CSS3, ES6, Bootstrap and preprocessors like LESS. Added functionality to the web pages using jQuery and various JavaScript frameworks.  • Designed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Used MVC framework for creating web applications.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC frameworks like Angular 2.0, Bootstrap and NodeJS.  • Created custom components of so that it can be reused on different places in the application.  • Developed the login and registration module and used developed validations component for the form validation.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular 2.0, Node.js) to augment browser based applications.  • Used NodeJS to install the dependencies and use them in the application.  • Used select2 component for the multi select and single select functionality of the textboxes for selecting users, buyers or products.  • Created cart functionality for adding items or products into the cart for Checkout or Disposal.  • Created APIs to receive information and display it in our applications and allow the users to manipulate this information.  • Flux elements like actions, dispatcher, store, view is used for understanding the one directional flow of the data and REDUX framework is used to implement flux pattern in application.  • Created custom Filters, dropdowns and textboxes which are used in different pages to reduce the rework.   • Improved the layout in ipad, mobile etc.., using Bootstrap Media Queries.  • Created Toast Messages for the login errors, form validation errors, network issues and creation errors.   • Used jasmine for unit testing which includes testing asynchronous code such as timeouts, AJAX and events and to provide stack traces for failed assertions and caught exceptions.  • Used GIT and SVN for version control.  • Worked on multiple cross browser compatibility issues to support browsers, which includes Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari, and IE. FRONT END UI DEVELOPER DRIVIN - Chicago, IL June 2017 to September 2017 Description:  The application allows the car dealers to select the different models of cars which are available in the website then pitch them and send it to the customers according to their desired choices. It is an ecommerce website which allows users to see different brands of cars in different parts of USA and buy them.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed web Application using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, D3.JS.  • Developed the frontend components using ReactJS framework.  • Designed new web features using MVC Framework like ReactJS, NodeJS and d3.js.  • Created web templates using HTML5, CSS3, ES6, Bootstrap and preprocessors like LESS. Added functionality to the web pages using various JavaScript frameworks.  • Designed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap and NodeJS.  • Developed the login and registration module.  • Used D3.js to create BarCharts to show the details of the cars sales compared to different years and months  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (AngularJS, Node.js, ReactJS) to augment browser based applications.  • Used NodeJS to run the JSON file of customer details on the server and used AngularJS to bind that data to client server  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. Handled large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity using preprocessors like LESS.  • Created Email Templates using HTML, CSS and preprocessors like LESS.  • Used Segment for tracking the data, routes, clicks and views  • Used SendWithUs to handle the email template and send emails to the customers.  • Created APIs to receive information and display it in our applications  • Flux elements like actions, dispatcher, store, view is used for understanding the one directional flow of the data and REDUX framework is used to implement flux pattern in application are done by using ReactJS.  • Used ReactJS events to watch and update the information accordingly whenever it changes. Education Masters in Electrical Engineering University of Bridgeport Bachelors in Electronic and Communication Engineering JNTU University Skills HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, angular2 and so on.., Javascript, Front End, Front-End, UI