FRONT END DEVELOPER <span class="hl">FRONT</span> <span class="hl">END</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FULL STACK DEVELOPER Atlanta, GA Full Stack Web Developer who possess a prodigious amount of knowledge in designing full stack applications by using modern industry adopted languages and frameworks. Expert in coding, compiling, unit testing, integration and packaging. Erudite in developing user interfaces, testing and debugging. Plays an essential role throughout website development to ensure maximum accessibility, customer experience, and usability. Dedicated to building and optimizing the performance of websites for nationwide and global companies. Able to apprehend technical language, such as, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, React, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, MySQL and PHP. A good team player who thrives on improving data retrieval, creative solutions, workflow efficiencies and is deadline oriented. Able to work remotely. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FRONT END DEVELOPER ALL ACCOUNTING, LLC May 2015 to October 2018 • Developed dynamic and interactive website that ensures high traffic, page reviews- user experience resulted in 43% increase in sales revenue. Conducted a needs assessment with each client.  • Designed processes for cleanup and performance improvement, that minimized downtime by 18%.  • Writes internal & external specifications. Assisted end users with solving operating problems.  • Changing the code, software or graphics of existing websites. Created and maintained the front- end standards document and oversaw production of JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Produce reports and statistical information for senior managers.  • Testing a website before it goes live to identify and issues. Worked in both Agile & Waterfall settings. Performed maintenance and updates to existing client websites.  • Optimized pages for page speed using Google Page Speed (API) for Apache to obtain higher rankings on Search Engines. Provided guidance and advice to less experience staff.  • Fixed front end bugs (HTML5, CSS, JavaScript errors (JQUERY), testing, (A/B Split Testing), unit testing. FRONT END DEVELOPER Code Solutions, LLC February 2018 to July 2018 • Developed concepts, control project flow, and ensured deliverable milestones are met.  • Met with clients to gather requirements, design sites, and outline schedules.  • Worked closely with senior developers and learned advanced project management skills.  • Performed website design and development for clients in diverse fields such as educational software. • Used markup language to create user friendly web pages. Create quality mockups and prototypes.  • Optimize applications for maximum speed. Partner with back- end developers and web designer to improve usability. Write functional requirement documents and guides.  • Assist back- end developers with coding and troubleshooting.  • Monitored website performance, watch for traffic drops related to site usability problems to rectify the issue. Designed a framework for creating user applications that grows with the needs of the company.  • Collaborated with the design team to define the information architecture.  • Developed and launched enhanced systems to purchase, manage and deliver online traffic. Education Service-Oriented Architecture and mobile Web Development Code Academy Skills CMS (Less than 1 year), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), CRM (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (Less than 1 year), eCommerce (Less than 1 year), HP-UX (Less than 1 year), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year), Illustrator (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), maintenance (3 years), Optimization (Less than 1 year), PL/SQL (Less than 1 year), Relational Database (Less than 1 year), Search Engine (Less than 1 year), Search Engine Optimization (Less than 1 year), UI (Less than 1 year), UI Design (Less than 1 year), UNIX (Less than 1 year), USER INTERFACE (Less than 1 year), USER INTERFACE DESIGN (Less than 1 year), Javascript, React, Front End, Front-End Links http://AlgernonSharpe.com Additional Information Skills  • Communication  • Search Engine Optimization  • Cross- Browser Compatibility  • Coding & Programming  • Relational Database, AWS  • Agile Methodologies  • Hosting & Maintenance  • UX & UI Design  • Site Troubleshooting  • Digital & eCommerce Strategy    • Web Development  • Linux9, Windows OS, C Net, C#PL/SQL,  Node.js, RAI, ReactJS  • Information Architecture  • CRM & CMS Platforms  • Multimedia Design    • Operating Systems  • Programming Language  • 4Photshop, Illustrator, Bootstrap, WordPress,  GitHub, Mongo DB. JSON