Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - UAV Liberty Lake, WA Work Experience Software Engineer UAV June 2019 to Present Full Time  xCraft Enterprises Inc.  Developing software product using Python as a main language and integrating DrFM  server on Linux operating system on Google Cloud with Scrum agile framework. Software Programmer - Full Time UAV April 2018 to April 2019 Completed the project ahead of schedule and under budget. Created software  programs on development boards leveraging Nvidia Jetson TX2, Raspberry Pi 3, Pixhawk  Mini Cube, Intel Upboard on copters - quadcopter and hexa-copter.  • Programmed drones with Python programming language for autonomous flights on Linux - Ubuntu 16.04 and ROS (Robotic Operating System). Implemented Open CV and  Deep Learning and successfully accomplished Hardware data retrieval like Cameras, Distance Sensors, LiDARS, and Laser Range Finders.  • Established RFD 900+ Radio Modem Communication for up to 60km, Sensor Fusion  Development, and serial port communication.    2  https://www.linkedin.com/in/govindabaweja/ 330-327-8455 gbaweja@kent.edu  • Led testing of Serial Console setup, embedded systems, drone flights, data sensors, internal ground station development and maintenance. Front - End Web Developer Cleveland Electric Laboratories December 2016 to March 2018 CEL)  • Designed, developed, and maintained company's website using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS on WordPress platform and utilized Intellij development framework. Completed  projects using Agile Methodology.  • Worked with PostgreSQL using Python programming language.  • Worked on Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and helped company increasing website  traffic by 35% by sharing techniques and ideas with the President of the company on daily basis. Familiarity with JIRA, and experience with Django and SCRUM. Project Application Developer - Volunteer Kent State University- Residence Services August 2017 to December 2017 Developed web application using C# and JavaScript as programming languages on .Net  and Node.js application frameworks and used SQL for database. Research Assistant Advanced Tele Robotics (ATR) Lab - Kent State University May 2017 to August 2017 • Lead the project and worked on developing Immersed Pilot Training Simulator project, created graphical interface for cockpit panel  • Worked on processing, and Arduino platforms and data retrieving from hardware - camera and joy stick. Student Worker Technical Help May 2016 to November 2016 Kent State University Division of Information Technology  • Troubleshooting and solving issues of students throughout campus related to wireless  WIFI connections, TV Cable, and computer software/hardware.  • Resolving basic computer issues, game consoles - PlayStation, Xbox issues, and printer  issues.  • Responded to tickets to solve issues of students, answering technology questions and setting up mobile devices. Front Desk Assistant - Student Worker Office of Global Education - Kent State University April 2015 to December 2015 Provided assistant and service to international students and scholars and other  constituents visiting the Office of Global Education.  • Managed mails, scanned documents, answered phone call queries and in person  queries and sending emails. Education Bachelor's Degree Kent State University January 2015 to December 2018 Skills C++, DJANGO, PYTHON, DATABASE, POSTGRESQL, LINUX, HTML5, CSS, TCP, TCP/IP, JIRA, NETWORKING, STRATEGIC PLANNING, PROBLEM SOLVING, Git, HTML 5, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, PHP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/govindabaweja