Front end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front end Developer - Markel Corporation Avenel, NJ ? Around 5 years of experience as a Front- end web developer in developing and designing user interfaces of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML, CSS, XHTML, ReactJS, AngularJS, Angular 2+, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  ? Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming programming, functional programming, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  ? Extensively implemented ES6 for building an interactive cross-platform web application and optimizing the application for high performance.  ? Expertise in Bootstrap and Responsive Design, CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  ? Developed interfaces for various applications compatible for Mobiles, Tablets, and Desktop devices.  ? Possess hands on experience implementing JavaScript concepts such as Closures, Prototypes, Promises, async and await.  ? Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border and Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Experience with the REST and SOAP Web Services  ? Utilized SVN, GIT for version control.  ? Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Node.JS, bootstrap, D3.JS, etc.  ? Experienced in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance with extensive experience with Agile methodologies.  ? Experience working on both UNIX and Windows Environments.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues as well as debugging tools with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  ? Excellent formal and informal communication and interpersonal skills.  ? Involved in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies.  ? Strong ability to take projects from start to finish-right from assessing client requirements to production integration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front end Developer Markel Corporation - Glen Allen, VA June 2018 to Present Description: Global Sales and Servicing Platform's Core Composer encompasses the services, servers, clients, and the communication protocols, schemas, and operations needed to create a system which allows for multi-user collaboration on a single resource of data. The systems involved are classified as Client, Server, System Broadcasts and Tenant/Document Management. A client in this system represents a tab/window in a browser which is running the remix client code. To achieve collaboration a socket connection between each of these clients will be made back the server they originated from. The socket.io library will be utilized to make this connection. The server in this system represents a node instance which is serving up a web app written in remix and which has an open socket connection. System Broadcasts are the events through which various messages are procasted to various subscribers. The internal infrastructure will be built to manage through Tenant/Document Management.    Responsibilities:  • Created and Implemented UI workflow using ReactJS and RemixJS.  • Created socket commands to Open and close connection, and perform operational document changes - rename, insert, remove, move update and undefined as a part of gssp-operatioanal-document package.  • Implemented composer publish feature which manipulates the state of tenant in the publish system.  • Developed publish commands to start, update, complete and cancel a publish process for a tenant.  • Developerd a subscription mechanism which adds clients to a collaboration system when connected to server.  • Implementned input queue module where all the messages received through the socket connection are directed based on the header data that comprises of sessionId, tenantId, socketId and userId using NodeJS.  • Implemented subscribable namespaces that allows the system to target a particular user on a particular socket.  • Created a REST service using Groovy to allow CRUD operations against tenants and documents.  • Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, Web server speed, Data Processing ausing D3.js, JQuery and MySql.  • Participated in code review sessions to avoid unexpected app behavior, time and space complexities.  • Create unit test cases, integration test cases using Mocha and Chai test libraries.    Environment:  • ReactJS, RemixJS, NodeJS, GulpJS, BabelJS, SASS, EcmaScript-6(ES6), Redis server, D3JS, Lodash, MongoDB, Groovy Front end Developer The Loan Exchange - Orange, CA February 2017 to February 2018 Description: To make Customer Service Representative more productive and deliver lightning-fast customer support services, the existing customer support system and corresponding UI were upgraded. The main modules include: case management, business insights, multi-channel support and mobile app. Some new features were added: setting case priority, generating agent performance report by static visualization.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular 2.  • Defined new validations through Angular for the form field validation implemented using directives like valid, pristine, checked and also sanitizing the form.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design using NG-Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Query.  • Worked on Angular 2 by consuming RESTful web services and used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Used Angular 4 for client side validations.  • Created Angular components like Controller, Directives, Services and Forms to collect the input from the User.  • Created Angular4 components, implemented Interpolation, input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the events, decorators.  • Written modular code, including experience using amd/ES6 using angular 4  • Used AJAX to make the service calls from the web page in the background using jQuery without performing a browser refresh.  • Created classes using the Metadata Annotations derived through the decorators in Angular 2.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular directives.  • Created Angular2 custom pipe to format the data.  • Prototyping the new features and ideas using HTML, CSS SASS and D3.js.  • Optimized the code for reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the providers property in Angular 2 Components.  • Worked on Routes in Angular 2 to create the base route and extensions by using RouterConfig as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the webpage.  • Designed and Implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular2, NodeJS, NPM.  • Experience in developing of custom work flow, plug-ins, and integrating custom web pages into CRM.  • Involved in configuring the GIT repository and used GIT for version control.    Environment:  • Angular2, Bootstrap, AWS, LAMBDA, Dynamo DB, NodeJS, OAuth and JSON, REST, HTML5, SCSS UI Developer Capital Blue Cross - Harrisburg, PA January 2015 to January 2016 Description: Implemented template controls for page layout Retirement Planner, it is a part of web application, which is used for retirement planning. The system allows the user to enter personal and financial information about them and spouse. This information is then used as input to suggest multiple health insurance plans for the applicants.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Worked in Agile environment and attended daily scrum meeting.  ? Worked with distribution center, QA and other related departments to understand project requirements and optimize project through feedbacks.  ? Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects, testing applications and debugging productions.    ? Built scalable web app using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React and Redux using ES6 syntax.  ? Implemented reusable components and easy-to-maintain UI using React and Higher Order Component (HOC).  ? Implemented single page app (SPA) routing scheme using React Router.  ? Implemented state management using Redux to control view changes.  ? Added Redux Form to improve form functionality and validation, which makes the code more maintainable.  ? Visualized analytical results in intuitive charts and graphs using React-vis.  ? Fetched data through Ajax from server, and integrated asynchronous actions in Redux Thunk.  ? Bundled JavaScript Modules using Webpack and improved capability using Babel to transfer ES6 syntax to old version syntax.  ? Managed dependencies using NPM and sed Jest for unit tests.  ? Fixed cross-browser compatibility issues and ran on different browsers including, Internet Explorer, Safari, Firefox, and Google Chrome.    Environment:  • HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React-Router, Redux, React-vis, Ajax, Babel, NPM AngularJS Developer Accolite Software - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to July 2014 Description: Integrating 13 applications by end of phase 1 is the main agenda. The client initiated this project to automate the provisioning and reconciliation of all the users using a tool called BluePrism. This includes applications related to mainframes, AD Authentication, Web services and Disconnected.  Transaction module, Report module, and Payment module are the key modules which system was built. Mostly involved in Spring framework integrated with Spring JDBC, SOAP, Angular and Javascript.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Created Single Page application with nested and multiple views using Angular UI-Router.  ? Designed and developed according menu, tabs, wizard and form validation with angular.  ? Developed AngularJS components such as controllers, constants, Services, filters, models.  ? Used AngularJS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller, ng-route etc.  ? Also created custom directives for reusable components used across the application.  ? Used $http service to make Ajax call and get data from JSON which was displayed in the views.  ? Designed and developed angular grids to populate on modal window.  ? Involved in writing client side validations using Angular, AJAX.  ? Implemented Ajax in web pages to make asynchronous request to server.  ? Utilized Session State variables and Cookies to store data when we refresh the page.  ? Used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience and for Sorting purpose.    Environment:  • HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Visual Studio, SharePoint Designer. Education Masters of Science in Information System Security in Information System Security University Of the Cumberlands 2018 Bachelors of Science in Technology and E-Commerce in Technology and E-Commerce University Of East London - London 2013 Skills AJAX (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), SASS (2 years), Angular, Front End, HTML5, React, CSS3, Front-End, Node, UI, User Interface, Angularjs Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, TypeScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML.  Framework/Library: jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, NodeJS, ReactJS, ImmutableJS, Redux, D3.js Fluxable, MobX  IDE & Tools: MS Visual Studio, Xcode, STS, Android Studio.  Application Server: NGINX, Node, Perforce, Tomcat, Webpack, TFS.  Version Control: SVN, GIT.    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle.  Languages JavaScript, Java, Python, C++, C