Software Quality Assurance Engineer Software Quality Assurance Engineer Software Engineer San Francisco, CA Driven and have a strong product sense, great communication skills, an established background in testing and automation, proven track record of building and leading motivated QA engineering teams, strong technical ability, excellent project management skills, and a motivation to achieve results in a fast paced environment Work Experience Software Quality Assurance Engineer Pegatron - Elk Grove, CA November 2018 to Present • Designed test cases for manual and automation testing, developed and managed checklists for regression using Perl/Shell automation, functional and system testing  • Used JIRA for coding, integrating and customer work flows, used REST API with Postman for deployment, functional testing, load testing of web applications  • Maintained and updated automation framework wrote grunt tasks to set up selenium grid connection on AWS  • Conducted tests and inspections (IQT,OQC) to evaluate quality or performance of products and various equipment  • Managed database tracking of QA and project activities that reported deficiencies/nonconformance UI Developer/Tester VIRRD - India December 2017 to October 2018 • Proficient in Test Plan creation, Design, Review, Execution, Writing Test scripts, testing tools Usage, Defect management, and Prepare Test reports.   • Created automation test scripts using data driven framework to test the web applications using Selenium WebDriver with JAVA   • Performed device/platform compatibility testing on mobile devices: iOS, Android and cross browser testing. Reported defects into Bugzilla bug tracking system. Adopted AWS to deploy the project on EC2 instance  • Executed dozens of REST API calls with Postman to trigger emails, created users within database and modified credentials throughout API  Front- end Web Developer Sand Space Technologies - India July 2016 to October 2017 ? Built and implemented a custom CSS grid system with media queries  using Grunt and minified JS, which automated image optimization and reduced page load times by up to 30% and improved mobile  ? Created custom made consumer facing applications using unique UI/UX designs as well as client's bonus request with pixel-perfect attention to detail and without sacrificing performance  ? Worked on a large React application using React/Redux to integrate and with a .NET MVC Application    ? Designed and developed front- end websites. Worked in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to delivers software tasks on-time and with good quality. Implemented custom AngularJS components for internal framework    ? Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, skills ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change  ? Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend   ? Redesigned user interface for a governmental organization using  jQuery, AJAX, RequireJS, and Handlebars.js, increasing information accessibility to 30,000+ unique visitors per month   ? Integrated social media which improved revenue generation and engaged the target audience through multiple channels  ? Incorporated many new frontend features and landing pages. Improved speed of loading the site 2-3x by optimizing data fetching  patterns  ? Performed quality assurance tests to discover errors and optimize usability. Tested and ensured cross-browser compatibility.Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data  ? Collaborated with clients from concept through final delivery of  product or services, presented clients with viable options, met the deadlines and delivered the product or service on time  ? Recommended and implemented architectural improvements such as advanced grid layout, design solutions and integration solutions  which improved user experience and helped reduced risks  ? Worked with cross functional teams to build application services, to achieve productivity, quality and common goals  ? Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various websites Web Developer Society for Protecting Rights of the Child, India - Web - India April 2006 to December 2007 ? Wrote proposals for design work, analyzed competitor web sites, determined web site content, introduced information architecture and wireframing concepts and increased team productivity, communicated with designers to create clean interfaces and simple, intuitive interactions and experiences,converted mockups into HTML and JavaScript  ? Developed and designed intranet applications in Visual Studio2005 using JavaScript  ? Streamlined data flow by understanding the context of the product. Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work. Assisted senior developer to manage large complex design projects for corporate clients  ? Liaised directly with clients to establish project parameters, produced site maps for client approval, and communicated progress with client throughout length of project Education Masters in International Northeastern University - Boston, MA January 2009 to December 2011 BS in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh June 2003 to September 2007 Skills HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Ember.js, Backbone.js , React, Bootstrap, Git,Mocha,Jasmine, Gulp,Grunt, Responsive Web Design, Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator), Experience with UI/UX, web animations(CSS & JavaScript), Website Optimization (3 years), Front-End, Front End, Javascript, UI, Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5, Jquery, User Interface Links http://linkedin.com/in/pratgog