Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - CPS Chicago, IL • Client-focused member with around 5 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) pertaining to Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Debugging, and Execution for Web Application Interfaces.  • Developed, Configured and Deployed Different Portals and UI applications using (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, SQLite, and AngularJS).  • Knowledge of Node.js and frameworks available for it such as Express.js.  • Extensive Knowledge in CSS3 Styling Modules and Adobe Photoshop.  • Expertise in using CSS pre-processors SASS/SCSS, Post CSS.  • Proficient in using Bootstrap 4/3 components skills like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box, Button and CSS Media Query to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD).  • Profound in Document Object Model (DOM).  • Knowledge on using Shadow DOM use to make custom element.  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using jQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Proficient in using higher level style syntaxes, SASS for advanced CSS features.  • Experience in AngularJS controllers, views and services for new website features.  • Experience of using AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Extensive experience on working with various CSS/CSS3 features like CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text shadows, CSS box model, CSS table, Pseudo classes/elements and CSS behaviors.  • Developer Toolbar, Used Karma-Jasmine for testing JavaScript code.  • Sound Knowledge in package manager of NPM.  • Working with Agile and Waterfall models throughout the project life cycle - using tools such as GIT for version control.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Research Oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical, and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer CPS - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Nearly worked with business system analyst to comprehend the necessities to ensure that correct arrangement of UI modules been built.  • Composed application level code to perform client-side validation utilizing JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Planned the front- end applications, client intelligent (UI) site pages utilizing web advancements like HTML5, CSS.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind AngularJS template(views) to JavaScript object models  • Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations.  • Built factories to utilize AngularJS services such as $http and $resource to consume the Restful APIs for data parsing from based backend server.  • Developed AngularJS Directives to extend the grammar of the web through reusable HTML elements, attributes, and classes.  • Extensively worked on Bootstrapping for grid and Kendo spreadsheet with AngularJS.  • Developed AngularJS Filters to manipulate text within HTML views and Developed AngularJS services for reusable functionality.  • Designed responsive webpage using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Developed CSS media queries to make the application responsive website design (RWD).  • Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSS preprocessors SASS.  • Created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations (DOM) and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Worked with Adaptive web-designing and developing CSS Media Queries to make the application compatible with iPad (Landscape and Portrait) and PC.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Developed a real-time collaborative module in node.js that enabled users to create real-time block diagrams.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Debugging the UI related defects for better UI experiences using chrome developer tools.  • Used JIRA dashboard for tracking progress of the work updated the status of the issues.  • Involved in Agile Software Development Team using SCRUM, TDD Test Driven Development    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop, Angular.js, Node.js, AJAX, DOM, JSON, TDD, MongoDB, GIT, Windows. Front- End Developer Cross Country Mortgage - Cleveland, OH October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Used Angular.js as a framework to create Single Page Application (SPA) to improve page performance, which can bind data to specific views.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  • Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Used filters while coding in Angular JS.  • Used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Created dynamic webpages making AJAX Calls, using the XML Http Request Object.  • Called the restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Angular.js for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Setup Jasmine for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript.  • Using Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for troubleshooting and browser compatibility.  • Composing with improvement group, QA group, Scrum expert, Product Owner and Senior administration to refine requirements and address issues.  • Debugging the UI related defects for better UI experiences using chrome developer tools.  • Used JIRA dashboard for tracking progress of the work updated the status of the issues.  • Involved in Agile Software Development Team using SCRUM, TDD Test Driven Development  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, AJAX, DOM, JSON, TDD, Oracle, Windows, Chrome Developer Tools, GIT, SASS. Web Developer Intern Infocision - Akron, OH September 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in fixing bugs in existing components and making them uniform in all browsers.  • Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery implement Look and feel of various components.  • Developed a secured Login Authentication using AngularJS Regular Expressions, Express-Session, JSON Web Tokens.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Used $http with AngularJS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ui-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Effective use of CSS3 features, such as creating multiple column, borders and background, etc. and used SASS Preprocessor.  • Used tools like Grunt, Gulp and Webpack as task runners and orchestrators for the build process.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, AJAX, DOM, JSON, TDD, Windows, Chrome Developer Tools, GIT. Front- End Developer Brickcys - IN June 2014 to August 2015 India    Responsibilities:  • Designing webpages and process upon client approval build out of all user-defined designs, UI components, etc.  • Optimizing and created dynamic websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript, which is wrapper on top of jQuery and AJAX, based UI framework for UI Configuration widgets.  • Communicated with back- end developers, system engineers and web designers to receive data needed for development.  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Writing application level code to interact with the backend databases using SQL.  • Mentored co-workers increasing the efficiency and technical know-how of the entire technology team.  • Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues.  • Follow up with the development team on the improvements, integration and further enhancements in the website.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Windows, Chrome Developer Tools, GIT. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Skills  Client-Side Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, ECMAScript 6  Libraries/Frameworks: jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, CSS(SASS)  Version Controls: Git  Database: SQL (Relational Database), NOSQL  Web Concepts: Responsive Web Design, Single Page Application, Cross-Browser compatibility, Multi-Browser Support  Web Services: JSON  IDE: Atom, Visual Studio Code 2018