Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Austin, TX I am an adaptable and creative web developer. I pursue collaborative projects that have a meaningful and impactful outcome on everyday life. I utilize my experience in technology sales to help resolve current problems in the tech industry. I have a passion for the aesthetic side of web development that impacts the overall experience of the user. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer K.I.W - Austin, TX 2019 to Present This project is built with the intention of showcasing the full development cycle of a website. Utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap4 and Javascript. I will be refractoring this project in React. It's currently in development. Front End Developer Neon Drummer - Austin, TX 2019 to 2019 A web application utilizing ES6, where you use the keyboard keys A - L to make beats. This is an on-going project. I plan on adding adding some more aesthetics to make the background glow and a library to change the genre of sounds playable. Front End Developer Google Landing Page - Austin, TX 2019 to 2019 I built this project with HTML and CSS only. I wanted to focus on utilizing the position property. Account Executive INSIGHT September 2017 to October 2018 Consulted potential clients on streamlining and modernizing their current IT environment by utilizing hardware, software, and service solutions from over 5000 partners  Compensated solely on profitablity of each deal versus total revenue, with complete control of gross profit  Required to bring in at least 3 net new clients per quarter Full Stack Developer Adopt A Woof - Austin, TX 2017 to 2017 An online web application that is tailored for dog-lovers to find their next bestfriend. Built using Python and Django. Data hosted on SQLite databases allowing users to create, read, update and delete entries. Front End Developer DroneDB - Austin, TX 2017 to 2017 This project was built as a collaboration between Justin Rhoads, Jared Watson, Benjamin Tovar and myself . It was built using React, NodeJS and MongoDB. This application was then deployed to Heroku. Front End Developer Geo Quakes - Austin, TX 2017 to 2017 The application allows users to view recent earthquakes on a world map. The larger the circles, the larger the magnitude. This uses jQuery, the US Earthquake tracking API and Google Maps API. Front End Developer Tic Tac Toe - Austin, TX 2017 to 2017 Used Javascript to create functional two player Tic Tac Toe game. Surveillance Technician United States Air Force August 2013 to August 2015 Part of a global team using the BC3T radar systems to detect and identify in friendly and combat  air spaces and performed 864 Command and Control hours.  Provided Combat Identifications for over 800 missions in Afgahnistan, Iraq and the Arabian Gulf  Prepared the duty and training schedule for 77 coalition perosnnel which included 14 crew  positions/56 shifts daily and assisted in 35 High-Value Airborne Asset/Taliban Target Strikes. Education Associates Degree Holmes Community College 2009 to 2011 Skills HTML (2 years), Front End, Javascript, Angular, CSS3, Node, JQuery (1 year), Bootstrap, Python (1 year), Django (1 year), Angularjs, Git (2 years), Github (2 years), Express (1 year), MongoDB (1 year), PSQL (1 year) Links https://www.facebook.com/KilpatrickDane https://www.linkedin.com/in/danekilpatrick/ http://www.DaneKilpatrick.com Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Airman First Class Certifications/Licenses Surveillance Technician at United States Air Force March 2014 to August 2015 Full Stack Developer May 2017 to Present Graduated from the Web Development Immersive bootcamp at General Assembly.