Software Developer Intern Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Software Developer Intern - Acuty Group Philadelphia, PA ? Highly motivated developer with web and software development skills.  ? A self-starter, attentive to details, resourceful in finding the right solutions.  ? Soft skills include patience, perseverance, teamwork and analytical.  ? Passion to learn new technologies and realize ideas into real applications. Work Experience Software Developer Intern Acuty Group - Flushing, NY January 2019 to Present Develop and implement functions in Java and Python.  ? Test mobile applications and stand-alone applications.    Project Highlights  Philadelphia, PA Developer Banliz.io January 2019 to Present Banliz.io is my personal blog, my initial purpose is to study wordpress  technology. The website was established in 2 days, including acquiring a domain,  setting up a server, learning wordpress and its plugins. It is a good platform to record bugs, ideas and study nodes.  ? Tools: WordPress, Vue.js, PHP, CSS, Apache HTTP server Front- End Developer SoccerGame - Philadelphia, PA June 2018 to September 2018 19104 • (267) 882-5362  • yz523@drexel.edu •github.com/yz523 • banliz.io    ? Tools: Node.js, Bootstrap, Express, HTML5, JSON, jQuery, Ajax Front- End Developer & Tester FoodScanner September 2017 to June 2018 FoodScanner is a cross platform application(web & mobile). It allow user to check calories information of specific food or food combination, record calories  data daily and track calories information for certain time period. User can easily  get calories information by taking a picture or manually search the menu. The  image can be uploaded to our server, recognized by our machine learning api and present the corresponding data to user. This project is test-driven development,  designed in MVC model.  ? Tools: APIs, Python, PHP, Bootstrap, CSS, MySQL, HTML, Black box  testing. Tester QuackCheckers September 2016 to December 2016 QuackCheckers is an online console checker game for two players to do checkers  combat. Once the server is online, only another connection is allowed to connect to start a checkers game, the rest connect attempts will be rejected. The  application is written in Java.  ? Tools: Java, White box testing. Designer & Tester TetraTilt September 2014 to June 2015 TetraTilt is an android maze game use gravity and touch screen technology to play with, made in Unity engine. The game designed in MVC model to separate  game logic from user interface. Game art contents are created in Photoshop. The  testing technology is white box testing.  ? Tools: C#, Java, Photoshop, White box testing Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA September 2013 to September 2018 College of Computing & Informatics 2015 to 2018 Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Css (1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Front end (1 year), Front end design (1 year), Front-end (1 year), Html5 (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Model view controller (1 year), Model-view-controller (1 year), Mvc (1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Oop (Less than 1 year), Python. (1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Version control (Less than 1 year) Links http://banliz.io Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Front- End Development: HTML5, CSS, JQuery, Vue.js, WordPress  ? Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, Python, C, C++  ? Databases: SQL(MySQL)  ? Servers: Apache, Node  ? Frameworks: Bootstrap, Express, Socket.io, Spring  ? Methodology: MVC, OOP  ? Version Control: Github, BitBucket