Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - Smith & Associates and Server Monkey Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Developer Smith & Associates and Server Monkey June 2018 to Present My job mainly entails creating wireframes and prototypes for internal software which included desktop and mobile apps, as well as designing a new web  app from scratch using very strict design workshops with co-workers. My secondary tasks are also creating wireframes/prototypes, but for Magento E- Commerce and then coding out those mockups. All design and coding work was internal, upon request I can provide printed copies in-person of work  completed and notes taken.  - Agile Work environment with tasks and backlog management, (ie. JIRA, scrum, Kanban, etc.)  - UX Design and Development of Mobile as Desktop Applications  - Designing and Creating User-flows and personas  - Creating low-fidelity to high-fidelity to demonstrate how the application will work then look  - Prototypes using InVision's tools so users can interact with it to gain proper feedback, as well as let developers get proper information on how to de- velop these projects  - Documenting findings and interviews for UX research  - Developing Magento modules  - Running performance audits on multiple sites and reducing the size and load on the sites  - Restructuring the CSS to LESS and creating a proper build using gulp/grunt taskrunners  - Redesigning Web Material by Creating a style guide then coding those out to be used in the PHP templates.  - Making decisions about best approaches on E-Commerce and Web related material based on prior experience and current user testing  - Design Environment: MacOS, Sketch, Abstract, Invision, Invision Studio, Pen and Paper  - Development Environment: Unix, git, HTML5, CSS & SASS, Javascript, jQuery, Jira, BitBucket, Confluence, Magento, PHP, PHP Storm, Postman, MySQL, Selenium Nightwatch Testing, Python Flask, ReactJS, Angular Owner, Manager, Web Dev, Dev Ops, UX Design Andras Media LLC November 2015 to Present Creating sites, SEO Tools, blogs, mockups, web applications, promotional material, and art for clients.    Some of the clients include; The Terry Foundation, Solutions IT, Texas Laundry Service, Genesis Drilling, Boe Creative Group  - Development Environment: NodeJS, HTML, CSS, SASS, Javascript, jQuery, PHP, Wordpress, Wordpress Templates, SQLite, MySQL, Git, ReactJS, MithrilJS, Materialize Framework, Bulma, Bootstrap, CircleCi, Selenium(NightwatchJS) Testing, Hugo, Jekyll, Static Site CMS, Liquid Templating    - Design/Etc Environment: Adobe Suite, Affinity Suite, FinalCut Pro X, Sketch, MacOS, Win10, Linux(Ubuntu/Debian/Arch/etc). Web Developer Academy Sports + Outdoors June 2017 to June 2018 Created and scheduled content for the homepage for Academy.com. Created product recommendation widgets with personalization software. Designed  landing pages for brands as well as Created open source tools for the team to use for developing sites faster and more reliably.  - Worked with Marketers to create styles for brands and their landing pages and learn about the marketing process along the way  - Editing and updating products and product information throughout the site  - Managing the styling all across the site so that pages stay consistent with the brands guidelines and advertisements.  - Creating a small Ionic App for internal purposes, managing UX and Development myself  - Coding Promotional Material based on mockups and current ad designs, staying consistent with the brand  - Worked on Promotional material via Development, UX, and through brainstorming sessions with team  - Managing my own tasks and time spent  - Environment: Unix/MacOS, git, HTML5, CSS & SASS, Javascript, jQuery, FTP, IBM CMC, Evergage eCommerce, Amazon S3, PugJS, GruntJS Task  Runner, Nightwatch Selenium Testing, ReactJS UX Designer Andras Media LLC March 2017 to June 2017 Designed and styled existing web sites ASP .NET based and web applications for company, used internally and by customers. Created new pages for internal site. Created universal stylesheet and heavy documentation for all existing sites and apps.  - Worked with DevOps as well as other developers to create styles for sites that matched existing applications  - Environment: Windows, ASP .NET, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, FTP Web Developer BOE Creative January 2016 to January 2017 Created web sites for clients that matched the mockups created by the designers. I worked together with the designers and the dev ops engineer.  Sites Developed: (http://www.ehrainc.com/, http://partincpa.com, http://syi.net/)  - Worked with DevOps team to create sites for clients  - Environment: Unix, PHP, Drupal, Wordpress, CSS, HTML, Javascript, jQuery, Bash, Teaching Assistant, Intern, and Tutor for students Austin Coding Academy June 2016 to December 2016 Helped students during and after classes with Intermediate Javascript course. After class I was helping students from Intro to Advanced. Aside from teaching and tutoring, I worked as an intern, creating tests and fixing bugs in the company's apps (These apps were used for things such as grading,  attendance, etc and used by both teachers and students for everything ACA related).  - Created company site testing for debugging  - Tutored students in Web Development and programming in Javascript  - Was a Teacher's Assistant, mentoring students who needed help during class  - Environment: UNIX/MacOS, NodeJS, HTML, CSS, ReactJS, Javascript, PHP, Materialize Framework, SASS, CircleCI, Selenium Testing, MongoDB, Git  Global Healing Center - Main Houston Office  http://www.globalhealingcenter.com/ Web/UI Developer Global Healing Center September 2015 to December 2015 A natural health & organic living company that distributes it's health products worldwide. Creating a new Homepage/ Product Page, and designing differ- ent parts of the existing website. Also fixing issues on their Wordpress blog in PHP.  - Worked with the Design team to create a style guide  - Worked with the analytics team on user scenarios, flow charts, and for other UX needs  - Created the a prototype and final draft for their eCommerce site along side the development team. Here's what was the finished product before it was  scrapped by the higher-ups (http://materialfuture.github.io/eCommerseSite/dist/).  - Worked on the server-side code for the main site, eCommerce platform, and WordPress Blog  - Environment: UNIX/MacOS, PHP, Wordpress, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Magento CMS, Coda, Bash, MySQL, InDesign, Sketch Education Bachelors in App Development in UX and Graphic Design Projects San Jacinto College 2015 Skills Front End, Javascript, UI, Front-End, React, User Interface, HTML5, Jquery, Bootstrap, CSS3, Node, User Experience Design (2 years), User Interface Design (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/konstantine-vogiantzis-533a8bb9 https://stackoverflow.com/cv/konstantinev https://github.com/MaterialFuture https://gitlab.com/KonstantineV2 Certifications/Licenses User Experience March 2019 to Present IDF Certification: https://www.interaction-design.org/costa-vogiantzis/certificate/course/PPRBdlZnq