Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer at Miracle Software Systems Farmington, MI ? Creative Front- End Developer with 4+ years of experience designing and developing interactive web applications and internal features. Specializes in Angular and JavaScript with expertise in AWS.  ? Experience working in a fast-paced dynamic environment and possess strong technical skill-set to elevate user experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Miracle Software Systems - Novi, MI August 2018 to Present ? Developed a technical blog user interface using Angular, HTML5, Less, ng-bootstrap for users to create and post queries and responses.  ? Developed a highly responsive user experience across all devices and integrated the application with Hubble (Company's API) credentials for authorizing users on the login page.  ? Supported the blog's search functionality to display posts based on relevant keyword/user/technology using RESTful API. Incorporated quill editor to aid users post and respond to questions efficiently.  ? Worked in Agile methodology and attended daily Scrum meetings to access the current progress in a Sprint. Full-Stack Developer - Intern Reliance Pacific - Fremont, CA May 2017 to May 2018 ? Developed a full-stack web application that provides crowdsourced reviews about local campsites. Users can search and comment on the campsite web pages like Yelp.   ? Incorporated client-side features and minimized the server-side validations thereby improving the application's speed and performance by 25%. Implemented a search and commenting system with Node.js, Express, MongoDB, and Mongoose.  ? Developed a responsive front- end interface using ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, and user authentication using Passport. Front- End/Software Engineer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to August 2016 ? Built a robust, single page application for Bupa healthcare to manage patient's medical documents using JavaScript and AngularJS for RESTful API's. Styled and structured patient record data using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4.  ? Architected and implemented Oracle PL/SQL code for the British Telecom Warehouse and Product management system. Enhanced the performance of the client's warehouse management system by refactoring and fine-tuning the scripts for efficient product selection and placement into the different sections of the warehouse.  ? Led client meetings with cross-functional global teams for gathering business requirements and project scope. Software Engineer Intern Akshaya Pvt. Ltd. - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to May 2015 ? Developed a robust front- end web application that determines the ROI for organizations using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, JavaScript, and jQuery and deployed the application on AWS.  ? Used Git as a version control tool to update work progress and attended daily Scrum sessions. Designed and implemented web application to meet web and industry standards. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Houston - Clear Lake - Houston, TX August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to May 2015 Additional Information Skills  Languages/Frameworks/Libraries: JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular, AngularJS, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, jQuery, Node.js, Express, Python, Java, PHP, C, C#, Swift.  Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB, MySQL.  Content Management Systems: WordPress, Drupal  Technologies/Tools/OS: AWS, Microsoft Azure, Firebase, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Studio Code, Postman, Sublime Text, Atom, Eclipse, Git, BitBucket, Cloud9, Adobe Creative Suite, Windows, Linux, Macintosh.