Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - SUPERUS HEALTH New York, NY ? 5 years of professional experience as a Front- End Developer with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills in health support domains.  ? Proficient in building Responsive Web Pages with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery UI and UI Bootstrap to enrich the layout.  ? Proficient in using SASS and LESS as CSS preprocessor to extend CSS syntax.  ? Extensive experience in using JavaScript with ES5 and ES6.  ? Hands-on experience on AngularJS 1.x to create Single Page Applications for communicating with RESTful server-side data sources.  ? Deep knowledge in AngularJS 2.0 for example Lifecycle Hook, Browser Support, AngularJS CLI, template, component, routing, HTTP, Module, Testing, Directives.  ? Expert in jQuery library to navigate a document, select DOM elements, create animations, handle events and develop AJAX applications.  ? Experienced in JavaScript Libraries such as Mongoose.js and react.js.  ? Hands-on experience in using D3.js to produce data visualizations in web browsers.  ? Proficient in using Express.js to dynamically render HTML Pages and organize web application into an MVC architecture on the server side.  ? Expert in using Node.js to develop SPA and JSON based application.  ? Experienced in authorization and authentication process of OAuth 2.0 and local authentication strategy using Passport.js.  ? Hands-on experience with NPM and Bower as package management tools.  ? Expert in DataBase technology for NoSQL (MongoDB).  ? Experienced in creating and consuming RESTful web service.  ? Proficient in Chrome DevTools and Firefox Firebug to iterate, debug and profile website.  ? Hands-on experience in Unit Test using Jasmine, Mocha, Chai along with Karma on TDD.  ? Used Protractor to fulfill end-to- end automatic test.  ? Proficient in using Git for version control, JIRA for project tracking, Grunt.js / Gulp as task runner, Jenkins as continuous integration(CI) tool.  ? Worked with Software Development Life Cycle in Agile (Scrum). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Front End Developer SUPERUS HEALTH - Manhattan, NY January 2014 to Present Project: Online website    Description:  Superus Health is dedicated to facilitating access to premier American healthcare providers for Chinese and other international clients seeking medical treatment abroad. It offers a simple and intuitive UI design for the user to search premier hospitals which are the best matches for their situations. By using our build-in modules, users may update medical case, get case translation, make appointments with doctors and even talk to doctors from the video stream.    Responsibilities:  ? Utilized AngularJS as an MVC architecture to develop a Single Page Application using different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters to build project  ? Supported user's query and sort treatment options by their own criteria using AngularJS custom filter and data-binding  ? Built several custom directives such as user info directive, treatment directive and evaluation directive where $emit, $broadcast and $on are frequently used to communicate between different directives  ? Applied $http which includes get, post, put, delete and head services into Angular services and factories to commutate with backend and used promises to avoid blocking  ? Applied Ajax call to handle JSON format data.  ? Used AngularJS Form Validation to check user's form  ? Designed and developed the layout of the web application using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery  ? Worked on Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap Grid System and CSS3 Media Query  ? Worked on SASS as CSS-Preprocessor where I defined several variables and mixins and designed Operational functions.  ? Worked with Modernizr for detecting and Autoprefixer for cross-browser compatibility like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome  ? Worked with D3.js to render data diagrams and charts and visualize complicated user data sets  ? Completed User Authentication by using Passport.js local strategy  ? Applied RESTful web service to connect front- end JavaScript to back- end Node.js and Express.js  ? Implemented Object Modeling and Database interacting with MongoDB using Mongoose  ? Developed test cases using Karma and Jasmine  ? Used Git for version control, JIRA for project tracking and Gulp for task runner  ? Developed automated integration tests to run on Jenkins CI (continuous integration) platform for test automation to help support bug free releases  ? Worked in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by using Agile methodology and developed application within Test Driven Development (TDD) environment  ? Coordinated closely with business analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each module and prepared user cases for different features and designs    Environment:  AngularJS 1.x, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, D3.js, Node.js, Express.js, Mongoose.js, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine, JIRA, Gulp, Jenkins Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Northeastern University - Boston, MA Skills Ajax (3 years), AngularJS (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), CSS (3 years), Database (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Front- End programming skills  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, React, AngularJS 1.x, AngularJS 2.0, jQuery UI, UI Bootstrap and Less and Sass    Backend programming skills Node.js, Express.js, Passport.js, Mongoose.js  Database NoSQL- MongoDB, MySQL  IDE/Tools WebStorm, Sublime Text 2/3, Eclipse, Notepad++  Testing/Control tools: Git, GitHub, Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug  Project management tools JIRA, Slack  Package management tools NPM, Bower