Front End/UI Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End/UI Developer - SunTrust Bank • Over 2 years of extensive experience in developing web and web applications using Front End Technologies:  • Proficient in all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) and highly competent in gathering user requirements.  • Extensive experience in developing professional User Interactive (UI) of Web applications with the help of HTML5, XML, XHTML, Java Script and CSS3.  • Experience working with web sockets and HTML5 web storage.  • Working experience in using the latest HTML5 elements for video and audio playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section, footer etc.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility applications using Angular.JS, React.js and Node.JS.  • Experience in Developing Applications Using CSS 3 Media Queries, LESS and Responsive Web Design making the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices. (Grid, Fluid layouts and Break Point Approaches).  • Experience in CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS with JavaScript task runners like Grunt, Gulp and Web pack.  • Experience in updating the pages using HTML 5 and CSS 3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3 effects to enhance user experience as per the client requirements.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Espresso, TextMate, Sublime Text2 and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Experienced in development methodologies like Agile, waterfall and Interactive life cycle and software engineering processes.  • Self-motivated, able to work independently and in teams; can handle multiple projects while paying attention to details; accomplished problem solving and analytical skills.  • Strong experience in client interaction and understanding business application, business data flow and data relations from them.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, fast-learner, team player, ability to deal with people diplomatically and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving skills and communication skills. Work Experience Front End/UI Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front end part of the application.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized the features of Angular 6 to present effective web design.  • Developed the components using Angular 6 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Created Responsive front- end Single Page Application (SPA) development using Angular, Node.js, Angular Material, and Angular CLI.  • Used Angular Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the Angular 6 validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application using Form Builder.  • Implemented Angular 6 validation to validate user inputs and to create user-friendly web application.  • Implemented full featured front- end application using Angular 4, TypeScript and jQuery.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  • Used JQuery mainly for adding several functionalities to the application (calendar, tooltips, popover, hiding elements validation, making Ajax calls, etc.).  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Worked with CSS pre-processing and management using LESS and SASS.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Used GIT hub for version control and to check-in and checkout the codes.  • Implemented unit testing for the front end using Jasmine and Karma  • Converted wireframes in templates including creation of brand identity, web site header, menu, information containers, grid styles, navigation, forms, buttons, icons, images, User components and application widgets creation with suitable color schemes.  • Worked with the team of architects and back- end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular.js, Angular 4/6, Node.js, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JMS, JSON, Ajax, Servlets, JSP, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, SOAP, NPM, Gulp, LESS, SASS, Jasmine, Karma, DOM, GitHub, Windows. UI Developer Acmatix Solutions Private Limited June 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Developed HTML 5 prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design.  • Worked on Bootstrap, LESS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Involved in building highly interactive portable widgets using HTML 5, CSS 3, and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Using Angular JS, created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Utilized the features of Angular 2.0 to present effective web design.  • Implemented observables to get a pattern of dealing with data by using array-like operations to parse, modify and maintain data in Angular 2.  • Create custom directives, services in Angular and integrated with Kendo to display data using the grid.  • Developed web page using Angular JS components like controllers, routers, NG app etc.  • Built REST Web services by building Node JS server in the back- end to handle request from front- end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Developed huge multi-advertisement co-registration layout engine that was cross browser compatible.  • Used the Mozilla Firefox extension, Firebug, to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  • Implement advanced data grid with custom item renderers and editors.  • Performed data validation using JavaScript code on the client side.  • Worked with JASMINE and Karma in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT.  • Used Git for synchronous version control among versions.  • Provided quality assurance and cross browser compatibility testing during development phase.  • Implemented and developed with Interwoven TeamSite and other Content Management Systems.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Action script, JQuery, AJAX, Angular.js, Bootstrap.JS, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Adobe Flash and Photoshop, Eclipse, Jasmine, Karma, LESS, SQL and Windows. Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Opera, Web server, Eclipse, jquery, Html5, Flash, Ms office, Http, Apache, Safari, Photoshop, Excel, Ms excel, Windows 2000 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, Angular 2/4/6, CSS3, Bootstrap, Responsive Wed Design, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML.  Operating Systems Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7  Developer Tools Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, Sublime, IntelliJ, MS Office, MS Excel  Browser IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari  Graphic Tools Flash CS3, Photoshop  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat7, HTTP Web Server