Front- End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Web Developer - Story Worldwide New York, NY Alexander Chaparro is seeking a Front- End Web Developer position for a business committed to producing quality  products that will delight customers. He is committed to following the latest trends including advancements in mobile. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front- End Web Developer Story Worldwide - New York, NY December 2014 to Present My primary focus is to build campaign websites for Unilever clients using popular web languages and frameworks. I  also update and modify the client's work via a proprietary CMS. I work closely with producers and creative to ensure  alignment of requirements and functional aspects of digital marketing channels for company web initiatives. Front- End Web Developer VaynerMedia - New York, NY August 2013 to December 2014 Part of the core Development team tasked with working on major projects for Vayner's extensive list of Fortune 500  clients. Key accomplishments included launching and maintaining the website of Vayner's largest co-owned project to date. Platform experience includes: Tumblr, WordPress, Facebook Applications and complete custom builds.  Exposure to various template and scripting languages including Jade, EJS, Nunjucks, Node JS, and PHP was part of the normal development cycle. Almost every website built was responsive and was designed with mobile UX in mind. Front- End Web Developer DRAFTFCB - New York, NY May 2013 to July 2013 Part of a small team developing websites for the 2013 Cannes Lion's International Festival of Creativity. Key  accomplishments included refactoring international ads to run on mobile sites. In addition, debugged and wrote  jQuery, CSS, HTML and XML code to improve, functionality and esthetics. Also utilized a range of Adobe products  including Photoshop and Encoder. Front- End Web Developer Commercial Architect - New York, NY January 2013 to March 2013 Developed a web site highlighting the portfolio of a commercial architect. The site was built using HTML5, CSS3,  JavaScript, including jQuery using Mosiac and FancyBox plug-ins. It is responsive and optimized for the iPad, iPhone and Android devices. Worked closely with client to ensure site met their needs. Incorporated pictures provided by client comprising examples of architect's portfolio. Took responsibility for all testing and made adjustments as needed to ensure an optimal web site experience for all browsers. Also made the necessary changes required to ensure the web site rendered properly on mobile devices. Assumed full responsibility for deploying the web site to the Internet. Education BA in Business Management University of Westminster - London 2007 to 2010 Links http://github.com/London804 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: HTML5, CSS3 (Responsive Web Design), SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js  CMS/Platforms: WordPress, Tumblr, Facebook Apps  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Foundation  Task Runners/PM: Grunt, Gulp, Bower  Repository/VCS: Git, Subversion  Software: Adobe Photoshop, FileZilla, Keynote, MAMP, Microsoft Office Suite  IDE: PhpStorm, Sublime Text, Coda, Text Wrangler  Operating Systems: Mac OS X, iOS, Windows