Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Portland, ME Work Experience Full Stack Developer Tyler Technologies, Inc. - Falmouth, ME February 2018 to Present Front End Developer Foresight June 2017 to December 2017 Helped design and implement a web tool used for medical livestreaming using  AngularJS, HTML, CSS.  ? Worked on improving performance and implementing precision controls for live team  collaboration using video, sound, and drawn annotations.  ? Used SignalR to create proper communication between clients and server. This ensured  data would be continuously updated with minimal performance impact and no data loss.  This included a chat system, drawn annotations, and server updates. Front End Developer IBM June 2015 to June 2017 Developed web-based tools using AngularJS, HTML, SASS, and Javascript that  balanced specific, strict requirements with an easy to understand user interface.  ? Led user interview sessions regularly, allowing the team understand user needs and make smart, user-centric design decisions.  ? Organized frequent pair programming and Agile strategies that allowed the team to react  to and address user issues within the day.  ? Utilized Design Thinking methodologies to continually improve the user experience  through our DevOps practices. Front End Developer USM May 2014 to December 2014 Designed and created website for the lab's internal tooling using HTML, CSS, and Javascript, allowing many formerly inaccessible tools to be used by the public.  ? Developed and updated tools that leveraged machine learning, complex algorithms, and cross-discipline training. Front End Internship WEX June 2013 to August 2013 Worked on proof of concept features for the company, using Javascript and mock data to design and prototype WEX's ClearView Advanced fleet analytics platform.  ? Built a UI for these tools using HTML, CSS, and Javascript, that showcased the efficiency and functionality of these apps on mobile devices.  ? Implemented full test suites for our projects using Jasmine (a Behavior Driven  Development Framework), and managed bugs that these tests discovered. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science USM - Portland, ME Skills HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (4 years), Angular (3 years), SASS, Agile (3 years), Git (3 years)