Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer El Monte, CA ? An experience computer software engineer looking for a full-time position to hone skills as well as  develop products at a professional level. Works well with others and consistently meets targets and  deadlines. Work Experience Front- end Developer Center for Hydrometeorology and Remote Sensing - Irvine, CA April 2015 to December 2017 Irvine, CA (Apr 2015 - Dec 2017)  ? CHRS Statistics - an application that track incoming traffic from users around the globe.  ? Create a responsive and user-friendly interface using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Parse web access log files and store result in PostGIS database.  ? Obtain incoming web traffic statistics in real time.  ? Toggle between yearly and monthly incoming traffic from multiple data sources.    ? CHRS DataPortal - a data portal for public users to visualize and download data from multiples datasets  provided by the center.  ? Design and construct a responsive and user-friendly interface using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  ? Allow user to query through variation of datasets, timesteps, and domains using Javascript, jQuery,  PHP, and PostGIS.  ? Automatic process and update of new satellite precipitation data using crontab, bash.  ? Visualize and download precipitation raster data using Javascript, AJAX, PHP, and PostGIS.  ? Significantly reduce initial web page load time.    ? RainSphere - a web application called RainSphere that allow user to visualize historical precipitation  data (33 years) as well as future projection precipitation data (100 years).  ? Design a user-friendly interface using HTML and CSS that allow user to select options for query.  ? Grant users the ability to overlay different map layers using Javascript.  ? Implemented raster visualization using Javascript, Google API, and Mapserver.  ? Allow users to query and download raster data from a unique directory on the server made for that  user to prevent query conflict.  ? Generate reports to show precipitation data within a range period by querying location, country,  political division, continental basin, major basin, tributary basin, or watershed using jQuery and HighChart API.  ? Allow user to export report as a PDF.  ? Maintain website through user's feedback to ensure maximum user experience.    ? Connect - design and built a website for users to query storm data from the CHRS database and project  query data onto a base map.  ? Front- end Developer: produce a user-friendly interface using HTML and CSS.  ? Query near real time precipitation data from PostGIS and visualize data using Google map API.  ? Weekly update and report of progress to supervisor.  ? Implement new features and functionalities proposed by supervisor.  ? Maintain and optimize website from user's feedback. Education Bachelor of Science in Information and Computer Science University of California - Irvine, CA 2012 to June 2015 Skills JQuery (3 years), Bootstrap. (3 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), Javascript (3 years), PHP (3 years), Python (3 years), PostgresSQL (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  ? Programming Languages/APIs: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, bash, PHP, python, BootStrap,  PostGIS, Mapserver  ? Web development  ? Object-oriented programming  ? Great collaboration and communication ability  ? Conceptualization  ? Debugging and troubleshooting