Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Silver Peak Systems Inc Santa Clara, CA ? 2+ years of extensive experience as a Front End UI/UX Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Responsive design.  ? Proficient with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & Dreamweaver, MS FrontPage, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Macromedia Home Site.  ? High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Netbeans, EditPlus, Notepad++, Adobe Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  ? Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, and Ajax that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Angular.js Framework & CSS-Bootstrap to develop valid code and table-free sites.  ? Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Flash, Photo shop. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Silver Peak Systems Inc - Santa Clara, CA March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for developing organization's Web site and all custom web applications using JQuery, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Javascript, HTML and XML.  ? Front- end GUI development using browser friendly Javascript, AJAX, CSS, JQuery.  ? Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens.  ? Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  ? Extensively used JQuery plug-ins, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  ? Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  ? Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front- end UX design such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  ? Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, LESS and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  ? Used AJAX frameworks like JQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  ? Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Mobile safari, Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  ? Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS-CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Responsive Design, Twitter Bootstrap, JSON, Agile, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Windows. Education Masters in computer science in computer science San Jose State University - San Jose, CA