Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Iron Bow Technologies • Over 3 years of experience in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap4, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, XML, SVG, JSON, TypeScript, Angular 2.0/4/5/6.  • Experience on developing latest version of Object Oriented JavaScript Libraries likeNode.JS, Backbone.JS, jQuery and had hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap's templates.  • Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2 and Node.js  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript,jQuery plugins, Validator, Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Tableand Pseudo Classes.  • Experience on Client-side scripting and DOM manipulation with core JavaScript and jQuery selectors and experienced with Object Oriented Design and Implementation  • Experience in visual design, interaction design, information architecture, user interface design, web and mobile site design and print design.  • Experience with Database technologies, like SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and Sybase, MySQL and DB2 RDBMS by scaling across data centers and in-depth understanding of DatabaseConcepts, triggers, joins.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Used Font Awesome icons to get hold of scalable vector icons which can be instantly customized based on their size, color, drop shadow, and anything that can be done using CSS.  • Solid working experience in various IDE's like Notepad++, Visual Studio Code, Sublime, WebStorm, Eclipse and has the understanding and experience with Agile Methodologies like Sprint planning, Scrums and JIRA Task Board  • Experience on server-side technologies like ASP, JSP, LESS, SASS and Python.  • Unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member.  • Knowledge about technologies likeC, core Java, Python, R, Google App Engine, AWS.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Experience in working in a fast-paced environment, managing daily communication with offshore development teams.  • Adaptive to team environment and has the capability of completing complex tasks independently.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  • Passionate to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies.  • Having Strong written and oral communication skills. Work Experience Front End Developer Iron Bow Technologies - Herndon, VA May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Contribute to API infrastructure design and set up by interfacing with DevOps and Software Engineers  ? Working on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  ? Using Angular2/4/5/6Components like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller, ng-route etc.  ? UsingAngular2/4/5/6to manage the components for the application and also serves as the pipeline that connects them.  ? Developing Interactive web pages using Angular2/4/5/6, TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap as per user requirements.  ? UsingAngular2/4/5/6tolook and feel good,added and changed (properties (POJO-plain old java script objects), getters and setters functions) the data models directly on them and looped over objects.  ? Create the React.JS expressServer combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front- end side Angular2/4/5/6 to back- end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  ? Working on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? UsingReact JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX.  ? Using MongoDB GUI tools likeRoboMongo, Studio 3T and mongo-built in binaries to fetch and monitoring data of MongoDB.  ? Working on event-driven asynchronous programming using NodeJs and Implement OAuth authentication relation between client and accountants.  ? Implementing a RESTful API server with Nodejs, Express and fetch queries for client and accountant relationship from MongoDb.  ? Developing Node.js applications using ECMAScript 6 (ES6) to integrate with various applicant tracking systems.  ? Experience in developing web services by building NodeJs server to handle the request coming from UI.  ? Working on schemas and validating schemas maintaining by MongoDB.  ? Experience on various NodeJS modules like events, fs, timers etc to retrieve data in PDF and JSON format.  ? Worked with Nodejs, ExpressJs, Mongoose and MongoDB to create services in Node environment.  ? Experienced in calling internal and external API service calls using NodeJS modules.  ? The request and response of each API is validated and tested through PostMan.  ? UsingMicro services using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring AOP, Dependency Injection.  ? Test validate and document newly developed APIs and features for accuracy and understandingPostMan.  ? Working on Node JS providing an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking I/O API that optimizes an application's throughput and scalability.  ? Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using java JAX-WS API and did the corresponding configurations.  ? Implemented client-side Interface using Node JS and usedfor creating reusable UI components.  ? Worked to emphasizing acceptance and system level testing, traditional shift left concentrates on unit testing and integration testing.  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services using Micro Services and JSON.  ? Worked on RESTful APIs for HTTP requests between client and server.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  ? Developing promotions Microservice using Java, Spring Boot.  ? UsingSpring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through Restful Services.  ? Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular2/4/5/6 and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  ? Experience in implementing custom monitoring system through Splunk into deployment processes.  ? Develop strategies and supported tools to create an efficient integration and release process using Jenkins.  ? Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT, Bit Bucket.  ? Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, and SEO.  ? Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular 2/4/5/6 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  ? Built web applications which are more user interactive using latest technology Angular 2/4/5/6.  ? Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2.0/4/5/6 along with HTML5, CSS3and Type Script.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based Architecture provided by Angular2.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using TypeScript, Angular2/4/5/6 and Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for architecting and executing solutions using JavaScript frameworks like React.js, Angularand Backbone JS.  ? Created services with Angular 2/4/5/6@injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Created visualizations using D3.js to present analytics.  ? Develop various screens for the front end using Angular and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  ? Concept and design website, mobile web/app and interactive interface based on clients' requirements  ? Implement the JavaScript/jQuery frameworks such as Node JS for MVW/MVC framework.  ? Created BSON Data and stored as documents comprising documents, data types and conversions in MongoDB.  ? Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  ? Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like NodeJS, HTML5 and CSS2/3, Bootstrap based on theW3C standards.  ? Used Angular2/4/5/6 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Used Bootstrap and Angular2/4/5/6 to create Components, Forms, Services to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Utilized Angular2/4/5/6 framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  ? Worked in Typescript to render JavaScript with unit and end-to- end tests written in Jasmine to add features and fix bugs in a highly interactive single page JavaScript application.  ? Used interactive data binding, filters and animation events using Angular2/4/5/6.  ? Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  ? Used Node JS to run the application in a web server in staging environment.  ? Using Grunt for automated building of application including unit testing (Jasmine /Karma).  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Involved in writing end to end test suites using Jasmine frame work and Protractor tool based on top of Selenium server.  ? Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop for implementing application and designing graphics and images.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums A/B testing to discuss the development of the application.  ? Built pages using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML.  ? Working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Developed a box model for padding, margins or borders on the playing fields or the draggableelements will cause them not to stay fully in the playing field so that they will overlap the region bythe width of the margin/padding/border.  ? Used Angular2/4/5/6 to detect changes to model objects and detect execution context for expressions.  ? Created Angular2/4/5/6 Components, services, Ts files for new website features.  ? Followed MVC Architecture to develop Application.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Deep understanding of JavaScript and the jQuery framework.  ? Built the Responsive UI screen using HTML and CSS3.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and CSS based on the W3C standards.  ? Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  ? Used SVN as source code repository and versioning.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular2/4/5/6, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, MVC, MYSQL. Education Masters in Engineering Technology in Engineering Technology Pittsburg State University Skills Git (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), REDUX (3 years), TYPESCRIPT (3 years), JENKINS (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, Java, J2EE, Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, R  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Java, J2EE, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap4, font awesome, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, XML, JSON  Frameworks Angular2/4/5/6, React Js, Redux/Flux Js, Protractor Js, Grunt Js, Node JS, Backbone Js, Ext JS, MVC, MVVM, NPM and TestNG  SDLC's Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  Editors Eclipse, STS, Notepad++, Visual Studio, Sublime text, Web Storm and Brackets  Web Server HTTP Web Server, Apache, Oracle SQL, RESTful Services  Database SQL, MySQL, MongoDB, CRUD, Cassandra, Oracle 9i/10g  Version Controls Git, GitHub, Source Tree, Bit Bucket, Brackets, CVS and SVN  Operating System: Windows environment, Mac OS, Linux, Ubuntu, Virtual machine.  Other Tools:  Jira, Oracle ATG, Adobe Photoshop, MS office, Fiddler, Source Tree, Firebug, Gradle Build, Jenkins, Apache Ant Build, Tableau and Chrome Developers Tool