Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - Verse Innovations Pvt. Ltd Having 2.8 years of IT knowledge on Web Developing and Designing using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Photoshop, SQL(Backend) in areas of Front- end development and responsive design/programming for both static and dynamic web content.    • Highly motivated, excellent team player, enthusiastic, strong initiative and quick learner of new technology.  • Good in understanding of Business logic and ability to work well as a part of a team and as an  individual. Work Experience Front End Developer Verse Innovations Pvt. Ltd June 2016 to Present Technical Skills:  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Photoshop  • Database: Oracle 10g/11g(SQL),  • Tool: Notepad++, Atom, Sublime Text  • Scripting Language: JavaScript Education B.TECH Biju Patnaik University of Technology - Bhubaneswar, ORISSA, IN 2014 Links http://www.clickoncare.com http://www.vinotemp.com Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows XP & above  • Connectivity Tools: Putty6.2 (SSH) for Unix Servers  • Framework: Angular JS    Project 1:    Title: Epub Ride  Duration: Feb 2016 to Sep 2016  Role: Developer  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Photoshop    Description:  This is an especially for the e-books. Collect the data from source system. It is in the form of PDF. It contains the text, images. These data convert into webpage, by using HTML, CSS and Photoshop.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Convert the web format using HTML, CSS  • Execute in the different browsers.  • Editing images and updating the content using Photoshop.    Contract Project 2:    Title: Healthcare  Team Size: 10  Duration: Sep 2017 to till date  Role: Web developer  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery  URL: www.clickoncare.com    Description:  ClickOnCare is ecommerce site for health product and beauty product. You can buy every product through online. It has more than 900 brand products are there.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Understanding the technical details from the client.  • Involving in preparation of documentation.  • Involving in developing the WebPages Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery  • Involving in Fixing error which will be raise in the form of debug.  • Creating the custom module in magento    Project 3:    Title: Vinotemp: An online store  Team Size: 15  Duration: Sep 2016 to Sep 2017  Role: Web developer  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS  URL: www.vinotemp.com    Description:  The main goal of this project was to create a shopping cart, which allows customers to shop and purchase the Vinotemp products online. Moreover, the project is also designed in such a way it lets managers manage the products information online.  The Vinotemp online store sells wine cellars. Customers can orders products, and they will be contacted to further process the orders.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Understanding the technical details from the client.  • Involving in preparation of documentation.  • Involving in developing the WebPages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Involving in fixing error in the form of debug.    Declaration:    I Dipti Prakash Barik hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Bangalore Dipti Prakash Barik