Front End Web Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fairfax, VA Work Experience Front End Web Developer NEH - Washington, DC April 2010 to Present Responsibilities  :: Performs standard preliminary preparations on new projects, such  as designing the user interface and/or functioning prototypes and identify project specifications. Additionally, conduct various usability tests throughout development phase and post production launch.  :: Regularly research multiple web development sources; such as BuildAModule, Foundation, Drupal, and Twitter Bootstrap, to improve site design and functionality.  :: Develop and implement design standards for agency site and provide guidance to other colleagues when necessary. Work with the GIT version control system on a daily basis and have set up a local development environment for usability testing and prototyping phases.  :: Utilizes experience in maintaining a Drupal-based website to provide technical expertise and support in the administration and maintenance of agency’s internet websites and support website development.  :: Ensures that all postings are compliant with the agency’s and federal government’s policies governing the publication of web-based information, such as Section 508.  :: Incorporates new web technologies into the websites to maximize the visitor experience. As appropriate integrates multi-media resources such as sound, graphics, and video, and implements appropriate new software technologies.  :: Revises and maintains all agency websites as needed. Verifies that all content and links are current and ensures content consistency among pages.  :: Uses and applies knowledge of Drupal designing and building methodologies, website maintenance on a daily process, while keeping up-to-date with emerging and current web technologies and/or programming practices through online research and reading.  :: During design phase and periodically following site launch, actively engaged with end-user to assess specific needs, requirements and workflow procedures to enhance/improve user experience.  :: Actively contributed integral feedback on user interface standards, design principles, production/development pitfalls and direction from the initial planning stage of site redesign to the launch, and currently, the production stage.    Accomplishments  Launch of new agency website, integral team member on producing agency initiatives, provided excellent technical/customer support to users/content contributors    Skills Used  I have over seven years of experience as a Front- end Web Developer/Designer and am experienced with programs such as: Photoshop, Illustrator, Final Cut Pro X, Acrobat, Fireworks, Adobe Bridge, Dreamweaver, and Flash to modify and create/design content/graphics for on-line display on multiple currently active websites and designing user interfaces through wireframes.    Extensive experience with PHP, MySQL, Linux operating system, XML, Section 508 Compliance, HTML4 and HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (JQuery), designing and developing responsive sites for mobile devices/platforms, web usability/accessibility, cross- browser compliance. Designed and/or developed sites in Drupal, Joomla, Wordpress, Concrete5, and Squarespace - interested in open source CMS. Experience with LESS/SASS, with goal to attain more. Utilize GIT as a versioning control system on a daily basis. Mapbox map builder.     Regularly provide design and development advice and training for colleagues, and experienced in overseeing junior team members' work and providing design and development guidance when needed. Education BA in Graphic Design George Mason - Fairfax, VA 2003 to 2008