Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer New Jersey • 5+years of experience as a Front End Developer with solid understanding in all the phases of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), this includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of UI applications for large Enterprise Customers  • Experienced in developing Web UI Applications using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Boot Strap, Java Script, Typescript, Ajax, JQuery, and Spring MVC.  • Experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) by using different angular version including Angular2 and AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS.  • Updated several parts of the company code base to Javascript ES6/ES7 syntax  • Experience in XML related technologies like XSL, XSD, XPATH, DTD, and XML Schemas, XML Parsers like DOM & SAX.  • Experienced in other front- end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, BOOTSTRAP, AngularJS, Angular 2, Ajax, JSON, Node JS etc.  • Strong debugging skills using Browser Developer Tools  • Used CSS LESS/SASS preprocessors. And Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Experienced in using SOAP and REST for implementation of web services.  • Working knowledge in developing J2EE based applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Struts, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Good Experience in developing Web Services, Restful API using Jersey Framework, and SOAP services using Spring-WS.  • Good Experience in front ends technologies such HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle and Ajax.  • Experience with testing tools like Selenium and build tool like Jenkins.  • Developed RESTful, Soap web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and account  • Extensive experience in using Spring Modules like Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Container.  • Extensive experience in using NPM, BOWER, Grunt and Gulp for build process.  • Hands on experience and in depth knowledge in implementation of AWS Cloud-specific technologies like Elastic Servers, EC2 Instance and s3 Instance.  • Experienced on tools like JIRA for bug tracking.  • Used Restful web services (client & service) to interact with other system components.  • Good knowledge in SQL/PL-SQL programming for packages, stored procedures etc., using Oracle.  • Experience with web/application servers Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, and Tomcat Server, Jetty.  • Experience in performing Unit testing, Integration Testing and generation of test cases using JUnit.  • Used wireframes and style guides given by UX designer for layout and styling for webpages  • Debugging and testing with Karma/Jasmine and Mocha/chai. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Selective insurance, NJ February 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework Angular2 along with HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript.  • The application is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SASS, Bootstrap, and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Written modular, secure, and well-tested front- end code in Typescript, HTML5 and CSS using the latest web.  • Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back- end APIs.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • Working on Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, and Typescript. Additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design, less for preprocessing are used.  • Implemented Restful API from core using NodeJS and Express Framework.  • Developed models to persist data in MongoDB using Mongoose Driver.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back- end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Developed UI using Polymer and GE Predix components, Flexbox and SASS (CSS pre-processors - Mixins, Variables)  • Styling of polymer components by connecting properties as attribute  • Developed secured credit and fraud check flows for customer verification.  • Implemented Angular router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Created a build process for different environments like develop, staging and production.  • Demonstrated knowledge of code reviews, unit and regression testing.  • Used Webpack to build Typescript modules.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 2, RxJS, Typescript, Agile, Bootstrap, NodeJS. REST API's, Webpack, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA, MAC and Visual Studio. Front End Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS August 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax.  • Good experience of Client Side Validation using JavaScript.  • Used AJAX for implementing Dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Implemented AngularJS frameworks in AJAX-driven websites using proxy to get the data from the back- end in the form of JSON and XML to populate on the UI components.  • Used Bootstraps JS along with AngularJS in creating the Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Worked with validation of angular forms, custom filters, directories and file organizations, event handlers and angular animations.  • Designed front end with JavaScript framework in AngularJS and JQuery.  • Used AngularJS for MVVM and MVC.  • Using CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient and also used Bourbon a lightweight Sass tool set that helps you write more effective style sheets.  • Utilized AngularJS, Node.js and Express framework to create dynamic data driven web pages Smooth as butter when writing SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables using MSSQL & MySQL  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and JQuery and Angular Java Script.  • Developed dynamic UI using AngularJS and Produced dynamic, interactive data visualizations using JavaScript library like D3.js  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D/3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Used Firebug to debug JavaScript, to analyze DOM objects of the page and to change the page layout.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Good Knowledge in unit test cases like Jasmine, Karma and E2E test cases using Protractor.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Used JSON for data transfer between front- end and back- end.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, Node JS, AngularJS 1.5, React JS, ES6, Backbone JS, Java6 Bootstrap, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, Typescript, Ext.js GIT, Responsive Design, Web Services, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, chai Grunt, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Photoshop, Windows OS, Eclipse, Web Storm. UI Developer Prokarma November 2013 to December 2014 Project: E-Ticket  Responsibilities:  • Involved in User Interface discussions and evaluations.  • Implemented user-friendly UI design with HTML and CSS.  • Implemented various JavaScript/jQuery effects on the pages.  • Worked with Internal Clients for business objectives, project scope and the requirements of the project.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed and validated login pages of the network for good using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on version control system, on day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the on-going project status and issues.  • Widely used optimization techniques in existing code.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  • Used JDBC to retrieve data from an MSSQL database to support a Swing gui  • Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle.  • Tested/De-bugged on browser using Firebug  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and plugins using JQUERY.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Understood and applied OOPS concepts thoroughly.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Worked closely with QA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, DOM, jQuery, JavaScript, SVN, Adobe Dreamweaver, Ajax, JSON, Visual Studio, JDBC, SQL Server 2005 and MS Office. Web Developer CGG - IN July 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interface in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different modules such as Log in, Client Information, Medicine Inventory.  • Actively involved in analyzing and collecting user requirements.  • Created various web pages for internal use by business users to be integrated with other backend systems.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure to be able to define alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic characteristics.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Preparing Documentation for various process developments.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Creating, edit, and manipulate images for organizational charts, phone directory, web pages, web application using applications such as Adobe Photoshop.  • Implemented User Friendly UI design with HTML, and CSS, JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Developed re-usable CSS templates.  • Ensured Web Content is in compliance with W3C standards  • Designed and customized the web forms using CSS, HTML and JavaScript, XML.  • Web Administration support, Content Management dealing with changes, addition, and deletion or editing of day to day activities on the web store.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Eclipse, SQL Server, SQL, Filezilla, Oracle 10g. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills CSS (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), UI (4 years), USER INTERFACE (4 years), HTML (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, XML, JSON, MVC Design.  Languages: Java (J2EE, SEAM, STRUTS), Hibernate, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL.  IDE & Editors: Notepad++, Visual Studio Code 2010, Eclipse, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Brackets, Sublime, Web Storm.  Database: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB.  UI Frameworks: Angular JS/Angular2.0, React JS, Node JS, Express.  Other Tools:  Adobe Photoshop, Gimp, MS Office, Jira, Firebug,Django, Chrome Developers Tool, Windows Movie Maker, Junit, karma, protractor, jasmine.    Operating System Windows, Mac OS, Linux.