Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Mistcooling Houston, TX • Having 3+ experience in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with ES5 and ES6, TypeScript, jQuery, Angular 4.0, React JS, Redux, Node.js  • Expertise in developing large scale Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular 4.0 and Angular 2.  • Worked on all aspects of Angular2/4 like routing, modularity, dependency injection, service calls and custom directives for single page applications.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Good knowledge on Angular 5 components like service resources, routing, Dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks  • Experience in ReactJS and working with React Redux architecture for complex state management and using React-Router and ES6 to develop Single Page Applications.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX concepts.  • Expertise in React Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Worked closely with Node.js in designing Restful API.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as LESS and SASS  • Proficient in using AJAX for implementing dynamic Web Pages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Extensive experience in Testing, Debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using Firebug and Chrome Inspector Tools.  • Experience in build tools, Gulp, Grunt, NPM, Webpack, Webpack-loaders.  • Experience with various IDE's such as Visual Studio Code, Web Strom and Notepad++.  • Experience in performing unit-testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Expertise in using source code control system such as GIT.  • Moderate knowledge and experience with SQL Server and Core Java, Spring framework, Junit.  • Worked in Waterfall model and Agile based development environment, following the sprint deadlines and participating in scrum meetings.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, quick learning, creative problem solving, interpersonal and client interfacing skills with strong leadership skills. Work Experience Web Developer Mistcooling March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as web developer using cutting edge technology like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 5, Typescript, node Js to deliver web application.  • Web-site mock-ups for client to ensure quality control and client satisfaction before project development phase  • Responsible for variety of complex matters including ongoing design, development and maintenance of existing and new web application and systems.  • Work with lead Application developer to recommend and internet based application to help drive business strategy and create process efficiencies  • Maintain a good development process and workflow, including identifying and implementing optimization  • Environment: Visual Studio code, Angular 4, Angular 5, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Web API, REST Web Services, JSON, Git. Front End Developer AZtech May 2018 to March 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and tested HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 4 and Typescript that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Used Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Responsible to create front end application using Angular 2/4.  • Implemented responsive web design and mobile friendly design using Angular 4 along with bootstrap3.  • Used Node.JS as proxy to interact with Rest services and with Database, building real-time Web API's.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Monitoring the offshore work and providing technical help to the offshore team for their JIRA tickets.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, JIRA and VS Code. Front End UI Developer Pro-Tek Consulting March 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed various Web applications using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, Angular 2.0/4.0.  • Creation of page templates, CSS style sheets, HTML & platform-specific presentation layer code, content and style guides as a hands-on team member throughout development and implementation.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Created a custom responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular 2/4.  • Developed and designed SPA user interfaces in AngularJS.  • Worked on Front end by using Angular 2/4, TypeScript.  Environment: Visual Studio code, Angular 2, Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Web API, REST Web Services, JSON, Git. Front End UI Developer Diligence System Inc July 2017 to March 2018 • Created components using react.js and created documentation for components.  • Use Bootstrap which can easily manipulate modal windows alerts, tooltips, scroll spy, Pop over, button, type head.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Reacts Js and JSX for developing user interface.  • Used GIRA for assigning user stories and for task runner have used Gulp.  • Created documentation for all the components which is included in React-Bootstrap page.  • Experience in using GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to the GIT repository.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  Environment: Core Java, Web storm, React Js, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Web API, REST Web Services, JSON, Git. UI Developer Intern Nichtech - IN July 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in development of a responsive application using JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front- end UI team.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery,  JavaScript.  • Developed non-functional HTML and CSS pages from mock-ups and involved in UI review With Architect and business units.  • Implemented HTML feature like, local storage, data and required attributes and sliders.  • Implemented CSS features like, multi-column layout, gradients, and web fonts.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Developing semantic mark-up and Wireframe development. Web application prototyping and development using Dream Weave.  • Front- end validations are done using JavaScript.  • Utilized version control tool GIT to communicate with other team members to work on the same code-base in the repository.  • Involved in creating Use cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for the system using UML.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash,  Dreamweaver, and Photoshop.    Environment: Windows, Linux/Unix, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop. Software Developer Intern Softvan - IN August 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various modules using Java-J2EE, J2SE, Hibernate, Spring in and various design patterns.  • Monitored new applications written in Java, J2EE and J2SE in Multithreaded environment for Maven enterprise level of applications.  • Created user stories and develop UML class Models and logic models.  • Responsible to write and modify code using JSP, Servlets within Hibernate and Spring framework into MVC pattern.  • Worked with the Unix OS to creating multiple tasks, prioritize them and using shell/bash scripting as well as file access mechanism and Error detections.  • Working with the team of developer into SDLC named: WATERFALL and AGILE.  • Strong working experienced for developing and debugging various application into Eclipse, Net beans, Software Visual Studio, Intellij Idea and WebStorm.  Environment: Windows, Linux/Unix, Java-J2EE, JSP, Multithreading, Spring, Apache Jena, Eclipse, Maven. Education M.S, Computer Science in Software Engineering Lamar University - Beaumont, TX August 2015 to May 2017 B.E in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University July 2011 to May 2015 Skills Angular, Front End, Javascript, HTML5, Jquery, Angularjs Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/aksh16 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, JSP, XML  Framework & Libraries React JS, jQuery, Angular 2.0/4.0, Bootstrap, Node.js, LESS, SASS  Database: MySQL, Mongo DB, Google Firebase  Tools & IDE: Web Strom, VS Code, Eclipse, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++, Brackets, GitHub  Servers: HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat  Debugging tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, IntelliJ.  Version Control: Git  Unit Testing Tools: Karma, Jasmin  Programming Languages: C, C++, Java