Freelance Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Developer Austin, TX • Software developer with experience in Front- end UI development and Android mobile  application development.  • Experience in AGILE based development environment.  • A team player with very good organizational, interpersonal skills and always inclined to learn  modern technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Developer Website for Event Management March 2017 to May 2017 • Development and maintenance of website for an Event management company.  • Used HTML5, Kendo UI Core components and JavaScript for designing the user interface.  • User Interface had a single page with a header, I frame and a footer. Based on menu selection  the I Frame is populated with respective page.  • Used fire base to store the images and data.  • For authorization firebase authentication is used.  Technologies Used:  HTML, Kendo UI, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Fire Base Front End Developer California State University-Fullerton, Masters of Software Engineering Dept June 2015 to May 2016 Development and maintenance of Masters of Software Engineering webpage which gives  complete information about the software engineering department.  • Develop a JavaScript program to do validations for the event registration forms.  • Develop an Event registration sign up page on the website, to let students know what events are  happening in the department and register to those prior to the events.  • Created tabs for each category like courses, general requirements, program cost, contact us etc.  and provided information in that category accordingly.  • Designed header which includes the title of the department and school name and styled it.  • Designed footer which includes the copy right details and side panels which includes the department faculty details like name, email and contact number.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Link:  http://mse.ecs.fullerton.edu/home.html Front End Developer California State University-Fullerton, Masters of Software Engineering Dept January 2015 to May 2015 Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Developed the webpage with HTML and designed it using CSS.  • Develop a JavaScript program to help facilitating end-user testing.  • Redesigned pages to improve application design and UI to attract the students by taking inputs  from library management.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used  JavaScript methods and Properties.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript  • Created buttons and event handling using React JS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  Used Angular JS to retrieve the information from the database and display it in the webpage.  • The information about the books in the library is stored in the database.  Technologies Used:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, AJAX, JQUERY, PHP, MySQL  Github Link:  https://github.com/nagallaanisha/CSUF_Library_Project Software Developer Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to September 2013 Developed an android mobile application using Titanium framework  • Created the application in Android native, titanium and phone gap frameworks in Android.  • Worked on XML for the user interface of the screen.  • The user's current location is retrieved and displayed it on the front screen.  • Provided two tabs in the bottom of front screen, one for give information and the other  one for see information.  • Through Give info tab users can comment, share the photo and like/dislike the comments for the categories like shopping malls, theaters, restaurants and traffic. [Like  Yelp].  • Through See info tab users can view the comments, see the photos posted by others  and like/dislike the comments for the categories like shopping malls, theaters,  restaurants and traffic.  • All the users entered information is saved in the database using MYSQL.  Website development for Organization (Aakarsha)  • Developed the webpage with HTML and designed it using CSS for the organization.  • Develop a JavaScript and JQuery program to help facilitating end-user testing.  • Developed a user login page, listed out services provided by the client. Also includes  feature for user to schedule appointments for the available services.  • All the organization information is saved in the database using MYSQL.  • To store and retrieve information in/from MYSQL and display it on the webpage is done  using PHP.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, PHP, MYSQL, Titanium (Android Framework)    Projects Worked on:  Developed a web template store Using AngularJS  • Created a simple web template app. Will list the templates with their details including  price and Category  • When clicked template it will navigate to the detailed page and there will have a pay  button.  • The pay button is simple PayPal button, it will navigate to the PayPal page which gives  the buying option.  • This is done using Angular seed boiler plate.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, AngularJS, NPM, JSON  Github Link:  https://github.com/nagallaanisha/Templatestore  Developed a Facebook mobile application  • Used Facebook Graph API to utilize Facebook authentication, getting user info, fetching  posts and Creating posts.  • Created Facebook App on developer's website.  • Developed Facebook APP UI.  • Developed Facebook Login Authentication.  • Displayed User Info and Posts in user's wall.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NPM, Facebook API  Github Link:  https://github.com/nagallaanisha/facebookapp  Developed a User Authentication System  • Setup a Node server running the Sails MVC framework.  • Created Forms and their validation on client and server side.  • Created Custom Backend API using Sails server.  • Used Toastr messaging Modules to display custom messages.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, Foundation, AngularJS, NPM, MongoDB, sails server  Github Link:  https://github.com/nagallaanisha/UserAuthentication  Developed an Instagram Gallery  • Used Instagram data API and made requests using AngularJS.  • Created Instagram data service to fetch the images.  • Added a Lightbox feature for the images  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node JS, Instagram API, Gulp  Github Link:  https://github.com/nagallaanisha/InstagramGalleryApp Education MS in Software Engineering California State University - Fullerton, CA May 2016 M.Tech in Software Engineering GITAM University May 2012 B. Tech in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University May 2010 Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (1 year), UI (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, PHP, JavaScript, React JS, Angular JS and  SASS, Web pack,  Database Technologies: MySQL, MongoDB, Google Fire Base  Task Runners: Gulp, Grunt, Bower, NPM  IDE: Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE  Operating systems: Windows, Android.  Version Tools: GIT  Tools: Titanium Framework, Eclipse Native, Phone gap, Kendo UI