Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Apt, AR • UI Development professional with 3 years of experience in developing & maintaining quality of dynamic web pages for state and non profit organizations.  • Advanced in working with Object Oriented Programming coupled with JavaScript Framework.  • Team player in developing responsive WebPages using Twitter Bootstrap which are used by public and over 300 employees.  • Familiarity with different content management MYSQL database infrastructure.  • Took initiative and thought outside the box, and took actions that lead to transformative outcomes. Excellent communication, problem solving, interpersonal and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Colorado Springs, CO July 2017 to Present • Redesigned and Simplified organization's External and Internal Websites using UI design and worked on ASP.NET Framework through agile development methodology.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Worked on Bootstrap and Media Queries to develop responsive WebPages.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client and experience implementing REST APIs.  • Tested websites for cross browser compatibility and fixing bugs and errors.  • Worked on Microsoft SQL Server 2012 and with IIS (Internet Information Services). Web Developer Pikes Peak Children's Museum November 2017 to February 2018 • Redesigned museum Website that is user friendly to the public. Customized themes and implemented UI, also build and maintain frontend.  • Managed Wordpress plugins Contact Form 7. In addition added custom CSS code for user friendly website.  • Created webpages that are responsive in design and worked with eCommerce for online payment setup.  • Configure Website features and web components and worked with Google analytics to track the website traffic.  • Managed Hosting platform issues (Network Solutions). Implemented SEO on website. Front End Developer Springs, CO - Pikes Peak, PA January 2017 to April 2017 • Skillfully facilitated design and maintenance of organization's professional Website. Develop, edit and update web content.  • Worked on redesign of the organization's Website.  • Created Widgets, customized themes and implemented user interfaces.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Customized appearance of Wufoo Forms by adding CSS3 Properties.  • Managed Hosting platform using FTP tools and involved in finding broken links, missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Worked with SEO techniques like keyword research and website optimization. Front End Developer Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute Of Technology September 2013 to October 2015 • Involved in extensive HTML, CSS, and JavaScript coding to build web pages according to the end user needs.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-complaint.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, Grid frameworks and JavaScript.  • Used Js for custom client-side validation and DOM manipulations.  • Developed all the pages using HTML, DOM, CSS, AngularJS, Json, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax.  • Ability to respond to situations in timely manner, and meet deadlines.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) with AngularJs. Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the Web page.  • Ability to communicate technical information to both technical and non-technical personnel.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills HTML5 (3 years), JavaScript. (3 years), JQuery (2 years), UI (3 years), user interface (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJs, ASP.Net, NodeJs, Laravel  Mobile Web Technologies Twitter Bootstrap  Simulators/IDEs/Tools Eclipse, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Visual studio  Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 2007, Windows 2008, Windows 2010, Linux, Unix  Programming Languages C, JAVA, MYSQL  Others MS Office Suit and Photoshop, WordPress, Squarespace, , DotNetNuke, Weebly, GitHub, Pivotal Tracker, Jira, Asana