Front- End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- End Developer - AT&T Mobility Bothell, WA ? Over 6+ years of extensive Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and XML  ? Developed CQ components, workflow and integrating CQ with other applications.  ? Experience integrating the third party Social Media Tools provided by web site thereby transforming it into two-way conversation place where registered users can interact directly with the content and each other using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  ? Experience on working withCSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  ? Strong communication skills, with the ability to convey concepts/requirements between technical and non-technical stakeholders.  ? Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams. Work Experience Front- End Developer AT&T Mobility - Bothell, WA March 2013 to Present AT&T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States and it currently serves about 116 million customers. With numbers growing in fast, AT&T has been continuously enhancing online user experience. I was part of huge ecommerce development team, which dealt with AT&T's Support division and also redesigning it's contact us website from the scratch.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with designers in understanding the structure of the contact us redesign website.  • Understood business requirements by closely following up with Business Analyst, Systems Analyst and Product Owner.  • Followed Agile methodology in restructuring contact us website.  • Designed templates in Adobe CQ5 based upon the wireframes and business requirements.  • Developed components using JSP for the website in CQ5, this would help change the website on the fly in future.  • Embedded component content inside HTML and added styles to the webpage using CSS.  • Developed responsive styles for mobile version of contact us website.  • Used core jQuery library functions for logical implementation part of the website.  • Worked with Analytics team to implement reporting values for tracking page hits and link clicks using JavaScript.  • Collaborated with LivePerson Inc. for implementation of third party code packages for live chat functionality.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, Adobe CQ5, Oracle WebLogic, Eclipse, SVN, QC    AT&T's website enhancements come at a quick pace in order to make online shopping experience better. Production support team deals in managing business owner's ever-changing requirements. Prime goals for this team were to add new pages to the existing websites and fix any severe functionality issues (if any).    Responsibilities:  • Developed new pages for existing web sites in order to add more features and improve user experience.  • Worked with business owners to understand the customer demands/inputs and make changes to the website accordingly.  • Collaborated with Analytics team to capture all the user actions on a web page using JavaScript.  • Followed waterfall approach in production support team.  • Fixed production bugs by using various debug tools. Traversed the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues pertaining to various browsers. Used modernizr.js, which helped in detecting features of a browser.  • Used Jira and Quality Center for defect tracking management.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, Oracle WebLogic, Eclipse, SVN, Jira Web Developer LexisNexis - Dayton, OH November 2011 to February 2013 LexisNexis is a leading global provider of content-enabled workflow solutions designed specifically for professionals in the legal, risk management, corporate, government, law enforcement, accounting, and academic markets. Project was about content-enabled workflow solutions.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  ? We have followed with Agileand Scrum development methodologies  ? Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firebug and IE Developer Tools.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  ? Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN Education B.tech in Computer Science JNT University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Skills HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP,: jQuery, jQuery UI, modernizr,Adobe CQ5,Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text 2, Brackets,,Git, Subversion,Windows, MAC OS X Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP  • JavaScript Libraries: jQuery, jQuery UI, modernizr  • Content Management Systems: Adobe CQ5  • IDE's: Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text 2, Brackets  • Source code control: Git, Subversion  • Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS X  • Application server: Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic  • SDLC: Waterfall model, Agile software development (Scrum)  • Design editors: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator