Front- end Developer <span class="hl">Front</span>-<span class="hl">end</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front- end Developer - Marlabs Inc Piscataway, NJ • Highly experienced front- end developer worked in various domains like Health Care, Finance, Insurance and e-commerce  • Extensive experience in web development and UI using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script ES5/ES6, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap3/4, Node.js, AngularJS, and Angular2/4/7.  • Expertise in developing Responsive Web Design, Grid Framework Applications using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Strong experience with jQuery, and jQuery plugins (Validator, Drag and Drop, AutoComplete), AJAX, and JSON.  • Developed scalable applications using the MEAN (MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular, and Node.JS) stack.  • Maintained RESTFUL API using Express.JS framework on Node.js and used JSON Web Token (JWT) Authentication with XML and JSON data formats communication.  • Worked extensively on Angular 7 components, built -in and customized directives, services, routing, content projection, observables, lazy loading, and Route Guard to develop Single Page Application (SPA).  • Experienced in working with AngularJS MVC, Data Binding, factory, service.  • Highly skilled in creating custom directives and in custom filters in AngularJS.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Experience in working with NodeJS and npm modules (Express).  • Worked on Chart.js/D3.js to build pages with data visualization.  • Experience of working on CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners such as Grunt, Gulp, and Web pack, and Babel.  • Strong experience in RBDMS and writing queries using MySQL5.x, and Non-relational database using MongoDB3.0.  • Developed Application within Test Driven Development (TDD) environment with unit testing tools: karma/jasmine/JEST.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome using Modernizr/ Webshim.  • Experience in code repository using GIT for version control, JIRA for Bug tracking Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Experience with various development methodologies like Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.  • Experienced in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting from requirement gathering, prototyping, system analysis and design, system and data modeling, database design, development, unit testing, integration testing, documentation and maintenance to produce high quality software.  • Good knowledge on AWS: S3, EC2 and load balancing.  • Highly passionate in frontend development, self-learner, curious about new technologies, able to work independently and in teams, and can handle multiple projects while remain detail oriented on each one. Work Experience Front- end Developer Marlabs Inc - Piscataway, NJ April 2019 to Present Project: HenryOne Order Webpage Update    Project Description:  Ordering supplies is a key service in Henry Schein that is being provided as one of the Practice Management Software solutions for the dentists. the project's scope is to re-engineer the ordering module in Angular 7 and updating products list and adding new products list as more equipment and supplies are being add-on by this year. Additionally, customer can now filter their search by type in the supply name or item code.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Angular7 scopes such as Services, Dependency Injection and Routing  • Used Angular 7 Routing module to implement the navigation between components.  • Updated the existing product list of the medical supplies and equipment, implemented the searching list using Angular custom filters to effectively search the product.  • Implemented Route Guard to secure navigation to specific routes, so only registered user can have the access.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility and implement Responsive Design for the products list using Bootstrap4 and custom media queries.  • Interacted with backend team by working on Restful Web Service calls in NodeJS and ExpressJS.  • Utilized HttpClient Module to communicate with the server.  • Used MongoDB to store and retrieve the products/supplies list.  • Used NPM package (Mongoose) to make the connection between NodeJS server and MongoDB.  • Developed unit test cases using Karma/Jasmine with Test-driven Development (TDD).  • Used JIRA for Bug Tracking and GitHub version control.    Environment:  JavaScript, DOM, Angular 7, TypeScript, Responsive Web design, Bootstrap4, JEST, JSON, NodeJS, MongoDB, GIT, WebStorm Front- end Developer West Long Branch, NJ July 2017 to March 2019 Project Description:  The web application provides a superior customer service and low rates along with the abilities to understand the customer's coverage needs drives the success of agency. The project objective is to implement an upgrade of Angular 2 application to Angular 4. Also, Implementing user registration and login.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web components application using Angular 2/4  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Developed the application using Angular 2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, Java Script, Bootstrap3, NPM.  • Leveraged existing Angular 2 modules using the Dependency Injection features to refactor the code.  • Upgraded the application from Angular 2 with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on Http module of Angular 4, form validators, and reactive forms.  • Implemented two modules for registration and signing in using Angular 4.  • Used JSON Web Token (JWT) in both registration and login form for user authentication.  • Implemented a Route Guard to restrict un-registered users from accessing specific URLs.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table.  • Strong working experience in solving Cross-Browser Compatibility challenges and processing responsiveness.  • Built Angular 4 UI components used for navigation and frontend view switching strategy and routing links for SPA implementations.  • Implemented the prototype for the front- end in the Angular 4 frameworks, utilizing build in directives, as well as creating services to manipulate the data via Angular 4 architecture.  • Developed responsive web pages using CSS3 Media queries and Bootstrap3.  • Utilized HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4, Bootstrap, AJAX to create a user login/ registration component that allowed customers to login and register.  • Involved in agile software methodologies using Test-driven Development (TDD).    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, DOM, Responsive Web design, Bootstrap3, JIRA, JWT, WebStorm UI Developer West Long Branch, NJ September 2016 to June 2017 Project Description:  The project focus on helping clients throughout the global business community, including mortgage lending and loan options. The project aimed to develop a web application with a team that makes customers easily manage and update their account information, view payment history records, subscribe activities and review statements.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process via Agile methodology.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5,CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, and Bootstrap 3  • Used AngularJS components like Modules, Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Validation and APIs to build the MVC of the SPA (Single Page Application).  • Created Custom Directives for custom validation to verify the user information.  • Created Custom Filters to sort and format the records displayed in the web page.  • Used AngularJS in development of the web application to bind the data that is being retrieved from the database through services.  • Used routing schemes to develop single page applications (SPA) using AngularJS Route.  • Integrated ng-Bootstrap widgets to implement carousel and accordion in the web pages.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on fly.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Maintained continuous communications between team members to track and roll the critical mission driven development.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, DOM, Responsive Web design, Bootstrap, Eclipse UI Developer Philadelphia, PA November 2014 to July 2015 Project Description:  The objective of the project is to develop an application to purchase items in an existing shop, a complete and efficient web application which can provide the online shopping experience. The application allows customers to register, login to their account, order online, and get home delivery.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web applications using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented t a responsive web layout for the order page using Bootstrap 3.  • Involved in discussions with the System Analysts to identify the technical requirements  • Used jQuery libraries and plugins for developing front end web applications.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets and developed Date Time Picker for the application.  • Involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings. Created Architecture Diagrams and Flow Charts using Microsoft Visio.  • Written the Test cases based on the requirement.  • Worked with in agile environment.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap 3, AJAX, DOM, Responsive Web design, Bootstrap3, Microsoft Visio, Agile, Eclipse Skills VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION SERVER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, XML, AJAX, TOMCAT, ANGULARJS, HTML5, SASS, ECLIPSE, jQuery, SDLC, DATABASE, MYSQL, VERSION CONTROL, EC2, APACHE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies\ Framework & Library\  HTML5, XML, DOM, CSS3, SASS, LESS, \ AngularJS, Angular2/4/7, Bootstrap3/4, \  JavaScript, ES5, ES6, jQuery, Ajax, JSON.\ jQuery, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Chart.js.\    Development tools (IDEs) \ Debugging Tools\  Eclipse, Atom, WebStorm, Visual Studio.\ Dev Tools, Chrome Inspector.\    Web /Application Server\ Programming languages\  Apache-Tomcat, AWS, S3, EC2, Autoscaling, \ JavaScript, TypeScript.\  load-balancer.\    Database\ Operating systems\  MySQL 5.x, MongoDB3.0.\ Mac, Windows Environment.\    Version Control\ Task Management \  GIT.\ Trello.\    SDLC Methodologies\ Cloud Platform\  Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, TDD.\ Amazon Web Service (AWS) \