Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Journey Themes Hicksville, NY I'm a passionate web developer with 6 years of web and mobile design experience. With my creative mind and eye for detail, I strive to deliver nothing short of perfection. I'm a self starter that likes to take initiative and who understands the versatility and flexibility required in working in the fast changing technological world. I have a proven track record of creating rich and dynamic web experiences and a history of providing solutions to front- end problems. I'm currently in search for a position that is compatible with both my experience and skillset. Work Experience Lead Developer Journey Themes - New York, NY November 2013 to Present Building themes for WordPress and Shopify. Starting and completing custom design and development projects for clients. Working with theme frameworks. Designing mockups, working through requirements and processing deliverables. Providing documentation and support. Front End Developer Outfit Barn - New York, NY April 2016 to June 2017 Responsible for designing mockups and wireframes using target requirements. Lead in developing the front- end code from the specs and mockups approved by management. Integrating the front end code into the content management system using HTML, CSS, PHP and JavaScript. Worked with AJAX plugins to load content dynamically and asynchronously which ultimately boosted performance by over 60%. Designed, developed and tested landing pages to maximize ad spend efficiency and user acquisition. Performing cross browser compatibility tests and eliminating bugs to further optimize performance. Working alongside design teams to collaborate and provide feedback. Education BA in Computer Information Systems Baruch College - New York, NY May 2017 Skills CSS (6 years), FRONT END (5 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PHP (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/amarchugg http://www.amarchugg.com https://www.behance.net/amarchugg