Front End Developer <span class="hl">Front</span> <span class="hl">End</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer - SAN DIEGO GAS AND ELECTRIC San Diego, CA Work Experience Front End Developer SAN DIEGO GAS AND ELECTRIC - San Diego, CA October 2012 to Present Part of core development team for Stage 2 release of MyAccount online customer portal.  • Worked with off-site web group to figure out best methodologies to develop a prototype. Used GitHub to get inputs from the web group.  • Developed dynamic prototype using extensive JQuery and Javascripting, along with HTML5 and CSS styling; with very little input on GUI expectations.  • Prepared the technical requirements and design documents based on input from business teams on the developed prototype.  • Participated in development of product using JSF 1.2. Mainly involved in Front end development. Used JQuery AJAX framework to make asynchronous web service calls on page load. Used Javascripting and JQuery's extensive UI library to design the front end incorporating revisions on prototype.  • Wrote SQL queries to create tables, insert records, and update records to handle code release independent data.  • Used SOAP UI mock services to mock web services to avoid dependency on other teams.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings to analyze project status and team task status. Took up scrum master responsibilities once a week.  • Participated in daily triages to track bugs submitted through White Box, Black Box, and User Acceptance testing phases. Provided estimates on Change Requests submitted by Business. Java Developer BERKLEY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES - Des Moines, IA July 2011 to October 2012 Provided product support by helping the developers with bug resolutions for PolicySTAR which is a insurance management tool - Intranet based for customer service representatives.  • Participate in daily scrum meetings to analyze new bugs being reported via Squishlist.  • Participate in bug resolution meetings to analyze problem and take input from senior developers on ways to solve the problem.  • Custom styling and positioning of tabs, fields, and panels for various companies using company specific XML files.  • Develop JSF Beans in core Java to accommodate feature additions and bug fixes. Education B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering Mahatma Gandhi University July 2010 MS in Computer and Information Sciences State University of New York - Utica, NY Additional Information Top skills: JQuery UI 1.9, JavaScript, FancyBox UI, CSS, HTML, JSP  Programming languages familiar with: Java, JSF 1.2, XML, HTML, ASP.Net (college coding experience), C++, C, SQL  IDEs familiar with: Oracle Weblogic 10.3, RAD 7.5, WSAD 5.1