UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer • Highly motivated professional with around 3+ years of experience in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON, Angularjs 2, Boost rap.  • Proficient in all phases of software development life cycle(SDLC)  • Experienced in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle like requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Used JQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript frameworks like JQuery and Angularjs 2, Boost rap  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Object Oriented JQUERY.  • Created Mobile Web Solutions using Responsive Web Design (RWD), Twitter, Boot Strap and JQUERY MOBILE.  • Experienced with front- end development with back- end system integration.  • Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as Knockout JS and AngularJS 2.Worked on agile methodology and experience working in a fast-paced Scrum environment.  • Effectively work independently and in team with product managers, business analysts and developers.  • Extensively worked with REST ful web services and developed several REST web services supported both XML and JSON.  • Extensive experience in DOM and DOM functions.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design, Web Security. Work Experience UI Developer Verizon Wireless June 2015 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT and ANGULAR JS.  • Created build environment for IOS and android using IBM Work light.  • Designed and developed mobile health application for IOS & Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development in agile software development team.  • Developing customer facing software for managing advertisements within games using Backbone.js, JavaScript / j Query, Handlebars.js, Require.js, High charts, HTML, and Sass.  • Developed the UI layout and front- end programming for web application that matched requirements using hand written HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked extensively on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards  • Experience building Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers/ Components, Custom Objects, Reports, Dashboards, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Implemented HTML5 feature like, local storage, data and required attributes and sliders.  • Implemented CSS3 features like, multi-column layout, gradients and web fonts.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Deployment and maintenance of Linux Server systems to run Open stack Cloud environment.  • Deployment and Support of Open Stack Cloud based on Linux RHEL /CentOS/Ubuntu.  • One year work Experience in spring 4.0.3 and Hibernate 4.2.1, Maven, Tiles, Ajax, J son, Mongo DB.  • Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, ORACLE. Mongo DB (No Sql).  • Work closely with top customers and prospects in EMEA, ensure their success with AWS.  • Drive and influence AWS revenue in EMEA strategize about business priorities.  • Open Stack Multi node Installation, Configuration and Administration.  • Worked on CSS pre-processors like SASS, SCSS.  • Developed common CSS classes for the user interface using CSS and CSS3.  • Used JIRA extensively for organizing issues, tracking the assigned work, and following team activity.  • Used JQuery-Ajax plug-in to GET the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Involved in providing pseudo application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications.  • Build websites and applications using Dot CMS.  • Designed, built and coordinate an automated build & release [CI/CD] process using Gitlab, Jenkins/Rundeck, Nexus and Chef on hybrid IT infrastructure.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  • Experience on using Gulp implementation.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Experience creating dynamic FLASH applications using JavaScript and Flash animation using Adobe Flash 5.5.  • Participated in all team meetings and daily scrum calls with offshore team.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQuery.  • Maintained and manipulated databases for XML parsing for applications in MYSQL.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Created client surveys and displayed the results in a dynamic report (d3, J query, Sql)  • Experienced with React.js workflows.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS 2, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, Gulp, Sublime Text3, Core Java, Eclipse, M.S Windows, AJAX, Sketch, Keynote, XML. Front- End Developer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO May 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, DOM, JSON, jQuery and AJAX, Angular.js, knockout.js.  • Designed and developed the layouts using CSS3, Box mode land HTML 5.  • Responsible for Open Stack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools.  • Established Open Stack project Infrastructure Program.  • Scaled developer infrastructure as project grew and transitioned to Open Stack Foundation  • Used Bootstrap for responsiveness.  • Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates in order to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Used Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  • Presented on modern web workflow making use of grunt, bower to company.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Boost rap, Core Java, XHTML, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Photoshop, JIRA, SVN, MS Office, Visual Studio 2010, Jenkin tool. Skills Ajax (3 years), Bootstrap. (3 years), HTML (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  UI Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, UI Concept Modeling/Wire framing, Bootstrap, SASS.  UI Frameworks Angularjs 2, jQuery, JSON, node.js  IDE, HTML Editor Sublime text, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, EditPlus, JSfiddle, Webstrom.  Version Control GIT, SVN  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Database Oracle, SQL Server  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7, UNIX, LINUX and MacOS.