UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - NaviHealth Brentwood, TN 3 years of extensive experience in IT industry as a Front End UI Developer with Web based  applications in various domains.  Strong development experience in User Interface applications and integration of highly  transactional and scalable applications using Object Oriented Analysis and design principals.  Proficiency in the Entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis  and Debugging, Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation,  Implementation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  Experience in Web technologies using HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery,  AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, AngularJS2, D3.JS and NodeJS.  Extensively used new software tools in designing user interfaces and adapt to the  changing environment.  Hands on Experience in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using various  JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Angular2.js, D3.js and bootstrap.  Experience in writing the Controllers, Services and Partials in perspective of AngularJS.  Experience in implementing Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax,  JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call and JSON.  Experience in development of DB components (Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, queries  constraints - CRUD) in Oracle, SQL Server, NoSQL databases.  Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM).  Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners  like GruntJS.  Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles using  media queries and libraries like bootstrap.  Designed and developed configurable dashboard UI using NodeJS and HTML5 drag drop event  model.  Professional Knowledge in complying Webpages depending up on Web Wide Web  Consortium(W3C) and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (W3CAG).  Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors  and IE Developer Toolbar.  Developed CSS, SASS styles on all the pages of the application and positioning of objects etc.  Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility.  Configuration and automation of tasks like precompiling SASS, minifying JS and CSS files to make  the build and deployment process cleaner.  Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  Hands on experience with version control tools like GIT Hub, JIRA  Experience in using editors like sublime text, Atom, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, Brackets.  Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and  interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer NaviHealth - Brentwood, TN June 2016 to Present United States  Responsible for developing SPA web UI that is more effective using JavaScript, Typescript,  Bootstrap and Angular2.js Single-handedly completed the development and testing for some of the core component using Multi-threading.  Worked on Cross browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  Used High charts and d3js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  Used Angular2.js framework where data from backend is stored in model using http and security  configurations for authentication and authorization for populated model on to UI.  Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript  Frameworks methods and properties.  Developed test cases using Jasmine and QUnit.  Prepared various project related documents such as test cases and coding standards and guidelines.  Used Sublime Text Editor worked with Angular JS Application Designing and developing with Node JS, Mongodb, npm, bower, Gulp to make test server.  Used Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like Carousel, Collapse, Dropdown, Tabs.  Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in Reactjs and JavaScript  Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  Written controllers and components that are responsible to hold model data, call back functions and for rendering views  Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular  Framework  Defined new approaches to complex design problems.  Involved in developing the Validations across the application using AngularJS Validation plugin.  Used GIT sever for project development  Used Agile to assist other team members and manage their daily activities to run the web  developing and publishing departments.  As a scrum team member worked on agile stories, trouble shooting issues and fixing defects Front End Developer Polmon Instruments Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2013 to June 2015 Telangana, India  Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML/HTML5, XHTML, and CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS.  Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  Used jQuery to make the application highly interactive and used JSON objects effectively for efficient client side coding.  Worked on developing custom, object-oriented JavaScript using common JavaScript libraries and frameworks.  Used Object Oriented concepts to improve the performance of websites and developedRESTful web  services by mapping the REST operations to HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.  Worked closely with graphic design and user experience teams to ensure industry standards and best practices are being used across all client applications.  Worked on AngularJS features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters,  Services.  Designed Custom Directives using AngularJS.  Used AngularJS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-if, ng-hide, ng-controller,  ng-route etc.  Worked with Subversion for check in and checkout unit code.  Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop,  AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  Used Junit framework for unit testing of application.  Converted wireframes into live web pages using technologies like HTML, CSS  Worked with Agile methodology, developed scrum teams within the development teamand have  ability to complete the tasks within given sprints  Used JIRA extensively for organizing issues, tracking the assigned work, and following teamactivity Education Master of Science in Computer Science Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR 2016 Bachelor of Science in Instrumentation & Computers Amrita School of Engineering - Bangalore, Karnataka 2013 Skills AJAX (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), UI (3 years), User Interface (3 years) Additional Information Skills    Web development skills: HTML/HTML5, Frameworks: Angular2.js, Angular.js, D3.js.  CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, Databases: Oracle, MYSQL, SQL SERVER.  jQuery UI, AJAX, JSON, XML, DOM, and Version Control & Build Tools: GIT, JIRA,  XHTML, SASS, LESS GRUNT.  IDE and HTML Editors: Notepad++, Brackets, Operation Systems: Windows NT, Windows  Atom, Sublime Text, Adobe Dreamweaver. 2000, and Windows XP/7/8/10.  Web/App servers: Tomcat 5.5, HTTP Web  Server.  Methodologies: Waterfall model, Agile.