Sr. IT Security Analyst Sr. <span class="hl">IT</span> <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> Sr. IT Security Analyst - XTO Energy Weatherford, TX ? Splunk administrator in a large enterprise implementation across multiple network segments  ? CyberArk vault administrator  ? DUO two-factor authentication administrator  ? SQL Compliance Manager administrator  ? Server and workstation OS installation, configuration, and troubleshooting  ? Network installation, configuration, and troubleshooting  ? Able to learn quickly and adapt to new situations and procedures  ? Analytical thinker and capable of effectively troubleshooting hardware and software issues  ? Able to effectively communicate to a wide audience  ? Able to lead a team to accomplish goals Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. IT Security Analyst XTO Energy - Fort Worth, TX January 2016 to Present In addition to duties outlined in the section immediately below, also responsible for the administration of Splunk within a large enterprise environment across multiple network segments utilizing a Linux platform. Duties include  onboarding new data sources, app creation and deployment, issue troubleshooting and resolution, provisioning  user access, and ensuring the security of the application. Oversaw the migration of 25 core Splunk infrastructure  components to a new, remote data center. IT Security Analyst XTO Energy - Fort Worth, TX May 2015 to January 2016 Oversaw project to enroll ~350 privileged IDs (PIDs) on smartcards. Responsible for creation and maintenance of Splunk alerts, reports, and knowledge objects. Reviewed and responded to Splunk alerts regarding PIDs.  Provisioned safes and maintained PIDs as CyberArk vault administrator. Configured and administered SQL  Compliance Manager. IT Support Technician The Firm Foundation - Weatherford, TX February 2013 to May 2015 Responsible for network/desktop/server hardware and software installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and issue resolution in a small business environment with anywhere from 5 to 75 end users. Administer Windows  systems running Windows Server 2003 through Windows Server 2012 R2. Provide support for Active Directory  including password resets; creating, deleting, and suspending accounts; adding users to groups and OUs; and permissions. Configure and maintain DHCP and DNS. Responsible for the installation, configuration, and  maintenance of several Hyper-V VMs. Utilize Logmein for remote computer management. Provide support for network printers, peripherals, and wireless technology. Work closely with CEOs and upper management to  provide support and solutions that meet business needs. Education Master of Arts in Christian Education in Christian Education Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary - Fort Worth, TX 2005 Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies in Christian Studies Howard Payne University - Brownwood, TX 2001 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2013 to January 2018 CompTIA Network+ January 2015 to January 2018 Splunk Certified Power User September 2015 to Present Splunk Certified Knowledge Manager October 2015 to Present Additional Information Pursuing: Splunk Certified Administrator and CompTIA Security+ certifications    Systems: Windows 7/10/Windows Server 2003 - 2012 R2  RHEL 7, Ubuntu, Fedora 19    Applications: Splunk v. 6.3.1, CyberArk v. 9.2, SQL Compliance Manager, Halcyon, DUO, Hyper-V, MS Visio, MS Office