Security Technical Analyst <span class="hl">Security</span> Technical <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT Project Management Pensacola, FL Areas of Expertise:   IT Project Coordination / IT Project Management, Project Analysis, Business Analysis, Data Analysis, Technical Writing, Document Control Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Technical Analyst July 2019 to Present In coordination with Project Management for the Technical Services department, serve as point of contact between the network security department and privileged accounts on short-term access privileges and password remediation project for 30,000+ accounts within a health agency. This role is heavy in identifying the correct communication path and serving as the direct pipeline between the AS-IS / TO-BE account owners, technology department and network security department to evaluate ownership, reassign access privileges and redistribute appropriate server access. Responsibilities include trusted access to the network’s back end in order to identify, map and analyze incoming data, provide solutions on a case by case basis, and recommend the correct level of access privileges accounts should each have (or not have) to associated servers. Senior Technical Lead August 2018 to June 2019 For a California state department Dashboard Analysis Project, develop and maintain elements of the analysis tools used in the Dashboar6d analysis, testing, and reporting of performance measures. Established the communication plan with the client in which all communications, collaborations and deliverables flowed through. The role requires an agile methodology approach when testing of individual measures against the sample data as required for the analysis processes; and develop and maintain requisite technical documentation related to the Dashboard analysis. Routinely accessing all requisite data sources and understanding the metrics driving the dashboard and the software programming source language (SQL) utilized in the processing of the designated Dashboard reporting elements; Tracking and documenting forensic analysis performed on the identified and selected dashboard reporting measures; and Providing detailed reports of all analysis findings including the integrity of the collection process used to capture each data element and potential or realized data corruption or data loss, validity of data manipulation operations, validity of data reporting operations, review of all display computations, validity and reliability of data transmission processes, and validity and reliability of data receipt processes. Senior IT Project Coordinator / Analyst March 2018 to June 2019 Align with executives to generate new business opportunities for a private company, utilizing newly acquired subscriptions and newly developed workflows. As a company advocate, manage varying aspects of the process including identifying and analyzing business opportunities, determining company qualifications, communicating with vendors and sub-contractors in developing proposals in answer to RFPs, RFQs, RFOs and RFIs. Other responsibilities include developing user manuals, training coworkers on new software, and generating checklists, proposals, and resumes. Senior IT Project Coordinator / Analyst August 2017 to February 2018 Assist with two key initiatives for a Georgia state department: (a) Industry Capacity and Demand Analysis – an effort to determine which other major construction programs in the region, State, and nation will compete for the same critical resources as the MMIP program in the same estimated timeframe to have an impact on the successful completion of the MMIP, and (b) Framework of Performance Measures – an effort to establish a framework of performance measures, and associated measurement methods to meaningfully determine the progress of the MMIP delivery.   Responsibilities include: research, identify, analyze, verify data, create workflow diagrams, and create business requirements documentation for multiple project deliverables. Support Project Managers in establishing key performance indicators (KPI) for performance measures by providing market research and analysis in nationwide scan by comparing the types of KPIs (5) government agencies are assessing. Evaluate measurement values and reporting frequency, identify gaps, highlight assumptions, define each entity’s approach, locate performance dashboards, and record detailed notes on findings. Analyze documentation, extract action items, determine business requirements, compile into a response outline for team members, and summarize workflows based on requirements defined in the documents.   Support Project Management team in transformation of procedure descriptions, transform descriptions into a process workflow, and create new or update work flow processes. Translate notes acquired during workshops into process flows and associative narratives. Develop and maintain invoicing tool and reconciliation workbook that automated tracking of program staff expenditures. Create and manage document library for project deliverables. Develop proposals, approach notes, statements of work, reports, diagrams, high level presentations, an Assignment Matrix spreadsheet, and Progress Reports. Senior IT Project Coordinator / Lead Analyst March 2017 to July 2017 For a private company, initiate a business development project to develop and automate an internal recruitment process and database. Responsibilities include identifying, gathering, analyzing, verifying, and auditing data against external documentation, developing roadmap, workflows and diagrams, and creating business requirements documentation for internal recruitment process. Develop working database system to store and retrieve elements from resumes for targeted searching of current employee skill sets utilizing Microsoft Access and SharePoint. Assist team in development of a recruitment process intended to quickly identify potential resource candidates in the time necessary to acquire and propose labor resources. Key team member in a consultant role in the planning of a standardized opportunity process model in which applicants are vetted and tracked throughout the talent acquisition process. Perform a gap analysis to identify trends and determine if various proposed platforms can meet the needs as described within the scope. Establish a standardized artifact repository to host all artifact types and workflows. Engage with cross-functional teams infrastructure, construction, security, architecture, training and technology. Research, gather data, and document As-Is hiring process and identify company’s complete resource pool. Design, create, test and implement a secure, searchable internal employee management database that (among other data) lists roles, tools, and experience using MS Access, for integration with the skill acquisition process. Continue maintenance of newly implemented database. Design To-Be SharePoint workflow that highlights email triggers and alerts in its workflow using modeling and mapping tools. Assist in testing of approved SaaS based applicant tracking system service. Serve as technical writer for responses to RFO opportunities, resume writing, proposal writing, reports, and presentation documentation. Senior IT Project Coordinator June 2016 to February 2017 For a California state department, partner with IT Portfolio Director to manage and improve internal processes by providing quantitative analysis and development of models, financial tracking mechanisms, and tools that automate processes. Request intake, prioritize activities, manage status, and assist with determining options and solutions, and effective client engagement. Establish and maintain project forecast schedules via estimating, planning, scheduling, managing, and executing technical project efforts for the project's full lifecycle. Develop statement of work, reports, diagrams and high-level presentations for use with project managers, operations managers, and executives. Initiate and maintain issues and risks log, change requests, and status reports for entire portfolio of projects. Develop and document the PMO internal Change Request process, and act as Change Request lead for multiple projects. Support tracking of scope, time and cost variances for multiple projects by measuring project performance and progress. Project Manager to stand up cloud-based software for use in operating the PMO more efficiently. Research, identify, analyze, verify data, establish scope and create workflow diagrams, and create business requirements documentation for new in-house software implementation. Assess risks and issues following PMBOK methodologies. Manage communicating plan and vendor negotiations and coordinate with procurement management to secure a viable solution. Serve as the pipeline between other Project Managers, stakeholders and the client by gathering and analyzing project performance data and creating presentations for internal discussions and decision-making. Partner with IT branch team members to develop, manage and maintain project work and schedules for entire portfolio of IT projects. Support monitoring of the project plan and actuals to help keep the project’s scope, time and cost on track. Maintain master project schedule and Gantt chart for entire portfolio of projects. Perform the day-to-day management of tasks and deliverables such as, managing, monitoring, controlling, and communicating all work associated with the project outcome. Test and document findings for in-house built applications that support ongoing work. Schedule and conduct meetings and manage minutes, agendas, and action items. Reconcile monthly invoicing of program staff for reporting purposes. Document Control. Senior IT Project Coordinator August 2015 to April 2016 For a known California state hospital network, coordinate IT activities and resources with associated building construction, network, hardware, device, and software teams for high risk and complex IT projects, impacting multiple departments, systems, and work-flows in accordance with PMBOK and company methodologies. Plan meetings, and develop meeting agendas and plans. Take meeting notes, paraphrase for distribution and compilation of action items. Document project phases, manage project timelines, and maintain resource schedules and self-create budget tracker to achieve project completion on track and under budget. Manage project budget including forecasting and planned vs. actual. Maintain known issues, forecast risks, dependencies and project milestone tracking. Design and publish reports for project status and performance, forecast and cost tracking. Document Control. Support identification and analyzation of requirements, project scope, and deliverables for use with stakeholders. Compile lessons learned. Support resource costs analysis, submit Requests for Proposals, Requisitions, and resource availability. Project Scheduling Coordinator / Project Server Technician June 2013 to July 2015 For a California state agency, coordinate project work and balance allocations for enterprise resources reported in Project Server. Work closely between resource managers and project managers comparing dependencies across multiple project schedules simultaneously, ensuring they are in sync by resolving conflicts while taking budgetary constraints into consideration. Create and manage Project Pro schedules and associated SharePoint project sites in Project Server. Improve process of maintaining proper allocations for enterprise resources reported in MS Project Server. Work closely with Resources/Team Members and Resource Managers as their pipeline to Project Managers, taking budgetary constraints into consideration. Monitor and adjust admin schedules in Project Pro, coordinating ongoing work as needed. Provide support to resources to help them understand forecasting and proper time reporting procedures. Analyze and provide accurate information on resource usage and schedule information to management, increasing efficiency. Document Control. Project Analyst / Data Analyst August 2012 to May 2013 For a California state agency, proactively assist in development of the initial mobile app (iOS and Droid), providing insight, solutions and support. Engage with IT department and developer in troubleshooting scenarios, and elicit requirements using interviews, document analysis, surveys, BRS, RRS, use cases, GUI and interface design, and QA. Document Control. Serve as the conduit between the customer community (internal and external) and the software development team through which requirements flowed; collaborate with the manager, developers and subject matter experts to help with establishing the technical vision; and analyze trade-offs between usability and performance needs. Support the IRC website relocation. IT Specialist/Project Manager June 2006 to July 2012 For a California state public middle school, partner with upper IT management to develop scope, assess risks, issues and dependencies, project costs and deploy school-wide 1:1 iPad program for middle school students and staff members in direct coordination with Apple personnel. Do complex research, compilation, and analysis of data to identify potential risks and issues. Factors include cost, device security, ability to limit student accessibility, physical wireless network considerations, level of ongoing support from manufacturer, textbook app availability, curriculum integration, training process, etc. Partner with Director of Technology to develop use case scenarios for testing site's network strengths and weaknesses, and proposals to resolve issues. Successfully implemented program with student take-home policies in place. Other responsibilities include quality assurance, user acceptance testing, assisting in developing and documenting business requirements, school use plan and policies, training staff, and ongoing M&O support after roll-out. Prepare reports and presentations, and provide lessons learned for use in implementation of program district-wide. Manage student/teacher email accounts, and the school’s website, wiki and calendar. Document Control. Routinely troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software issues school-wide. Previously a paraeducator for district elementary school. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science