IT Customer Support Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Customer Support Specialist Information Technology Sales Work Experience IT Customer Support Specialist WORK MARKET IT - Lexington, SC July 2018 to Present Assignments are posted online for WorkMarket (WM) contractors. After accepting an assignment, the contractor then goes on-site to perform work.  Information Technology Sales WRC IT - Lexington, SC October 2012 to June 2018 • Handled day-to-day operations of business  • Responsible for desktop environment and local area networking Security Analyst South Carolina Law Enforcement Division October 2013 to July 2014 South Carolina Law Enforcement Division  Position: Security Analyst  Employed: October 2013 to July 2014 (10 Month Contract)    • Worked on Virtual Private Network installations  • Issued daily security bulletins reporting on external network intrusion attempts. Information Technology Specialist Mashburn Construction April 2003 to September 2013 Responsible for all Information Technology in Columbia SC, Charleston SC and Myrtle Beach SC offices. Call Center Customer Service Colonial Life Insurance January 2000 to March 2003 • One of five managers in the Colonial Call Center  • Supervised 12 Customer Service Representatives Education Bachelor of Science in Journalism in Business Skill Set University of South Carolina Additional Information • Over 15 years of a successful sales track record and proven leadership ability.  • Excellent organizational, interpersonal, communication, and negotiation skills.  • Team oriented with excellent collaboration skills.  • Strong problem-solving and analytical abilities.  • Skilled at multi-tasking while under pressure and tight deadlines.  • Proven success in customer resolution and satisfaction.  • Excellent decision-making and leadership skills and possess the ability to motivate and lead a team to achieve stated objectives.  • Trained in internet advertising, email marketing and social media.  • Creative and design skills for marketing and campaign development.