Job Seeker Upper Marlboro, MD To prepare IT professionals for senior-level responsibility by offering executive career development, mentoring, and networking opportunities for career advancement. The only national organization dedicated exclusively to cultivating executive talent. Work Experience Cyber Security August 2019 to Present In Progresws-Planned) SR. ENTERPRISE SECURITY ARCHITECT AIR FORCE MEDICAL READINESS AGENCY (AFMRA) October 2018 to Present OFFICE OF THE SERGEON GENERAL - CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICE (CTO)  GLOBAL GOVERNMENT SOLUTIONS INC. (G2S)  In support of the Defense Health Agency (DHA); provide enterprise-wide IT technical support for all aspects of the U.S. Air Force (AF) Cyber Security Risk Management Framework (RMF) activities for over 75+ DoD Medical Treatment Facilities (MTF's).  • Provide project management support and oversight for the development and maintenance of the U.S. Air Force organizational and system-level cybersecurity program that includes cybersecurity architecture, requirements, objectives and policies, cybersecurity personnel, and cybersecurity processes and procedures.  • In conjunction with the Defense Health Agency (DHA); support multiple Information System Security Managers (ISSM) and Information System Security Officers (ISSO) in the implementation of the RMF lifecycle process. Maintain and report IS and PIT systems assessment and authorization status and issues in accordance with DoD Component guidance and DoD Instruction 8500.01, "Cybersecurity."  • Ensure implementation of IS security measures including reporting incidents to the authorizing official (AO) and appropriate reporting chains and coordinating system-level responses to unauthorized disclosures in accordance with for classified information. Ensure that the handling of possible or actual data spills of classified information resident in ISs, are conducted in accordance to IAW DoD Manual 5200.01, Volume 3, and "DoD Information Security Program: Protection of Classified Information," February 24, 2012, as amended.  • Performs initial, follow up, and continuous system hardening by supporting the application of Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs); appropriate overlays for servers; operating systems, vendor security updates, and vulnerability patches. Ensure security processes meets all DHA/AFMSR cybersecurity standards through compliance and application of required TASKORDs, Maintenance Task Orders (MTOs), Cyber Tasking Orders (CTOs), and cybersecurity notices.  • Ensure all assigned systems/applications are properly authorized for network/infrastructure connection to the DoD GIG by the designated Authorizing Official (AO) via an approved Authority-to-Operate (ATO); and/or Authority-to-Connect (ATC).  • Ensures that any system that does not have a current ATO or ATC has an approved waiver or plan of action and milestones (POA&M). Obtains, maintains, and manages software and licensing. Verifies that all commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software has been evaluated and approved for use by the appropriate agency, is listed on the evaluated products list (EPL), and is properly licensed.  • Support network/infrastructure (ACAS) tools to scan network boundaries for vulnerability identification, and mitigation and implement system security compliance and produce benchmark checklists.  • Support all aspects of the Defense Health Agency (DHA) Desktop-to-Data (D2D migrations; MTF LAN/WAN implementations and the overall Air Force Network (AFNET) to DHA Med-COI infrastructure migration process.  • As needed, performs the roles of ISSM/Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO), Information Assurance Officer (IAO), and Cyber- Security Liaison (CSL) under the direction of the Air Force (AF) Chief technology Officer (CTO). SYSTEM SECURITY ARCHITECT/ENGINEER DOD - ENGINEEERING June 2016 to September 2018 CYBER SECURITY, & CONFIGURATION MGT. (ECCM)  DEFENSE HEALTHCARE AGENCY (DHA) - PROGRAM EXECUTIVE OFFICE (PEO)  SeKON ENTERPRISES INC. @ ULTRA-TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  In conjuction with the (DOD/DHA) Information System Security Manager (ISSM) and Information System Security Officer (ISSO), provide System Engineering and Cyber Security Architecture support in the development of the DOD/DHA Electronic Health Record (EHR) System; an automated medical information system that supports Health Care Administration (HCA); DOD Military Treatment Facilities (MTF's); and the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affrairs (VA).  • Provide Risk Management Framework (RMF) activities for the information system requirements in accordance with the NIST/CNSSI 1253 to include system categorization, selection, implementation, assessment, and continuous monitoring of security controls for a major DOD/DHA application. Work with DHA Security Control Assessors and Security Validators to move DHMS/DHA systems from registration throughtout the entire Authority-To-Operate (ATO) System Accreditation lifecycle process.  • Utilize the Enterprise Mission Assurance Service (eMAAS) toolset to perform all subtasks within the RMF Cyber Security Framework. Assists with risk mitigation strategies to assure 100% system security compliance.  • Develop, review and analyze all related system security documentation to include Plan of Action & Milestone (POA&M's); Risk Assessment Reports (RAR's); Data Flow Diagrams (DFD's); Continuous Monitoring Plans (CMP's); Access Control Reports ACR's); Vulnerability Management Plans (VMP's) and Architecture Diagrams (AD's).  • Utilizing United States Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM); process Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA's) working wth all engineers and security architectects in the system/network patching of identified vulnerabilities.  • Analyze network boundary diagrams and related system assets (H/W; S/W inventories & devices); work with ISSM/ISSO and engineers in the analysis and mitigation of all known system vulnerabilities/threats as result of full network ACAS SCANS. Review and develop SecurityCenter SCAN reports.  • Prepare DHA Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) monthly Cyber Security Scorecard which provides the DoD Senior Leadership with the cybersecurity posture of the department with metric goals above 90%. Uilize eMASS; the Host Based Security System (HBSS); the Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS); and the Continuous Monitoring Risk Scoring System (CMRS) in the collection and analysis of metric data.  • Prepare 30-60-90 day cyber security Authority-To-Operate (ATO) management status briefings.  • Participate in all system security related meetings and conferences to include Cyber Compliance Board (CyCB), and all required DHA Program Executive Office (PEO) and Program Management Office (PMO) system engineering/cyber briefings.  • Evaluate DHA (As-Is) security architectures, infrastructure, and web applications to define network security boundaries, and any current hardware limitations. Support (To-Be) security architectures in compliance with industry best practices and standards. Employ Health Information Technology (HIT) standards and business process models using BPMN, IDEF1x and similar Department of Defense (DoD) Enterprise Architecture (EA) compliance and governance processes.  • Proactively coordinate across all DHA disciplines to drive delivery of technical solutions working with DHA Theater systems in areas such, but not limited to: web applications design and development, security architecture, and relational database management, Java, .NET, Infrastructure design and implementation, etc., for all DHA Healthcare IT projects and initiatives. SR. ENTERPRISE DATA ARCHITECT FAA - ENTERPRISE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (EIM) July 2015 to March 2016 BRISTAN TECHNOLOGIES - INDEPENDENT (1099) CONSULTANT  Reporting to Program Director for FAA/Enterprise Information Management (EIM), utilyzed Federal Enterprise Architecture Framework (FEAF) and Business Reference Models (BRM), in the design of all new/changing data structures, optimization, support, integrity and security for FAA's Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Non-NAS systems and services.  • Supported the creation of logical data models/artifacts and worked closely with system owners and DBA's with the translation of logical models into workable solutions that meet business needs.  • Analyzed business requirements and translated into data rules. Maintained existing data repositories. Conducted data analysis and research in support of database design and data movement efforts.  • Participated in the creation of development, staging and production database instances and the migration of those instances from one environment to another. Managed FAA Federal Open Data Initiative. Analyzed system inventories for publishing of data sets to FAA Open Data System Repositories and Data.Gov federal registries. SR. ENTERPRISE ARCHITECT (SOA) FAA-SYSTEM WIDE INFORMATION MANAGMENT (SWIM) - SYSTEMS ENGINEERING July 2012 to July 2015 NATIONAL AIRSPACE SYSTEM - ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (NAS/EA)  NORTH STAR GROUP, LLC; WASHINGTON DC 20004  Reporting to the Program Manager of FAA/SWIM System Engineering provided technical and programmatic expertise for the SWIM Program Manager, and The National Airspace System (NAS) Chief Architect for the enablement of information sharing between diverse systems enabling the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) to deliver critical information in a timely and reliable manner.  • Actively served as Senior Architect for FAA/SWIM technical infrastructure and architecture environment to include: SOA Messaging Services, Enterprise Service Management (ESM), Interface Management (IM) and Security and Identity Access Management (IAM) Core Services.  • Provided expertise in developing, coordinating and ensuring the delivery of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions in concert with NextGen program offices, enterprise level architecture, and cloud services utilizing the FAA/SWIM Integrated System Engineering Framework (ISEF) and the Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DODAF) 1.5 via IBM System Architect Tools.  Designed and developed all required FAA/SWIM Enterprise Architecture artifacts, and Architecture Description Documents (ADD's) for SWIM Segment 2B Core Architectures, to include Integrated and Reference Architectures.  DODAF 1.5 and ISEF Architecture Artifacts include:  • SWIM Architecture Overview and Summary Information (AV-1), SWIM Integrated Dictionaries (AV-2)  • SWIM Concept of Operations (OV-1), SWIM Operational Activities Models (OV-5)  • SWIM Operational Event-Trace Descriptions (OV-6c), SWIM System/Service Functional Hierarchy Models (SV-4)  • SWIM System/Service SOA Interface Descriptions (SV-1), SWIM System Service Communication Models (SV-2)  • SWIM System Service Data Exchange Matrixes/Models (SV-6); SWIM System/Service Performance Parameter Matrixes/Models (SV-7), SWIM System/Service Event-Trace Descriptions (SV-10c)    Supported the FAA Enterprise Security Architecture Identity Access Management (IAM) NEXTGEN Initiative. Focus included the implementation of a 2-Phase process that focused on IAM and Enterprise Service Monitoring (ESM) common infrastructures.  • IAM Phase 1 - supported the IAM project engineers in the selection and deployment of the infrastructure required to issue, validate, and manage digital certificates in the FAA National Airspace System (NAS) across the FAA National Boundary Protection System (NBPS), to include FAA Research & development (R&D) Domains.  • Phase 2 - supported the augmentation of IAM capabilities deployed in Phase 1 and provided for an "Enterprise Authorization" capability to include the deployment of Directory services inside the NAS and the NBPSs.    Provided expert technical support for all NAS Enterprise Messaging Services (NEMS) messaging capabilities and functionality to include producer and consumer messaging patterns such as JAVA (JMS) and SOA Web Services which encompasses the Federal Telecommunication Infrastructure (FTI) and the FTI Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) network.  • Provided support in identifying SOA based system requirements such as security and access management, enterprise service monitoring, interface management and access and all connectivity and interoperability solutions. Identified gaps between the models and included a comprehensive list of initiatives required to achieve the to-be (target) and as-is architecture and a plan of action and milestones to implement each initiative.  • Monitored and provided technical and fucntional support for all FAA/SWIM candidate Programs participating in the FAA Acquisition Management System (AMS) Lifecycle from Preliminary Requirements Phase (CRD) throughout Final Investment Decisions (FID).  • Assured Program architecture and requirement products per acquisition phase as outlined in the JRC Investment Decision Authority (IDA) are met and in full compliance. Performed SOA Suitability Assessments for candidate Program architecture and infrastucture readiness and assure Program meets SOA requirements to access and connect to the NAS Enterprise Messaging System (NEMS) for JMS and Web Services functionality.  • Supported all SWIM SOA Governace intiatives to include active membership on the Service Registry Working Group (SRWG). Participate in the development of SWIM Governance Plans and actively support the NAS Service Registry Repository (NSRR) for service registration and discovery.  • Supported, and standardize usage of the FTI Enterprise Service Bus, messaging technologies, platform, integration technologies, and related SOA/Web concepts. Cordinated SWIM System Engineering (SE) activities to include interfacing with all levels of management and SWIM Line of Business areas for candidate Program data and information interoperability.  • Actively participated within the SWIM Architecture Review Board (ARB) to review candidate Programs network and security solution architectures. Provided recommendations for integration into the FAA/SWIM SOA Messaging environment. Prepared executive level technical, programmatic and strategy level briefings.  • Represented the SWIM Program Manager and the Chief Architect at meetings. Participated in the coordination of SWIM System Engineering and Architecture initiatives across federal and contract staff and ensured quality control of deliverables, service orders, schedules, and ad hoc executive level correspondence are met.  • Developed and maintained SWIM System Architect encyclopedias, connectivity diagrams, activity models and information exchange matrices for the SWIM Program Core Services. Provided analysis for the FTI technology infrastructure in support of SWIM Core Services and FAA program mission capabilities.  • Worked with the NAS FTI Infrastructure Team assuring all Web-Services and JMS Messages transversed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) - Oracle & FUSE according to SLA requirements and performance monitoring activities.  • Performed all System Engineering (SE) and Enterprise Architecture (EA) duties as assigned by the SWIM Program Manager. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR IT INFRASTRUCTURE HOWARD UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC January 2011 to May 2012 Reporting to the Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO), recruited to manage all University Enterprise-Wide IT Infrastructure and Telecommunication Services & Processes. Managed enterprise strategy and management of information technology infrastructure to include staff, processes, and technology assets. Accountable for all IT functions to include data center management and consolidation, service desk operations, technical support, disaster recovery and planning, network engineering & administration, IT security, and application support.  • Served as liaison to Chief Academic Technology Officer (CTO), Academic Dean's, and Faculty. Planned and development of IT policy related to the use of technology in curriculum development, e-learning and instructional technology initiatives. Managed operating budget of $20M and directed activities of 40+ staff. Challenged to improve productivity and reduce costs through improved uses of technology.  • Established scope and effectively managed environmental change processes utilizing ITIL change control management processes. Provided project management leadership across the enterprise for scope, schedule, cost, and delivery of various infrastructural programs/projects. Directed project teams in outlining work plans, assignments, duties, responsibilities, deliverables, and deadlines.  • Evaluated and selected vendors to expand Howard's technology capabilities and capacity that provided improvements in the overall experience for students, faculty and all users. Managed and deployed new infrastructure capabilities while enhancing the usability of existing assets to meet SLA's.  • Developed infrastructure metrics for current and next generation technology assets. Worked jointly with all University and IT departments to align solution requirements and demand with technology capabilities ensuring effective use of human, fiscal and physical resources.  • Authored plan to improve network infrastructure productivity, consolidate/upgrade servers and established consistent hardware/software standards to eliminate unstable, highly mixed operating environment. Reanalyzed network traffic, eliminated unnecessary routing and equipment resulting in 33% cost reduction. Planed, assigned and evaluated the work of subordinates for effective operation and results. Oversaw areas of compensation, staff selection, disciplinary action, complaints, and staff performance appraisals.    Notable Accomplishments:  • Consolidated data center operation processes to include Howard University Academic, Hospital, Radio and Television components that improved hardware uptime from 70% to 98%.  • Negotiated and managed $1.5M vendor relationship program for procurement of Data Storage & Critical Data Backups resulting in a $450K per year University IT cost savings for 3 years; 100% improved data management, integrity, integration and standardization.  • Provided vendor management and selection for the DR Recovery Solution that is robust and resilient enough to restore all Tier I, II, and III applications that are supported by the ETS Data Centers in the Tech Center, Howard University Hospital, Howard University College of Medicine & School of Dentistry sustaining desired RTO/RPO levels.  • Ensured industry best practices methods and tools were followed for the troubleshooting and researching of network infrastructure and software applications problems determining and documenting all root causes and corrective actions.  • Managed all infrastructure service provider relationships, managing commitments, lease licensing, maintenance, & support agreements.  • Challenged telecom vendors, carriers and service providers to meet or exceed service level agreements (SLA), price, response time, metrics tracking, reporting and other contract requirements moving toward VoIP.  • Increased usage of infrastructure capabilities for service delivery by key functional units.  • Rationalized Infrastructure Portfolio across the enterprise and develop optimization plan for fees of products associated with Infrastructures lease/license/maintenance agreements.  • Spearheaded the ETS-Infrastructure organizational transformation to include complete ETS-Infrastructure organizational right-sizing, redesigning of job descriptions, development of new organizational structure optimized by project delivery portfolio, development of infrastructure strategy for "Factory" model using internal, external, strategic sourced all participating in the complete re-alignment of Infrastructure resources into the new Howard University ETS model.  • Managed the ETS IT infrastructure and software application budgets (capital and expense) and the acquisition of equipment, maintenance and services, with a critical eye toward cost management for the office automation of all University, Hospital, Radio and Telecommunications procurements. Directed and managed the evaluation, implementation, and deployment of ETS IT enterprise email systems, office automation systems, datacenter, service desk, and student, faculty and staff mobility systems ensuring the development and maintenance of engineering methodologies, management frameworks, project and resource planning, and operational relationships with vendors and service providers. SR. SOLUTIONS DATA ARCHITECT CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL (CBP) - Fairfax, VA October 2009 to January 2011 Reporting to the Director of Systems Engineering provided strategic leadership and technical support for the management, technical, and facilitation efforts of the CBP NIEM Architecture Alignment and Assessment (AAA) review process that obtains and sustains architectural compliance and a comprehensive view of the CBP enterprise, data, applications, technologies and networking components. Socialized with business units, directors, project managers and technical staff to establish a scalable Enterprise Technical Architecture (ETA). The ETA was generated, stored, and retrieved throughout the CBP organization.  • Provided enterprise-wide project management and technical leadership for the development and integration of SOA web-services and standard data exchange initiatives complete with data dictionaries, standardized XML schemas and domain area definitions for the DHS Customs and Border Protection (CBP) based on the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) standardization practices, policies, and procedures.  • Supported the Capitol Planning & Investment Control (CPIC) Review Process and coordinated with Business and System Owners to assure proper documentation processes were in place that tracked and maintained platform data models, data dictionaries, data maps and other artifacts across the CBP organization.  • Instituted the acceptance of industry best practices that contributed to the success of Data Modeling Analysis, Data Flow Analysis, Event-Based Architecture and State Modeling solutions within the System Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Supported the ETA Data Governance activities within the CBP Program Office. Activities included all phases of the EA Program, Planning, IT Investments, and Management activities.  • Spearheaded the process to analyze all current, desired, and future state Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) solutions to client needs for data and reporting functionalities that guided the development process to solutions that were both consistent with CBP NIEM standards and enterprise technical architectures.  • Supported the CBP Technology Lifecycle (TLC) process that is used to evaluate emerging technologies. This function enhanced CBP business performance. Conducted TLC trade studies, organizational impact assessments, cost benefit analysis and comprehensive infrastructural augmentation strategies. This was used for the insertion of new technologies.  • Served as key-contributor for the establishment, maintainability, and communication of NIEM data standards for recording, searching, and reporting data kept in the enterprise's databases and warehouses and ensured that current data management standards were implemented, followed, and data exchange functions were fully optimal within the CBP Enterprise Service Bus (ESB). Standardization process was based on the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) Architectural Framework, and related data exchange policies, principals, and governance.    Notable Accomplishments:  • Developed the NIEM/N.25 XML Enterprise Interchange Model (EIM) document  • Developed the NIEM N.25 XML Web Services Charter  • Developed the NIEM/N.25 Gap Analysis of Systems, Applications and Data within multiple CBP Domains  • Identified, and developed the NIEM/N.25 Data Definition and Data Dictionary stack for multiple CBP Domains  • Developed all NIEM XML Information Exchange Packet Documents (IEPD) which provided seamless data exchanges and interoperability among CBP and DHS stakeholder applications and systems  • Supported the CBP NIEM CORE Reference Data Project which established governance around CBP core reference data to increase data quality, advance data availability, support process review, and data reusability IT TECHNICAL DELIVERY MANAGER CAREFIRST BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD April 2008 to November 2008 Consultant  OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - OPERATIONS DELILERY TEAM  Reporting directly to the Chief Information Officer (CIO) managed the technical components of multiple large-scale projects with major emphasis on the planning, execution, conversion and deployment of legacy applications to full-scale web based and SOA solutions for multiple enterprise-wide medical information systems.  • Accountable for the technical, managerial leadership, oversight, and delivery of a set of new and ongoing medical and insurance IT projects as part of BCBS Program Management Office. Managed the development of technical solutions and identified technologies to help drive solutions throughout the system development life cycle. Worked with task order managers, chief developers, and project management to lead the requirement analysis efforts that helped implement solutions throughout the entire SDLC.  • Planned and managed IT projects in accordance with detailed schedules to produce and track costs and resource estimates. Facilitated and conducted requirements gathering sessions with work groups and stakeholders to document business processes, workflows and detailed system design documentation to support the IT processes as described in requirements gathering sessions; communicating project status and milestones to work groups and stakeholders.  • Developed and maintained project plans, playbooks, schedules, goals, and commitments defining extensive gathering of functional and user requirements for translation to technical specifications. Reviewed technical design documents for adherence to standard practices, and to ensure the solution fit within the overall strategic plan.  • Managed and oversaw each phase of the IT development lifecycle and rigorously managed the scope with selected and scheduled timelines that encompassed the entire process - from concept through requirement analysis, development, security, test, and delivery.  • Facilitated technical discussions to derive/validate technical objectives and requirements for systems solution, design, and delivery and maintained comprehensive technical and project documentation. Participated in vendor management efforts pertaining to sourcing and provided input to the development of corporate IT standards and policies that ensured compatibility and IT integration.  • Supported matrix teams with responsibility for IT security delivery, including systems and application development, vendor management, and legacy systems integration. Consulted with business customers in examining solution options for the planning and delivery of multiple IT security centric projects.  • Participated in Joint-Application-Design (JAD) sessions with IT management and colleagues to translate corporate/functional business and information objectives into IT strategic/tactical business plans and systems development. Worked with the finance department and various functional managers to ensure IT budgets were properly estimated and controlled; provided overall financial recommendations, and assisted in developing controls. LEAD DATA ARCHITECT SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION April 2004 to November 2007 DEPARTMENT OF NAVY (DON) - FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACQUISITIONS, LOGISTICS  Within the Department of Navy (DON) - Business Standards Council (BSC) supported the DON Enterprise XML Interoperability Architecture Framework to include the enterprise architecture for the DON business information infrastructure. Provided strategic leadership and direction to the DONCIO Enterprise Architecture (EA) SWOT Analysis Community of Interest (COI) to determine "Strengths", "Weaknesses", "Opportunities", and "Threats" for the integration of 23 Navy Domains Functional Area Data Architecture (FADA's) into the DON Future-State Federal Enterprise Architecture Framework.  • Evaluated systems and developed system taxonomies that assured Navy EA compliance to OMB Capital Programming Guide for XML interoperability investments.  • Within the DONCIO Business Standards Council (DONCIO) represented technical leadership and guidance for all Navy Financial Management, Acquisitions, and Logistics domains areas and spearheaded these areas to incorporate policies and governance for Navy transformation to the net-centric data sharing goals contained in DOD 8320.2, "Data Sharing in a Net-Centric DOD, and the data management goals contained in SECNAVINST 5000.36A, "DON IT Applications and Data Management."  • Managed, directed facilitated, & oversaw all SDLC activities of 10 solution architects in the design and implementation of the complete cross-agency SOA based (Navy/DISA) XML Interoperability & System Engineering Initiative for the Engineering Change Proposal (ECP 004) Project. Project consisted of the management, facilitation, and development of a robust standardized XML interface between multiple Navy ERP systems and the Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) / Standard Procurement System (SPS), Navy Medical (BUMED), Electronic Directives Archive EDA) & the overall Contract-2-Data (C2D) Pre-Population Initiative. SOA proposed the life cycle development of six Navy sites and one USMC site in the upload of contract C2D and financial XML data to DISA.  • Overall architecture consisted of multiple XML data repositories, XML workflow engines for the Enterprise Data Warehousing of the Navy STARS, and One Pay financial line of accounting (LOA) data elements that supported Navy obligations validations and contract payables.  • Selected and assembled team of XML Solution Architects to analyze the existing WAWF EDI/X.12 data formats, network, systems, and database management requirements. Successfully completed was the development of an enterprise content module, and XML schemas in accordance with the Department of Navy XML Naming and Design Rules (NDR) and all applicable industry XML standards that set the standard for all Navy/DISA network, web, database, and applications department-wide. (OASIS, NIST, & UN/CEFACT Core Component Standardization Methodologies)    Solution Architecture Notable Accomplishments:  Gap Analysis Phase - Performed Gap Analysis for the portfolio of all financial management systems and applications.  Requirement Analysis Phase - Determined data requirements for all ECP 004 business document objects associated with invoices, shipment notices, good and services acceptances, travel obligations, and cost vouchers. Managed and facilitated the review of all regulatory documentation (FAR, DFAR, FMR, and DFAS) materials to extract data requirements and data relationships for valid business documents for which all XML were developed for.  Design Phase - Managed the development team which designed the model on which the XML schemas were constructed. Managed, and facilitated the building of core component spreadsheets for each business document, following eb-XML core component user's guides. Re-used and qualified all OASIS and UN/CEFACT International Standards & Navy approved core components.  Schema Development Phase - Developed separate non-normative and normative schemas for each business document following the NDR standards importing all applicable OASIS and UN/CEFACT core component types within each XML schema. Development environment consisted of XML, HTML, CSS, UMM, J2EE, Business Objects, OO, Cold-Fusion, ASP.NET, MicroSoft.NET, and C++.  Application Support Phase - Conducted meetings with key Navy and DISA Program Managers, system developers, and support staff. Provided XML schema support  Schema Registration Phase - Managed and facilitated the XML registration of all XML schemas and core components within the Financial Management System Namespace following Department of Navy (DONCIO) endorsed registration processes, system policies, rules, and procedures. SYSTEM SECURITY ENGINEER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS, INC April 1999 to February 2004 DEPARTMENT OF NAVY (DON) - NAVY MEDICAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT CENTER (NMIMC)  Reporting to the Director of Systems Engineering provided project management and information technology services for the Naval Medical Information Management Center (NMIMC) and the Department of Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED). Supported team of 12 network security engineers to configure, test, and administer 17+ web and database servers to include Network Load Balancing, Fiber Channel-Arrays, BIZTALK, and Microsoft Cluster Services supporting the NMIMC/BUMED Network and Web Infrastructure and Security Information Technology activities for Navy Medicine worldwide.  • Served as security engineer for the NMIMC web security design team providing thorough security analysis of the web and network architecture. Provided the appropriate security controls to ensure that it met the highest level of data security and integrity.  • Initiated procedural improvements for the IT security architecture of NMIMC intranet to include, but not limited to Secure Socket Layer (SSL), Firewall, PKI, Cisco Switches, Conversion of IP Addresses, and secure web site access worldwide. Maintained multiple hosted sites, and network security permissions using Internet Information Services IIS 4.0, Security Explorer, Citrix Meta-frame, and FrontPage 2000 web tools.  • Jumpstarted the installation, configuration and network administration of the Web-Trends 7.0 Analysis Suite Advanced Edition web metric tools. Provided web metrics, statistics and site reporting for all NMIMC/BUMED and related hosted Internet and Intranet web sites worldwide enabling central monitoring and reporting on the performance, site design, effectiveness, and return on investment of all Internet and Intranet systems and e-Business initiatives to include the e-Room Facilities, a web enabling tool that allows project collaboration, task coordination, project management, and file document storage.  • Supported the design of new servers and storage systems; optimized LAN using performance reports and monitoring application software in 24x7 environments. Supported data backups for 1 terabyte of data.  • Supported the configuration and maintained TCP/IP networking services using Windows NT, DHCP, WINS, and DNS.  • Maintained user accounts, security permissions, and training. Performed network and web server builds, migrations and upgrades, and all network/web/database administration and migration of e-Business web servers from NT 4.0 to W2K while supporting the coordination of all scheduled server full and incremental backups.  • Supported customer satisfaction and adherence to SLA standards, and served as focal escalation point for reported network capacity planning and IT infrastructure reported issues.  • Facilitated sessions with vendor management team for the resolution of network capacity issues, network topology, bandwidth, system utilization and capacity data.  • Increased network bandwidth by 23% by promoting efficiencies through incorporation of a global, standardized process affecting all NMIMC regional offices. Supported network capacity planning.  • Managed the installation, configuration, and of Windows-NT 4.0 and Novell 4.11 server hardware, software applications, and network protocols. (TCP/IP and IPX/SPX). Y2K PROJECT LEAD APPLIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS March 1998 to April 1999 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (OPM)  Supported the development, maintenance, and testing of the Year 2000 Mainframe and Client Server tasks for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Retirement and Insurance (RIS) system. These systems to include subsystems were used to process claims for Civil Service Retirement and Disability benefits; the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program; the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program; and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.  • Selected and utilized the selection of the Viasoft Enterprise 2000 Y2K automated testing tool for all CICS & COBOL II Y2K system date changes.  • Performed unit, system, regression, and user acceptance testing and test scenarios designed for CICS screen layouts that provided for 4 digit year fields and assured Year 2000 changes complied with Federal Acquisition Regulations.  • Modified DB2 data and jobs running under MVS.  • Managed and administered the installation and administration of 10 Windows NT 4.0 and 4 Novell 4.11 servers and operating systems. Led network administration and user support for 500+ contractor and federal employees.  • Utilized Ziff-Davis Server-Bench tool set that measured the performance of servers within the environment. SYSTEMS ENGINEER COMSYS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC - Rockville, MD April 1996 to January 1998 CLIENT SITE: MCI TELECOMMUNICATIONS    NETWORK ENGINEER, COLUMBIA RESEARCH GROUP, INC., WASHINGTON, DC.  CLIENT SITE: UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION SR. NETWORK ENGINEER SOLOMON BROTHERS - New York, NY September 1994 to March 1996 PINKERTON COMPUTER CONSULTANTS, INC.  UNITED STATES NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (NRC)  Reporting to the Manager of Network Engineering provided network and system administration in the installation, configuration, and testing of all system engineering and network related problems for Windows 3.1 and Windows 95 platforms.  • Supported the Automated Procurement and Appraisal System (APAS).  • This application tracked nuclear reactor devices for compliance with federal audits and SDLC policies.  • Provided overall system engineering, network, and help-desk support for a 2,500+ community. Developed agency-wide system and user documentation. IT SERVICE DESK ANALYST CITIBANK CITICORP - Washington, DC August 1992 to August 1994 INC.  Reporting to the Manager of Information Systems installed and supported Citibank's PC/LAN-Banking client-server software applications on Novell 3.12 NetWare workstations and servers.  • Additional duties included: Teller transactions, system and data conversions, tape backups, Branch PC training and Help Desk Support. SR. PROGRAMMER ANALYST DISCOVER CARD SERVICES, INC - Columbus, OH August 1989 to August 1992 SYSTEMS OPERATIONS AND AUTOMATION  Reporting to the Manager of MIS, supported team of developers/ analysts for the resolution and technical inquires pertaining to Discover Card Services Bankcard Draft Capture equipment and systems.  • Provided COBOL II programming support within an IBM IMS/DB2 networked environment. Tracked and corrected COBOL-II and JCL coding errors and system failures.  • Performed software download installations and programming support of point-of-sale (POS) Software. Installed and tested PC software applications, performed software maintenance and problem resolution.  • Provided help desk and user support services as required. Performed project management support, and developed user documentation. PROCUREMENT SYSTEM ANALYST DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA) - Philadelphia, PA April 1985 to August 1988 DEFENCE CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION & SERVICES REGION (DCASR)  OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS (OTIS)  Reporting to Manager of Information Systems performed COBOL II Application Support (DB2, CICS, VSAM, JCL, TSO, IMS, DL/1).  • Tested, documented, and wrote operating instructions for DB2 utility jobs, maintained DB2 tables and identified recovery resources.  • Developed COBOL-II sub-routines within the SDLC.  • Analyzed user requests and provided production support.  • Provided application development, system administration, and quality assurance functions in support of the Office of Telecommunication and Information Systems (OTIS) directorate. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE FOR BUSINESS DEVRY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Columbus, OH June 1984