Malware Security Analyst Malware <span class="hl">Security</span> <span class="hl">Analyst</span> IT/ Security Specialist Sandy, UT I am a driven and adaptable individual who loves learning new things and being pushed to grow. I am  self driven and have produced significant results with no immediate supervision.  I have extensive  experience managing enterprise computing systems from both a physical perspective, with desktop  machines, and virtual perspective, with virtual machines.  My ability to interact well and manage others  has been shown in both a testing and  IT environment.  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Malware Security Analyst Blue Coat Systems - Draper, UT October 2012 to Present ? Responsible for monitoring and tracking several large malware groups at a time, such as  Cryptolocker, Sweet Orange and Redkit.  ? Independently analyzed extensive traffic logs looking for and flagging malicious traffic.  ? Researched and reported on emerging malware threats.  ? Wrote and helped produce numerous pattern based malware detection expressions. IT Help Desk Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake, UT May 2012 to October 2012 ? Provided IT Help Desk support for the Investment Banking Division of Goldman Sachs.  ? Interacted daily with many Bankers in high stress situations and provided timely solutions to a  host of different computer issues.  ? Worked extensively with troubleshooting Microsoft Office Suite.  ? Used Active Directory, Goverlan, Marimba Castanet Tuner, TsAdmin, WinDirStat, LogMeIn, and other remote access programs on a daily basis. QA Testing Electronic Arts - Salt Lake, UT June 2011 to October 2011 ? Provided quality assurance coverage via adhoc testing, running checklists and test cases, and verifying fixes and patches.  ? Communicated with the producers and other managers from different offices worldwide to organize and streamline the testing processes for multiple projects.  ? Directed and trained other testers in creating a better testing environment for the assigned  projects.  ? Provided hardware support for other QA testers on my team. Education Business Communications University of Utah 2009 to 2013 English Tutor English Skills Learning Center Skills Technical Support (6 years), Servers (2 years)