FL IT Manager, Client Security FL <span class="hl">IT</span> Manager, Client <span class="hl">Security</span> FL IT Manager Security - Boston Cybernetics Institute Saint Petersburg, FL Work Experience FL IT Manager, Client Security Boston Cybernetics Institute 2018 to Present ? Review of customer security controls, processes and 3rd party contractors.   ? Design and implementation of security controls including firewall, and secure communications for the executive suite.  ? Onsite and remote security assessments including Nmap, Nikto, Nessus scans, and weak password checks.  ? Penetration testing customer networks using Metasploit.  ? OSINT investigations using Maltego, public databases and dark web searches  ? Remote and onsite support for customers nationwide.  ? Customer security training and education. IT Infrastructure Security Manager NetDirector - Tampa, FL 2011 to 2018 ? Developed security policy and designed security and risk management and training program.  ? As HIPAA Security Officer, provided all compliance reports for internal and customer audits relating to HIPAA, SOC2, and GLBA.  ? Architect security infrastructure for private cloud-based integration platform for healthcare line of business.  ? Installed and managed firewalls, routing, and customer VPN.  ? Implemented and managed AlienVault SIEM, AntiVirus and DLP tools  ? Penetration tested mortgage banking and healthcare cloud services.  ? Partnered with development team to create vulnerability resolution plans  ? Managed team responsible for IT Data Center infrastructure including Nimble and X-IO Fiber Channel SAN, VMware, HP and Dell Servers, Kemp Load Balancer, Linux, Windows, AD, JBoss, Mirth, and MySQL.  ? Managed data center infrastructure contracts and budget. IT Generalist/ Analyst St. Petersburg College - Saint Petersburg, FL 2006 to 2011 ? Managed and motivated at team of 7 Technicians.  ? Advised CISO on development of technology road map aligning IT services with business needs.  ? Negotiated contracts and maintained 500k software licensing budget.  ? Created VBS, PowerShell, and WMI scripts for SCCM 2007.  ? Deployed antivirus for 7000 endpoints on multiple campuses.   ? Provided tier 3 support and root cause analysis for endpoint issues.  ? Created and documented procedures for endpoint life-cycle from procurement to secure decommission. Technology Specialist St. Petersburg College - Saint Petersburg, FL 2002 to 2006 ? Provided tier 2 support to the online registration and LMS.  ? Improved customer satisfaction by creating the Helpdesk self service website.  ? Recorded, diagnosed, and escalated incidents as part of a Technology Call Center team.  ? Maintained Active Directory users Education AS Degree St. Petersburg College 2003 Skills Cisco ASA, Metasploit, Nessus, Cisco, Vmware, Jboss, Python, Bash, Apache, Risk management, Disaster Recovery, Network Administration, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Active Directory, HTML, Information Security, Cyber Security, Cissp, Siem Certifications/Licenses CISSP June 2018 to Present AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate June 2019 to June 2021 Software Reverse Engineering, BCI 2019 to Present Nimble Certified Present Networking Support Technician Certification