IT Desktop Support Specialist <span class="hl">IT</span> Desktop Support Specialist Selma, TX Work Experience IT Desktop Support Specialist Keith Zars Pools - San Antonio, TX 2019 to Present Respond to trouble calls and tickets for all internal client Desktop, Laptop, Tablet, and Phone issues. Support entire organizations IT infrastructure, in a proactive fashion, both maintaining, and troubleshooting any and all issues that may arise.   ·        Ran and performed Windows 7 to Windows 10 Upgrade project on all Windows Computers (over 186) within the organization in preparation for End of Life Support for Windows 7.  ·        Setup new Sales Office in Corpus Christi, including all workstations, printers, and network equipment.  ·        Created all IT documentation from the ground up, where very little existed.  ·        Re-secured all workstations (186), to make sure all security settings and protocols met guidelines.  ·        Single point of contact for all Hardware and Software issues across the organization.  ·        Received high praise for performance from all employees within the organization, including Senior Management. IT Desktop Support Specialist Keith Zars Pools 2019 to Present Respond to trouble calls and tickets for all internal client Desktop, Laptop, Tablet, and Phone issues. Support entire  organizations IT infrastructure, in a proactive fashion, both maintaining, and troubleshooting any and all issues that  may arise.  • Ran and performed Windows 7 to Windows 10 Upgrade project on all Windows Computers (over 186) within the organization in preparation for End of Life Support for Windows 7.  • Setup new Sales Office in Corpus Christi, including all workstations, printers, and network equipment.  • Created all IT documentation from the ground up, where very little existed.  • Re-secured all workstations (186), to make sure all security settings and protocols met guidelines.  • Single point of contact for all Hardware and Software issues across the organization.  • Received high praise for performance from all employees within the organization, including Senior Management. Part Time Advanced Repair Agent BEST BUY - Selma, TX 2000 to 2019 in Levittown NY) (2019-present  Store 181 in Selma Texas)  Perform services, including upgrading, repairing, and diagnosing wide range of desktops, laptops, peripherals, and portable devices in Windows and MAC environment. Educate customers in purchases of new system. iPhone repairs as a Certified Apple IOS Technician. Billing Systems Analyst Cablevision 2017 to 2018 Monitored, maintained, and troubleshot system problems across multiple computer platforms. Documented and informed parties of system problems or downtimes. Responded to trouble calls and tickets in expeditious manner.  • Created and updated New Business and Retail account builds above the required metrics set forth.  • Maintained 100% uptime for client access issues across a variety of systems and software platforms. Cablevision - Bethpage, NY 2014 to 2018 Asset Analyst Associate, IT Service Transition Cablevision 2014 to 2017 IT Asset Analyst Associate  Maintained and tracked IT assets and data, including but not limited to warranty, license, and maintenance information  for technology service assets across the IT environment. Drove and managed continual improvement in relation to adherence to asset management policies and procedures.  • Tasked by management to identify and define configuration management system (CMS) requirements with customer and provide input to design and development and configuration management database (CMDB).  • Cross-trained on role of the Change Manager, becoming direct assistant to alleviate demanding workload.  • Ensured process compliance by verifying software license breaches that occurred throughout lifecycle, saving the company thousands of dollars.  • Reviewed new project proposals and change requests, ensuring configuration and asset requirements were  adequately captured to maintain cost savings in regards to the purchasing of new equipment. Asset Analyst Associate IT Service Transition 2014 to 2017 IT Asset Analyst Associate  Maintained and tracked IT assets and data, including but not limited to warranty, license, and maintenance information  for technology service assets across the IT environment. Drove and managed continual improvement in relation to adherence to asset management policies and procedures.  • Tasked by management to identify and define configuration management system (CMS) requirements with customer and provide input to design and development and configuration management database (CMDB).  • Cross-trained on role of the Change Manager, becoming direct assistant to alleviate demanding workload.  • Ensured process compliance by verifying software license breaches that occurred throughout lifecycle, saving the company thousands of dollars.  • Reviewed new project proposals and change requests, ensuring configuration and asset requirements were  adequately captured to maintain cost savings in regards to the purchasing of new equipment. Computer Operator, Billing Operations Cablevision - Bethpage, NY 2013 to 2014 Troubleshot system problems across multiple computer platforms. Documented and informed necessary parties of system problems or outages. Responded to calls and tickets.  • Received monthly STAR Award within first 6 months as member of the Data Center Staff.  • Selected as documentation writer for the group, working with staff to keep processes updated and accurate.  • Exceeded management's required yearly training specifications by completing twice the required classes. Consultant Cablevision - Bethpage, NY 2012 to 2013 User Administrator, User Account Services  Worked in Active Directory, including creating and maintaining user profiles and access across a wide variety of system  platforms. Upgraded or downgraded user access in response to promotions, demotions or terminations. Worked with Novell and Outlook to create internal and external email access / mailboxes / distribution lists.  • Worked on team to update companywide email system, finishing project ahead of schedule.  • Spearheaded project team to review and remove orphan accounts, avoiding any costly audit findings. Consultant Cablevision - Jericho, NY 2012 to 2012 TSG - Technical Support Representative  Received and responded to technical support calls from cablevision customers. Provided high-quality of customer  service while guiding customers through established troubleshooting procedures.  • Exceeded all metrics and goals mandated by management. Regularly praised and complimented by customers to direct supervisor. Information Security Analyst ASTORIA FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK - Lake Success, NY 2005 to 2012 Provided onsite and remote support for 1K+ corporate users. Created and maintained user profiles and access across a wide variety of system platforms. Troubleshot access issues for users across a variety of systems and software  platforms.  • Participated on team that had zero audit findings for 7 straight years.  • Collaborated on multi-team project, rolling out upgrade MS Exchange to internal and external email access.  • Rotated with team to train newly hired staff during new hire orientation class. Help Desk Analyst ASTORIA FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK - Lake Success, NY 2003 to 2005 Received and responded to technical support calls from internal employees. Provided high-quality of customer service while guiding clients through established troubleshooting procedures. Senior Computer Operator MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL - Lake Success, NY 1994 to 2003 Troubleshot system problems across multiple computer platforms. Documented and informed necessary parties of system problems or outages. Responded to calls and tickets. Education None in Computer Science Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY 2003 None Rockville Centre - Rockville Centre, NY Skills ANDROID, IOS, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, LANDESK, VPN, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Comptia Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 1998 to Present