Lead IT DR engineer Lead <span class="hl">IT</span> DR engineer Knowledgeable and outgoing IT professional Charlotte, NC I have 10 years experience in the technology field. Supporting nonprofit and for profit businesses. I have a masters degree in IT management and love learning new things. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead IT DR engineer Lowe's - Mooresville, NC April 2019 to Present Design and execute the disaster recovery plan for all of Lowe’s, inc. Meet with stakeholders and participants for monthly and yearly testing of the DR plan and fail over strategies.     Draft and promote internal and external policies and procedures. Lead a team of ten analyst and train new hires on disaster recovery process and procedures.     Work with internal customers and peers to ensure new and existing applications and infrastructure support the recovery strategies.  IT Security Analyst Charlotte Metro Federal Credit Union - Charlotte, NC May 2018 to Present Implement, test, maintain, monitor, and reports on the organization’s information security in order to protect assets and prevent unauthorized access to systems; including implementing strategies which mitigate risk to IT systems from internal and external exposures.    Assist in managing and monitoring security information and event management software, network management and monitoring software, and application and server monitoring software.  Contribute to the review of internal processes and activities to assist in identifying potential opportunities for improvement.  Investigate and mitigate information security-related incidents, including suspected or confirmed system intrusions and other information security related activity in accordance with adopted policies and procedures.    Update or review all IT and organization Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plans.  Update Risk Assessments and assist in creation of new Risk Assessments as necessary.  Maintain an active working knowledge of all emerging security trends including the latest attack methods, vulnerabilities, and remediation techniques  Assist recovery of systems and mitigate any emergency or testing scenarios. Additionally, plan and assist in execution of at least one functional Disaster/Business Continuity Test. Information Systems Administrator Mountain America Federal Credit Union - West Jordan, UT 2016 to 2018 Responsible for ensuring Information Systems programs and functions occur accurately, designing reports and developing systems to provide service and support the credit union technological goals and objectives. Ensures integrity and security of organization's computer systems and code to safeguard the credit union's assets and member accounts.  Monitor, analyze, and optimize server integrity and perform maintenance as needed.  Monitor SQL servers to ensure disk space is adequate and performance is optimal. Configures and monitors AIX, and EMC disk arrays, ensuring optimal disk usage and required space is available. Configures and installs new branch hardware and software. Performs hardware and software upgrades including but not limited to quarterly Symitar upgrades. Designs test environments for updates prior to loading to live systems. Performs updates and advise appropriate departments of new applications and changes to existing software. Researches and makes recommendations for changes to software and server hardware to continually enhance services. Performs the evaluation of requests for reports and system enhancements and facilitates the development of such programs; supplying feedback and suggestions for improvement. Ensures core software components are functioning properly to track and backup member data. Ensures backup requirements on all IS systems are met to satisfy/exceed compliance regulations. Develops and maintains a disaster recovery strategy for member-sensitive computer systems. Provides help-desk support on all computer systems through assisting the end user with software/hardware problems and inquiries. Provides help-desk support on core system through assisting the end user with software/configuration and account problems and inquiries. IT Risk Analyst Mountain America Federal Credit Union - West Jordan, UT 2013 to 2017 Assist operations of the Risk Management Department in the area of IT Risk. Provide support to credit union branches and departments regarding Enterprise Risk Management, and other risk related processes. Act as a consultant to business units to develop and recommend controls to ensure ongoing compliance and to avoid, reduce, accept, or transfer risks as they relate to Information Technology and financial institutions, including online banking. Coordinate Incident Response plan for the organization, including administration, training, compliance, and testing of incident response plans. Work with business units to ensure accuracy and adherence to plans. Maintain and support internal employee communication site Maintain employee emergency contact lists. Ensure Continuity Plans adhere to regulatory requirements. Maintain and assist in data loss prevention solutions and implement and test incident response plans. Assist in maintaining and updating a risk assessment database and reporting dashboard for monthly reports. Manager Information Systems Workforce Solutions North Texas - Wichita Falls, TX 2010 to 2013 Maintain servers and desktop computers for public and staff multiple locations. Manage Active directory and Exchange 2010. Create and deploy PC images with imaging software. Update and install software with minimal downtime. Configure and maintain firewalls and VPN connections. Monitor network switches/hubs. Provide customer service help desk support to all end users and customers of Workforce Solutions North Texas. Configure routers and switches for access to and from remote sites. Support remote site and traveling employees. Manage windows servers and help desk ticket systems. Manage budget and purchase orders. Customer Service Representative/ Manager Relief AT&T - Wichita Falls, TX 2004 to 2010 Provide customer service on inbound and outbound calls. Provide support for billing questions and concerns, take payments and provide technical support for cell phones and other AT&T products. Recipient of the Service Excellence Award for assisting in lowered customer and employee escalations in the North East Market. Increase productivity of peers and supply PC support to peers who experience problems with new desktop Images during lease rolls. Act as Manager Relief to support escalated calls and train peers. Boatswains Mate United States Navy 2002 to 2004 USS Hopper DDG70    Train, direct, and supervise personnel in ship's maintenance duties in all activities relating to marlinspike, deck, boat seamanship, painting, upkeep of ship's external structure, rigging, deck equipment, and boats. Stand watch, maintain ship order, man the life boat, steer the helm. Train new sailors on ship life and duties. Participate in underway replenishment and critical missions for naval operations. Education Master's in Information Technology Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT February 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Information Technology Colorado State University Global Campus 2013 Skills System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Active Directory, Disaster Recovery (9 years), Vmware (3 years), Risk Assessment (8 years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Windows 7 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E3 Certifications/Licenses Associate project management May 2019 to May 2024 PMI associate project management certification. Additional Information Conducting IT risk assessments for financial institutions, familiar with COBIT, ISO 27002, NIST Framework, FFIEC, PCI DSS, and other regulatory compliance standards, managing incident response team, monitoring data loss prevention systems, training incident response and crisis management teams, Troubleshooting and configure computers, firewalls, servers, routers and software. Manage Active Directory, Group Policy, and user access. Conduct information technology risk assessments for applications and operational processes. Develop, maintain, test, and implement business continuity and incident response plans. Managing AIX IBM and Windows servers, and ancillary systems, and patch management.    Professional Goals Share my technical and continuity skills in a challenging role to provide efficient and effective solutions to help the organization achieve the desired goals and maintain and operate in an appropriate risk tolerance.