IT Specialist - Local Hires <span class="hl">IT</span> Specialist - Local Hires IT Specialist Bayamon, PR Looking for a career opportunity where I can contribute my education, knowledge and years of experience  in Systems Information and Network Telecommunication.    Targeting Network Specialist & It Specialist  • Design and Implement as WAN, LAN, MAN and Wi-Fi Network Technologies  • Knowledge Internet Leased Line, T1, DSL, Wireless Antenna, Broadband Cable.  • Managing Network Device as Router, Firewall, Switch, Wireless Router and Access Point.  • Implementing and configuring Windows Server NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012. Linux, Ubuntu  • Manage WAN Technologies ISND, DSL, PPP, Broadband Cable, WIMAX  • Knowledge in Monitoring and Filtering Traffic and Apply rules and Access Control  • Manage Network Services and Applications. IPSec, VPN, DHCP, DNS, NAT.  • Years the Experience as Help Desk, Customer Services and Accounting Sales  • Install New Computer to Network and Diagnostic error. Network Problem and Troubleshooting  • Knowledge and Diagnostic Telephone Cable Systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist - Local Hires FEMA/DHS November 2017 to July 2018 Assist to Fema end user with Install Management apps, including Configure iPhone and iPad Setup,  Apple id, MobileIron, Good and Apps@Work.  • Start the configuration of the operating system with all Fema services including internet access,  Outlook email, vpn connectivity, printer port and network file Access.    • Configure Laptop Setup with Cisco Any Connect, VPN and ARVONET Connection.  • Assist and Participate with MERS group in the DRC Soft Opening and Network Installations.  • Take training on the entire operation of the network of Fema known as ONENET  • Remedy Knowledge Ticket Software.  • Assist with Implementation the FEMA DRC Site Setup.  o Develop the cable to connect the internet service.  o Connect all Network Equipment and Telephone Cable to Fema Services.  o Offer user support to install programs through the Fema Intranet.  o Assist to end user and Network Equipment testing and Troubleshooting. Technology Sales Specialist Temporary Project Marketsource by HP August 2014 to June 2016 • Sales Representative hp products in Puerto Rico  • Visit Bestbuy, Costco, OfficeMax, and Office Depot Store and provide training to employees of HP  products, such as Notebook, Desktop, AiO Computer, Tablet, Laser and Inkjet Printer.  • Supporting clients to accelerate sales of the store and explain the new technology of new products. Marketsource by HP November 2014 to April 2015 Install and Repair Technical    • Knowledge Procedure Telephone repair line.  • Knowledge identifying problems of bandwidth in the dsl modem.  • Knowledge Tools to repair a telephone cable.  • Electrical Testing knowledge.  • Diagnose and identify a fault at all points of the telephone line.  • Knowledge in the MDF Frame, IP, and protectively Demarcation.  • Installation of black line, modular cable and wall jack customer. Technical Support Specialist Dreyfous & Assoc - Caguas, PR July 2012 to March 2014 Dreyfous is a provider of internet services and network implementation, and to provide lessons and educational resources.  • My functions had to make preventive visits to these clients. Have an agenda to visit 25 clients and maintain good performance of Cisco, Mikrotic, Ruckus devices  • Login to the Router and test external and internal network.  • Testing of T1 and internet lines.  • Update Database server web content filtering.  • Make the equipment monitoring Router, Switch, Access Point, Windows Server, Ubuntu Server and local client computers if they had a contract with the company.  • Provider services and supports the programs that the company offers, known Edusystem and  Eduplatform Products.  • Extensive knowledge Technology Implemented Ncomputing Virtual Desktop solutions  Installation and configuration of Sage Solutions Act, Peachtree and admin Plus IT Network Development Project Consultant San Patricio Medical Group - San Juan, PR 2011 to 2012 Selected Contribution:  • Structured wiring installation of Cat 5e UTP Plenum using the Standard TIA / EIA 568B  • Network Installation of Cabinet in the central area where the wires struck out utp patch panel.  • Certification utp cat 5e wiring to Analyzers Fluke, checking wiring broken open or crossed  • Implementation of Dell Power Edge Server T 310 with windows 2008 server operating systems for the Administration of the Medical Record Application known as NeoMed.  • Installation of 15 workstations with operating systems Windows 7 Professional and connected to the Network.  • Printer Configuration with static IP to the Network to share it with 15 workstations  • Assistance in development of e-mail accounts to buy a domain with domain.com. Creating user  accounts and Trainings. Network Security/ IT Analyst Junta de Calidad Ambiental (JCA) Gov - San Juan, PR 2000 to 2012 • Implementation of security procedure and Development of Information Security Policies.  • Carry out system analysis and manage the technical problems in a business environment,  including keeping communications wide area networks with Cisco Solutions, monitored Internet  traffic through Fortinet and ISA Server Firewall Solutions.  • Manage and support Agency Web Site Up data and Updating Information.  • Perform VPN allocation of accounts  • Accounts, Administration Security Systems of computers and servers.  • Analyze and manage the technical problems in a business environment, including keeping  communications wide area networks with Cisco solutions.  Selected Contributions:  • Responsible for the implementation of the Topology for six regionals on the island and managed by the Cisco Network solutions.  • Installation and Configuration Operating Systems for Client / Server services including IIS, DHCP,  DNS, WINS, TCP/IP suite and other important services.  ? Management Systems Ricoh Printing and Scanning solutions, including TCP/ IP Print, Scan to  Email, FTP, SERVER and Folder and maintenance through the local area network and wide area  network.  ? Installation and configuration of security applications and programs solutions client / server Education Information Technology Emergency Management Institute February 2018 HP LEARNING CENTER March 2010 Certificate in ROUTERS ASPIRA NETWORK ACADEMY - San Juan, PR February 2005 B.S. in Computer Science INTERAMERICAN UNIVERSITY - Bayamón, PR June 2003 Associate in Computer Science INTERAMERICAN UNIVERSITY - Bayamón, PR 2001 Skills Microsoft Office. (10+ years) Additional Information CompTIA ITF