QA Automation Tester QA Automation Tester Austin, TX Results-driven IT professional offering a progressive career in information technology to support businesses and increase productivity. Work Experience QA Automation Tester GENERAL MOTORS - Austin, TX May 2018 to February 2019 Performed daily Test Automation for web applications. This involved using IntelliJ IDE and Selenium  WebDriver as the Framework.  Created automation scripts and user-defined functions and executed them daily.  Created and executed the smoke tests in Pre-Production environment  Create test plans for smaller projects, and provide test estimates from test plans that have been created.  Partner with cross function teams that perform UAT to provide test schedules, test data, and direction for Enterprise Releases and Change Controls  Partnership with IT leads in working through issues/defects and resolution  Provided quality of services by identifying and fixing production bugs  Writing and executing automated functional, non-functional, and regression tests  Participated in Monthly software deployments. IT security analyst BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY - Rexburg, ID January 2017 to January 2018 Implemented PCI Compliance on over 100 systems improving the ability to process financial transaction  Researched and updated all required materials needed for firm and partners.  Supported Senior Operation Officer with daily operational functions. Network Engineer Intern ICS DEPARTMENT FOR LDS CHURCH - Riverton, UT August 2016 to December 2016 Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise.  Visually inspected temperature sensors to maintain health of servers and network devices.  Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  Monitored systems logs for all company computers and devices to maximize uptime.  Tested and evaluated software to improve performance and usability. Education B.Sc in Computer Information Technology in Computer Information Technology BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY IDAHO 2014 to 2017 Skills Selenium (1 year), Java (2 years), QA (1 year), Git (1 year), Test Automation Additional Information Selenium WebDriver  Git  TFS - Team Foundation Server  Microsoft Office  Communication between teams  Troubleshooting  Test design  Manual, Smoke, and Regression Testing  Network Infrastructure